
    
      The available evidence suggests that there are opportunities to optimize the primary care of
      patients with ACD. We are proposing to build upon the current evidence and guidelines for
      disease management programs, our existing specialized resources, our existing primary care
      practices, and develop and test a model of care that is primary care based, sensitive to the
      unique demands and characteristics of different primary practices. Our goal is to design
      linkage and care strategies of relevance and importance to the primary care providers who
      care for patients with advanced COPD and CHF.

      The study is a randomized controlled clinical trial of the RoadMAP program (intervention)
      delivered by a PCNS compared to usual care (control group). The primary outcome will be
      degree of adherence to clinical practice guidelines. Secondary outcomes will be patient
      satisfaction, quality of life, use of community-based services, number of emergency room
      visits, and number of hospitalizations. The purpose of the RoadMAP program is to improve the
      care of people with advanced stage COPD and CHF. Specifically, activities will be aimed at
      improving patients' self care ability, facilitating access to the most appropriate services,
      ensuring medical treatment according to consensus guidelines and promoting consistency of
      health care communication. Adherence to guidelines is a process that involves activities by
      the patient, PCNS, and the Primary Care Physician. The PCNS would follow-up the patient again
      at approximately one month after initial contact and then every 3 months, to assess and
      monitor adherence to the proposed MAP by the patient, the physician, and the nurse. Patients
      will have the option of returning to the physician office or to be monitored by phone. An
      office visit will be recommended if there is a perceived need for medical assessment and
      intervention. The family physician would continue to see the patient as required in order to
      carry out the medical portion of the MAP and to deal with other primary care problems as
      needed. Additionally, the PCNS would be available to work with nurses and other health
      professionals in each primary care practice in the provision of care to the ACD patients.
    
  