
    
      Sickle cell disease is an inherited defect caused by a mutation in the Beta globin gene
      affecting red blood cells. Symptoms begin at 6 months of life and often lead to debilitating
      vaso-occlusive pain crises, acute insults to vital organ systems,chronic organ injury, and
      decreased survival with median survival estimated at 42 years for men and 48 years for women.
      Several cohort studies have identified clinical and laboratory predictors for decreased
      survival which include acute complications, and chronic complications of sickle cell disease.

      Hydroxyurea is the only FDA approved drug to help ameliorate symptoms associated with sickle
      cell disease. Two nonrandomized studies have suggested a reduction in mortality after 17
      years of long term hydroxyurea treatment. However, the mortality rate is still high in the
      hydroxyurea cohort at 43.1% and only 38.1% of patients have a rise in fetal hemoglobin
      indicating that a significant percentage of patients still have aggressive disease despite
      hydroxyurea treatment. Hydroxyurea therapy also does not seem to prevent the development of
      pulmonary hypertension.

      In the pediatric population, patients that have not clinically improved despite optimized
      hydroxyurea management are offered allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Until recently, the
      options were more limited in adults with sickle cell disease that had aggressive disease
      despite hydroxyurea therapy. Most rely on chronic red blood cell transfusions which carry
      significant risks of infection, iron overload, and alloimmunization. Up to 50% of patients
      with sickle cell disease who are on chronic transfusion therapy will develop allo-antibodies
      making further transfusions difficult with a high potential for hemolytic transfusion
      reactions.

      Patients with sickle cell disease often have chronic underlying organ disease and so the
      effects of chemotherapy may be unpredictable and potentially more harmful, making low dose
      TBI more attractive as a safer modality for conditioning.

      The investigators propose to determine the engraftment and transplant related morbidity and
      mortality after a non-myeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant protocol
      using immune- suppressive agents and low-dose total body irradiation (TBI) without standard
      chemotherapy in patients with aggressive sickle cell disease who are not candidates for or
      experienced complications from hydroxyurea therapy.

      Fully HLA matched siblings will be used as donors for hematopoietic stem cells to reduce the
      risk of morbidity and mortality in this cohort of patients.

      An optional correlative trial will be conducted to compare ocular findings after stem cell
      transplantation with those findings before stem cell transplantation. Anterior and posterior
      ocular examination as well as objective tests will be performed on subjects.
    
  