
    
      Anaesthesiologists have been ventilating patients in the perioperative period with relatively
      large tidal volumes (10-15 ml/kg ideal body weight) to prevent intraoperative atelectasis.
      Ventilating patient with large tidal volumes may be a risk factor for development of lung
      injury.During surgical procedures, both general anesthesia and high tidal volumes may strain
      non injured lungs and trigger inflammation. High tidal volumes that cause alveolar
      overstretching can contribute to extra pulmonary organ dysfunction through systemic release
      of inflammatory mediators.

      Recently protective lung ventilation strategies has been reported to be useful to reduce the
      respiratory complications in postoperative period. The use of small tidal volume (Vt),
      positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) and restricting peak airway pressure have shown
      reduced incidence of ventilation induced lung injury.

      It has been shown that a small tidal volume (VT) and PEEP can reduce the incidence of
      postoperative lung dysfunction and improve intraoperative oxygenation. Restricting peak
      airway pressure can be achieved by inverse ratio ventilation. Minimizing the risk of
      ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI), improving oxygenation and alveolar recruitment are all
      advantages of inverse ratio ventilation. However, the potential utility of pressure
      controlled inverse ratio ventilation (PCIRV) has not been studied in patients undergoing
      general anaesthesia.

      Investigators hypothesized that in patients with normal lungs scheduled for general
      anesthesia, PIV might prevent lung function deterioration and lung morphological alterations.
      Investiagators aim was to compare the intraoperative protective ventilation strategies on
      oxygenation/ ventilation and postoperative lung dysfunction and lung injury among patients
      undergoing laparoscopic upper abdominal surgery.
    
  