
    
      Type 2 diabetes is a progressive, chronic metabolic disease characterized by hyperglycemia.
      Despite therapeutic advances, the incidence and prevalence of diabetes continue to surge.
      Worldwide, the number of individuals with diabetes is projected to rise from 366 million in
      2011 to 552 million by 2030, which is the equivalent of approximately three new cases being
      diagnosed every 10 seconds. Type 2 diabetes doubles the risk of cardiovascular disease, and
      macrovascular complications (myocardial infarction and stroke) are a common cause of death in
      patients with type 2 diabetes. The U.K. Prospective Diabetes Study showed that every 1%
      absolute decline in mean A1C was associated with a 37% reduction in the risk of microvascular
      complications and a 21% reduction in the risk of any diabetes-related complication or death.
      Diabetes also exacts a tremendous economic burden. Meeting treatment goals is elusive for
      many people with diabetes. Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey
      from 2003 to 2006 showed that only 57.1% of adults with diagnosed diabetes achieved an A1C <
      7%, 45.5% had a blood pressure level < 130/80 mmHg, and 46.5% had an LDL cholesterol level <
      100 mg/dl. Only 12.2% of people with diabetes reached all three goals. Treatment of Type 2
      diabetes is not limited to just glycaemic control. Rather, the proper management of
      hyperglycaemia, weight, blood pressure, and lipids can have benefits in terms of slowing the
      progression of Type 2 diabetes, decreasing the risk of CV disease, and improving overall
      health.Current antihyperglycaemic treatments are predominantly insulin-dependent. These
      treatments can effectively manage HbA1c, and treatment may be influenced by the patient's
      comorbidities and any potential treatment-related adverse events. However, as Type 2 diabetes
      progresses, regimens need to be modified to compensate for declining beta-cell function and
      decreasing insulin sensitivity. On this basis,the EASD/ADA guidelines suggest following a
      treatment pathway that has well validated therapies at it's core.Of the many comorbid
      conditions described, excess weight is especially important, not only because of the
      increased disease risk, but also for the management of blood pressure and lipids.
      Consequently, AACE/ACE algorithms give priority to those regimens that have the added benefit
      of minimising hypoglycaemic events and weight gain.In addition, while antidiabetic treatments
      tend to focus on insulin-dependent mechanisms in organs such as the liver and pancreas, it
      should not be forgotten that the kidneys also have a role in maintaining glucose homeostasis
      There are multiple barriers to achieving optimal glycemic control. Current medications for
      type 2 diabetes have potential adverse effects; for example, can cause hypoglycemia and
      weight gain. Hypoglycaemia is a limiting factor in the glycaemic management of patients with
      advanced Type 2 diabetes.Most often hypoglycaemia is associated with mild to severe
      neurologic symptoms, and in some cases it can result in death. Additionally, the risk of
      cardiac ischaemia is increased in Type 2 diabetes patients with symptomatic or asymptomatic
      hypoglycaemia compared with patients with hyperglycaemia or stable normoglycaemia. The risk
      of hypoglycaemia increases with advancing age, polypharmacy, later stages of disease, and
      intensive antihyperglycaemic treatment with certain drugs, such as sulphonylureas. Intensive
      treatment (target HbA1c<7.0%) results in a greater number of patients experiencing severe
      hypoglycaemic events (3-21%) compared with conventional treatment (target HbA1c ≥7.0%;
      2-10%), although intensive therapy may have a greater beneficial effect in terms of a
      decreased risk of microvascular disease. As a result, hypoglycaemia is one of several
      factors, including weight gain and increases in CV disease-related and overall mortality,
      that may limit the microvascular benefits of intensive therapy. Thus, the search continues
      for novel therapeutic agents that can help patients avoid these limiting side effects while
      providing glycemic control.
    
  