
    
      A vicious cycle exists between adolescent substance use disorders (SUD) and youth
      incarceration. Untreated SUD, often comorbid with mental health problems, contribute
      substantially to youth incarceration. Among 51,000 US youth detained annually, 50-88% have
      SUD. Incarceration itself can exacerbate existing mental health disorders and contribute to
      future substance use. Following incarceration, reentry back into the community of peers and
      adults is a challenging juncture and a high risk period for re-engaging in substance use.
      Finally, relapse on substance use leads to recidivism. Within 3 years of release, 75% of
      adolescents are re-arrested, with highest risk among youth with SUD.

      Re-wiring adolescent social networks during reentry can potentially break the vicious cycle
      of adolescent substance use and youth incarceration. Social networks powerfully influence
      adolescent substance use and delinquent behavior, yet little is known about how to intervene
      on social networks to improve health. In the investigators prior research, the investigators
      found that incarcerated youth value relationships with supportive adults and peers who can
      help them succeed in school and stay out of trouble. Most express plans to "stay clean" from
      drugs and stay away from peers who encourage substance use and delinquent behaviors. Yet,
      during reentry, many youth re-engage with their previous network of risky peers. Why? The
      investigators have found that upon reentry, youth who lack sufficient social supports and
      positive role models default back to previous risky social networks, reinforcing further
      substance use and other risky behaviors. Community reentry is a key opportunity to re-set
      social networks and re-direct high-risk youth toward a healthier network that can foster drug
      abstinence and reduce recidivism. Having an available and supportive adult role model can be
      transformative for youth after incarceration. The investigators hypothesize that an adult who
      has successfully navigated reentry can actively guide youth to re-wire their social network
      by encouraging pro-social relationships, troubleshooting basic barriers to healthcare and
      social services, and creating linkages to SUD and mental health services, to disrupt the
      viscous cycle.

      This community-partnered study seeks to measure the impact of an innovative pilot
      intervention, the Whole Person Care (WPC) Reentry Program, a network community health worker
      (i.e. coach) intervention that addresses two key challenges for recently incarcerated
      transition age youth (TAY): poor care coordination in the "behavioral health cascade" and
      need for more positive support from the social network. Los Angeles (LA) County has the
      largest adult and juvenile justice systems in the US and has implemented the WPC Reentry
      Program to enhance linkages to community behavioral health services. WPC is based on the
      successful Transitions Clinic model, an intervention with demonstrated efficacy in linking
      recently incarcerated adults to needed healthcare and improving health outcomes. The model
      has yet to be implemented for reentry TAY, but has the potential to be transformative at the
      critical developmental stage of adolescence, when peer social networks are highly dynamic and
      youth behaviors can affect lifelong trajectories. WPC community health workers will receive
      formalized training modeled after the adult Transitions Clinic approach and will serve as a
      formerly incarcerated adult role model who provides care coordination and social support to
      facilitate access to needed behavioral health services. Tailored for reentry youth, WPC will
      also include a social network component whereby coaches are trained to actively guide youth
      toward pro-social peers and adults. Dr. Barnert has been working closely with LA County and
      this study capitalizes on a unique opportunity to rigorously study WPC. The investigators
      hypothesize that (1) WPC will reduce adolescent SUD and recidivism and (2) WPC will
      demonstrate positive associations with other key markers of healthy reentry (e.g., improved
      mental health). The investigators further hypothesize that shifts towards healthier social
      networks will mediate these relationships, a potential mechanism the investigators will test.

      The investigators propose a pilot longitudinal study of WPC, using a community-partnered,
      participatory research approach. Specific aims are to:

        1. Measure the impact of the WPC network coach intervention targeting recently incarcerated
           youth on decreasing rates of 30-day use and risky use of marijuana, alcohol, and other
           drug use.

        2. Test whether the WPC network coach intervention decreases recidivism, increases receipt
           of behavioral health services, improves mental health, and enhances school and work
           engagement.

        3. Examine whether recently incarcerated youth receiving the WPC intervention report
           healthier social networks (lower proportion of peers engaging in risky behaviors and a
           higher number of supportive adults) than those not receiving the intervention.
    
  