
    
      In addition disturbing news on alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) has recently been reviewed by
      Brouwer and colleagues (J Nutr:2004). Their analyses suggests that ALA, as found in canola
      oil and other healthy foods, may cause prostate cancer even though there is good evidence
      that canola oil will prevent heart disease. This issue urgently needs further research.

      In studies largely from the Harvard group, but suggested by additional studies from Uruguay
      and Spain, a link has been identified between ALA intake and prostate cancer. The Harvard
      studies are cohort studies where groups of approximately 40,000 doctors or health
      professionals have been followed up for periods of 10 years and the dietary intakes of ALA
      related to the subsequent development of aggressive prostate cancer. It must be stressed that
      these are not randomized crossover studies which are the currently accepted gold standard for
      evidence-based medicine and regulatory decision making. Nevertheless they raise concern over
      the health profile of a fatty acid with a growing reputation for cardiovascular disease
      prevention and a component of other healthy foods such as walnuts, flax, canola and soy.

      The same Harvard group identified the deleterious effects on cardiovascular health of trans
      fatty acids in their cohort studies and this has resulted in a major effort to remove trans
      fatty acids from the food supply. On the other hand their identification of the benefits of
      vitamin E in their cohort studies has not been confirmed by subsequent randomized controlled
      trials. Although Dr Willett, the senior member of the Harvard group, has drawn surprisingly
      little attention to the negative findings with ALA, it remains a sticking point with
      regulators in the current debate over the inclusion and use of ALA in the food supply. This
      concern has been sufficient for the Natural Health Products Directorate of Health Canada to
      ask for a full proposal from us before we start studies on ALA in the prevention of atrial
      fibrillation due the apparently negative impact of ALA consumption on prostate cancer.
    
  