
    
      Infant obesity is increasing in the US, particularly among Hispanics. Rapid weight gain
      during critical periods of infancy increases the risk of obesity in childhood, continuing
      into adulthood. This could be prevented through multifaceted programs that address multiple
      risk factors (e.g., physical activity, sleep, eating behaviors and parental skills). Evidence
      on successful lifestyle interventions for childhood obesity prevention often promote a
      comprehensive approach delivered at multiple levels (i.e., individual, family, and community)
      and delivered through population-level programs. One such program is The Special Supplemental
      Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). WIC serves low-income women who are
      pregnant and/or have infants and/or young children, groups that are among those at the
      greatest risk of early weight gain. Our long-term goal is to prevent infant obesity through a
      structured curriculum that provides a combination of key messages and activities designed to
      promote sound parenting skills that support and sustain healthy lifestyle (i.e.,
      developmentally appropriate exercises for 'infant activation', sleep and healthy eating
      behavior) beginning at birth. The proposed intervention is an integrated novel approach
      leveraging current WIC outreach practices and technology for complementing the current
      standard of care of the WIC Program. The investigators will assess the clinical effectiveness
      of this novel complementary intervention among caregivers of infants (0 and 12 months) who
      are participants of the Puerto Rico WIC program through a cluster-randomized controlled trial
      in 20 WIC clinics located within the San Juan Metropolitan Area of Puerto Rico. In this
      design, an equal number of clinics will be randomized to the control or intervention arm. The
      lifestyle intervention will focus on age-appropriate infant's physical activation, healthy
      sleep and sedentary patterns, and healthy diet quality, by improving parenting skills.
      Intervention content will be delivered through a combination of technology (multi-media
      computer-based platforms and mobile messages) and individual counseling (phone and in-person
      follow-up). Participation in the intervention will begin during the last trimester of
      pregnancy and will continue until the infant is 12 months of age. The investigators have
      already tested the information of such an intervention among a small group of 10
      mother-infant dyads during their first year of life, with excellent acceptability. Our main
      outcome is infant rate of weight gain at 12 months of age. Secondary outcomes include: 1)
      lifestyle behaviors, such as objectively measured hours of infant movement, sedentary
      behaviors and sleep; 2) diet quality score (which includes breastfeeding and amount of intake
      of each food group); 3) other feeding practices (i.e. spoon-feeding, addition of foods to the
      bottle). The research plan also includes a detailed evaluation of the cost of the
      intervention as a modification of the current WIC curriculum.
    
  