
    
      Head and neck cancer patients have a better chance of survival in the 21st century because of
      radiation therapy (RT), either alone or in combination with surgery and/or chemotherapy
      (CRT). Such therapy has a high rate of local / regional control, and may extend duration of
      life. Unfortunately the elimination of the cancer can leave devastating side effects,
      including the inability to eat and swallow normally. Organ preservation, often assumed to be
      the preferred treatment, has now been shown to magnify dysphagia. Incidence of dysphagia in
      this group of patients is extremely high, with symptoms continuing to deteriorate for several
      years after treatment. Conventional therapy for dysphagia yields only minor benefit.
      Persistence of dysphagia has a major impact on the quality of life of these cancer survivors.

      Recently, a new therapy approach has been introduced for dysphagia, called e-stim or
      Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES). Through low voltage current delivered through
      the skin, motor nerves are excited, causing muscle contraction. An aggressive marketing
      campaign has turned e-stim into a very popular and sought-after therapy for dysphagia.
      However, there are no efficacy studies demonstrating its true benefit.

      We have collected preliminary data with Head & Neck cancer patients using this modality and
      have seen improved swallow function in 9/15 patients. This is extremely promising and
      supports the need for a randomized clinical trial. The randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      proposed here will compare NMES therapy combined with exercise therapy to a sham NMES
      protocol combined with the same exercise therapy.

      These therapies will be given to post-radiated H&N cancer patients who have moderate to
      severe dysphagia at least 3 months post-XRT (or post-XRT + post-CRT), to determine whether
      NMES is efficacious. Therapy will continue for 12 weeks with an intense, daily home program.
      Objective indicators of a change in swallow function will be taken from modified barium
      swallow (MBS) studies. Subjective measures of change will be the patients' self-reported
      diet, eating ability, and quality of life, and will indicate whether they perceived a benefit
      from the therapy.

      This new treatment may represent the first real hope for improved swallowing in this growing
      population of cancer survivors. We need to determine whether it represents a truly beneficial
      treatment or whether our resources should be redirected. If successful, this study will
      stimulate a multitude of additional research to elucidate the mechanisms underlying this new
      treatment.
    
  