
    
      Ultramarathons are races involving walking or running longer than the traditional marathon
      length of 42km and frequently take longer than 12 hours to complete. These races are
      increasingly frequent and racers attempt to push back the limits of what their body can
      accomplish. However, these races are not without certain risks.

      The Reunion Island Grand Raid (or Madmen's Diagonal) is one such race, crossing the island
      over 163 km (101 mi) with an altitude gain of 9,643 meters (31,637 ft). Temperatures vary
      from 0 et 30 degrees Celsius (32-86°F) and the race can take 27 to 67 hours to complete.
      About 40% of the racers do not cross the finish line. Each year, two or three racers are
      hospitalized each year in the intensive care unit (ICU) for tubular necrosis and treated with
      dialysis. Scientific literature shows that racers can present acute rhabdomyolysis, with
      elevated levels of CPK-MB. Nevertheless, there have been very few studies on the impact of
      these ultramarathon racers on other biological parameters. As the racers compete and lose
      about a liter of sweat every hour, they also lose ions and trace metals such as zinc, copper,
      iron, magnesium, which can have major repercussions during and after the race. These losses
      are akin to those observed in severe burn victims. In these patients, it has been shown that
      supplementation in trace elements can decrease mortality and hospitalization time.

      Moreover, a major inflammatory response has been observed in racers who compete in
      ultramarathons. This inflammatory response is similar to that of the systemic inflammatory
      response syndrome (SIRS). Patients in the ICU who are septic or who present a SIRS also have
      metabolic diseases, and it has been shown that selenium levels are a prognostic factor of
      SIRS and supplementation can increase survival rates.

      Investigators present the hypothesis that ultramarathon racers can have decreased levels of
      selenium and other ions and trace metals and that specific supplementation can limit risks
      and improve recovery. More specifically, investigators suggest that selenium levels will
      decrease by 25% after the race and remain so at least a week.
    
  