
    
      BACKGROUND:

      DCM is a poorly understood cause of systolic heart failure and is the most common indication
      for heart transplantation in the United States. Despite advances in medical and device
      therapy, the 5-year mortality of patients with DCM remains near 50%.

      Oxidative stress, an imbalance between the formation and degradation of free radicals within
      the myocardium, contributes to metabolic derangements in patients with DCM. The enzyme
      xanthine oxidase (XO), a potent source of oxidative stress, is expressed in the failing
      heart, and it uncouples cardiac energy consumption from cardiac contraction in the setting of
      chronic heart failure. These effects can be reversed by inhibiting XO with the XO inhibitor
      allopurinol, resulting in a marked increase in cardiac efficiency. These findings provide a
      rationale for using allopurinol to enhance cardiac function in DCM. However, there is little
      data on the effects of allopurinol therapy on cardiac function. Therefore, the primary aim of
      this study is to determine whether an acute infusion of intravenous allopurinol improves the
      inotropic response to beta-adrenergic stimulation in patients with idiopathic DCM.

      Decreased beta-adrenergic responsiveness is a characteristic feature of DCM that is
      attributable in part to decreased expression of the beta 1-receptor in chronic heart failure,
      as well as dysregulation of down-stream signaling pathways. Improvement in beta-adrenergic
      responsiveness is a useful surrogate marker for long-term improvement in cardiac structure,
      function, and decreased cardiac events. Traditionally, invasive hemodynamic monitoring using
      pressure and pressure/volume catheters has been the method of choice to quantify the
      inotropic response in heart failure. However, newly developed magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) techniques now allow precise assessment of the inotropic response non-invasively.
      Studies have shown that tagged CMR is a reproducible, noninvasive method to quantify the
      inotropic response to the beta 1 agonist dobutamine in individuals with structurally normal
      hearts. Specifically, radial strain (E1) and circumferential strain (E2) are measured at
      increasing doses of dobutamine using tagged CMR. Changes in these strain parameters, now
      referred to as delta E1 and delta E2, are precise measurements of the beta-inotropic
      response.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      An estimated 20 patients with DCM will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio fashion to receive
      allopurinol or placebo. The primary aim of this investigation is to determine whether an
      acute infusion of intravenous allopurinol improves the inotropic response to dobutamine in
      patients with idiopathic DCM as measured by CMR. Specifically, the study will test the
      hypothesis that a single dose of intravenous allopurinol, compared to placebo, enhances delta
      E1 and delta E2. Secondary aims of this study are as follows: 1) to determine whether the
      response to allopurinol is associated with baseline XO activity and levels of natriuretic
      peptides (investigators predict that augmentation in delta E1 and delta E2 will correlate
      positively with baseline plasma uric acid and plasma B-type natriuretic peptide [BNP]); and
      2) to demonstrate that tagged dobutamine CMR is a useful non-invasive technique to assess
      pharmacologic responses in patients with heart failure.
    
  