
    
      Utilization of the direct anterior approach for total hip arthroplasty (THA) has increased
      over the last ten years. The approach, as described by Keggi et al, superficially utilizes
      the internervous muscle plane between the tensor fascia lata and the sartorius and deeply
      between the rectus and gluteus medius (1). Performing this muscle sparing rather than muscle
      splitting approach has several purported benefits. The clinical reports of this surgical
      approach have documented low dislocation rates (2, 3), excellent cup position (4) improved
      outcome scores (5), less muscle damage (6, 7) and improved gait mechanics (8). The
      preservation and repair of the anterior hip capsule (iliofemoral and pubofemoral ligaments)
      has been recommended by some authors, while anterior capsulectomy has been described by other
      authors without a reported increase in dislocation rate. In contrast, the higher risk of
      posterior dislocation using the posterior approach improved significantly after repair of the
      capsule (9, 10). There are no studies to date that have investigated outcome scores based on
      capsular repair versus capsulectomy for the THA direct anterior approach. The effects of
      anterior capsular repair versus capsulectomy are unknown with regards to anterior hip pain,
      range of motion, and surgical recovery. We hypothesize that capsulectomy may allow for
      reduction in operative time, provide superior surgical exposure, and increased range of
      motion after surgery. The influence on post operative pain and dislocation rate is unknown.

      In this prospective, randomized clinical study investigators will compare operative time,
      blood loss, postoperative pain, range of motion, strength, and adverse events using two
      different surgical techniques (anterior capsular repair versus anterior capsulectomy) during
      direct anterior total hip arthroplasty. Patients will be randomized at their screening visit
      to one of two groups (anterior capsule repair or anterior capsulectomy), and they will be
      blinded for the group assignment. The surgical procedures will be performed according to the
      surgeon's routine standard of care.
    
  