
    
      This is a multi-centre, randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind study to evaluate if
      hydroxychloroquine in combination with background maintenance therapy improves the clinical
      response and quality of life in patients with AAV. 76 participants who have Granulomatosis
      with Polyangiitis, Microscopic Polyangiitis or Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis
      will be recruited from 10 sites over 2 years.

      They will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio of hydroxychloroquine or placebo. Neither the patient
      nor the research team will know which treatment group the participant is in.

      Once the participant agrees to take part and has signed informed consent, they will undergo
      the following assessments, tests and procedures to find out if they can take part in the
      study. Some may be routinely done by the study doctor as part of regular vasculitis care even
      if the participants are not in the study:

        -  Medical history

        -  Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score (BVAS)

        -  Physical exam

        -  Blood tests

        -  Pregnancy test

        -  Urine drug test

        -  Electrocardiogram

        -  Arrange for optician review

      If the patient is eligible to take part in the study, they will be randomised to receive
      either hydroxychloroquine or placebo in addition to background medication. Participants will
      receive 2 tablets to take once a day over the course of a year. Participants may have their
      dose reduced to 1 tablet dependent on their weight at baseline and renal function. All
      participants will have their prednisolone dose tapered down over the course of the study.
      Participants will be asked to fill in a patient diary on a weekly basis to record whether
      they've taken their medication, and if they've experienced any change of symptoms.

      Participants will be asked to attend the hospital at weeks 4, 16, 28, 40, 44, 48, 52 and 56.
      At each of these visits, participants will undertake some or all of the following
      tests/assessments:

        -  Physical exam including visual acuity

        -  Weight and vital signs

        -  BVAS assessment and Vasculitis Damage Index (VDI)

        -  Patient questionnaires

        -  If there are any changes to their medicines and health status

        -  If they experiencing any side effects

        -  Blood samples and urine tests to see how the study drug is affecting the body.

        -  At three visits, participants will also be asked to undergo an electrocardiogram (ECG).

      Patients will be followed up by phone in weeks 10, 22, and 34. This phone call will be based
      on the ANCA-associated Vasculitis Patient Reported Outcome (AAV PRO) questionnaire and
      patients will also be encouraged to report any adverse events. Patients reporting new or
      worsening symptoms will be invited to the hospital for an unscheduled visit.

      In addition to clinical bloods, 76ml of blood will be taken for research purposes for all
      participants. These will be taken at the same time as clinical bloods to minimise discomfort
      for the participant. Participants at Guy's and St Thomas' will have an additional 200ml of
      blood taken for isolation of cells. These bloods will be stored and kept for future research,
      with the written consent of the participant.
    
  