
    
      In the last decade, this research group has tested the effectiveness of three interventions
      following this model. The first one (MOVI) was carried out in peripuberal age children (4th
      and 5th year of primary education, 8-11 years) and showed a moderate effect in reducing the
      adiposity of schoolchildren with higher BMI, an improvement of the lipid profile, without
      significantly improving the global cardiometabolic risk because it did not produce a
      reduction in insulinemia.

      The second edition (MOVI-2), carried out at schoolchildren of the same age range, increased
      the duration and intensity of the sessions, and was focused on the development of muscular
      strength in order to improve insulinemia levels. The intervention showed proved
      effectiveness; in addition, the data from this intervention showed a modest improvement in
      girls' aerobic capacity, but not in boys.

      The last edition (MOVI-KIDS) was aimed at children aged 4 to 7 years to test the hypotheses
      that vigorous physical activity at early ages could produce lifelong cardio-metabolic
      benefits. Data submitted for publication in this study show that, as in the case of the
      IDEFICS study in children of similar age, the intervention was not effective in improving
      fitness.

      This new edition (MOVI-daFit!) has been designed as controlled cluster-randomized trial
      including 10 schools from Cuenca province, Spain. Five schools will be randomized to
      intervention group (IG), in which the intervention MOVI-daFit! will be conducted for children
      in fourth and fifth school grades (9-11 years old). The other five schools will be allocated
      to the control group (CG).

      During an academic year the 4th and 5th schoolchildren allocated to IG will be carry out, in
      out of school hours, four times by week, one hour sessions of a standardized recreative, non
      competitive, physical activity intervention based on games adapted to high intensity interval
      training methodology (MOVI-daFit!). In the CG regular physical activity will continue.

      At the end of the school year the researchers will determine main outcome variables: changes
      in VO2max, body fat by bioimpedance, reactive hyperemia index, academic achievement,
      executive function, and biochemical analytic procedures including lipid profile, insulin,
      HbA1, C ultrasensitive reactive protein and BDNF.

      The hypotheses of this new edition will be that the MOVI-daFit! based on high intensity
      interval training (HITT) adapted for the 4th and 5th schoolchildren, will:

        1. Increase the aerobic capacity (VO2max).

        2. Reduce the percentage of body fat in the GI versus the GC by 6%.

        3. Improve executive function and academic performance.

        4. Improve subclinical markers of atherosclerosis (endothelial function and carotid
           intima-media thickness).
    
  