
    
      Purpose:

      To assess age and gender effect in the language error type (semantics, syntax and
      pragmatics)of developmental delay preschool aged children, a standardize tool "Preschool
      Language Scale Corrected edition(PLS-C), Lin" was adopted for evaluation.

      Methods:

      This is a retrospective chart study enrolled 55 children aged 3, 4 and 5 in department of
      rehabilitation in Taipei Medical University Hospital from 2011 Jan to 2014 Dec whose average
      PLS-C score was at least 1.5 SD below normal. Those normal or PLS-C score was less than 1.5SD
      below normal were excluded. We recorded correct percentage in pragmatics, syntax, and
      semantics in different age group separately in auditory comprehension, language expression as
      well as overall performance. All wrong questions answered in PLS-C were recorded. We used SAS
      9.4 (Anova, t-test) to analyze the results in age differences, gender differences, and
      language components differences

      Results:

      In overall performance, expression, and comprehension, there was no difference between boy
      and girl by t-test in all ages. By one-way Anova Bonferroni t test, age 5 was better than age
      4 and age 3 significantly in pragmatics, syntax and semantics (p<0.005).

      We further separated into groups of 5YR boy, 5YR girl, 4YR boy, 4YR girl, and 3YR boy.

      In overall performance, by Duncan's multiple analysis, only 5 YR boy had significant better
      performance than 4 YR girl and 3 YR boy in pragmatics. In age 5, boys had better performance
      in pragmatics than girls (p<0.05). In age 4, no differences are showed between boy and girl.

      In comprehension, in age 5, boys have better performance in pragmatics than girls(p<0.05).

      In expression, there was no difference between boys and girls. Pragmatics was better than
      syntax (p=0.0202<o.o5) in age 5.

      Conclusion:

      We found age had more effect than gender in language delay children. Age 5 boys had better
      performance in pragmatics conflicted with some previous studies and may need more exploration
      in the future.

      Key words:

      Development Delay, Preschool aged children, Language Development Delay, Semantics, Syntax,
      Pragmatics, Language error type
    
  