
    
      There is now strong evidence that undiagnosed and untreated TB increases the risk of death in
      children, especially those severely malnourished who are highly vulnerable. Specific
      decision-making tools are therefore urgently needed to guide clinicians from high TB burden
      and low-income countries to initiate treatment quickly in children with SAM with suspected
      TB.

      A diagnostic prediction score and algorithm was recently proposed by the investigators for TB
      treatment decision in HIV-infected children with presumptive TB (developed in the ANRS 12229
      PAANTHER 01 study). Based on easily collected clinical features, chest X-Ray (CXR), Xpert
      MTB/RIF, and abdominal ultrasonography, the score aims to help clinicians make a same-day
      treatment decision. Such a prediction score improving TB diagnosis and shortening time to
      treatment initiation would be a key benefit in children with SAM.

      Based on this experience, the investigators are proposing a diagnostic cohort study enrolling
      hospitalized severely malnourished children. The study will include the evaluation of several
      diagnostic tests that could be integrated in the development of a prediction model and
      subsequent score for the diagnosis of TB in hospitalized children with SAM. This will include
      Xpert MTB/RIF Ultra performed on one nasopharyngeal aspirate (NPA) and one stool sample, CXR,
      Quantiferon (QFT) Interferon-Gamma Release Assay (IGRA), Monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratio (MLR),
      and ultrasonography, which has shown its interest for the diagnosis of TB in both
      HIV-infected adults and children. In the PAANTHER study, it detected abdominal
      lymphadenopathy in 50% of culture confirmed TB cases and 35% of all confirmed and unconfirmed
      cases, with a specificity of 85%.

      Using logistic regression, a score will be developed for TB diagnosis, considering confirmed
      and unconfirmed TB as reference diagnosis, in hospitalized children with SAM. As a secondary
      objective, and in order to reduce costs, sample collection, and complexity of the diagnostic
      process, a first-step screening score (excluding Ultra, abdominal ultrasound, and CXR if
      possible) will be developed to identify children with presumptive TB who would benefit from
      further diagnostic testing.

      Both scores will be internally validated using resampling and will be incorporated in a
      stepwise algorithm to guide practical implementation of the screening and diagnosis process.
      The stepwise algorithm will be discussed with local clinicians involved in the study to
      better adapt it for future use in their routine practice.

      The study will be implemented at inpatient nutrition centres from three selected tertiary
      hospitals in Uganda, and Zambia. A total of 720 children <5 years old with WHO-defined severe
      acute malnutrition will be enrolled with an equal distribution between sites, that is 240
      participants per hospital.
    
  