
    
      According to the World Health Organization (WHO), in 2016 there were 3 million deaths
      worldwide from alcohol abuse. ALDH1b1 and ALDH2 proteins are involved in the alcohol
      metabolism promoting the conversion of acetaldehyde to acetate. The genes that encode these
      proteins have genetic variants, also called polymorphisms, that can promote changes in their
      functions such as the accumulation of acetaldehyde in the body, resulting in facial flushing,
      tachycardia and headache. Studies reported the correlation between alcohol consumption and/or
      smoking and these polymorphisms to a higher risk for head and neck cancer, including oral
      squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). The aim of this study is to determine the frequency of the
      ALDH1b1 and ALDH2 polymorphisms in the Brazilian population, in addition to estimating the
      risk for OSCC among those with polymorphisms. For this, unstimulated saliva samples will be
      collected from OSCC patients and healthy volunteers. All study participants must complete two
      questionnaires on alcohol consumption, smoking and disease history. Saliva samples will be
      collected using the DNA/RNA Shield Saliva Collection Kit and stored at -20ºC. The DNA will be
      extracted, quantified by the Nanodrop equipment and amplified by the polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR), using specific primers for each of the genetic variants. The PCR product will
      be sent to the Sequencing Service of the Centro de Pesquisas sobre o Genoma Humano e
      Células-Tronco/IBUSP, where the Sanger sequencing technique will be performed and the results
      will be analyzed in the ICB-USP laboratory. For the group of patients, medical records will
      be monitored to correlate clinical data and genetic variants with overall survival. These
      data will allow the characterization of the genetic variants of ALDH1b1 and ALDH2 in the
      Brazilian population and support the development of future public policies to reduce the main
      risk factors for OSCC, especially among those with these genetic variants.
    
  