
    
      Hip replacement and hemiarthroplasty of the hip for neck of femur fracture are common
      orthopaedic procedures. The National Joint Registry in 2017 reported that 96.3% of hip
      replacements were performed using the anterolateral and posterior approach. NICE guidelines
      have suggested to utilise the anterolateral approach for hip fracture hemiarthroplasty due to
      decrease dislocation rates and thus, cost savings.

      Despite these two commonly use approaches, the traditional incisions have, in the
      investigators experience, been modified. This is to accommodate the increasing evidence and
      emphasis on the acetabular components. Besides that, in hemiarthroplasty, various incisions
      have been described for the 'anterolateral' approach, such as direct lateral, curved
      posteriorly. 'Mini' and 'micro' incisions of the posterior approach has also been described
      all with the aim as tissue-sparing procedures, improving outcomes and length of stay.

      In this study, the investigators aim to describe the 'traditionally' described posterior and
      anterolateral incisions to the hip by Moore and Hardinge:

        1. Posterior - 5cm distally from the greater trochanter along the femoral diaphysis,
           curving the incision proximally 3-8cm towards the PSIS

        2. Anterolateral - 3cm distally from the greater trochanter along the femoral diaphysis,
           continuing proximally 3-8cm along the femoral diaphysis

      The cutaneous innervation for this area is largely supplied by the lateral femoral cutaneous
      nerve of the thigh; however some anatomical texts also describe contribution to this area
      from the subcostal nerve, or the lateral branches of the iliohypogastric nerve.

      The lateral femoral cutaneous nerve can be readily identified using ultrasound, and has
      recently been categorised into 3 distinct types; the 'Sartorius', Posterior' and the 'Fan'
      types. The Sartorius type, accounting for roughly one-third, describes a dominant anterior
      branch running along the border of the Sartorius muscle, with no or few posterior branches.

      The posterior type, accounting for roughly one-third, describes a strong posterior branch,
      equal in thickness to, or thicker than, the anterior branch running laterally and crossing
      the medial border of the tensor fasciae latae muscle immediately distal to the ASIS.

      The fan type, accounting for roughly one-third, describes multiple nerve branches of equal
      thickness spreading over the anterolateral region of the proximal aspect of the thigh,
      crossing over the tensor fasciae latae muscle and the lateral border of the sartorius.

      The lateral femoral cutaneous nerve can readily be identified using ultrasound and is readily
      blocked.

      The subcostal nerve describes the distal continuation of the twelfth intercostal nerve.

      Its lateral cutaneous branch perforates the obliquus internus and externus, descends over the
      iliac crest in front of the lateral cutaneous branch of the iliohypogastric, and is
      distributed to the skin of the front part of the gluteal region, extending as low as the
      greater trochanter.

      The iliohypogastric nerve is usually a branch of the lumbar plexus originating from the L1
      ventral ramus. Above the iliac crest, it enters the posterior part of the transversus
      abdominis. Between the transversus abdominis and internal oblique it divides into lateral and
      anterior cutaneous branches. The lateral cutaneous branch runs through the internal and
      external oblique above the iliac crest, a little behind the iliac branch of the T12 spinal
      nerve. It is distributed to the posterolateral gluteal skin. The iliohypogastric nerve
      usually gives communicating branches to the subcostal and ilioinguinal nerves. The iliac
      branch of the iliohypogastric nerve can be absent, replaced by the lateral cutaneous branch
      of the subcostal nerve. The iliohypogastric nerve is sometimes derived from the twelfth
      thoracic nerve and can also receive a root from the eleventh. Anloague and Huijbregts (2009)
      demonstrated the absence of the iliohypogastric nerve in 20.6% of the lumbar plexuses they
      investigated.

      Anaesthesia for this incision can therefore only partly be achieved by a lateral femoral
      cutaneous nerve block; however this is not always complete for the territory of the incision,
      particularly if the incision is longer and extending more proximally. Due to the variation
      and sharing between the subcostal and iliohypogastric nerves, and their similar course, we
      will consider sonographically identified descending nerves to the gluteal region as a single
      entity, referred to as the subcostal nerve.

      The Investigators have identified the subcostal nerve using ultrasound on volunteers and
      found it to lie above the superficial fascia directly above gluteus medius at the cranial
      aspect of the buttock, originating from the lateral abdominal wall musculature, where it can
      be tracked proximally to visualise its descent through the muscle layers of the lateral
      abdominal wall.

      The investigators hypothesise that a lateral femoral cutaneous nerve block alone will not
      reliably provide cutaneous anaesthesia to the territory of our commonly observed incisions
      for hip arthroplasty. Our secondary hypothesis is that a blockade of the subcostal nerve will
      extend the cutaneous anaesthesia to reliably cover that area.

      This study is to be conducted in three parts. Firstly, surgeons within the investigators
      department will be canvassed to mark out their likely line of incision for a routine elective
      primary hip arthroplasty. Pictorial evidence and variation will be gathered for overlay.
      Secondly, on volunteers, the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve will be identified using
      ultrasound in its course distal to the inguinal ligament, and the relevant type will be
      ascertained. The nerve will then be blocked using a short-acting local anaesthetic, and the
      area of numbness demarcated. Pictorial evidence will be gathered.

      Thirdly, the subcostal nerve will be identified, and blocked using a short-acting local
      anaesthetic. The resulting area of numbness will be further demarcated, and further pictorial
      evidence gathered.

      The relevant demarcated areas and incisions will be then be compared for analysis.
    
  