
    
      The aims of this Randomized Clinical Trial are:

        1. to evaluate the risk of pulpal exposure and tooth vitality maintenance of primary molars
           with deep caries lesions, treated with conservative techniques, such as Stepwise
           Excavation (SE) or Selective Caries Removal (SCR), and to compare with those teeth
           treated with Indirect Pulp Capping (IPC);

        2. to verify changes in the cultivable microbiota isolated in the deep carious dentin
           lesions of deciduous molars, before and after performing the procedures of SE;

        3. to clinically evaluate dentin reactions to the SE;

        4. to provide longitudinal monitoring of changes in the non-cultivable microbiota
           (microbiome), found in dentin carious lesions of deciduous and permanent molars,
           compared to the treatments performed;

        5. to determine, in vitro, the microbial metabolome of different strains isolated from
           dentin samples under conditions of high and low cariogenic challenge;

        6. to correlate, in vitro, the microbial metabolites with the clinical classification of
           the cavitated lesions from which these samples originated.

      The sample will be, at least, 90 primary molars, randomly distributed into three groups:
      Group 1: IPC; Group 2: SE; Group 3: SCR. Teeth must present deep caries lesions (at least 2/3
      of dentin depth), pulp vitality (no clinical or radiographical signs of pulp disease, such as
      abcesses, fistulae, root resorption, abnormal tooth mobility). This study received approval
      by the Ethics Committee of UFF (Brazil) - # CAAE: 58812816.8.0000.5626. The study started in
      January, 2017; and will finish in December, 2020. Patients will be selected from the public
      schools in Nova Friburgo. The dental exams and treatment procedures will be done at the
      clinics from the

      School of Dentistry, Health Institute of Nova Friburgo (ISNF). Laboratory proceedings will be
      done at:

      LAB PECMA - ISNF - Sample storage, bacterial cultivation and identification University of
      North Carolina at Chapel Hill Rio de Janeiro Federal University
    
  