
    
      While evidence suggests that the disclosure of personal genetic information based on
      nutrigenomics testing leads to lifestyle behaviour changes in selected populations, the
      potential for its use as an intervention in clinical populations, such as those with
      depressive disorders, has yet to be explored.

      Study Objectives: The proposed study will employ a mixed-methods approach and focus on the
      following objectives:

        1. to examine the efficacy of testing for 12-genes (i.e., CYP1A2, UCP1, MTHFR, HLA,
           TMPRSS6, TFR2, TF, MCM6, NOS3, ACE, FUT2, GSTT1, TCF7L2) that assess 11 dietary
           components (i.e, caffeine, energy balance, folate gluten, iron, lactose, omega-3 fat,
           sodium, vitamin B12, vitamin C, and whole grains) in changing diet quality, eating
           behaviours and improving symptoms in adults with depressive disorders

        2. to conduct a qualitative investigation of participants' experiences with using gene
           testing that assesses for dietary components

      Summary of Method: To evaluate the feasibility of nutrigenomics as an intervention for mental
      health conditions, a phase I randomized controlled trial of 24 adults with depressive
      disorders using a 2:1 ratio of group selection (16 in the intervention {I} group and 8 in the
      control {C} group) is proposed. Participants with a confirmed depressive disorder will be
      recruited from two local mental health clinics. Those randomized into the I group will do the
      gene testing and be provided personalized DNA-based dietary advice from a registered
      dietitian; those in the C group will also receive testing but be given general dietary advice
      by a registered dietitian. Pre- and post-intervention comparisons (3 and 6 weeks after a
      personalized nutrition plan is given) will be analyzed based on records of dietary intakes
      (i.e., 3 day food records and food frequency questionnaire) and psychiatric functioning
      (e.g., Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomology, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale,
      Outcome Questionnaire - OQ-45). In addition, measures that track physical activity, sedentary
      behavior, and sleep quality as well as sociodemographics will be included as covariates.

      After the intervention study is completed, in-depth focus group interviews will be conducted.
      Participants will be asked questions that will elicit their perceptions of the nutrigenomics
      test and the personalized dietary advice provided as well as the behavioural response to
      disclosure of genetic information.
    
  