
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the survival of patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer treated with
           neoadjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy comprising fluorouracil and cisplatin followed
           by surgery or radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      gender, histology (epidermoid vs glandular), response to induction therapy (complete vs
      partial), and tumor differentiation (little differentiated vs undifferentiated/good vs
      moderately differentiated).

        -  Induction therapy: All patients receive induction therapy comprising fluorouracil IV
           continuously over 24 hours on days 1-5 and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 or on
           day 2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiotherapy twice daily on
           days 1-5 and 22-26 or once daily 5 days a week for 4½ weeks. Patients achieving complete
           or partial response are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo surgery. Patients may receive 1 course of adjuvant chemotherapy
           (as in induction therapy) and undergo additional radiotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive additional fluoroucacil and cisplatin as in induction therapy.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo additional radiotherapy once daily 5 days a
           week for 2 weeks.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, after treatment on arms I or II, and then every 2
      months (arm I) or every 6 months (arm II) thereafter.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  