
    
      African Americans are approximately twice as likely to be diagnosed with diabetes and to
      experience gaps in diabetes care compared to Whites. Lower health literacy and
      socio-economic, language, and communication barriers are all associated with disparities in
      diabetes care. The role of Behavioral theory is foundational in understanding behavior change
      among patients in the self-management of diabetes. Further culturally tailoring increases
      acceptance and effectiveness of diabetes self-management.

      The aim of this pilot study is to test the feasibility and acceptability of a culturally
      tailored, cognitive behavioral intervention (CT-CB) program using a group-based vs. a
      web-based format, and determine if it can improve diabetes self-management among African
      Americans compared with usual individual based care at the clinic. Forty-five African
      American patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes (HbA1C > 8 %), aged > 18 years, will be
      randomly assigned to undergo a six session group-based or web-based behavioral intervention
      (CT-CB) program or to general education (usual care). After 12 weeks, patients will be
      followed for an additional three months to evaluate for diminution of treatment effects. Both
      the group -based and the web-based CBT intervention group will be followed for an additional
      three months to study for possible diminution of treatment effects over time.

      Diabetic measures like Hemoglobin (HbA1C) at baseline vs. 3 months; the Patient Health
      Questionnaire to assess depressive symptoms; Diabetes Distress Scale, anxiety, self-efficacy,
      quality of life (SF-12), Diabetes Health Belief Scale, process measures such as Patient
      Activation Measure (PAM-13), medication adherence questionnaire, session-participation,
      glucose self-monitoring, diet and physical activity are measured at each visit pre and post
      intervention. Trained study staff will also conduct neuropsychological tests including
      language and memory tests, attention and executive function tests, clinical diagnosis,
      activities of daily living (ADL).
    
  