
    
      In a knee OA cohort with no clinical evidence or self-report of gout, The investigators
      recently found a significant correlation of synovial fluid uric acid with radiographic and
      scintigraphic measures of OA severity [1]. The investigators also observed strong
      correlations of OA severity (radiographically and scintigraphically determined) and synovial
      fluid uric acid with synovial fluid Interleukin (IL)-18 and IL-1β; these two cytokines are
      classically produced during gout attacks by innate immune system activation mediated by uric
      acid crystal-induced inflammasome assembly in macrophages. These results strongly support the
      involvement of uric acid and the innate immune system in OA pathology and progression.
      Whereas in gout flares, uric acid in a crystal form is what triggers the innate immune
      response, we suspect that in OA, uric acid in a microcrystalline or particulate form is the
      pathogenic agent -- able to trigger an innate immune response; this leads to release of
      inflammatory cytokines like IL-18, IL-1β and subsequently tumor necrosis factor - α which
      perpetuates further cartilage degradation. This new conception of the pathogenesis of OA has
      very important treatment implications; it suggests that existing therapies for gout may be of
      benefit in OA. Colchicine may be an effective treatment for OA due to its capacity in
      suppressing the innate immune response at various levels. At micromolar concentrations
      colchicine suppresses activation of the crystal-induced (NACHT), (LRR) and (PYD) domains
      containing protein-3 (NALP3) inflammasome; IL-1β processing and release; and L-selectin
      expression on neutrophils [2]. At nanomolar concentrations colchicine has blocks the release
      of a crystal-derived chemotactic factor from neutrophil lysosomes; it blocks neutrophil
      adhesion to endothelium by modulating the distribution of adhesion molecules on the
      endothelial cells; and it inhibits urate crystal-induced production of superoxide anions from
      neutrophils and macrophages. The pain and symptom relieving effects of colchicine for knee OA
      have been demonstrated in three small but well-performed human randomized controlled trials
      [3-5]; however, the mechanism of action of colchicine in OA has never been evaluated.

      The investigators therefore propose a RCT of colchicine to examine the effects on signs and
      symptoms of knee OA and to evaluate the mechanism of action through analysis of synovial
      fluid and systemic biomarker profiles.

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that colchicine will block inflammasome mediated
      inflammation, thereby improve the signs and symptoms of OA, and reduce synovial fluid serum
      and urine inflammatory and biochemical joint degradation biomarkers.

      Aim 1. To determine whether daily oral colchicine at standard clinical doses (0.5 mg two
      times daily), compared to placebo, can decrease the pain of symptomatic OA knee and improve
      function when used as adjunctive daily therapy in addition to background therapy with the
      patient's current stable analgesic regimen.

      Aim 2. To evaluate the mechanism of action of colchicine for reducing knee OA signs and
      symptoms through analyses of synovial fluid, serum, and urine biomarker profiles - these will
      interrogate and characterize the state of activation of joint metabolism (joint degradation
      and synthesis markers), inflammatory mediators, the innate immune system and the NALP3
      inflammasome components specifically both before (at baseline) and after 16 weeks therapy (at
      study end) with oral colchicine versus placebo treatment.

      This pilot phase II study uses a double-blinded, randomized, placebo, controlled design.
      Patients with symptomatic and radiographic knee OA (n=120) will be randomized to colchicine
      (SIN 12490P) 0.5 mg bid (n=60) or placebo (n=60) daily for 16 weeks. Patients will be
      permitted to remain on their baseline adjunctive therapy, including non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) without changes for the duration of the study. They will
      also be allowed the use of paracetamol not more than 2 g/day as rescue analgesia and pill
      counting at the end of the study will be conducted to determine the amount of rescue medicine
      utilized over the course of the 16-week study.
    
  