
    
      Over 3 million US children with asthma reported at least one attack in the prior year. Poorly
      controlled asthma is a major cause of suffering, school absences, loss of caregiver
      productivity, and healthcare costs (estimated as ~$80 billion/year). Over half of children on
      controller medication are not well controlled, due to environmental exposures, non-adherence,
      or true non-response to treatment. Outdoor air pollution is a known trigger of asthma.
      Although sound health policies are the best long-term approaches to reduce the harmful
      effects of air pollution, exposure avoidance is needed until "clean air" is ensured through
      effective legislation. Despite this, healthcare providers infrequently provide pollution
      exposure advice to children with asthma. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) monitors
      air pollution and reports a daily Air Quality Index (AQI) that is easy to use and available
      in most metropolitan areas. Practical recommendations regarding outdoor activity can be based
      on AQI levels. Despite this, AQI-based recommendations are rarely addressed in asthma action
      plans (AAP). No pediatric study has assessed the addition of the AQI to AAP to reduce asthma
      morbidity. This proposal seeks to recruit a pilot cohort of 40 children with asthma + 40
      parent/guardian. Using this cohort, the investigators will test the hypotheses that (1) the
      addition of the AQI to AAP will reduce asthma exacerbations and (2) the addition of the AQI
      to AAP will improve asthma symptom control & quality of life in children with asthma. The
      inclusion of the AQI onto asthma action plans is novel in clinical asthma care; its wide
      availability would make large-scale implementation feasible. The investigators expect this
      low-cost and low-tech intervention will have a positive impact in reducing asthma morbidity.
      Given that 1 out of every 12 children in the U.S. has asthma, this is relevant to health care
      professionals, parents, and public health practitioners.

      Optional, the investigators will collect nasal epithelial cells for use in future
      genomic/epigenetic studies.
    
  