
    
      Postoperative functional capacity following TKA surgery has been strongly associated with
      preoperative functional status. Presence of pain, poor strength and flexibility, and limited
      ability to complete physiological tasks have been shown to be consistent predictors of poor
      recovery from knee surgery.

      The postoperative period is associated with 30-40% decrease in functional capacity, and
      efforts have been made to facilitate the recovery by implementing rehabilitative measures
      over the period of weeks and months. However, the postoperative period might not be the best
      time to engage patients in intensive physiotherapy as they are easily tired and in pain.
      Preparing patients for the stress of surgery, called also prehabilitation, is emerging as a
      mean to optimize pre-operative status and increase functional reserve thus, increasing
      surgical stress tolerance. Observational and randomized controlled studies in patients
      scheduled for colorectal, thoracic, and spinal surgeries have suggested that a 4-6 weeks of
      moderate preoperative physical activity can lead to significant postoperative improvements in
      cardiorespiratory reserve and functional capacity. However, preliminary trials on the effect
      of a 6-8 weeks prehabilitation program with structured exercises prior to knee arthroplasty
      have reported contrasting results, and one of the reasons might be the high levels of pain
      encountered by these patients while exercising, therefore making it difficult to engage them
      in achieving effective prehabilitation. It would therefore, make sense if efforts were
      directed towards relieving pain thus, facilitating broader fitness enhancement strategies and
      improving the surgical experience and the recovery process.

      Common pharmacological methods to relieve osteoarthritic pain while waiting for surgery,
      include acetaminophen, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS and Cox-2 inhibitors)
      and occasionally opioids. Non-surgical interventions, such as intra-articular injection with
      steroids or hyaluronic acids, acupuncture and periosteal stimulation therapy, are often used
      as complementary therapies of limited benefit. The use of pulsed and Continuous
      radiofrequency (PRF and CRF) to the saphenous nerve and the genicular nerves branches of the
      knee, have been shown to decrease significantly pain scores in 44% of patients with chronic
      OA of the knee for up to one year after the treatment. Akbasa et al. using the Western
      Ontario and McMaster Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), reported significant reduction of pain at
      rest, movement and flexion of the knee and increase in patient's satisfaction 6 months after
      the PRF treatment. Our group has recently demonstrated the benefits of radiofrequency
      treatment in patients waiting for total knee replacement TKA 9. More so, the investigators
      recent results reported to the American Society of Regional Anesthesia and Pain, showed in a
      randomized controlled trial promising results in terms of faster recovery of patients
      undergoing TKA, when they received RF instead of the standard postoperative analgesia
      technique 10.

      The present study is, as mentioned above, related to an already approved and finished study
      in this institution: 15-209-MUHC "Functional outcome and postoperative analgesia following
      total knee arthroplasty: a prospective, randomized, double blind comparison between
      continuous adductor canal block and pulsed radiofrequency of saphenous and genicular nerves
      of the knee". In that study, our research group was investigating the effects of the
      Radiofrequency treatment preoperatively on the postoperative pain and functional recovery, in
      patients who did not participate in a prehabilitation program.
    
  