
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the optimal dose schedule, safety and tolerability as measured by the incidence
      of significant toxicity of combination therapy with anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody,
      cryoablation, and intra-tumor injection of autologous dendritic cell into the cryoablated
      tumor. (Phase I) II. Test the efficacy (overall response rate) of combination therapy with
      anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody, cryoablation, and intra-tumor injection of autologous
      dendritic cell vaccine. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the feasibility of this combination immunotherapy. (Phase I) II. Evaluate patient
      quality of life. (Phase I) III. Evaluate the partial response (PR) and complete response (CR)
      rate of this combination immunotherapy. (Phase II) IV. Evaluate the progression free
      survival, treatment free survival, duration of response, disease-free rate at 2 years, and
      overall survival of this combination immunotherapy. (Phase II) V. Evaluate the safety of this
      combination immunotherapy. (Phase II)

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the effect of combination immunotherapy on patients' immune status and anti-tumor
      immune response. (Phase II) II. Assess the potential association between PD-1/PD-L1/PD-L2
      expression in tumor and blood with clinical efficacy. (Phase II) III. Assess the potential
      association between tumor antigen mutations and antigen-specific immune response with
      clinical efficacy. (Phase II) IV. Evaluate patient quality of life. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for up to 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      also receive dendritic cell therapy intratumorally (IT) on days 2, 8, and 15 of cycles 2 and
      3, and day 2 of cycles 4 and 5. Patients undergo cryosurgery on day 2 of cycle 2 and receive
      pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine by injection on day 2 of cycles 2-5. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for up to 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients who are CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) after completion of
      therapy, may receive pembrolizumab for an additional 18 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months during the first
      year post-treatment, every 4 months during the second year post-treatment, and then every 6
      months for up to 2 years.
    
  