
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the overall tumor response rate (ORR i.e. complete response [CR]+partial
      response [PR]) of the combination of FASN inhibitor TVB-2640 [TVB-2640] with paclitaxel and
      trastuzumab in patients with taxane and trastuzumab-resistant, advanced HER2-positive breast
      cancer who have had prior exposure to trastuzumab emtansine (T-DMI) in the metastatic breast
      cancer setting.

      II. To estimate the ORR of the combination of TVB-2640 with paclitaxel and trastuzumab in
      patients with taxane and trastuzumab-resistant, advanced HER2-positive breast cancer who have
      not had prior exposure to T-DMI in the metastatic breast cancer setting.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. For each patient cohort, to evaluate the safety profile of the combination of TVB-2640
      with paclitaxel and trastuzumab.

      II. For each patient cohort, to assess the clinical benefit rate (CBR), duration of response,
      and progression free survival of the combination of TVB-2640 with paclitaxel and trastuzumab.

      III. To obtain a point and interval estimate of the difference in RR as well as the
      difference in CBR between cohort 1 and cohort 2.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. For each patient cohort, to assess the changes in FASN, phosphorylation (p)AKT, and pS6
      expression in tumor tissue after the first cycle of the combination of TVB-2640 with
      paclitaxel and trastuzumab from pre-treatment levels.

      II. For each patient cohort, to assess the changes in levels of cellular apoptosis in tumor
      tissue after the first cycle of the combination of TVB-2640 with paclitaxel and trastuzumab
      from pre-treatment levels.

      III. For each patient cohort, to assess the changes in serum FASN after the first cycle of
      the combination of TVB-2640 with paclitaxel and trastuzumab from pre-treatment levels.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive FASN inhibitor TVB-2640 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28, paclitaxel
      intravenously (IV) over 1-96 hours on days 1, 8, and 15, and trastuzumab IV over 30-90
      minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unexpected toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  