
    
      1. Strategies 90 schoolchildren from Grade 1 to 4 that meet criteria for a DSM-V diagnosis
           of ADHD (any presentation) will be recruited. The design will involve three groups (n =
           30 per group; N = 90) to which recruited children will be assigned randomly, but matched
           for age, gender, and medication. In addition to VR NIRS NF and VR EMG biofeedback
           groups, a third group will experience the NIRS NF in the exact same 2D classroom
           environment.

        2. The Study 2.1. Testing Protocol Informed consent discussion: Parents of children
           pre-diagnosed with ADHD will not undergo a screening process. However, parents whose
           children have not been pre-diagnosed with ADHD before, will be provided with the German
           version of the Conners-3 parent ADHD-Index (C3-AI). Only if the screening indicates that
           the child is at an increased risk of having ADHD, will the investigators proceed with an
           informed consent discussion. If the screening indicates that it is unlikely that the
           child has ADHD, the investigators will exclude the child from the study. After the
           meeting, if the child was either pre-diagnosed with ADHD before, or the screening
           indicates an increased likelihood for the child to have ADHD, parents will have enough
           time to think about whether they want to give written informed consent to participate in
           the study.

      If parents give written informed consent, the next step will be a session in which the ADHD
      diagnosis is verified. For this session, parents will be informed about three opportunities.

        1. Diagnostic session in the scope of their participation in a second study at the
           pediatric clinic in Tübingen at the same time that they participate in our biofeedback
           study. This study is called "Aufmerksamkeit und Kognition bei Kindern mit
           Neurofibromatose Typ 1", which is still searching for children with ADHD only (without
           neurofibromatosis type 1) to form a control group.

        2. Diagnostic session in the scope of the "Spezialsprechstunde ADHS" in the outpatient
           clinic of the department of child and adolescence psychiatry.

        3. Diagnostic session within the scope of this biofeedback study as described below.

      Diagnostic session: For a standardized confirmation as well as a characterization of the
      diagnosis, the long versions of the Conners-3 parent and teacher rating scales (3-P and 3-T)
      will be applied. Furthermore, the German version of the Strengths- and Difficulties
      Questionnaire (SDQ-Deu) is going to assess the severity of the symptoms as well as
      comorbidities from class teacher as well as parental perspective. In order to assess the
      actual quality of life of parents and child parents and children will be asked to fill out
      the Kiddy-Kindl in its appropriate version. Moreover, surrounding variables such as
      medication, prior treatment, other clinical diagnoses etc. will be assessed with a
      questionnaire. As neuropsychological variables, intelligence will be assessed using the short
      version of the Culture Fair Test (CFT 1-R or CFT 20-R).

      Pre-Test:

      Session 1 of the pre-test is going to assess executive functions of the participants and
      requires a washout of methylphenidate (MPH) as well as amphetamines. MPH and amphetamines
      should be washed out for at least 48 hours over the weekend so that the pre-test can take
      place on Mondays. Atomoxetine does not need any washout as the effects of medication are not
      directly related to the drug level in the blood. In this first session, a combined
      EEG/NIRS-measurement will take place as the investigators would like to provide information
      about whether changes caused by the BF intervention are also reflected in changes that can be
      measured with EEG and NIRS during the following tasks: a Go/No-Go Task (10 min.), a verbal
      fluency task (10 min.) and an n-back task (10 min.). Furthermore, the participants'
      performance on a digit span task (forward & backward) (10 min.) will assess verbal WM whereas
      a matrices span task (15 min.) and the Corsi Block Tapping Task (forward & backward) (10
      min.) will assess visual-spatial WM performance. Inhibition will be once more assessed using
      the Stop Signal Task (10 min.).

      Session 2 (without medication washout) will assess academic performance using one of the
      appropriate DEMAT 1+-4 (20-40 Min.) assessing mathematical performance and the SLRT-II (25-35
      Min.) assessing reading and writing performance. Furthermore, sustained attention will be
      assessed with the Conner's CPT (15 min.). Questionnaires assessing self-control and academic
      self-efficacy will be filled out by the children (ca. 20 min.).

      Furthermore, an accelerometer that is worn on the non-dominant side of the body (hip),
      attached to the waistband with a light belt, for ten consecutive days will objectively assess
      motor hyperactivity. During this time, parents will be called once per day to assess ADHD
      symptoms with the Global Index ADHD (ADHS-GI) and to check whether the accelerometer is worn
      and works.

      Parents and teachers will be asked to fill out the BRIEF as well as the SDQ-Deu, the long
      versions of the Conners-3 parent and teacher rating scales (3-P and 3-T) and the Kiddy-Kindl.
      Moreover, the investigators will ask the parents to fill out an adapted version of the FERT
      as well as an adapted version of the brief self-control scale in order to assess their
      expectancies of the training.

      Midway-Test: After eight sessions, participants will have a break of two to three weeks in
      which no NF or BF training takes place. ADHD behavior will be assessed by asking parents as
      well as teachers to fill out the Conners 3-P/ 3-T.

      Post-Test: The post-test will follow the procedure already applied in the pre-test.

      Follow-Up-Test (6 months after the last training session): The Follow-Up-Test will follow the
      course of the post-test exactly.

      Every session. During every session, the investigators will assess the participant's
      motivation with a short questionnaire measuring joy, effort and enthusiasm. Furthermore,
      heart rate variability (HRV) will be recorded as it has been shown to be related to
      motivational processes. Accelerometer data from knee and wrist will be recorded to examine
      hyperactive behavior.

      2.2. Training Plan and Protocol The NIRS- and EMG-based NF and BF training protocols of this
      study will include 15 training sessions in total, two to three per week. Every training
      session will last about 60 minutes including the biofeedback training itself and a
      preparation phase at the beginning, in which the NIRS cap and its optodes are fitted to the
      head in the case of a NF training, or the EMG electrodes are placed above both Musculi
      supraspinatus in the case of a BF training. Furthermore, the head-mounted display (HMD) for
      the VR is mounted (in the VR 3D classroom groups only).

      Every training session with NIRS- and EMG-based NF/BF consists of three runs, of which the
      first and the second are with continuous performance feedback (feedback condition). In the
      third run, no feedback is provided (transfer condition). Lighting in the 3D VR or 2D
      classroom increases with activation and decreases with deactivation. During the first eight
      training sessions, the training will follow a protocol with 50% activation and 50%
      deactivation trials. For the second half of the training sessions, the protocol will change
      to 80% activation and 20% deactivation trials.

      After eight sessions, participants will have a two to three week break that aims at further
      supporting transfer to a real-life setting by using stimulus cards with screenshots of the
      training setting and instructions to practice activation and deactivation at home on a daily
      basis. The stimulus cards show the image of the classroom participants see during the
      training and will be introduced in the laboratory setting directly after the training
      sessions 6, 7 and 8. That means, with the help of these cards and while looking at them,
      participants should practice brain or muscular activation several times (depending on whether
      they belong to the NIRS-NF or EMG-BF group) like they learned in the training, i.e. they
      should imagine to increase the lighting in the room when looking at the stimulus cards for
      two to four minutes. After this activation task, they solve some mathematical tasks or
      riddles matching their age and knowledge. In the second half of the training sessions, after
      the break, participants are asked to continue practicing activation at home before doing
      their homework as well as in other situations requiring attention.

      2.3. Experimental Paradigm Participants that receive a NIRS-based NF training have to
      increase the BOLD signal (activation) or decrease it accordingly (deactivation). Analogously,
      participants in the BF training condition will have to increase and decrease muscular
      activity measured with EMG. Every session consists of three runs. In the first and the second
      run, contingent performance feedback is provided, but no feedback is given in the third run.
      Feedback will be provided to the participants via a continuous change of the lighting within
      the room; the room will brighten with increasing activation and dim with increasing
      deactivation. Additional feedback from an animated teacher as well as a scoreboard will
      provide them with positive reinforcement at the end of every trial.

      Visual, auditory and mixed distractors such as, for instance, paper planes flying through the
      room, fellow students whispering, or people knocking on the door and coming into the room,
      will be introduced in every run from the fourth training session onwards. The distractors
      appear with a distance of at least 60 seconds between two distractors.

      The baseline of the first, second and third run will be calculated from the BOLD signal in
      the last two seconds before the trigger (arrow) appears. Reinforcement will be provided with
      1 smiley when the participant spent 60% of the time of the second half of the trial on the
      required side of the baseline (i.e., below, if deactivation is required, or above, if
      activation is required). Analogously he/ she will receive 2 smileys with 70% and 3 smileys
      with 80% of the second half of the trial in the required direction. Reinforcement for the
      second run changes adaptively with the performance in the first run. If the participant
      scored between 40-60 % success rate (getting at least 1 smiley), the second block will remain
      exactly like the first. If the participant scores lower than 40% success rate, the threshold
      will decrease to 0.8 standard deviations (STD) in either direction relative to the baseline,
      so that the normalization of the light makes it more sensitive to performance. In addition,
      the threshold for getting a smiley would decrease to 50%, 60%, and 70% for one, two or three
      smileys respectively. If the participant scores higher than 60 % success rate in the first
      run, then the threshold would increase to 1.2 STD above and below the baseline. In addition,
      the percent of time that is spent above the baseline or below the baseline would need to be
      0.1 STD above or below the baseline to count towards the overall percentage. The third run is
      the same as the second in calculation.
    
  