
    
      Study Design:A Cross -sectional descriptive study design. Participant: Children with special
      health care needs between 6 to 14 years. Setting: Patients coming to pediatric dentistry and
      dental public health department in Cairo University.

      All the procedures will be explained to the parents or guardians prior to the
      investigation.An informed consent will be signed by parents.

      Method:Data for the study will be collected using an interviewer - administered
      questionnaire.The interviewer - administered questionnaire will be in Arabic in multiple
      choice form and will include:

        1. History of current and previous dental trauma: including place and cause of the trauma.

        2. Treatment sought :

      If treatment was sought, the parent will be asked to indicate the type of treatment received:

        1. Pharmacological: prescription of pain killers, antibiotics, and tetanus injections.

        2. Dental: restorative, endodontic, surgical, prosthetic, and splinting.

      If treatment was not sought, the parent will be asked to select one or more of the reasons
      for this, including the following:

        1. Financial: transportation, dental insurance coverage, and acceptance of insurance by
           dentist.

        2. Parental attitude: lack of trust in dentists, inability to wait for appointment, lack of
           dental awareness such as not knowing where to go, or the belief that the trauma was not
           worth seeking treatment.

        3. Difficulties in getting an appointment: availability of dental clinics that was willing
           to see the children.

      The clinical examination will be carried out under artificial light of dental unit by using
      mirror and Goldman- Fox periodontal probe according to custom-made examination chart which is
      made according to Assessment of acute traumatic injuries chart (Adopted from American Academy
      of Pediatric Dentistry, Pediatr Dent 24 (7suppl):95-96, 2002) and consisted of:

        -  Child's demographic data (Personal history), past and present medical history, past
           dental history and history of the trauma.

        -  Extra oral examination and intra oral examination to detect:

             1. The presence/absence of dental traumatic injuries determined by direct clinical
                examination, when trauma is present will be recorded according to the Andreasen
                classification (1994) .

             2. Condition of the injured tooth: mobility, tenderness to percussion, and
                discoloration of traumatized teeth.

             3. Possible associated risk factors with dental traumatic injuries: overjet, overbite,
                lip competence, anterior crowding.

             4. Using Goldman -Fox periodontal probe overjet will be measured as the amount of
                extension of the incisal edges of upper incisors labially beyond the incisal edges
                of the lower incisors when the jaws are closed normally. Overbite will be measured
                as the amount of overlap of the incisal edges of the upper anterior teeth and the
                incisal edges of the lower teeth when the jaws are closed.

        -  Dental photographs
    
  