
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the top fourth most common cancer in Taiwan. Approximately
      85% of cases of HCC patients had chronic HBV or HCV infection in Taiwan. Metabolic risk
      factors, such as obesity, fatty liver, high lipidemia, and diabetes mellitus are associated
      with increased risk for nonviral hepatocellular carcinoma.

      The first and second-line systemic therapy approved in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma are
      multikinase inhubitors .Sorafenib (Nexavar)、Regorafenib and Lenvatinib are significantly
      improve survival in patients who had unresectable advanced and/or metastatic HCC not amenable
      to local treatment methods. General fatigue, poor appetite and pain are regarded as common
      and unavoidable side effect experienced during the course of cancer and its treatment.
      Anorexia is a common cause of malnutrition and is associated with negative effects on the
      quality of life (QOL) for patients with cancer. However, quality of life as a prognostic
      factor for survival in hepatocellular carcinoma. Management of appetite is the key to
      improving both the QOL and the prognosis for such patients.

      Cancer-related anorexia and target therapy-induced anorexia is very important in HCC
      patients. According to Chinese medicine theory., "spleen-deficiency, qi-stagnation and
      dampness" are the most common syndrome in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma patients. Thus,
      the principles of Chinese medicine treatment are invigorating Pi, regulating qi, dissipating
      dampness and appetizing wei. Most patients received traditional Chinese medicine treatment as
      adjuvant therapy to alleviate cancer symptoms, diminishing the side effects and complications
      of treatment course at late stages. The purpose of the study was search the safety and
      efficacy of the of Xiang Sha Liu Jun Zi Decoction (XSLJZ) in advanced hepatocellular
      carcinoma patients with multiple protein kinase inhibitor therapy. Evaluate the treatment
      effect on the symptoms of appetite and quality of life in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma
      patients
    
  