
    
      NRG-1 is a paracrine growth factor with physiological actions in the cardiovascular system
      which is primarily expressed by the endothelium of coronary microvessels. NRG-1 is a natural
      paracrine agonist of the ErbB4 receptor. The NRG-1/ErbB4 system is activated in chronic heart
      failure (HF) and some other chronic diseases, exerting disease mitigation and regenerative
      effects. Recombinant NRG-1 (rhNRG-1) is developed as a drug for HFrEF. Both the preclinical
      and clinical data (phase II and III clinical trials) have demonstrated the favourable effects
      of NRG-1 treatment on the heart. rhNRG-1 effectively enhances the heart function and reverses
      the remodelling of the left ventricle. The levels of circulating NRG-1 were found to
      correlate with outcomes in Stage III and IV CHF. NRG1 appeared to be potentially protective
      Therefore, NRG-1 concentrations are considered to be a biomarker of the therapeutic potential
      of NRG-1. However, little is known about the role of the NRG-1 pathway in other
      cardiovascular diseases (CVDs). This observational study is intended to identify CVDs which
      are characterized by an increase in NRG-1 levels for better positioning the NRG-1 treatment
      in heterogeneous field of CVDs. Based on preclinical data, investigators assume that plasma
      NRG-1 will be altered in patients with microvascular angina, pulmonary hypertension, and
      HFpEF and HFrEF.

      The study intends to enroll twenty patients for each of the 4 study groups and 20 healthy
      controls. We will compare the NRG-1 protein levels in patients and of age-matched healthy
      subjects. Participants will undergo a blood sampling after randomization (+ 3 days) and a 12
      month follow up to assess the outcomes. Demographics, clinical characteristics, laboratory
      values including biomarkers of inflammation and fibrosis, NTproBNP, along with transthoracic
      echo findings and outcomes will be recorded. After the active phase of the research is done,
      we are planning to proceed to observation of the prospective group of patients to verify the
      endpoints.
    
  