
    
      PAIN OUT offers a large registry as well as a system for benchmarking and feedback of outcome
      quality and decision support in acute pain conditions. It collects demographic, clinical and
      outcome data, using a validated assessment tool available in multiple languages.

      The registry part of the project aims at performing population-based research. Furthermore,
      its infrastructure allows for the conduct of prospective studies comparing the effectiveness
      of processes of care.

      The benchmark part of the project provides the medical community with a unique, user-friendly
      system to improve treatment of patients with postoperative pain. A web-based information
      system, featuring two main functions, was developed:

        1. a feedback and benchmarking system which provides participating sites with continuously
           updating data and analyses about the quality of care they provide compared to other
           institutions and allows identification of best clinical practice.

        2. a knowledge library which provides clinicians with easily accessible and regularly
           updated summaries of evidence-based recommendations tailored to specific post-operative
           situations.

      PAIN OUT is leading and overseeing sub-projects in Mexico, China, a number of European
      countries. Additional countries will join over time. The sub-projects are scheduled to take
      place over a period of two years. The design is an uncontrolled pre- post-study, in which
      approximately 10 hospitals from each country participate. The project consists of collecting
      data (processes and patient reported outcomes) at baseline from 1-3 wards in participating
      hospitals; analyzing of the findings, selecting and implementing measures for change in
      practice; carrying out another round of data collection; summerizing the findings and
      discussing options for further work.
    
  