
    
      This is a prospective study in a human model examining treatment of patients who have
      sustained damage to salivary glands following head and neck radiation, subsequent xerostomia,
      and who are currently indicated for hyperbaric oxygen therapy for treatment of
      osteoradionecrosis. Salivary flow rates, pH and buffering capacity before and after
      hyperbaric oxygen treatments will be collected using GC America (Alsip, Illinois)
      Saliva-Check BUFFER Kit and results will be recorded. The 6 tests take 10 minutes to complete
      per patient. According to GC America, these tests are simple, demonstrate salivary
      dysfunction, help identify factors affecting salivary dysfunction, and assist in the
      diagnosis of xerostomia. Salivary testing and data collection will occur on 8 independent
      visits over the course of hyperbaric oxygen treatment and during follow-up. Stimulated saliva
      samples will be used to measure proteins that are involved in salivary gland
      revascularization and repair. Saliva samples will be stored at less than or equal to -20C for
      up to 1 year. Measurements of salivary VEGF-A, IGF-1, and Thrombospondin-1 will be quantified
      using R&D Systems (Minneapolis, MN) ELISA kits and results will be recorded. Salivary
      Alpha-Amylase will be measured using Rocky Mountain Diagnostics, Inc (Colorado Springs, CO)
      Alpha-Amylase Saliva kit. Protein analysis will be done on stimulated saliva samples
      collected at 4 independent visits: first week, fourth week, eighth week, sixteenth week.

      The medical, surgical, and health histories of each participant will be reviewed. Each
      participant will complete the EORTC quality of life core questionnaire (QLQ - C30 v3.0),
      including head and neck cancer module, at the start and completion of the trial. A blood
      sample from each participant will be drawn, and analyzed for A1c levels and albumin levels.
      During the first, fourth, eighth, and sixteenth week, following Saliva-Check BUFFER Kit
      testing done before HBO therapy, additional saliva will be collected to ensure that a minimum
      of 2 mL of saliva can be stored at less than or equal to -20 oC for protein analysis.

      After salivary testing, each patient will enter a hyperbaric oxygen chamber located at Loma
      Linda University Medical Center. The patient will gradually be elevated to therapeutic oxygen
      levels over an 8-12 minute period. At this time, 100% oxygen will be administered at 2.0 ATA
      or 2.5 ATA, at the discretion of the treating physician, for 90 minutes. A 10-minute
      air-break will be given after the first 45 minutes if the patients are on the 2.5 ATA
      protocol. At the conclusion of the oxygen treatment, the oxygen and pressure levels are
      gradually decreased over 8-12 minutes to return to a depth of 1 ATA. After exiting the
      hyperbaric oxygen chamber, salivary testing will once again be performed on each patient.

      Collected data will be compared to two independent control groups. The Positive Control Group
      will include 26 individuals who fit the inclusion and exclusion criteria: participants for
      whom hyperbaric oxygen treatment is indicated, but who have not had radiation therapy for
      head or neck cancer. The Negative Control Group will include the first 26 individuals who fit
      the inclusion and exclusion criteria: participants who have previously had head and neck
      radiation therapy, but for whom hyperbaric oxygen treatment is not indicated. Salivary data
      for the Positive Control Group will be collected in such as way as to parallel data collected
      for the Treatment Group. Salivary data will be collected in the same way for the Negative
      Control Group with the following modifications: salivary flow rate testing will only be
      performed once during each visit and salivary testing will be spaced on the basis of time in
      days in contrast to number of hyperbaric oxygen treatment sessions.
    
  