
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine, as measured by the 3-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate and patterns
      of failure, whether dose and volume of irradiation can be safely reduced to 30.6 Gy whole
      ventricular-field irradiation (WVI) plus 23.4 Gy primary site boost instead of 36 Gy
      craniospinal irradiation (CSI) plus primary site boost in the subgroup of children and young
      adults (ages 3 to =< 21 years) with localized nongerminomatous germ cell tumor (NGGCT) who
      have a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and tumor marker criteria (cerebrospinal fluid [CSF]
      and serum) for confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) to induction
      chemotherapy and negative serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tumor markers OR in patients
      who have less than a PR after induction chemotherapy with negative tumor markers who undergo
      a second-look surgery and are found to have only mature teratoma, residual scar or fibrosis
      and fit the definition of CR/PR after second-look surgery.

      II. To determine, as measured by the 3-year PFS rate and patterns of failure, whether
      simplified chemotherapy followed by dose-reduced radiation therapy is effective for treating
      children and young adults (ages 3 to =< 21 years) with localized primary central nervous
      system (CNS) germinoma who present with serum and/or CSF human chorionic gonadotropin-beta
      (hCGbeta) =< 50 mIU/mL.

      III. To prospectively evaluate and longitudinally model the cognitive, social, and behavioral
      functioning of children and young adults who are treated with reduced radiation dose and
      volume of irradiation in Stratum 1 (NGGCT) and with dose-reduced radiation therapy in Stratum
      2 (germinoma) using the ALTE07C1 protocol.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the PFS and overall survival (OS) distributions of patients with NGGCT treated
      with 30.6 Gy WVI and involved-field radiation therapy (IFR) focal boost to 54 Gy.

      II. To estimate the PFS and OS distributions of localized germinoma patients who present with
      a) serum and/or CSF hCGbeta =< 50 mIU/mL and b) serum and/or CSF hCGbeta > 50 mIU/mL and =<
      100 mIU/mL.

      OUTLINE:

      STRATUM I (NGGCT): Patients receive induction therapy comprising carboplatin intravenously
      (IV) over 15-60 minutes on day 1 and etoposide IV over 60-120 minutes on days 1-3 of courses
      1, 3, and 5. Patients also receive ifosfamide IV over 60 minutes and etoposide over 60-120
      minutes on days 1-5 of courses 2, 4, and 6. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving CR or PR
      undergo 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3DRT) or intensity modulated radiation
      therapy (IMRT) once daily (QD) 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Patients with normalization of
      markers who fail to achieve CR or PR are strongly recommended to undergo second-look surgery.
      Patients who achieve CR or PR after second-look surgery undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week
      for 6 weeks.

      STRATUM II (GERMINOMA): Patients receive induction therapy comprising carboplatin IV over
      15-60 minutes on day 1 and etoposide IV over 60-120 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with CR or continued CR (CCR) undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 4 weeks.
      Patients with normalization of markers who fail to achieve CR or PR are strongly recommended
      to undergo second-look surgery. Patients found to have fibrosis, scar, mature teratoma, or
      non-viable tumor undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 4 weeks. Patients with stable
      disease (SD) or PR with > 0.5 cm (suprasellar) or > 1 cm (pineal) but =< 1.5 cm residual
      disease do not undergo second-look surgery and undergo 3DRT or IMRT QD 5 days a week for 4
      weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, and 9 months, every 4
      months for 24 months, 30 months, 36 months, and then annually for up to 60 months.
    
  