
    
      As the survival rate and prognosis of cancer improve, there is increasing recognition of the
      presence of a long term negative impact of standard chemotherapy on cognition, namely in the
      domains of attention, memory, psychomotor speed and executive functions. The purported
      incidence varies between 10-50%, the mechanism is unknown and it is unclear who is at risk.
      This impact has also not been studied and documented in the Asian population.

      This proposal outlines a study that intends to prospectively (1) investigate and document the
      incidence and severity of cognitive impairment following systemic chemotherapy for breast
      cancer in Asian women in the acute and prolonged setting, and (2) to relate these cognitive
      changes to damage to DNA and lipids (two major targets of attack by toxic agents) as
      indicated through tests conducted on blood and urine samples.

      Thirty breast cancer patients who will be required to undergo standard chemotherapy will be
      recruited for a pilot study to determine the acceptability of the procedure and to establish
      the size of the effects under investigation. A 45-minute neurocognitive assessment will be
      administered at three time points: before commencement of chemotherapy, and at 6 months and 1
      year following completion of chemotherapy. Blood and urine samples will be collected just
      prior to the commencement of chemotherapy, after the first cycle of chemotherapy, and also at
      6 months and 1 year post completion of chemotherapy.

      It is hypothesized that (1) there will be decrements in performance on the neurocognitive
      measures post-chemotherapy; (2) the presence of cognitive decline will correlate with the
      presence of markers of oxidative damage in the blood and urine samples. The benefits of this
      project are two fold. Firstly, it will allow research into and documentation of the possible
      presence of cognitive decline following chemotherapy in Asian women, which is important in
      allowing patients to make fully-informed consent with regard to treatment. Secondly, if a
      relationship between the presence of cognitive decline and the presence of biochemical
      markers of oxidative damage can be established, this can potentially lead to new treatment
      methods that may reduce the cognitive decline that has been associated with the
      chemotherapeutic process.
    
  