
    
      Project Description: We propose a cluster randomized trial intervention involving eight or
      more medical facilities of Kaiser Permanente Northern California (KP) and more than 65,000
      patients at high risk for CVD. At intervention facilities, patient-level information obtained
      from KP's electronic health record on the need for treatment intensification (for systolic
      blood pressure, LDL-c, and A1c) and on recent medication adherence are added to a population
      management database and fed back through software currently used by staff working with
      primary care providers. Staff at control facilities continue to use the same population
      management database and software but only receive information on risk factor levels and
      selected medications.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Evaluate the effectiveness of measurement and feedback of treatment intensification
           information in patients at high risk of CVD for improving rates of treatment
           intensification and for reducing levels of poorly controlled systolic blood pressure,
           LDL-c, and A1c.

        2. Evaluate the impact of the intervention, compared with current practice, on total
           numbers of patient contacts, outpatient visits, and costs of care in relation to
           improvements in risk factor control.

        3. Evaluate the effect of this innovation on physician and staff perceptions of the value
           (effectiveness and efficiency) of the population management program for high-risk
           patients.

      Relevance: If this translational study shows that feedback of information on treatment
      intensification leads to higher rates of intensification and improved risk factor control,
      this finding will have shown a population-level use of health information technology for
      improving clinical quality and will also have validated treatment intensification as a metric
      of clinical quality.
    
  