
    
      Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxy-tryptamine) is an indoleamine synthesized and secreted by the
      pineal gland and other organs, such as the retina, bone marrow, and intestines in a circadian
      pattern. Extrapineal sites contribute poorly, or only upon specific stimuli to circulating
      melatonin. Melatonin influences numerous physiological actions that may be mediated by the
      binding of the indoleamine to membrane receptors in all tissues. Because of its lipophilic
      properties, melatonin passes through cell membranes to gain access to subcellular organelles,
      being capable to bind to some cytosolic proteins like kinase-C . Currently, melatonin is not
      considered a hormone in the classical sense of the term, because it is synthesized in several
      organs and does not exert effects on a specific target , but it is rather a powerful cell
      protector against molecular damage. For the synthesis of melatonin, the pineal cells take up
      tryptophan from the blood and, through hydroxylation and a decarboxylation process, turn it
      into serotonin. Serotonin is then converted into N-acetylserotonin through
      N-acetyltransferase and subsequently methylated to the final form of melatonin by the enzyme
      hydroxy indole-O-methyltransferase . In healthy individuals, the maximum secretion of
      melatonin occurs between midnight and 2 a.m., then it decreases to a minimum during the day.
      Melatonin has numerous physiological functions in different parts of the body, such as the
      control of circadian rhythms \, regulation of body temperature, and activation of the immune
      system.In the oral cavity, melatonin has been recognized as an important substance with
      paracrine effects on nearby cells, it also acts as an antioxidant and an anti-inflammatory
      and plays an important role in bone formation and in the reduction of bone resorption.

      Osseointegration defined as a direct connection between living bone tissues and a titanium
      implant without any connective tissues. Osteoblasts are bone formative cells, and osteoclasts
      are bone resorptive cells. When these cells work together physiologically, the formation and
      resorption processes of bone tissue is known as bone remodelling. The remodeling of bone
      tissues is regulated by the action of systemic hormones (estradiol, parathyroid, growth, and
      melatonin) and by the bone marrow and osteoid matrix-derived growth factors.Insufficient bone
      quality and quantity can be seen frequently in elderly populations with atrophic and
      osteoporotic bones, and this situation stems from increased osteoclastic activity due to a
      reduction in osteoblastogenesis. In addition, local free radical concentrations in all body
      cells, including osteoblasts, can reduce osteoblastic activity in aged patients. This process
      could lead to a reduction in bone regeneration capacity. Melatonin can also suppress
      osteoclastogenesis, and therefore inhibit bone tissue resorption. In addition to this, in
      vitro research has reported that melatonin can increase osteoblast proliferation and
      differentiation. So was proposed that the local application of melatonin during surgical
      implant placement procedures would be an effective treatment technique for dental implant
      osseointegration. Worthy osseointegration is a prerequisite for dental implants. Optimal
      osseointegration depends on the formation of new bone around implants, which may be
      stimulated by the application of biomimetic agents. Considering the bone metabolism,
      melatonin acts directly on the osteoclast, a multinucleated cell, which resorbs the
      extracellular matrix through various mechanisms, including the production of free radicals.
      Moreover, in pre-osteoblast cultures from rats, melatonin, in a dose-dependent manner,
      promoted the development of bone sialoprotein and other protein bone markers, including
      alkaline phosphatase, osteopontin, and osteocalcin, and speeds up their period of
      differentiation into osteoblasts from the normal rate, which is 21 days, to 12 days, this
      reaction is mediated by the membrane receptors for the indole. Also, melatonin, may interfere
      with the function of the osteoclast and thereby inhibit bone resorption. conducted an
      experimental study using melatonin with dental implants in dogs. Two weeks after implant
      insertion, melatonin significantly increased all parameters of osteointegration. It has been
      observed that melatonin, increases bone mass by suppressing resorption through
      down-regulation of the RANKL-mediated osteoclast formation and activation. These data point
      towards an osteogenic effect of melatonin that may be of clinical importance, as it could be
      used as a therapeutic agent in situations in which bone formation would be advantageous, such
      as in the treatment of fractures or of osteoporosis.

      Toxicology of Melatonin:- The physiological functions of the pineal hormone melatonin are
      extremely diverse. The functions include direct and indirect modulations of anti-oxidative
      defense, blood pressure, body temperature, cortisol rhythm, reproduction and immune function
      . Correspondingly, exogenous melatonin has been investigated as a treatment for a number of
      medical and surgical diseases, demonstrating encouraging results . In the USA, melatonin is
      available as an over-the-counter non-prescription drug. In most European countries, however,
      melatonin remains a prescription drug (Circadin) and has only been approved as a treatment
      for primary insomnia in people over 55 years of age. However, a recent Norwegian register
      study documented a 3- to 5-times increase in off-label use among children and adolescents in
      the time period 2004 to 2012 . Melatonin is generally considered safe, but the increasing
      clinical use with potentially increasing doses necessitates further investigations of the
      risks of both mild and serious adverse effects.

      Periotest M device:-

      Periotest device was developed to measure the damping characteristics of natural teeth and
      has been used to evaluate implant. It was developed by Schulte in 1983 to quantify TM , and
      then utilized by Teerlinck et al , to measure implant stability and to overcome destructive
      methods in measuring the implant stability like histologic analysis, tensional test,
      push-out/pull-out test and removal torque analysis. The (Classic/Wired) Periotest device has
      been the subject of several studies with generally favorable results. These results showed
      that the Periotest device generally demonstrated a high degree of repeatability and
      reliability. A wireless version of the Periotest (Periotest "M") has been introduced to the
      profession. According to information provided by the electronic page of the Periotest M
      /wireless device manufacturer (Medizintechnik Gulden, Modautal, Germany), Periotest M is
      simpler to perform an objective evaluation of an implant's stability compared to classic
      Periotest. In Periotest M wireless design, the user can benefit from maximum freedom of
      movement. The device can be used for taking measurements on a wide variety of implants,
      without the need for any special accessories, such as a smart peg . The Periotest has an
      important advantage against the others like the Osstell device: it can be applied directly to
      the implant superstructure .

      The limitations of Periotest are the inability of the instrument to measure the mesiodistal
      mobility, the possible effect of position and angle of the rods on the measured value . The
      readings of PTV are from (-8 to +50) according to information provided by the device
      manufacturer (Medizintechnik Gulden, Modautal, Germany) .

      Cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT):-

      Cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) is an imaging modality that offers significant
      advantages for the evaluation of implant patients . The field of view (FOV) is an important
      feature that describes the extent of the imaged volume from large FOV (greater than 15 cm) to
      medium FOV (8 to 15 cm) and limited FOV (less than 8 cm). Limited FOV units image a small
      area, delivering less radiation and producing a higher-resolution image . CBCT allows for
      defining with elevated accuracy the quality (cortical/medullar ratio) and the quantity
      (height and thickness) of bone available for the implant, providing the essential information
      of performing or not a preimplant bony graft . when compared to medical CT, CBCT can be
      recommended as a dose reducing technique for dental implant applications. The effective dose
      from CBCT examinations ranges from 13 µ Sv with the 3D Accuitomo CBCT machine using the 4 x4
      cm FOV to 479 µ Sv with the CB Mercury CBCT machine . For comparison, the effective dose from
      one panoramic radiograph is approximately 10 to 14µSv. Furthermore, the exposure from a
      maxillomandibular medical CT ranges from 474 to 1160 µSv. The average background radiation in
      the United States is 3000 µSv (3 mSv) per year or 8 µSv per day . It is important to
      understand that every effort must be made to reduce the effective radiation dose to the
      patient. By using the smallest possible FOV, the lowest mA setting, the shortest exposure
      time, and a pulsed exposure mode of acquisition, it is possible to accomplish effective dose
      reduction to the patient.

      Twenty single-piece endosseous implants (Dentium Co, Korea) will use to restore missing teeth
      in the upper or lower jaw (canine to 1st molars area) from both sides. The study will be
      split-mouth technique, each patient serves as his own control (served into 2 groups), the
      study side (topical application of melatonin in the implant side), and the control side (no
      melatonin in the other implant side of the same patients). According to the study reported by
      (Cutando et al., 2008) the estimated dose of melatonin required to enhance osseointegration
      of dental implant and minimize the marginal bone resorption is 1.2 mg of melatonin powder for
      each implant. CBCT for all patients before implant placement to determine bone density,
      dimension, and anatomical landmarks. Prior to surgery, all patients will instruct to use
      chlorhexidine 0.12% mouthwash as antiseptic. After local anesthesia, a mucoperiosteal flap
      will reflect. The manufacturer's instructions should be followed for the preparation of the
      implant osteotomy site. For the study side, 1.2 mg of melatonin powder will place in the
      osteotomy site before the insertion of the implant. For the control side, no melatonin powder
      will be used and implants will be inserted directly in the prepared implant site. After
      dental implant installation, the gingival former will insert into the body of the fixture,
      then the Periotest M device will use to measure the primary stability of the DI fixture.
      After that, the gingival former will be removed and cover screw place and tightened into the
      fixture. Sutures will place after flap replacement. Patients should be instructed to use
      antibiotics amoxicillin 500mg and metronidazole 500mg 3 times/day for 5 days after surgical
      procedure, soft diet and proper oral hygiene measures. Also, CBCT immediately after implant
      placement to record baseline bone level, CBCT after 6 months follow up to measure marginal
      bone level around implant comparing with baseline measurement, and measure the secondary
      stability using periotest M device.
    
  