
    
      1. Anthropometric measurements:

           Height will be measured using a wall-mounted stadiometer to the nearest 0.01 meter. Body
           mass will be measured in kilograms using balance scale. Body mass index (BMI) will be
           calculated using the following formula: BMI = kg/m² [weight in kilograms/ height in
           meters²].

        2. Handgrip strength (kilograms):

           Grip strength will be measured by using a handgrip dynamometer as a measure of strength
           and physical capacity.

        3. Body composition determination, saliva samples collection, storage and analysis:

           Body composition will be determined using the deuterium water (D2O) dilution technique.
           Participants will be provided a dose of 8 g of D2O diluted in drinking water.
           Participants will be asked to provide a baseline saliva samples and another samples will
           be obtained at 3 and 3.5 hrs after ingestion of the D2O. Samples will be stored in
           freezers at -20 °C. All samples will be analysed at Scottish Universities Environmental
           Research Centre (SUERC), Glasgow, for measurements of total body water (TBW) by means of
           Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry (FTIR).

        4. Metabolic rate measurement:

           Metabolic rate will be measured by means of computerised open-circuit ventilated hood
           system (Quark, Resting metabolic rate (RMR) ®, Italy). Rate of oxygen consumption (O2)
           and carbon dioxide production (CO2) will be recorded every 30 seconds for total duration
           of 20 minutes with 10 minute break.

        5. Breakfast meal:

           Participants in phenylketonuria (PKU) group will receive a breakfast based on PKU-type
           foods. Participants in control group will receive a similar breakfast based on normal
           foods with calories content and weight being matched between the groups.

        6. Measurements of physical activity (PA) and physical activity energy expenditure (PAEE):

           ActiGraph accelerometer (GT3X+®) will be used to measure and record acceleration of
           participant's physical activity. The participants will have to wear them for seven
           consecutive days. They should record the time they put the monitor on in the morning and
           when taking it off in the evening in their activity diaries. They also have to keep
           notes of time and reason if they take the monitor off during the day.

           Individual calibration curves for counts against rate of O2 and rate of CO2 will be
           established during rest, and continuous incremental exercise test on the treadmill. Each
           participant will conduct walking/ running test with starting speed of 2 km/h being
           increased by 1 km/h every 4 minutes. The test will be stopped when heart rate (HR) just
           reaches 80 % of maximal heart rate (HRmax) defined as 220 - age. During this incremental
           test, participants will wear both ActiGraph accelerometer and face mask connected to
           indirect calorimetry equipment (Quark RMR®, Italy) to measure rate of O2 and rate of
           CO2.

        7. Dietary analyses:

           Participants will record their food intake by food portion size estimation method.
           Participants will be asked to record their intake for four days including one weekend
           day. Data from food diaries will be compared to reference UK photographic atlas of food
           portion sizes to estimate weight of food intake. Food and energy intake will then be
           calculated using computerised program.

        8. Quality of life assessment:

           PKU participants' quality of life will be assessed by means of validated PKU-specific
           Health-related Quality of Life Questionnaires (PKU-QOL). The questionnaires cover the
           physical, emotional, and social impacts of PKU and its treatment on patients' lives and
           come along with a software to calculate PKU-QoL scores.

        9. Clinical data on history of disease activity:

      Information about disease management relevant to the study (i.e. records of phenylalanine
      levels, weight and height status, and number of protein exchanges and dietary compliance,
      quantity and types of prescribed PKU foods and amino acid supplements) will be collected from
      the patients' medical notes. The data will be obtained for one year prior to the
      participants' intended day of study start.
    
  