
    
      Aural rehabilitation The most common approach to hearing impairment is hearing aid fitting as
      a part of aural rehabilitation (AR). In Sweden, approximately 50% of those who could benefit
      from hearing aids are fitted with them, and nearly half of those use their hearing aids to a
      considerable extent every day. Despite addressing the hearing impairment with hearing aids,
      many hearing aid users experience substantial communication difficulties that can affect
      their performance in daily life situations. This could cause patients to stop using their
      hearing aids, which may negatively affect their interpersonal interactions and involvement in
      community life.

      Adjusting to hearing impairment involves more than just hearing aid fitting, although hearing
      aid fitting is a step in the right direction. Additional steps within AR, such as learning
      about the condition and providing perceptual training and counseling, need to be included in
      order to minimize the negative effects of a hearing impairment on social interactions and
      quality of life. These additional steps can effectively be included variously throughout the
      AR (separately or in combination, and individually or in groups), they may increase hearing
      aid use and satisfaction, and can be performed as an adjunct to or a supplement for hearing
      aid fitting. However, even though combining these additional steps with hearing aid use has
      proven to be beneficial, most hearing aid users are unaware of and are not offered any other
      rehabilitation measures than hearing aid fitting. This deficiency could be due to clinicians
      experiencing lack of time and difficulties scheduling interventions in addition to hearing
      aid fitting. It could also be due to the presumably increased costs of adding extra support
      to hearing aid fitting. These aspects could hinder audiologist's in general clinical practice
      from providing holistic care. Thus, the overall availability of comprehensive AR is low.

      Internet interventions Online interventions and healthcare information is cost-effective.
      Online hearing healthcare has increased in recent years and is empowering for persons with
      hearing impairment. Telehealth (i.e., telephone and internet) offers a more cost-effective
      approach to hearing healthcare and increases the possibilities for the audiologist to reach
      out to persons with hearing impairment. Previous research has proposed employing telehealth
      in hearing healthcare to improve clinical care and increase access to hearing services.

      Effective internet interventions have four important interactive design features: 1) social
      context and support, 2) contacts with intervention, 3) tailoring, and 4) self-management.
      Patient participation is central for self-management to be successful. For example, a person
      with hearing impairment can apply knowledge obtained in communication training to reduce
      hearing-related problems. The role of the audiologist in delivering social contact and
      support, and contacts with the intervention, seems to be of particular importance in online
      audiology interventions.

      Purpose With this project we want to provide online support to hearing aid users. Further on,
      we want to document the effectiveness of the online support compared to traditional support
      that the Hearing Organization, VGR, provides ("standard care").

      The needs-oriented purpose: The project is a part of a collaboration between 1177 Care-Guide
      and region Vastra Gotaland (VGR). 1177 Care-Guide is a national website of health information
      and services for Sweden. Every region customizes its 1177 Care-Guide. Regions use the 1177
      Care-Guide platform to provide online services. The needs-oriented purpose of this project is
      to, via 1177, provide needed online support to hearing aid users. The research-oriented
      purpose of this project is to document the effectiveness of the online support compared to
      traditional support that the Hearing Organization, VGR, provides ("standard care").
      Traditional support ("standard care") in Sweden differs across and within counties, in
      particular in terms of the number of visits and the content of comprehensive AR. The costs of
      amplification for the person with hearing impairment may also vary across counties.
    
  