
    
      The Study Drug:

      SCH 72105 is designed to cause "gene transfer" by giving a gene called interferon -alpha-2b
      into the body. SCH 72105 is made after being processed in the lab with a study drug called
      Syn3. This combination of study drugs is also called SCH 721015 with Syn3. Syn3 is designed
      to help the body make a protein called interferon -alpha-2b, and this may help the body's
      immune system to react against the cancer.

      Study Drug Administration:

      On Days 1 and 4, SCH 72105 will be given into your bladder over about 1 minute through a
      urinary catheter. A urinary catheter is a thin flexible tube placed through the urinary tube
      and into the bladder. SCH 72105 will stay in the bladder for about 1 hour. You will be asked
      to turn from left to right, back to stomach, every 15 minutes to allow the bladder surface to
      be exposed to the drug.

      A belladonna and opium (B&O) suppository will be inserted into your rectum about 30 minutes
      before the study drug doses. Levsin SL (hyoscyamine sulfate) will be given by mouth about 15
      minutes before the study drug doses. These drugs are used to lower the risk of urinary
      urgency (a strong need to urinate).

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1:

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Urine will be collected to test for IFN levels and to check for infection.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured before and after the study drug dose.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects and urinary symptoms you may have had and any
           drugs you may be taking.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

      On Days 2 and 3 and on Days 5-14:

        -  Urine will be collected for biomarker testing. Biomarkers in your urine may be related
           to your reaction to the study drug.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects and urinary symptoms you may have had and any
           drugs you may be taking.

      On Day 4:

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Urine will be collected for biomarker testing and to check for infection.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured before and after the study drug dose.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects and urinary symptoms you may have had and any
           drugs you may be taking.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

      During Days 1-11, you will add about 1/2 cup of bleach to the toilet bowl before every time
      you urinate. You will then wait 15 minutes before flushing. You should avoid public bathrooms
      on these days. This procedure is required to avoid exposing other people to the study drug.

      One (1) time a week during Weeks 2-11, the study staff will call and ask you about any side
      effects and urinary symptoms you may have had and any drugs you may be taking. During these
      calls, your performance status will also be recorded.

      At Week 12:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Urine will be collected for biomarker testing and to check for infection.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  You will have an ECG. This ECG will be used as a screening test to help the doctor
           decide if you are eligible to take part in Part 2 of the study.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects and urinary symptoms you may have had and any
           drugs you may be taking.

        -  You will have a cystoscopy with biopsies to check the status of the disease. All areas
           that the doctor thinks might have a tumor will be biopsied. Your bladder will also be
           measured during this procedure.

      Length of Participation:

      You may receive the 2 doses of the study drug as planned, if the doctor thinks it is in your
      best interest. You will not be able to receive the second dose of the study drug if the
      disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      Part 2 of the Study:

      If the disease has completely responded by Week 12 (no sign of cancer), you will be asked to
      take part in Part 2 of this study. In Part 2, participants will receive another 2 doses of
      the study drug. There is a separate informed consent form that describes Part 2, including
      screening tests that will help the doctor decide if you are eligible. You will be asked to
      sign the informed consent form if you agree to take part.

      The level of effectiveness of SCH72105 treatment will be studied by measurement of IFN levels
      in the daily urine collections.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      You may choose to stop your study participation at any time. If you choose to stop before the
      Week 12 visit, you will be asked to return for an end-of-study visit. You will also be called
      by the study staff to ask about your health 1 time a year for the next 2 years. The following
      tests and procedures will be performed at the end-of-study visit:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have an ECG.

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

      Follow-Up:

      If you had any signs of bladder cancer at Week 12, the study staff will call you at Months 6,
      9, 12, 24, and 36. You will be asked if you have had any serious side effects.

      This is an investigational study. SCH 72105 is not FDA approved or commercially available. It
      is currently being used for research purposes only.

      Up to 9 patients will take part in this study (9 total, for Parts 1 and 2). All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  