
    
      This is a randomized clinical trial of the implementation and initial effectiveness of two
      interventions for improving medication reconciliation in primary care offices. The
      interventions we will test are 1) patients reviewing a printed paper copy of their EMR
      medication list just prior to seeing the physician and 2) medical assistants beginning the
      interview with an open-ended question. We will test the following two hypotheses:

        1. Providing patients a paper copy of their EMR medication list upon check-in, to review
           for accuracy prior to their office visit, will improve the agreement between the EMR
           medication list and patient report during a phone interview within one week of the
           office visit.

        2. The medical assistant practice of routinely using an open-ended question to introduce
           the medication review will improve the agreement between the EMR medication list and
           patient report during a phone interview within one week of the office visit.

      The main outcome measure for this study is full agreement of prescription medications between
      the medication list in the electronic medical record at the conclusion of patient's office
      visit and the list generated by pharmacists during a phone interview performed within a week
      of the office visit.

      The study will take place at 2-4 Cleveland Clinic Health Centers in primary care offices. A
      sample size of 400 patients will be enrolled: 20 pairs of physicians and medical assistants
      will be invited to volunteer for the study, and 20 patients per MD/MA pair will be recruited.
      Medical assistants will be trained in using scripted open-ended questions to begin reviewing
      medications with patients. The study coordinator will implement the printed list intervention
      by providing a paper list to patients.

      Consenting patients will be randomized to one of four groups (A-D):

      A: NO patient review of printed medication list & NO open-ended question B: Patient review of
      printed medication list ONLY C: Open-ended question ONLY D: BOTH patient review of printed
      medication list & open-ended question

      To document the medications that patients report taking, a pharmacist will conduct a detailed
      phone interview with the patient and/or caretaker within a week of the office visit using a
      prepared script. The pharmacist will note any discrepancies between the EMR and the
      patient's/caretaker's self report. In order to be considered in full agreement, the
      medication list and patient report must agree on the five following elements: 1) name, 2)
      dose, 3) frequency, 4) route, and 5) PRN status.

      Our goal is to statistically test whether the proportion of medication lists in agreement
      with patient report differs in the intervention group compared to the non-intervention group.
      First, an unadjusted analysis utilizing a difference of proportions test and linear contrasts
      as described in the above planned comparisons. Then, a multivariable mixed model will be used
      to determine the significance of the intervention with adjustment.

      If the interventions are successful, they will be incorporated into a standard medication
      reconciliation protocol for Cleveland Clinic primary care office practice. If highly
      successful, this protocol could serve as a new standard for medication reconciliation in
      outpatient primary care practice in the United States.
    
  