
    
      Considerable concern now exists over possible effects on human physical and psychological
      development of endocrine disrupting environmental contaminants such as polychlorinated
      biphenyls (PCBs). Native American communities are particularly at risk owing to subsistence
      systems and a cultural ethos involving greater contact with the physical environment. The
      proposed study follows-up 220 Mohawk adolescents aged 17-21 years, who participated in a
      previous study when they were 10-16 years old. All adolescents are members of the Mohawk
      Nation at Akwesasne which is located on the St. Lawrence River and is adjacent to hazardous
      waste sites where PCBs have contaminated the local ecology. The investigation examines the
      interrelationship between Mohawk cultural identity, traditional Mohawk customs, behaviors
      related to toxicant exposure and current toxicant burden. Serum level of PCBs will be
      assessed by congener specific analysis. The study will determine the relationship of
      congeners and their hydroxylated metabolites to thyroid function (levels of triiodothyronine,
      free triiodothyronine, thyroxine, free thyroxine, thyrotropin and anti-thyroid antibodies),
      and 2) psychosocial outcomes including school behavior and performance, hyperactivity, and
      adaptation to the community. Data gathered for the past study will be employed to assess
      variation in metabolism of PCBs, as well as how earlier measures of cognition and
      hyperactivity relate to 17 year old psychosocial outcomes. Variation in susceptibility to PCB
      effects will be determined by examining the effects of concurrent toxicant exposure
      (hexachlorobenzene, Mirex, dichlorodiphenyldichloroethene, lead), diet, and indicators of PCB
      metabolism, on the focal measures of adult functioning. The proposed study will clarify the
      causal pathways between culturally identifying behavior, PCB exposure and body burden,
      thyroid functioning, cognitive functioning, social behavior and school functioning while
      identifying activities that are important to maintain cultural identify and unrelated to
      exposure.
    
  