
    
      The cost-effectiveness of exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation has not been systematically
      studied earlier in Finland, and it is not justifiable to directly apply the results of
      studies done in other countries to circumstances in Finland due to differences in the health
      care and social security systems between the countries. The research will utilize top Finnish
      expertise spanning clinical cardiology, health economics, and physical education. The
      hypothesis is that a quality-adjusted life year of a cardiac patient (cost/QALY) is 20 % less
      costly in a rehabilitation group than in a conventional post-acute care group.

      The participants in the study will be recruited from Oulu University Hospital patients from
      the Oulu region (n = 300) who have suffered acute coronary syndrome (angiographically
      diagnosed coronary artery disease). Of these patients, 130 will be randomized to
      exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation (Verve) and 170 to a control group. Dropping out of the
      intervention will be mini-mized by means of careful definition of the inclusion criteria and
      close follow-up. The rehabilitation will seek to implement the most recent international
      recommendations for health-enhancing physical activity (% of those who achieved the exercise
      target). Instructions for a progressive training model will be compiled. The amount of
      exercise will be monitored objectively with a wrist-worn device based on wellness technology.
      Subjective loading of both the training and health-enhancing physical activity will be
      monitored using self-evaluation. The study will last one year for each patient, after which
      cost-effectiveness will be analyzed (University of Eastern Finland). The results of the
      research will facilitate decision making and choices in Finnish health care when arranging
      rehabilitation for cardiac patients and planning the optimal utilization of health care
      resources.
    
  