
    
      Neonatal encephalopathy (NE) affects 3 infants per 1000 live birth every year and can lead to
      death or permanent neurological deficit. Therapeutic hypothermia (33.5 oC) (TH) has been
      clearly proven to reduce mortality and adverse neurodevelopmental outcome in patients with
      moderate to severe NE. However, even with hypothermia, nearly half of the infants with NE are
      at risk of death or severe disability. Optimization of intensive care of these neonates might
      have the potential to prevent injury progression and further improve neurodevelopmental
      outcomes.

      Multiple analyses noted a high rate (6 -89%) of incidence of hypocarbia during the first
      hours of postnatal life possibly due to the strong respiratory effort secondary to metabolic
      acidosis and the hypothermia treatment which causes a 20-30% reduction in metabolic rate.
      Furthermore, several studies have shown the association between hypocarbia and the increased
      risk of adverse neurodevelopmental outcome in infants with NE. Hypocarbia has the potential
      to exacerbate brain injury via multiple mechanisms. Hypocarbia was associated with nuclear
      DNA fragmentation in the cerebral cortex, membrane lipid peroxidation and increased neuronal
      excitability in animal models.

      It is well established, that carbon dioxide is one of the most potent regulator of cerebral
      blood flow (CBF), with hypercarbia causing cerebral vasodilation and increased cerebral blood
      flow by 1 to 2 ml/100g/minute per 1 mmHg in PaCO2, whereas hypocarbia causes cerebral
      vasoconstriction. Reducing PaCO2 to 20 to 25 mmHg decreases CBF by 40 to 50%.

      Hypocarbia may decrease oxygen supply further due to the cerebral vasoconstriction and the
      leftward shift of oxyhemoglobin curve.

      It has been well known for decades that hypocarbia is associated with periventricular
      leukomalacia and, or, cerebral palsy in preterm neonates. In term, asphyxiated neonates the
      secondary analysis of the landmark CoolCap and NICHD hypothermia trials established that
      hypocarbia has a dose-dependent effect on long term neurodevelopmental outcomes. Both minimum
      and cumulative exposure to PCO2 less than 35 mmHg within the first 12 hours of life increased
      the risk of death and adverse neurodevelopmental outcome in the secondary analysis of NICHD
      trial. Consistent with this, the post-hoc analysis of CoolCap study showed that the
      probability of unfavorable outcome was raised dose-dependently with decreasing PCO2 in
      infants with moderate and severe NE. Moreover, a recent retrospective study also reported an
      association between hypocarbia over the first 4 days of life and brain injury on MRI. The
      consistent findings of an association between hypocarbia and adverse outcomes suggest that
      the close monitoring of carbon dioxide exchange and the avoidance of hypocarbia is highly
      important in this vulnerable patient population.

      Arterial blood gas analysis, the gold standard for monitoring the respiratory components of
      acid-base homeostasis, has obvious limitations that preclude its continuous use to follow the
      dynamically changing level of PCO2. Moreover, repeated arterial samplings can lead to
      significant blood loss and an increased risk of bacteremia.

      Alternative, non-invasive monitoring techniques have been developed to measure PCO2 trends
      continuously. Transcutaneous measurement of CO2 tension is the most commonly used
      non-invasive CO2 monitoring system in neonatal intensive care and several studies
      demonstrated a good agreement between the PCO2 in blood samples and tcPCO2 in premature
      infants.

      In clinical settings, the tcPCO2 measurement is influenced by many factors and is rather to
      be used as a trend than an absolute number. Clinical conditions such as hypoperfusion due to
      shock or acidosis, edema of the subcutaneous tissues, vasoconstriction due to vasoactive
      agents or lower body temperature may alter the tcPCO2 measurement.

      Over and underestimates may occur in the extreme high and low range of tcPCO2 measurements.

      The sensor of the device heated up to a constant temperature leading to hyperperfusion of the
      capillaries and increase of the metabolic rate of the skin by approximately 4-5% per every
      degree Celsius and consequently the gas solubility and diffusion improves. The sensor
      calculates the PCO2 electrochemically, by change in pH of an electrolyte solution. After a
      temperature correction to 37 oC the device provides an estimate of skin surface CO2. Higher
      temperature of the sensor might be associated with better correlation but also might increase
      the risk of thermal injury.

      In addition, tcPCO2 is recommended to all patients undergoing therapeutic hypothermia if the
      patient receives respiratory support. In the present study our aim is to measure PCO2
      continuously in infants undergoing TH with or without respiratory support in order to
      evaluate its feasibility in cooled infants.

      As detailed above, changes in pCO2 affect cerebral perfusion. Therefore, it is important to
      analyze the cerebral oxygenation and metabolism with the association of PCO2 trends.
      Continuous cerebral regional oxygen saturation (CrSO2) monitoring has been already used
      routinely in the intensive care of the infants with NE by using Near Infrared Spectroscopy
      (NIRS). NIRS is a non-invasive tool that can be used to measure changes in oxygenated,
      deoxygenated, and total hemoglobin of brain tissue from which cerebral regional oxygen
      saturation can be derived as a surrogate of cerebral oxygen consumption. A significant
      positive correlation was found between transcutaneous PCO2 levels and tissue oxygenation
      index in preterm infants. In line with this, an acute increase in end tidal CO2 (etCO2) was
      associated with an increase in cerebral oxygenation, whereas an acute decrease was associated
      with reduced cerebral oxygenation. The tcPCO2 and etCO2 were used as a surrogate marker of
      PCO2.

      Although continuous CO2 monitoring would be desirable in this patient population, to date
      tcPCO2 technique has not been evaluated systematically or used routinely in the intensive
      care of infants with neonatal encephalopathy receiving TH. Continuous monitoring may allow to
      avoid the extreme levels and the fluctuation of PCO2 and may improve the intensive care and
      the long-term outcomes of infants with NE. The monitoring of cerebral oxygenation by using
      NIRS together with tcPCO2 measurements can be beneficial for infants with NE and can help to
      understand the pathophysiology of autoregulation in this specific patient population.
    
  