
    
      Children with complicated severe acute malnutrition (SAM) admitted to hospital in sub-Saharan
      Africa have a case fatality(death rate) between 12% and more than 20%. Because children with
      SAM may not exhibit the usual signs of infection, WHO guidelines recommend routine
      antibiotics(medication used to kill bacteria). However, this is based on "low quality
      evidence". There is evidence that because of bacterial resistance to the currently
      recommended first-line antibiotics (gentamicin plus ampicillin or penicillin) could be less
      effective than potential alternatives. Some hospitals in Africa are already increasing use of
      ceftriaxone as a first-line treatment. However, this is not based on any data that
      ceftriaxone actually improves outcomes. Of concern is that ceftriaxone use may also lead to
      increased antimicrobial resistance, including inducing extended spectrum beta-lactamase
      (ESBL) and other classes of resistance.

      A further area where evidence for policy is lacking is the use of metronidazole in severely
      malnourished children. The WHO guidelines recommend "Metronidazole 7.5 mg/kg every 8 h for 7
      days may be given in addition to broad-spectrum antibiotics; however, the efficacy of this
      treatment has not been established in clinical trials." Metronidazole is effective against
      anaerobic bacteria, small bowel bacterial overgrowth, Clostridium difficile colitis and also
      Giardia, which is common amongst children with SAM. Small cohort studies of metronidazole
      usage suggest there may be benefits for nutritional recovery in malnourished children.
      However, metronidazole can cause nausea and anorexia, potentially impairing recovery from
      malnutrition and may also rarely cause liver and neurological toxicity.

      This multi-centre clinical trial will assess the efficacy of two interventions, ceftriaxone
      and metronidazole, on mortality and nutritional recovery in sick, severely malnourished
      children in a 2x2 factorial design. There will also be an analysis of antimicrobial
      resistance and an economic analysis. To extend our understanding of metronidazole and
      ceftriaxone pharmacokinetics, additional pharmacokinetic data for the dosing schedule used in
      the trial will be collected from 120 participants in a sub-study. The trial will be conducted
      at Kilifi County Hospital, Coast General Hospital, Mbagathi Hospital in Kenya and Mbale
      Regional Referral Hospital in Uganda. The trial will assess antimicrobial resistance that is
      carried by children in their intestines and in invasive bacterial isolates. A further
      sub-study will examine the relative costs of care for SAM for health facilities and for
      families, including antimicrobial usage will also be assessed. Clear data on the benefits,
      risks and costs of these antimicrobials will influence policy on case management and
      antimicrobial stewardship in this vulnerable population.
    
  