
    
      According to Janda, postural muscles have tendency to get shorten, in both normal and
      pathological conditions. Upper trapezius, levator scalpulae and scalene are most common
      postural muscles. Additionally, longus colli and longus capitis (DNF) have important role in
      postural support and their impaired activation leads to neck pain.

      More recently, muscle based treatments approaches for MNP evolved from a passive treatment
      technique such as myofascial release towards more active treatment technique such as MET and
      DNF training.

      Group A (N=11) received conventional treatment for 5 days per week for 2 weeks such as MHP
      (Moist Heat Pack) for 20 minutes, Static Stretching exercises for upper trapezius, levator
      scapulae and scalene muscle which is held for 10-30 seconds- repeated 3-5 times, Cervical
      spine non-thrust mobilization (Grade 3) was given to each segment from C2-C7 was oscillated
      for 10 repetitions, followed by a 10 seconds rest between segments, Cervical spine active ROM
      (Range of Motion) exercises with 10 repetitions- 2-3 times a day and Postural exercises were
      given as home programme.

      Group B (N=11) received DNF training along with conventional treatment. In this programme,
      emphasis was placed on first attaining the correct craniocervical flexion action, with
      minimal activity of the superficial cervical flexor muscles. The craniocervical flexion
      action involves a specific craniocervical movement (nodding - "yes" movement) of head such
      that it remains in contact with the supporting surface. Once the correct action had been
      achieved, participants were instructed in the use of the sphygmomanometer to guide the
      training of the Craniocervical Flexors muscle contraction at the various incremental levels
      of pressure (22 to 30 mmHg, progressively inner range positions).

      Group C (N=11) received MET in additional to conventional treatment. MET was applied to Upper
      trapezius, Levator scapulae and Scalene Following the 7-10 seconds isometric contraction and
      complete relaxation of all elements, the stretch is maintained for 30 seconds. The effort and
      the counter-pressure should be modest (20% of available strength) and painless. The process
      is repeated 3-5 times.
    
  