
    
      All women with fetuses having either severe LUTO with intrauterine renal failure or bilateral
      renal agenesis that meet the inclusion criteria will be invited to participate in this study.
      For those patients, the actual standard of care is expectant prenatal management or
      termination of pregnancy (<22 weeks according to law). This study will offer serial
      amnioinfusions for patients with LUTO or bilateral renal agenesis. Due to the rarity and
      complexity of these cases, the investigators expect to enroll a maximum of 5 women with
      affected fetuses per year. After two years (approximately 10 cases), a review of the data
      will be completed including all outcomes to determine whether to continue towards the
      original goal of treating 40 patients (20 mothers with affected fetuses) or to close the
      study,.

      All procedures are anticipated to take place in the Family Birth Center at Mayo Clinic,
      Rochester. Serial ultrasound-guided amnioinfusion procedures will be performed on fetuses
      having severe LUTO or bilateral renal agenesis that are diagnosed between 18 0/7-25 6/7
      weeks. This procedure will be performed in a sterile fashion within the operating room using
      the same technique that is routinely used to perform the ultrasound-guided amnioinfusion.
      Once consented, weekly ultrasound monitoring will be conducted and if the amniotic fluid
      index (AFI) is determined to be <2 cm, amnioinfusion will proceed. Prior to each infusion,
      5mLs of amniotic fluid will be collected to study surrogate markers of lung function
      (research only). Using a 22-gauge needle, warm sterile lactated ringer solution will be
      infused into the amniotic cavity until the AFI is equal to 8 cm. Some studies have
      demonstrated that the composition of the amniotic fluid during second and third trimester is
      closer to the lactated ringer solution. This procedure will be continued weekly until the
      fetus reaches 34 weeks, after which only monitoring will occur. If preterm premature rupture
      of the membranes (PPROM) occurs prior to 34 weeks, no further amnioinfusion procedures will
      be performed. Patients with PPROM will be managed according to the standardized clinical
      management. The anticipated length of stay in the hospital after each infusion is
      approximately 2 days if no uterine contractions are observed.

      The prenatal care, delivery and postnatal management of the infant will be conducted
      according to the standardized clinical care. Delivery will be scheduled at the Mayo Clinic
      Family Birth Center and the infants will be followed for 24 months by the multi-specialty
      team as part of the standard clinical management including follow-up with neonatologist (NICU
      team), pediatric nephrology and transplant team according to the clinical protocol for
      postnatal renal replacement therapy and transplant. Neurodevelopment of the children will
      assessed using a combination of clinical examination and the Bayley Scale of Infant
      Development during the first 24 months of life.
    
  