
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the recommended phase II dose (RPTD) of vorinostat that may be used in
      combination with dose-adjusted etoposide, prednisone, vincristine sulfate, cyclophosphamide,
      doxorubicin hydrochloride and rituximab (R-DA-EPOCH) (in high-risk disease) in participants
      with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated aggressive cluster of differentiation
      (CD)20 positive non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). (Phase I) II. Determine the overall toxicity
      rates of R-DA-EPOCH (in high-risk disease) with and without vorinostat. (Phase II) III.
      Determine the efficacy of the combinations of R-DA-EPOCH (in high-risk disease) with and
      without vorinostat in HIV-associated aggressive CD20 positive NHL using complete response
      (CR) rates as study endpoints. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine 1-year event-free survival (EFS) and 1 year overall survival (OS). II. Assess
      the effect of vorinostat and chemotherapy on latent HIV in memory T cells.

      III. Assess the effect of vorinostat and/or chemotherapy on HIV, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV),
      and human herpes virus 8 (HHV-8) viral loads on banked specimens.

      IV. Assess the effect of vorinostat and/or chemotherapy on T-cell subsets (CD4 and CD8) and
      plasma immunoglobulin levels.

      V. Assess the effect of concurrent vorinostat and rituximab on plasma steady-state
      concentrations of etoposide, doxorubicin (doxorubicin hydrochloride), and vincristine
      (vincristine sulfate) (on Phase I only).

      VI. Perform wide human gene expression profiling and methylation studies in tumors banked at
      baseline.

      VII. Evaluate EBV and HHV-8 gene expression patterns in positive tumors banked at baseline.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of vorinostat followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5; rituximab
      intravenously (IV) on day 1; etoposide IV over 24 hours, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 24
      hours, and vincristine sulfate IV over 24 hours on days 1-4; prednisone PO daily on days 1-5;
      and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A (VR-DA-EPOCH): Patients receive vorinostat, rituximab, etoposide, doxorubicin
      hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide as in Phase I.

      ARM B (DA-R-EPOCH): Patients receive rituximab, etoposide, doxorubicin hydrochloride,
      vincristine sulfate, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide as in Arm A.

      In all arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  