
    
      Children with symptomatic HIV-1 (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) infection are at increased
      risk for developing severely disabling neurological and neuropsychological deficits. HIV-1
      related CNS (Central Nervous System) disease is a clinical syndrome, manifested by varying
      and sometimes discordant degrees of cognitive, motor and behavioral impairment. A continuum
      of clinical presentations attributed to the effects of HIV-1 infection on the CNS, ranging
      from apparently normal development, decreases in the rate of new learning to the loss of
      acquired skills have been observed. Two domains of psychological functioning appear most
      susceptible to the effects of HIV infection on the central nervous system in children:
      expressive behavior and attentional processes (Brouwers, et al, 1994).

      Attention deficits have been documented as a relative weakness on the "freedom from
      distractibility" subclass of IQ tests (Brouwers et al, 1989) and on behavior assessment (Moss
      et al, 1994). Attention, however, has many subcomponents such as focused attention, divided
      attention, vigilance, etc. Direct assessment of attentional functioning using reaction time
      has not yet been conducted and questions whether attentional components are differentially
      affected by the virus have not been addressed.

      The proposed study would assess different components of attentional functioning in children
      with HIV-1 disease. A quantitative and systematic method is developed that could complement
      the existing standardized instruments used for measuring attention and neurocognitive
      function in this population. Simple alerted visual reaction time will be measured with
      varying preparatory intervals, a two-choice reaction time in a go/no-go paradigm will be
      administered, and a continuous performance, divided reaction time test and an object decision
      task will be given. Performance on these measures will also be related to measures of brain
      structure and stage of HIV-1 disease.
    
  