
    
      Research target:To explore exercise intervention in patients with diabetic nephropathy
      (intervention time for 3 years), the events in the primary end point was observed (double
      serum creatinine, ESRD dialysis) and secondary events (reduced urinary protein and
      retinopathy progression, cardiovascular events, and cerebrovascular events for all-cause
      mortality).

      Major technical programmes:

      The research object:Clinical diagnosis of type 2 diabetic nephropathy patients. The inclusion
      criteria: Clinical diagnosis of type 2 diabetic nephropathy patients.Many years history of
      diabetes, urinary albumin excretion rate of more than 30-300 mg/L, eye exams have diabetic
      retinopathy, routine urine without red blood cells, double renal morphologic examination
      being normal, and excludes the other secondary kidney disease. Age 18-75. Willing to
      participate in this test.

      Exclusion criteria: Type 1 diabetes, with other systemic diseases such as cancer, liver
      function damage, severe edema, cardiac insufficiency (grade 3, 4, cardiac function disorder),
      serious lung disease caused by respiratory insufficiency, pregnancy and lactation women, and
      could not walk and did not sign the informed consent of the patients.

      Estimate the sample size: In this study, the incidence of the combined endpoint was 40% in
      the untreated group, 30% in the treatment group, 10% in the treatment group and 80% in the
      control group, and 0.05 in bilateral statistical level. The above formulations are calculated
      by each group of 112 cases; Therefore, the sample size of this study is 120 cases per group.

      Corhort study: Exercise group (walking 6000 steps or more than 40,000 steps on foot),
      non-exercise group (walking 6000 steps or less than 40,000 steps on foot).

      Follow-up examization: Check the routine of morning urine daily, and check the blood sugar,
      HbA1c, fasting insulin level, kidney function, liver function, electrolyte, blood routine,
      blood c-reactive protein and blood type B natriuretic peptide per quarter.

      Kidney endpoint event: The blood creatinine was doubled on baseline, or the eGFR was assessed
      for end-stage renal disease and required dialysis or transplantation.

      Cardiovascular endpoint event: During the observation, cardiac failure and acute myocardial
      infarction were defined as cardiac endpoints Cerebrovascular endpoint event: Hospitalization
      of cerebral stroke or cerebral hemorrhage is defined as the end of the brain.

      Retinal progression: The severity of retinopathy was analyzed based on the fundus
      photographs, according to Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS)(1. Benefits of
      Renin-Angiotensin Blockade on Retinopathy in Type 1 Diabetes Vary With Glycemic Control.
      Diabetes Care 2011; 34:1838-1842。2. Renal and Retinal Effects of Enalapril and Losartan in
      Type 1 Diabetes. N Eng J Med 2009; 361:40-51).

      Adverse reactions: The adverse reactions of the movement include collapse, body weakness and
      muscle soreness are recorded.

      Internet web system: The urine is monitored outside the general hospital, and The patient
      urine routine test results were tracked in real time by the external follow-up system of
      subekang internet web system.

      Monitor steps:Add patients' buddy feature to WeChat to add the WeChat movement public number
      to see the number of steps on the WeChat public number.
    
  