
    
      Rationale for the Use of ECP with UVADEX in Patients with HIV-1 Infection

      Studies have demonstrated that psoralen and ultraviolet A light inactivate HIV virus in
      vitro. Edelson, et al, showed that extracorporeal photochemotherapy (ECP) with psoralen
      primarily targets the CD4+ cell, the population predominately affected by HIV-1 infection. It
      is postulated that the re-infusion of the ECP treated cell fraction, free virus,
      cell-associated virus along with whole cells, cell fragments, and soluble antigens, may serve
      to engender a specific HIV immune response.

      A twenty-patient study using ECP with psoralen was conducted by Bisaccia, et al. In this
      study, patients were HIV positive by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay and these positive
      results were confirmed by Western blot test. Patients were staged as Walter Reed class WR3 to
      WR5. Extracorporeal photoimmune therapy was administered on two consecutive days on a monthly
      basis for 6-29 months. This study reported that CD4 counts declined more slowly than
      historical controls. Walter Reed classification improved in 55% (11/20), was stable in 35%
      (7/20) and declined in 10% (2/20) of the patients treated in this study.

      One measure in the "in vivo" evaluation of T-cell function is provided by skin reactivity to
      recall antigens (DTH). A lack of this response has been associated with progression of HIV
      disease. In the Bisaccia study, skin reactivity to recall antigens (DTH) improved in 55%
      (11/20) patients, were stable in 35% (7/20), progressed to anergy in 5% (1/20). One patient
      was initially anergic and remained anergic post-treatment. Following treatment with ECP, 60%
      (9/15), displayed normal skin test responses, whereas the baseline examinations had been
      normal in only 5% (1/19). In addition, 21% (4/19) of patients showed a partial skin test
      response. Only 10% (2/20) of patients developed a new opportunistic infection. This included
      the patient initially anergic and who remained anergic and the patient who progressed to
      anergy post-ECP treatment.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE UVAR® XTSÔ PHOTOPHERESIS SYSTEM

      Photopheresis (or extracorporeal photoimmune therapy [ECP]) is a process developed by
      THERAKOS, Inc., a Johnson and Johnson Company. During the process of ECP, whole blood is
      drawn from the patient over several cycles, centrifuged and separated into the components of
      plasma, white cells (or buffy coat), and red blood cells. A portion of the white cells and
      the plasma are saved in a separate compartment. The remaining plasma and red blood cells are
      immediately returned to the patient.

      The saved buffy coat (white blood cells) and plasma are inoculated with the photosensitizing
      agent UVADEX. Photoactivation begins when the suspension is exposed to a prescribed amount of
      ultraviolet-A light. After photoactivation is complete, the treated suspension is returned to
      the patient.

      Photopheresis performed using the UVAR XTS is a continuous process. During the entire
      therapy, the patient remains connected to the photopheresis instrument. The duration of time
      between completion of the buffy coat collection and reinfusion of the light-activated buffy
      coat is approximately 30 minutes.
    
  