
    
      Cancer patients' under-identified symptoms and concerns can result in treatment interference,
      poor care satisfaction, compromised health-related quality of life, and taxed healthcare
      systems. Cancer care organizations have emphasized the need for symptom assessment and
      management within quality cancer care delivery. We have leveraged health information
      technology to pilot and implement the Lurie Screening Initiative in the Robert H. Lurie
      Comprehensive Cancer Center (RHLCCC) within the Central region of Northwestern Medicine (NM).
      Following two pilot implementation projects, the screening initiative program is live in
      RHLCCC clinics. It allows patients to complete Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System computer adaptive tests (PROMIS CATs) assessing depression, anxiety,
      fatigue, pain, and physical function, along with checklists of supportive care needs, within
      the electronic health record (EHR). Patients can do so at home via MyChart (a patient portal
      of their EHR) or in clinic via an EHR hyperlink. Assessment results immediately populate the
      EHR; severe symptoms and endorsed supportive care needs trigger notifications to clinicians
      (social workers, dieticians, oncologists & oncology nurses) who can then make referrals and
      care decisions in real time.

      This study will expand and evaluate implementation of the screening initiative via these
      aims:

      Aim 1. Evaluate the impact of system-wide implementation of the program on patient and system
      outcomes over 12 months via (a) a quality improvement study (estimated n=4,000 cases) to
      compare the impact of the program (versus usual care) on EHR-documented health care usage and
      patient satisfaction using a stepped wedge design in which clusters of study sites will
      gradually be assigned to cross from serving as a control to implementing the program and (b)
      a human subjects substudy (n=1,000) with patients who will complete the symptom monitoring
      and other patient-reported outcomes (PRO) measures of health care usage and satisfaction at
      baseline, 6 & 12 months. We will examine differences in PROs between participants whose
      screening responses trigger clinical alerts and those who do not. We will also explore
      longitudinal trajectories of PRO scores

      Aim 3. Identify implementation facilitators and barriers to system-wide expansion of the
      program. We will conduct qualitative research to gather feedback from patients participating
      in the program expansion (n=50). This will include multiple assessments throughout
      implementation.
    
  