
    
      According to Regional Institute of Oncology, Iasi protocols, all septic patients with the
      need of invasive ventilatory support (endotracheal intubation), have concomitantly inserted a
      CVC, an AC and a UC, as standard of care. All patients undergo the protocol for the
      management of suspected/proven sepsis: initial resuscitation, specimen collection for
      microbiology/molecular biology tests, empirical/targeted anti-infectious treatment, source
      control, multiple organ support and treatment of the underlying disease/comorbidities. All
      RIO patients are screened for nasal, pharyngeal and rectal pathogen colonization at the time
      of hospital/ICU admission.

      Informed consent - During the first 24 hours of ICU admission, all eligible patients will
      receive written information about the study: its implementation, aims, expected advantages
      and possible risks, and they will be asked to sign an informed consent. If the patient is
      unable to give consent at ICU admission due to pathological or drug-induced acute alteration
      of consciousness, a legal representative may give authorization. Once the participant regains
      the decision capacity, the individual will be asked to confirm or withdraw consent.

      Swab sampling - The nasal, pharyngeal and rectal screening swab sampling is collected
      according to standard methods. In addition to this standard screening, in the first 24 hours
      of ICU admission cutaneous samples from the groin area of enrolled patients will be obtained,
      with sterile Copan eSwabTM swabs, a product recommended for aerobic, anaerobic and fastidious
      microbial agents.

      Biofilm sampling and transport - The extraction of the four ID (ET, CVC, AC, UC) will be
      performed when the clinical condition of the patient dictates it (suspected catheter
      infection/no further need due to improvement or death). These devices will be extracted by
      medical ICU personnel, only at the indication and according to the medical judgment of the
      clinician, without being influenced by the patient's study participation.

      Microbiological processing and analysis of the biofilm - Microbiological analysis will be
      performed by standard method: sample seeding on standard culture media, then biochemical
      identification test and AST according to CLSI standards and guidelines using MicroScan Walk
      Away 40 plus®, Beckmann Coulter automatic system compatible pannels.

      Molecular biology processing and analysis of the biofilm - After complete sample collection,
      gene sequencing of the variable regions V3-V4 16S rRNA gene will be performed using Illumina
      MiSeq® Next Generation Sequencer System.
    
  