
    
      SMART DOCS is a randomized comparative clinical trial designed to evaluate a new approach of
      outpatient medical care. In current sleep medicine practice, a consultation lasting one hour
      or less is allotted for the assessment, diagnosis, planning, and implementation of sleep
      disorders among patients and their health care provider. Patients are expected to convey
      their complex medical history and relevant symptoms, while clinicians must effectively and
      appropriately diagnose and create a treatment plan in this given period of time.

      New technology for home-based diagnostic testing and electronic access to diagnostic results
      and outcomes provides functional advantages to the delivery of healthcare in an outpatient
      setting. The project was designed to compare the traditional diagnostic and treatment medical
      outpatient approach to a patient-centered outcomes and coordinated-care management (PCCM)
      approach for sleep medicine. New or refined methods, algorithms, and tools were expected to
      improve clinical practice and the patient's experience of care. The specific aim of this
      study was to determine whether a new patient-centered outcomes and coordinated-care
      management (PCCM) approach for sleep medicine provides better care and improves the health of
      patients compared to a conventional diagnostic/treatment outpatient medical care (CONV)
      approach.

      Patients were randomized to one of two arms; Conventional Diagnostic/Treatment Outpatient
      Medical Care (CONV) and Patient-Centered Outcomes and Coordinated-Care Management (PCCM).
      Randomization was conducted using a permuted block design. Each new patient consecutively
      seen at the Stanford Sleep Medicine Center and each patient seen at Stanford Sleep Clinic in
      Primary Care who were suspected of having a new sleep disorder were informed about the study.
      The patient was notified that the study was a randomized trial and he or she could be
      assigned to either the CONV or PCCM arms. The patient was also apprised that he or she was
      consenting to grant access all clinical data collected during his or her evaluation and
      treatment to the research team. If the patient agreed to participate, informed consent was
      obtained. He or she was then randomized to one of the study arms in order to diagnose and
      treat his or her sleep disorder.
    
  