
    
      This is a randomized, controlled exploration. Consent will be obtained from patients
      receiving care for cancer with anthracycline or trastuzumab at the University Of Maryland
      Greenebaum Cancer Center prior to initiation of anthracycline or trastuzumab treatment during
      the initial oncology visit.

      Patients will be evaluated in the initial consultation in the oncology clinic during which
      time consent will be obtained, and any patient with bradycardia (HR less than 50) or other
      contraindication will be excluded from the study. The patients will be randomly assigned to
      metoprolol vs. control groups during this initial visit. Individuals in the control group
      will not receive any study drug where as those in the metoprolol group will be given
      prophylactic metoprolol prior to initiation of anthracycline or trastuzumab treatment.
      Metoprolol tartrate will be provided to each patient randomized to the metoprolol group.

      Also at the time of the initial consultation, a baseline MUGA will be obtained for evaluation
      of left ventricular ejection fraction. Additionally, a post-treatment MUGA will be obtained
      after the final course of chemotherapy. Lastly, also at the initial visit, one vial of blood
      will be obtained from each patient to test for genetic polymorphisms, as described in the
      background section, which may contribute to the response to beta blockade in the prevention
      of anthracycline or trastuzumab induced cardiomyopathy.

      Each participant in the metoprolol group will be started on 25 mg of metoprolol tartrate
      twice a day prior to initiation of the anthracycline or trastuzumab. After one week, this
      dose will be increased to 50 mg twice daily, if tolerated. Prior to increasing the dose, the
      patients will be seen in the cardiology research clinic by the study doctor and evaluated for
      side effects. After another week the dose will again be increased to 100 mg twice daily. The
      dose can be decreased at any time if side effects occur such as bradycardia with HR less than
      50 or hypotension with SBP less than 90. The beta blocker will be held for two days prior to
      the post-treatment MUGA so as not to acutely affect heart rate, as a decrease in heart rate
      would be expected to increase EF14. Abrupt cessation of metoprolol tartrate will not lead to
      withdrawal of beta-blockade. This study will end with the post-treatment MUGA. The primary
      end point of this study will be the change in EF before and after anthracycline or
      trastuzumab treatment. A pill diary will be maintained to document compliance of study
      medication.
    
  