
    
      The purpose of the study is to develop and explore the feasibility and acceptability of an
      intervention, involving writing about and reviewing birth experience with a known midwife
      from antenatal care.

      Studies in developed countries indicate that between 5-16.5% of women perceive their births
      to be negative. The perception of birth experience seems to be consistent over time,
      suggesting that time alone does not have a healing effect. Adverse consequences of negative
      birth experience can be profound and have an impact on different aspects of woman´s life.
      Among well-known consequences are development of fear of childbirth, a tendency to delay
      pregnancy and longer interval between children, an increase in request for elective caesarean
      section without health indications and mental health problems like depression, anxiety and
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Around 1-6% of women develop PTSD in response to
      pregnancy, birth and post-partum events. Negative birth experience may have long-term and
      negative consequences on the women´s self-identity and relationships with their infants and
      partners. This is of concern as there is a growing body of literature showing negative
      consequences of maternal mental distress on the mother-infant bonding and attachment process,
      and relationships with partner. Improvement in bonding could take as long as one to five
      years - which needs attention because a delay in bonding can have detrimental effects on the
      child's long-term development.

      Risk factors for a negative birth experience are multifaceted and associations have been
      found between negative birth experience and instrumental or caesarean births, intrapartum
      complications, maternal complications or hospitalisation in pregnancy and prolonged labour.
      Furthermore, fear of childbirth, negative thoughts about the upcoming birth, prior negative
      birth experience, feelings of not being in control, and powerlessness during birth have been
      associated with negative birth experiences as well as history of mental health problems.
      Furthermore, perceived lack of professional support during pregnancy or birth has been
      associated with negative experience of birth.

      Evidence for useful methods to assist women with negative childbirth experience is limited.
      Interventions aimed to assist women with negative birth experience have been explored but the
      effectiveness remains inconsistent, with five comparative studies showing improvements on
      psychological measures while six of them did not. In recent studies a method of writing about
      the experience was explored with promising results, where one of them showed a reduction in
      depressive and traumatic symptoms and the other one showed emotional benefits like clarifying
      thoughts and feelings of empowerment.

      It is worth considering that in many of the above comparative studies, the need to review the
      birth experience was based on the view of health professionals. Also, the interviews were
      limited to women who experienced an operative birth or unexpected events during birth but
      none of these were effective in psychological improvements. Likewise, the time between the
      negative birth experience until the intervention was provided ranged from the first week
      after birth up to seven years after birth. Similarly, the structure, content and quantity of
      interview interventions varied. Each study´s design and outcome measures used, varied
      significantly making it difficult to determine which components of the interventions women
      considered most effective. Despite failure in these studies to show significant changes in
      psychological measures, women reported that it was helpful to participate in the
      intervention.

      The results from authors´ recent study in Iceland provide important insights into women´s
      views about the process of reviewing negative birth experience and reconciling difficult
      emotions, at a special midwifery clinic Ljáðu mér eyra (LME) at Landspítali. The women prefer
      their negative birth experiences to be detected by professionals and consequently have
      opportunity to review their birth experience in a tailored conversation on their terms. Many
      of them revealed preferences of talking to a known midwife who had provided care during
      pregnancy or birth, suggesting a request for some form of continuity of care. Reviewing the
      birth experience provided an opportunity for many women to relieve the burden of difficult
      emotions, enhance well-being and gain strength to move on with their lives.

      The ideological background of the study is affected by the international ideology of
      midwifery and models of care. According to the International Confederation of midwives'
      philosophy and model of midwifery care (2014), birth is not only … a normal and physiological
      process… but also … a profound experience, which carries significant meaning to the woman and
      her family. Midwifery care combines art and science and is holistic in nature, grounded in an
      understanding of the social, emotional, cultural, spiritual, psychological experiences of
      women and based upon the best available evidence. Furthermore, in International Confederation
      of midwives' code of ethics (2014) is stated that midwives should … respond to the
      psychological, physical, emotional and spiritual needs of women…,requiring midwives to react
      to women´s needs following childbirth from a holistic perspective. This philosophy of care is
      extended in Renfrew´s et. al. framework for childbirth care and a midwifery model of
      woman-centred childbirth care, developed in Swedish and Icelandic settings. Good quality
      midwifery care includes continuity of care, information, communication and understanding of
      women's needs. According to the above, interventions need to be tailored to women's
      circumstances and needs and provided in partnership with them.

      Thirty women who had their antenatal care provided at the clinic, after 28 weeks of
      pregnancy, will be invited to write about their birth experience and review it with the
      midwife who provided their antenatal care, four to six weeks after birth. Six to eight
      midwives will provide the intervention after completing a 12-hour training program. The study
      is based on a mixed method design where quantitative and qualitative data will be collected.
      Data including traumatic symptoms, traumatic life events, birth outcomes and birth experience
      will be collected from women before the intervention. Four to six weeks after the
      intervention, data about birth experience, traumatic symptoms and experience of the
      intervention will be collected. The participating midwives´ diaries and focus group
      interviews will be used to explore their experience of providing the intervention.
      Descriptive and thematic analysis will be used.
    
  