
    
      Screening: Potential subjects who call the Westwood Institute for Anxiety Disorders, Inc.
      requesting treatment will be given details about the study by a trained research assistant.
      Any questions that potential subjects have will be addressed. If subjects are interested,
      they will be invited to be screened to determine whether they meet initial criteria for the
      study. Potential subjects will be told that all information gathered during screening is
      confidential. If a potential subject does not meet inclusion criteria, or decides not to
      participate, the screening information will be destroyed. This information is then passed to
      the study physician, Dr. Kagan, who will contact potential subjects to make an appointment
      for further evaluation. Potential subjects are encouraged to discuss their possible
      participation in this study with their physician, therapist, and/or family members. They are
      also encouraged to write down questions they would like to ask the study physician upon
      further evaluation. This screening process is done as part of the research process.

      Further Evaluation: After the initial telephone screening, potential subjects will meet with
      the principal investigator, Dr. Eda Gorbis, who will ask the subject to sign an informed
      consent form (ICF). The research procedures and treatment will be described in detail to the
      subject and any questions will be answered by the principal investigator. The ICF will be
      signed by the subject and the principal investigator, agreeing to those procedures in the
      study that are considered research, acknowledging that their participation is voluntary, and
      that they have been informed of the risks and benefits of the study. Research procedures
      include cognitive testing, standardized rating scales, and clinical assessment questionnaires
      discussed below.

      When the ICF is signed, the potential subjects will meet with the study physician, Dr. Kagan,
      for a comprehensive psychiatric evaluation and physical assessment to confirm a primary
      diagnosis of BDD according to the criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
      Disorders - Fourth Edition (DSM-IV), and identify any confounding comorbidity, physical
      health, or medication issues which may or may not preclude their participation in treatment.
      According to subjects' self-report, those who are currently on medication for their BDD must
      have a regular prescribing physician who can continue prescribing their medication.

      Upon confirmation of inclusion into the study, subjects will then be given appointments for
      cognitive testing and further clinical assessments by the study independent evaluator. The
      Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview for DSM-IV (M.I.N.I.; Sheehan & Lecrubier et
      al., 1998) will be used to determine comorbid disorders that are excluded from the study,
      which will take approximately 45 minutes to complete. The Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale -
      Third Edition (WAIS-III; Wechsler 1997), which is an instrument that assesses verbal and
      nonverbal intellectual functioning, will be used to determine subjects' cognitive capacity,
      and will take approximately 90-120 minutes to complete.

      Assessment Instruments: One week prior to treatment, subjects will be administered a battery
      of clinical rating scales and questionnaires to determine the severity of their BDD and any
      secondary symptoms. This same assessment battery will be given immediately following
      treatment to determine the level of efficacy of each of the two treatment groups. These
      scales include the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale Modified for BDD (BDD-YBOCS), Body
      Dysmorphic Disorder Examination-Self Report (BDDE-SR), BDD Diagnostic Module (BDDDM), Y-BOCS
      Symptom Checklist, Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS), Hamilton Rating Scale for
      Depression (Ham-D), Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HARS), Fixity of Beliefs Questionnaire,
      Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF), NIMH Global Obsessive-compulsive Scale, Brown
      Assessment of Beliefs Scale (BABS), Obsessive-Compulsive Inventory (OCI),
      Obsessive-Compulsive Rating Scale (OCON), Fear Survey Schedule (FSS), and the Revised
      Willoughby Questionnaire. These will take approximately 90-120 minutes to complete.

      Randomization: Following assessment, subjects will be pseudo-randomized into either the
      mirror retraining treatment group or the crooked mirror treatment group. Pseudo-randomization
      means that subjects will first be assigned to one of the two groups randomly, then group
      membership will be remixed if needed to assure that there is no significant between-group
      difference in pretreatment BDD-YBOCS scores. If possible, groups will also be matched for age
      and gender.

      Intensive Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy: After subjects complete the pre-treatment
      assessments, the study therapist will meet with participants to design their treatment
      program. Treatment will be conducted every day for 15 days, Monday through Friday, for
      90-minute sessions. In addition, as a part of therapy, subjects will complete homework
      assignments daily. Intensive CBT for BDD is done in the form of Exposure and Response
      Prevention (ERP) with either the mirror retraining method or the crooked mirror
      externalization therapy. This involves prolonged and repeated exposures to images of the
      perceived defects, and prevention of ritualistic behavior (e.g., camouflaging with cosmetics,
      skin-picking, etc.).
    
  