
    
      Study design: Multi-center, prospective study Number of subjects: Up to 30 study duration: up
      to 18 months Subject population: Subjects with moderate to severe Crohn's disease
      demonstrating colon involvement who are indicated to undergo standard ileocolonoscopy as part
      of their disease management

      Study Design:

        1. Each patient will undergo PillCam, procedure followed by conventional ileocolonoscopy
           procedure with intubation of the terminal ileum

        2. During the ileocolonoscopy procedure, the colonoscopist will document his findings
           according to the parameters defined in the SES-CD score and the overall assessment in
           the following segments:

             1. Rectum

             2. Left colon (including sigmoid)

             3. Transverse colon

             4. Right colon

             5. Terminal ileum

        3. Cleansing level for the ileocolonoscopy procedure will be assessed at each site

        4. From each capsule endoscopy procedure two RAPID video versions will be generated and
           segmented into segments

        5. A committee composed of the study investigators will review all the RAPID video segments
           and document their findings according to the parameters defined in the SES-CD, Lewis and
           CECDAI scoring systems and an overall assessment

        6. The parameters for each segment per each of the two RAPID movies will be compared and
           the preferable video setup will be chosen

        7. Final RAPID and colonoscopy movies will be de-identified in regards to patient and site
           identity

        8. The preferable full RAPID version will be reviewed by investigators which will document
           their findings according to the parameters defined in the SES-CD scoring system and
           overall assessment

        9. cleansing level for the capsule procedure will be assess

      The above evaluations per each subject will be within 24 from end of rocedure.
    
  