
    
      There is a consistently reported, rapid antidepressant response to a single night of total
      sleep deprivation in both unipolar, and bipolar depression. The clinical utility of this
      technique has been limited however, because responders have typically relapsed rapidly
      following recovery sleep. The addition of pharmacotherapy, sleep phase advance (a shift to an
      earlier sleep schedule with normalization over three days), and bright light therapy to sleep
      deprivation have each demonstrated efficacy in preventing relapse into depression. Combined
      total sleep deprivation, sleep phase advance, and bright light therapy, dubbed Triple
      Chronotherapy along with concomitant pharmacotherapy has demonstrated a rapid improvement in
      depressive symptoms that has remained durable for as long as 9 weeks post intervention. If
      the early, encouraging results of Triple Chronotherapy hold up to further study, the
      technique represents a near ideal inpatient treatment, as it is inexpensive, relatively easy
      to carry out, and has minimal side effects.

      Despite encouraging early results, only one published report has attempted to use triple
      chronotherapy in suicidal patients, and in that trial only bipolar depressed patients were
      included, and one single variation of chronotherapy was tested (Three nights of sleep
      deprivation every other night with three light therapy sessions, combined with lithium). The
      lack of data in acutely suicidal patients significantly limits the utility of this
      intervention in the United States, where few non-suicidal patients are admitted. Published
      trials to this point have also excluded those with comorbid illness, which also limits the
      clinical usefulness of this intervention to a minority of patients. Furthermore there are
      sparse randomized adequately controlled trials, and still limited durability data on the
      technique.

      We recently explored the tolerability and feasibility of the technique on acutely depressed
      and suicidal inpatients admitted to our inpatient unit with encouraging results. We
      subsequently propose to further explore the utility of this technique by piloting its effect
      compared to an active sham condition to determine if further study is indicated. Should
      further study be warranted, we hope to use the collected pilot data to determine the
      necessary number of participants to detect an effect.
    
  