
    
      It is vital for individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) to adhere to a healthy dietary
      pattern to maintain optimal blood glucose levels and overall health. However, the increasing
      costs of healthy foods is a barrier to maintaining healthful dietary patterns, particularly
      for individuals with T2DM who are experiencing food insecurity (i.e., inadequate or insecure
      access to food due to financial constraints). Lower diet quality may result in difficulties
      maintaining optimal blood glucose levels, leading to higher rates of diabetes complications,
      and increased acute care usage and costs.

      Although the adverse impact of food insecurity on maintaining optimal blood glucose levels is
      well documented, effective strategies to address food insecurity among individuals with T2DM
      are lacking. One approach to address this problem is to provide subsidies for individuals to
      purchase healthy foods through subsidized healthy food prescription programs. These programs
      may help to reduce food insecurity and improve diet quality, thereby improving blood glucose
      levels and reducing diabetes complications over time.

      Using a type 2 hybrid effectiveness-implementation design, we will conduct three concurrent
      studies (i.e. randomized controlled trial, implementation study, modelling study) to examine
      the reach, effectiveness, adoption, implementation, and maintenance (RE-AIM) of a subsidized
      healthy food prescription program among adults who are experiencing food insecurity and
      persistent hyperglycemia. The randomized controlled trial will examine the effectiveness of a
      subsidized healthy food prescription program compared to a healthy food prescription only in
      improving average blood glucose levels among adults who are experiencing food insecurity and
      persistent hyperglycemia.

      Methods: 404 adults who are experiencing food insecurity and persistent hyperglycemia (i.e.,
      hemoglobin A1C 8-12%) from urban and rural primary care clinics will be randomized to a 6
      month subsidized healthy food prescription intervention (n=202) or a healthy food
      prescription comparison group (n=202).

      The subsidized healthy food prescription program consists of the following two core elements:
      1) The one-time healthy food prescription pamphlet is a low literacy resource comprised of a
      pre-printed healthy food prescription that outlines an evidence-based healthy dietary
      pattern; 2) The healthy food subsidy provides $1.50/day/household member to purchase healthy
      foods in participating supermarkets for 6 months. The intervention will be delivered over 6
      months to allow sufficient time for dietary changes to be reflected in two A1c cycles.

      At baseline (0 months) and follow-up (6 months), participants will access a pilot-tested
      web-based platform to provide responses to sociodemographic and health-related items, and a
      variety of patient-reported outcomes, including food insecurity. To assess diet quality,
      dietary intake will be assessed via two 24-hour dietary recalls at each time point using the
      Automated Self-Administered Dietary Assessment Tool for Canada (ASA24-Canada-2018). Clinical
      measurements (biochemical and physical measurements) will be obtained to assess blood
      glucose, blood lipids, BMI, blood pressure, skin carotenoids, and waist circumference.
    
  