
    
      The prevalence of overweight has risen considerably all over the world in the past century.
      Epidemiological studies have shown that, starting from a body mass index of 20-21 kg/m2,
      increasing BMI levels are associated with progressively increased risks of developing
      diabetes, cardiovascular disease, several types of cancer and other diseases. The problem is
      pronounced by the unlimited and constant availability of food. Treatment of overweight is
      still difficult and finding effective and more personalized strategies to manage these
      conditions is crucial.

      Intermittent fasting has been suggested as an alternative way to address these problems.
      Intermittent fasting is an eating pattern that involves rotating periods of eating and
      fasting. Animal studies and previous human clinical trials have provided evidence that
      various types of intermittent fasting lead to weight loss and improved health markers not
      only in obese, but also in healthy, non-obese adults.There are several types of intermittent
      fasting. The most popular version is time-restricted feeding (TRF), which allows ad libitum
      (at one's pleasure) energy intake within a defined period of time each day (6-12h). Another
      subtype of IF is called alternate day fasting (ADF). ADF is defined as 'feast days' on which
      food is consumed ad libitum, which alternate with 'fast days' on which food is withheld or
      reduced.

      However, despite the growing popularity of intermittent fasting, it is not clear which type
      of IF is most effective and what fasting window is needed to induce beneficial effects.
      Additionally, tools to longitudinally track personal progress of dieting are lacking.
      Therefore, the main objective of this study is to compare the effects of each of two
      different intermittent fasting protocols (TRF and ADF) on metabolic parameters to a control
      group. Furthermore, a new dynamic measurement technique, using breath analysis, will allow to
      better monitor the progress of individual participants.
    
  