
    
      Evidence suggests that chronic low back pain (LBP) is a multidimensional biopsychosocial
      problem including various contributing factors, such as negative pain cognitions,
      pain-related fear and emotional distress, avoidant and protective movement behaviors,and
      unhelpful lifestyle factors such as activity avoidance and sleep problems. Current guidelines
      recommend that patients with chronic LBP who do not benefit from primary care treatment
      should be referred to interdisciplinary pain rehabilitation in secondary care settings.
      However, such treatments are often expensive, not easily accessible, and have only modest
      effects.

      Cognitive Functional Therapy (CFT) is a newer physiotherapeutic treatment approach for
      patients with chronic low back pain, involving all important elements for the individual
      patient. Physical factors are handled via change in pain-provoking movement patterns.
      Psychological factors are handled in relation to fear, avoidance behaviour,
      catastrophization, stress, anxiety, depression and negative thoughts. Lifestyle factors are
      addressed in relation to physical inactivity and sleep problems. The approach is
      individualized and provides the patient with opportunities for action in relation to his or
      her own situation via information, reflection, change of movement and training of functions
      and physical level.

      CFT has been shown to reduce fear and worry in patients with chronic low back pain compared
      to other interventions, and the effect of CFT alone on patients with severe chronic low back
      pain has been recently investigated in an observational pilot study (without randomization)
      in our Pain Center (publication attached in link). In this study, we found a good and
      clinically relevant effect of CFT compared to standard treatment in a University Hospital
      Interdisciplinary Pain Center. In the pilot study, we noted that there were barriers to
      optimal treatment engagement for some patients (e.g. lack of motivation), and that several
      patients with high levels of psychological distress had limited benefits. Inclusion of early
      psychologist support to assist in promoting behavioral change and directly target deeper
      behavioral strategies could potentially improve patient adherence to the CFT intervention.

      This fully-powered randomized controlled study compares effectiveness of this
      physiotherapeutic intervention including psychologist support (CFT+) pathway with
      effectiveness of interdisciplinary pain treatment (recommended care) pathway in patients with
      severe chronic low back pain.
    
  