
    
      Patient data and all relevant procedure related data of cardiac surgery procedures at the
      Triemli City Hospital, Switzerland are recorded in a dedicated database with the approval of
      the institutional research ethics board and patient informed consent. Data analysis focusing
      on coagulation management using a dedicated algorithm in the present quality control study is
      done for 1754 out of 2199 consecutive patients undergoing cardiac surgery comprising the
      initial cohort from 2009 to 2011 (before implementation of the algorithm) and the subsequent
      cohort from 2013 to 2015 (after implementation of the algorithm).

      In the time period analyzed for this study anesthesia and intensive care were performed
      according to standardized protocols. Fluid management was done with lactated Ringer's
      solution and synthetic colloids. Different blood conservation strategies were used and
      included consistently cell salvage, standardized application of tranexamic acid and
      retrograde autologous cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) priming. Anticoagulant medication was
      suspended at least 5 days prior to surgery for all elective procedures. Hematocrit
      measurements were performed using a standard POC blood gas analyzer available in the OR.
      Indication for red blood cells (RBC) transfusion were a hematocrit (HCT) level below 21%
      during CPB, below 25% for patients with preserved left ventricular function and 28% for
      patients with a left ventricular function ≤ 30% and patients undergoing emergency procedures.
      Standard laboratory tests (blood count, international normalized ratio (INR) / prothrombin
      time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) fibrinogen concentration (FIB) were
      routinely available for guiding transfusion of coagulation blood products. Coagulation
      management before the implementation of the algorithm was performed based on institutional
      guidelines in accordance with published recommendations. Kaolin activated clotting time (ACT)
      measurements were used to guide heparin and protamine management. After heparin reversal and
      ongoing bleeding prothrombin complex concentrate was applied at a PT ≤ 70% / INR threshold of
      1.5 and in selected cases with ongoing major bleeding fresh frozen plasma (FFP) was used to
      normalize PT/INR. Moreover, fibrinogen concentrate was given below a fibrinogen level of 1
      g/l. Platelet concentrates (PLT) were transfused when platelet count was ≤ 100 x 109/lit. PLT
      were also given in suspected platelet dysfunction. When severe bleeding occurred at the end
      of the surgical procedure coagulation management was started on an empirical basis by the
      anesthesiologist in charge.

      The SONOCLOT coagulation management algorithm is based on existing literature on this subject
      and the experience of the authors with the specific POC technique: It considers standard
      coagulation lab results and platelet function tests and includes the use of the MULTIPLATE
      analyzer. SONOCLOT measurements consist basically of three dedicated tests:

        1. A kaolin ACT that is being applied for heparin and protamine administration.

        2. A glass-bead ACT providing information about the initiation of the clotting process, the
           propagation of the coagulation and platelet function.

        3. A glass-bead ACT with heparinase in case the measurement has to be performed under
           heparin.

      First coagulation measurements in each patient undergoing cardiac surgery are executed in the
      pre-intervention period. The established baseline values trigger the preparation of
      coagulation blood products that will be applied in the post-interventional period. At the end
      of the surgical procedure, heparin reversal is performed according to the Bulls protocol.
      After initial antagonisation with protamine kaolin ACT and glass-bead ACT as well as a
      heparinase glass-bead ACT are done to primarily detect any residual heparin. For any
      registered serum heparin the treatment and measurement loop is repeated. In case of an
      ongoing bleeding after heparin reversal a surgery-related cause has to be excluded and then
      another treatment and management loop based on glass-bead ACT is initiated and repeated until
      coagulation has been restored. As soon as results of the standard lab test are available in
      the postoperative period these are included in the decision making process.

      Primary outcome parameters were transfusion rates during the operation and the treatment in
      the ICU. Secondary outcome parameters included morbidity: an mortality in the postoperative
      period during the hospital stay.

      Statistical analysis will be performed with the software package R. To compare
      patient-related demographic and perioperative data prior and post algorithm implementation
      and univariable analysis are performed. Based on the data format and distribution, either
      Fisher's exact test, t-tests or Wilcoxon rank sum test were applied. For the assessment of
      the difference of transfusion in the two cohorts and controlling potential influence of other
      factors two approaches have been chosen. First, after a continuity-corrected
      log-transformation of the units of RBC given, a sequence of preoperative and procedure
      related predictors were included in the analysis. To check for multi-colinearity, variance
      inflation factors are assessed with the R package. Furthermore, to assess the association
      between potential risk factors and the incidence of postoperative infections a generalized
      linear model with a binomial link and logit function was chosen and performed with the R
      package.
    
  