
    
      Persistent cough following upper respiratory tract infection (URTI) is a common problem in
      the clinical practice, namely post-infectious cough. The potential mechanisms are
      viral-induced airway epithelial damage that leads to 1) airway hyperresponsiveness and airway
      narrowing, 2) increase in vascular permeability resulting in airway edema, and 3) activation
      of inflammatory mediators from inflammatory cells resulting in airway smooth muscle
      contraction. It is usually spontaneously resolved, although various therapeutic trials have
      been used with unpredictable results. Regarding to bronchodilators, inhaled ipratropium was
      effective in reducing cough symptom in a small study (N=14). We conduct a double-blind
      randomized placebo-controlled trial to investigate the effectiveness of oral procaterol, as a
      bronchodilator, in non-asthmatic adult patients suffering from persistent cough post URTI.

      Eligible patients who have cough lasting longer than 3 weeks post URTI with normal spirometry
      will be randomized to receive either placebo or procaterol (25 microgram twice daily) for 4
      weeks.

      The primary outcome is cough symptom score using Leicester cough questionnaire (LCQ). The
      secondary outcomes are pulmonary function tests (spirometry, impulse oscillometry) and
      exhaled nitric oxide and quality of life (SF-36). All outcomes are measured at baseline, 2
      weeks, and 4 weeks. Bronchoprovocation test with methacholine is performed at baseline and 4
      weeks to determine the provocative concentration of methacholine that induces falling of FEV1
      >or =20%. Adverse events will be recorded every visit.

      Data analysis will be in both intention-to-treat and per-protocol fashion. A linear
      mixed-effect regression model will be applied to assess treatment effect on LCQ score, SF-36,
      and lung function. Within-subject variation will be fitted in the model as random effects
      whereas the treatment will be considered as a fixed effect. Time at measurement (i.e., 2- and
      4-week) will also be included in the mixed model by treating it as fixed-effect. Marginal
      treatment effects between treatments and time will be then estimated and compared.
    
  