
    
      Advance care planning (ACP) is an important component of palliative care (PC), and is a
      critical, ongoing dialogue between health care professionals (HCPs), patients, and families;
      where patients' comprehension of their illness and illness progression, goals of care, and
      treatment choices are discussed. Essential to ACP is the interdisciplinary team, where each
      member must be comfortable and confident initiating conversations about quality of life and
      end-of-life (EOL) care. ACP is often hindered by low health literacy, including PC health
      literacy, uncertainty regarding illness trajectory and end-of-life palliative care (EOLPC)
      options, and lack of awareness about ACP among patients. For HCPs, discomfort, lack of EOL
      communication training, and knowledge of cultural differences are often barriers to ACP.
      Foundational to ACP is PC health literacy, which necessitates considering semantics,
      eliminating misconceptions, and recognizing uncertainty. Ensuring access to ACP for patients
      with serious life-limiting illness requires that all healthcare disciplines receive
      evidence-based EOLPC communication training. The COMFORT communication curriculum (CC) is an
      intervention that trains interdisciplinary HCPs to provide patient- and family-centered EOLPC
      communication. Patient outcomes related to this intervention have not been studied. Moreover,
      the curriculum's efficacy and fit has not been specifically tested with minority groups.
      Native Americans (NA) are disproportionately affected by serious life-limiting conditions and
      life expectancy is 4 years less than all other US races. Despite greater morbidity and
      mortality, NAs use of PC is largely unknown. Yet, it has been identified that tribal
      communities are requesting EOLPC services and will participate in ACP when conducted in a
      culturally-respectful manner. There is an urgent need to develop culturally-relevant
      communication approaches specific to EOLPC, including ACP, for use with NAs with serious
      life-limiting illness. The investigators propose a collaborative clinical trial to: 1)
      Culturally-adapt the COMFORT CC for pilot testing with NA communities; 2) Implement the
      culturally-adapted COMFORT CC in 2 tribal communities by training 20 interdisciplinary
      (nurses, social workers, primary care providers) HCPs to conduct culturally-respectful and
      relevant ACP; 3) Conduct a pilot, wait-list controlled trial of the culturally-adapted
      COMFORT CC in 2 tribal communities to evaluate feasibility, acceptability, and perceived
      effectiveness by comparing 30 NAs completing ACP with a trained HCP and 30 NAs receiving
      usual care. Implementing a culturally-relevant communication intervention to improve EOLPC
      health literacy is a high priority for the Rosebud and Pine Ridge reservations in South
      Dakota. This proposed study will culturally-adapt and evaluate the COMFORT CC on these 2
      reservations and will provide the foundation for an R01-funded intervention study that could
      positively impact EOLPC literacy and outcomes among the 566 US federally recognized NA
      tribes.
    
  