
    
      Hemodialysis exerts significant hemodynamic effects with widespread consequences on
      vulnerable vascular beds. Cardiac injury, including myocardial stunning and subclinical
      myocardial ischemia, appears to be common and associated with significantly increased
      mortality. The liver has been shown to have preserved blood flow due to its dual blood
      supply. Even so, the liver excretory function is decreased and endotoxin levels in the blood
      increase during hemodialysis. Extracorporeal cooling during dialysis has been associated with
      protective effects on the brain and heart of dialysis patients. The effects of cooler
      dialysis on liver perfusion, function and endotoxemia during hemodialysis is unknown.

      The investigators therefore propose to use CT perfusion imaging to examine the effect of
      cooling during hemodialysis on liver perfusion, relating this effect to endotoxin
      translocation and myocardial dysfunction. Additionally, they intend to investigate the
      potential effects on hepatic function in this context, examining the relationship between
      liver perfusion and endotoxemia, the metabolism of uremic toxins and clinical symptoms of
      uremia.

      This is a prospective randomized cross-over study involving a single center recruiting
      patients from the prevalent dialysis population of London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) Renal
      Program. Once recruited, patients will undergo two study hemodialysis sessions - one will use
      standard dialysate temperature of 36.5 degrees Celsius (HD36.5) and one will use cooler
      dialysate temperature at 35 degrees Celsius (HD35). The order of these two sessions will be
      randomly allocated. Before, during and after each session, participants will undergo cardiac
      and hepatic assessment. This will include CT scans, 2D echocardiography and indocyanine green
      (ICG) clearance measurements. In addition, participants will answer a number of
      questionnaires about uremic symptoms and blood tests will also be done.

      The investigators' aim is to characterize and compare liver function and perfusion before
      during and after hemodialysis, with standard and cooler dialysate temperature.
    
  