
    
      Background:

      Patients undergoing bone tumor resection and subsequent endoprosthetic reconstruction are at
      significant risk of developing prosthetic joint infection (PJI)Additionally, numerous factors
      contribute to a significant predisposition of these patients to wound healing complications,
      including the burden of their primary disease, associated comorbidities, previous or ongoing
      treatment often involving chemotherapy and or radiotherapy, and the extent of the necessary
      surgical procedure. In a retrospective review of this specific patient population treated at
      the investigators institution during recent years, the investigators have found a very high
      prevalence of persistent discharge from the surgical wound, when routine wound closure with
      skin staples was used. This is of particular concern, as an association of this
      post-operative complication with a higher incidence of PJI has been clearly established in
      several large studies on conventional total hip arthroplasty. Another previous study showed
      that prolonged wound discharge (PWD) will often lead to increased length of hospital stay and
      increased use of antibiotics to prevent infection. In the same study, the investigators were
      able to demonstrate a substantial reduction of PWD, use of intra-venous antibiotics and
      length of hospital stay, with use of an alternative skin closure method, combining
      intradermal suture and Steristrips for optimal wound edge apposition and a topical skin
      adhesive (2-octyl cyanoacrylate) as a sealant. However, more extensive data on the prevalence
      of persistent surgical wound discharge and the preventive effect of skin adhesives as an
      adjunct to wound closure in high-risk patient populations are lacking in the literature.

      Investigational Product:

      The DERMABOND PRINEO Skin Closure System has been specifically developed with the goal to
      achieve fast and secure closure of long incisions. It consists of two components, a pressure
      sensitive adhesive (PSA) initiated flexible mesh, designed for wound edge approximation and a
      cyanoacrylate based topical skin adhesive for occlusive wound closure. Intradermal suture is
      not necessary, as this system has been shown to support wound closure strength equivalent to
      subcuticular 3-0 sutures and is able to provide even distribution of tension across the
      entire incision length to ensure wound edge approximation throughout the wound healing
      process. Furthermore, compared to subcuticular suture, it has demonstrated equivalent wound
      healing and cosmesis at 90 days, while reducing wound closure time by up to 70%. It also
      provides an immediately effective occlusive barrier with documented antimicrobial properties,
      enabling patients to shower directly following a procedure and can be easily removed after
      the patient's natural wound healing process is complete, estimated at anywhere between 12 to
      25 days.

      Aims of this study:

      The investigators aim to evaluate wound closure with the DERMABOND PRINEO Skin Closure System
      in comparison to conventional wound closure with staples in 70 patients undergoing
      endoprosthetic joint replacement surgery for a metastatic bone tumor, involving the proximal
      femur or acetabular region, in a prospective randomized study and hypothesize that:

        1. Skin closure with the DERMABOND PRINEO Skin Closure System will lead to a decreased PWD
           during the early post operative period.

        2. Skin closure with the DERMABOND PRINEO Skin Closure System will lead to a decreased use
           of antibiotics during the early post operative period.

        3. Skin closure with the DERMABOND PRINEO Skin Closure System will lead to shorter hospital
           stay.
    
  