
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      A Phase I/II clinical trial is being conducted to investigate the safety, therapeutic
      efficacy and mechanism of action of idebenone in primary-progressive multiple sclerosis
      (PP-MS) patients (IPPoMS (Protocol Number 09-N-0197). Patients who have completed the 2-year
      treatment period of IPPoMS, may enter into this open-label extension study (IPPoMS-E) if they
      are found to be eligible by the Investigator and desire treatment with idebenone despite
      remaining blinded as to their allocation to active treatment versus placebo during the IPPoMS
      trial. The aim of this open-label extension study is gather additional data on safety,
      efficacy and effects of idebenone on CSF biomarkers in these patients over a period of 1
      year. This study will provide open-label idebenone for patients with PP-MS, previously
      randomized to idebenone or to placebo in the blinded phase of IPPoMS.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Patients who were previously enrolled in the IPPoMS (Protocol Number 09-N-0197) will be
      invited to participate in the trial. The same idebenone dose used in the randomized clinical
      trial (2250 mg/day) will be used in this study.

      DESIGN:

      This is a single group, open-label safety and efficacy extension trial with a one year
      treatment period. Patient-specific biomarkers of disease progression, CSF biomarkers of
      oxidative stress, longitudinal neuroimaging including quantitative measures of CNS tissue
      destruction and clinical data will be collected as in the randomized study.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The measurement and collection of data will be performed as in the randomized trial.
      Quantitative neuroimaging measures of central nervous system (CNS: i.e. brain and spinal
      cord) tissue destruction and clinical and functional measures of neurological disability will
      be collected every 6-12 months. Additionally, biomarkers focusing on analysis of reactive
      oxygen species (ROS) and oxidative stress will be collected every 12 months. The primary
      outcome measure defined in the IPPoMS trial will be also utilized in IPPoMS-E. For patients
      originally randomized to placebo, patient-specific slopes of disease progression during 2
      years of placebo therapy (as measured by primary and secondary outcomes) will be compared to
      patient-specific slopes of disease progression during 1 year of open label idebenone therapy.
      Combination of IPPoMS and IPPoMS-E trials will significantly expand paired no therapy vs.
      idebenone therapy CSF samples for biomarker studies. It will also provide (for the subgroup
      of subjects who were originally randomized to idebenone) longitudinal CSF samples on
      idebenone therapy (collected 2 years apart). This will allow calculations of intra-individual
      changes in CSF biomarkers on and off idebenone therapy, which may provide important insight
      into the mechanism of action of idebenone in PP-MS.
    
  