
    
      Study Procedures:

      If you decide to take part in this study, you will complete study procedures at month 36 (the
      day you sign this consent form) and again every year for the next 2 years. These procedures
      include completing a questionnaire, having your body measurements taken, and receiving
      self-help materials.

      At month 36, you will complete the questionnaire on a computer that is set up at the church
      in a private room. The questions will be about nutrition, exercise, tobacco and alcohol use,
      your neighborhood, age, education, social status, health status, stress, and racism. It
      should take about 75 minutes to complete. Your waist, hip, height, and weight will also be
      measured while you are in the private room.

      Every year after that for the next 2 years, you will go back to the church to complete a new
      questionnaire each time. The questionnaires should take about 75 minutes to complete each
      time.

      If you cannot get back to the church, you may complete the questionnaire over the phone. The
      study staff will provide you with the phone number and directions on how to complete the
      survey over the phone. Your measurements will be taken at the church, or at the Behavioral
      Research and Treatment Center (BRTC) at MD Anderson, whichever is more convenient for you.

      At each study visit, you will also receive self-help materials on how to lower your risk for
      developing cancer.

      Questionnaire Data:

      Your questionnaire data will be used for research purposes only. Your responses will not be
      shared with your personal doctor. If you feel you need a doctor's opinion about anything that
      is asked about in the questionnaire (such as mental or emotional difficulties or symptoms),
      please contact your personal physician.

      About 1 month after each you complete the questionnaire each time, the research staff will
      review and score your responses. If your scores suggest signs of depression, you will be
      given a list of resources for mental health screening.

      Length of Study:

      After 5 years, your active participation in this study will be over. You may be contacted in
      the future to see if you would agree to take part in other research studies.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 1,501 people will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  