
    
      Hypothesis The involvement of hospital pharmacists from the admission of the patient in the
      oncology department until its release, with a comprehensive review of its treatment and
      anticipation of therapeutic needs when returning home and a joint organized with the
      community pharmacist and doctor, reduces the rate of drug discontinuity and thus improve its
      therapeutic management.

      Goal

      The investigators want to integrate and evaluate clinical pharmacist activities at different
      stages of the patient care process transition points:

        -  The admission by drug conciliation to determine exhaustively the medication history and
           the observed differences, and assess the patient's treatment adherence, to consider a
           revision of the treatment if necessary

        -  During the stay by daily pharmaceutical validation of drug prescriptions made in DxCare
           to play down the drug iatrogenic and participate in the definition of pharmacotherapy,

        -  In preparation for the release of the drug per patient reconciliation to inform and
           advise the patient about treatment and communicate relevant information to the city of
           health professionals.

             1. / DRUG RECONCILIATION TO ENTRY

                  -  Rational The investigators all remember, share different hospital functions,
                     at least one example of Event Junk Medicated (EIM) suffered by a patient, the
                     investigators participate in the management and from a medication error. The
                     frequency of Adverse Event Graves (SAEs) exclusively related to health
                     products is estimated at 1.7 per 1000 SAE avoidable hospital days, or just
                     over 1 SAEs per day for a 1,000 bed hospital. This study showed a stronger
                     exposure to preventable SAEs among elderly and vulnerable. Indeed, promoting
                     factors the occurrence of iatrogenic injuries for this population are
                     manifold: multi-pathologies, polypharmacy, organic impairment, cognitive
                     impairment, inadequate mode of administration. Some of these therapeutic
                     errors are the result of poor communication between the city and the hospital,
                     leading to hospitalized patients for whom took home treatments are not
                     exhaustively known. It is also estimated that 67% of drug history of patients
                     have one or more medication errors and that 46% of these errors occur at the
                     time of the drafting of a new order to the entrance or exit of the patient 's
                     hospital. The EQUIP study showed that the risk of prescription errors was
                     increased by 70% during the intake phase of the patient from the hospital
                     phase. On the other hand, it has been reported that 60% of cancer patients use
                     complementary and alternative medicine, for which we must be vigilant about
                     taking these medications potentially iatrogenic (MAC-AERIO study 2010).

      Goal Detect differences in prescription between the city and the hospital in establishing a
      complete and exhaustive list of treatments taken by the patient before hospitalization,
      avoiding medication errors, appearance starting point EIG.

      procedure The hospitalization of Medical Oncology Service has 20 beds (14 traditional
      hospital beds and six weeks of hospital beds) with an average rate of entries per day of 3-4
      patients, 1 to 2 per week are new patients. Patients will be seen by a hospital pharmacist
      within <24h of admission, or <72 h during late entry on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday morning.

        1. / The reconciliation begins with a review of treatments called Bilan Medicated Optimized
           (BMO). The list to be drawn regarding medications taken by the patient whether
           prescribed or not. To formalize, it is necessary to conduct an interview with the
           patient and / or his entourage as well as city health professionals or other care
           facilities if any. The first source of information is that we will exploit the patient's
           pharmaceutical record (if open), accessible via its vital card and resuming treatment
           provided during the last 4 months. If drugs are brought home by the patient, they are
           another useful source of information. BMO This will be achieved in 2 ways:

             -  Proactive Patient entering Sunday to Thursday. The drafting of the first order in
                the service has not yet taken place, BMO is then used to prescriber for the
                drafting of the Ordinance for Medicinal Products for admission (OMA). Accordingly,
                the error of drug therapy is intercepted before it takes place. This option
                requires that conciliation by the pharmacist is made early in the patient's care in
                the hospital.

             -  Retroactive for patients who already have a prescription in hospital © DxCare
                following their admission. BMO is established after drafting the OMA. It can then
                be discrepancies that conciliation will allow to intercept and correct. It follows
                writing additional information or a new prescription to correct the detected
                differences.

        2. / The differences observed may be unintentional (medication errors) and correspond to
           involuntary treatment changes and are likely to generate an adverse event for the
           patient, or intentional but not documented and correspond to voluntary changes in
           treatment, the reasons are not indicated in the patient file. It may be an addition,
           modification or interruption of a medicament. This lack of information is likely to
           generate a medication error later. The characterization of the differences will result
           in 3 steps:

             -  Each drug line is characterized by medical decision that seems to have been taken.
                The drug is thus considered stopped, suspended, continued in the state, continued
                with amendment, substituted or added.

             -  Then the search of the annotated medical decision in the patient's file shows that
                if the decision is documented or not. When it is, the treatment line is validated.
                When it is not, it is concluded that there was a discrepancy.

             -  At this late stage, the physician participation is mandatory to describe the degree
                of intent of the undocumented divergence: divergence is characterized as
                intentional or unintentional. Following the implementation of the reconciliation
                rule, three decisions are possible for each drug line studied:

             -  The drug is validated online

             -  In case of undocumented intentional discrepancy, the medical decision is to explain
                by filling in the patient file

             -  In case of unintended discrepancy, the prescription is correct, there is a
                medication error. Any deviation must be documented at BMO. The lack of information
                can leave wrong to think that this discrepancy is intentional or not, hence the
                importance of documenting prescription for medical decision is explicit. By cons, a
                gap that is properly called unintentional must be corrected: it is a drug error can
                cause harm to the patient if it is not caught.

        3. / The finalized conciliation document is then validated by the hospital pharmacist and
           ends up embedded in the patient record to be reused during a transfer or discharge.
    
  