
    
      Patients who use drugs or alcohol who do not adequately adhere to antiretroviral medication
      have sub-optimal outcomes, but effective interventions for them are lacking. In this R34
      application, we seek to develop and pilot an intervention program delivered by phone and
      supported by information technology that combines contingency management for medication
      adherence and a cognitive-behavioral approach to both adherence to antiretroviral therapy and
      abstinence from substances of abuse. The intervention, CARE (Centralized Off-site AdheRence
      Enhancement Program), builds on the published finding that adherence was robustly improved
      and viral load was significantly reduced among patients who received cash-reinforcement for
      opening MEMS-capped bottles to take prescribed medication on time. CARE involves transmission
      of bottle-opening data with real time operation from SimPill bottles to a website system
      which generates messages to patients indicating the amount of cash-reinforcement earned if
      medication was taken within a specified time window or forsaken if medication was missed.
      Reinforcement for medication-taking will be wired to debit cards that patients will be given
      to receive the payments. This contingent reinforcement of medication-taking will be coupled
      with twelve sessions of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) conducted by phone, also assisted
      by the website which will generate CBT-related text messages, reminders and scheduling
      information from a menu of choices negotiated by the patient and therapist. Development of
      CARE will proceed in three stages, with revisions of the intervention at each stage. First,
      the web system and therapy manuals will be developed. Second, twelve weeks of CARE will be
      pre-piloted in 10 patients with sub-optimal adherence and recent risky alcohol use and/or
      stimulant misuse. Qualitative and quantitative data will be collected concerning
      acceptability, usability and perceived efficacy of components of CARE; Procedures and
      logistics will be evaluated, and modified, if necessary. Third, CARE will be pilot-tested in
      a twelve-week randomized controlled trial in which the control arm only involves phone-based
      counseling focusing first on adherence and then on abstinence. Retention of effects will be
      examined during a twelve-week follow-up period. CARE has the potential to be among the first
      interventions that delivers both reinforcement and counseling remotely, that improves
      outcomes among substance users without providing opioid substitution or other extremely
      intensive interventions, and that utilizes a cognitive-behavioral approach targeting both
      non-adherence and substance abuse. Because CARE is delivered by a therapist who is off-site
      from the patient's clinic, CARE can be effectively delivered from any distance and is a
      scalable treatment for patients in whom medication adherence is crucial.
    
  