
    
      Background: Human milk feeding provides numerous benefits to preterm infants due to
      improvements in gastrointestinal maturation, host defense, infection rates, and improved
      long-term outcomes in neurodevelopment as well as cardiovascular and metabolic disease. There
      is accumulating evidence that an exclusive human milk-based diet decreases the rates of
      necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) and death, and is associated with better feeding tolerance in
      very low birth weight (VLBW) infants than a diet of bovine milk-based products. In order to
      provide VLBW infants the benefits afforded by human milk feeding, the use of donor milk (DM)
      in neonatal intensive care units (NICU) has increased as many mothers are unable to provide
      sufficient milk needed for their premature infants. While there have been numerous studies
      that have favorably compared feeding of mother's own milk (MOM) to formula as well as studies
      that compare DM to formula, there are relatively few that compare maternal milk to donor
      milk.

      In regard to feeding tolerance and infection prevention, it has been proposed that DM may be
      less beneficial than MOM due to reduction in biologically active components during
      pasteurization, including human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs) and other immunological factors,
      growth factors, and hormones. Finally, alterations in the intestinal microbiota of preterm
      infants are suspected to contribute to disease states such as NEC, specifically within
      infants who have decreased microbial diversity. To the investigators knowledge, no studies
      comparing the intestinal microbiota among infants fed primarily MOM versus those fed
      primarily DM have been published.

      Purpose: To compare growth velocities, time to reach full enteral feeding volume, intestinal
      microbiota, and short term outcomes (NEC, late-onset sepsis, white matter injury) between
      infants fed primarily mother's own milk versus pasteurized donor human milk.

      Hypothesis: Infants fed primarily (50% or greater) mother's own milk will have increased
      intestinal microbiome diversity compared to infants fed primarily pasteurized donor human
      milk.

      Design: This prospective cohort study will be conducted in the Level III NICU at Texas
      Children's Hospital - Pavilion for Women and the Level II NICU at Texas Children's Hospital
      -- West Tower. Infants less than 1500 g birth weight will be fed exclusively human milk
      (mother's milk and or donor breast milk) fortified with donor human milk-derived fortifier
      per the investigators hospital guidelines. Once enteral feeding is established, infants will
      be categorized into cohorts based on percentage of feeding volume consisting of mother's own
      milk, including broad categorization of greater than 50% maternal milk versus less than 50%,
      and possibly tiered analysis of infants who receive less 25% maternal milk, 25-75% maternal
      milk, and greater than 75% maternal milk.

      An enrollment goal of greater than 125 infants including twins and multiples will be targeted
      for adequate sample size.

      Procedure: Infants will be enrolled within 72 hours of birth and started on parenteral
      nutrition and enteral human milk feedings per standardized feeding protocols and discretion
      of the attending neonatologist on service. Decisions to decrease or discontinue enteral
      feedings due to medical instability will be made by the attending neonatologist. Infants will
      be preferentially fed their own mothers' milk when available. For mothers who are unable to
      express adequate milk volume for their infants, pooled, pasteurized donor human milk will be
      offered per established NICU protocol. Feeds will be supplemented with human-milk based
      fortifier per protocol.

      At time of initial consent for the study, mothers will also be asked for consent to obtain a
      small sample (0.2-0.5 mL) of colostrum or expressed milk produced in the first week of life,
      as well as weekly milk samples thereafter, in order to analyze bacterial content of milk as
      it compares to the developing infant microbiome. However, consent for milk collection is not
      required for the infant's participation in the study. For infants who receive primarily donor
      milk, weekly samples of the milk they receive may similarly be analyzed for bacterial
      content.

      Infant stool samples will be collected during the first week of life and then at weekly
      intervals for six weeks for research purposes. The samples will be analyzed via 16S rRNA
      sequencing to determine diversity of intestinal microbiota. Additional analysis for
      metabolomics will be considered if lab availability and cost allows.

      Once weekly, a research nurse or physician will document growth measurements, including
      weight, length, and head circumference. Outcome data from the infants' medical records will
      be recorded, including time to regain birth weight, feeding tolerance as indicated by time
      required to reach full enteral feeding volumes of 100 ml/kg/day (for hydration) and 130-160
      ml/kg/day (final goal volume for nutrition), and rates of NEC, spontaneous intestinal
      perforation (SIP), late-onset sepsis, and bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). As all preterm
      infants less than 1000 g birth weight born at TCH-PFW have routinely performed brain MRIs at
      term gestation or hospital discharge, enrolled infants who fall into this subgroup will have
      their MRI results reviewed for outcome analysis.

      Additional medical record data for collection will include mechanism of delivery (cesarean
      vs. vaginal), antibiotics received by mother during 2nd and 3rd trimester as well as at time
      of delivery and while nursing/expressing milk, antibiotics received by baby during
      hospitalization, length of hospitalization, postmenstrual age at discharge, days NPO, days of
      parenteral nutrition, percentage of patients with patent ductus arteriosus, and rates of
      intraventricular hemorrhage, retinopathy of prematurity, and death.

      Although there is no long-term follow up currently designed for this study, at time of
      initial enrollment there will be an optional consent to allow study personnel to access
      medical records for patients who go on to have neurodevelopmental follow up visits at clinics
      within the investigators institution. There will also be optional consent for families to be
      contacted when the infant is approximately 6, 12, 18, and 24 months for developmental follow
      up. This will allow for possible comparison of neurodevelopmental outcomes at approximately
      18-24 months in the subgroup of patients whose mothers consent to these aspects of the study.

      No labs will be requested for research purposes. No interventions are part of this protocol.
    
  