
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the 18 week progression-free survival rate of pemetrexed (pemetrexed disodium)
      alone (Arm I), sunitinib (sunitinib malate) alone (Arm II) and pemetrexed plus sunitinib (Arm
      III) in the second-line setting of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival of the three arms. II. To estimate the response
      rate, duration of response, rate of stable disease, overall survival and to characterize the
      toxicity profiles of the three arms.

      III. To estimate the response rate, duration of response, rate of stable disease, overall
      survival and toxicity of sunitinib in those patients on Arm I that receive this regimen in
      the third line setting.

      IV. To assess vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) haplotypes in advanced non-small cell
      lung cancer.

      V. To test change in tumor size at 6 weeks (after 2 cycles of therapy, typically the first
      evaluation point in this type of study) as an early predictor of therapeutic activity in
      second-line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes on day 1.
      Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with documented disease progression may then receive sunitinib malate as in Arm II
      as third-line therapy.

      ARM II: Patients receive sunitinib malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Courses
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      with documented disease progression may then receive pemetrexed disodium as in Arm I as
      third-line therapy.

      ARM III: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes on day 1 and sunitinib
      malate PO QD on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with documented disease progression may then receive
      third-line therapy at the discretion of the treating physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 weeks until disease
      progression and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  