
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the 2-year progression-free survival (PFS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Clinical complete response rate (nab-paclitaxel based induction, compared to European
      Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition [EPIC] induction [paclitaxel based]).

      II. Response rate (nab-paclitaxel based induction, compared to EPIC induction [paclitaxel
      based]).

      III. Proportion of patients with >= 50% shrinkage by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) (nab-paclitaxel based induction, compared to EPIC induction, paclitaxel
      based).

      IV. Toxicity (nab-paclitaxel based induction, compared to EPIC induction [paclitaxel based]).

      V. To assess swallowing function and speech at 6 months (mos) and 12 mos post therapy.

      VI. To determine the rates of late toxicity with chemoradiation following surgery as
      determined by xerostomia, dental decay, osteroradionecrosis, G-tube dependency, tracheostomy
      placement and dysphagia.

      VII. 2-year overall survival (OS) in patients treated on the Low-Risk, Intermediate-Risk Arm,
      and High-Risk Arms.

      VIII. 2-year PFS in patients treated on the Low-Risk, Intermediate-Risk Arm, and High-Risk
      Arms - early and late toxicities.

      IX. Evaluate need for post radiotherapy/chemoradiotherapy (RT/CRT) surgery on low- and
      intermediate-risk arms based on response from induction chemotherapy.

      X. Evaluate in a descriptive manner the role of transoral robotic surgery (TORS)
      resection/lymph node dissection (LND) when integrated into a de-escalation trial.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate pathologic/histologic appearance of tumor after induction chemotherapy and
      after CRT.

      II. Translational research on blood and tissue samples. III. To profile tumors genetically
      and immunologically in order to assess in a descriptive manner genetic or immunological
      features characteristic of clinical behavior.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: All patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
      formulation intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over
      30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are then assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups based on response to induction
      chemotherapy.

      GROUP A (LOW-DOSE ARM): Patients undergo radiation therapy once daily for 5 weeks.

      GROUP B (INTERMEDIATE-DOSE ARM): Patients receive hydroxyurea orally (PO) twice daily (BID)
      on days 0-5, fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-5, and paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes on
      day 1. Patients also receive low-dose radiation therapy BID on days 1-5. Treatment repeats
      every 14 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP C (STANDARD-DOSE ARM): Patients receive hydroxyurea PO BID on days 0-5, fluorouracil IV
      continuously on days 1-5, and paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive
      standard-dose radiation therapy BID on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 5
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.*

      *NOTE: At the discretion of the principal investigator (PI), patients may receive cisplatin
      IV over 1-3 hours every 3 weeks during radiation therapy instead of paclitaxel and undergo
      daily radiation therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, every 3 months for
      1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 2 years.
    
  