
    
      Conjunctival melanoma is a potentially lethal neoplasm, with an average 10-year mortality
      rate of 30%, and 15-year mortality rate of 45%. This condition occurs mainly in the white
      population, with rare reports in black and other non-white populations. Recent studies have
      indicated that like cutaneous melanoma, the incidence of conjunctival melanoma is increasing.

      Conjunctival Malignant Melanoma (MM) is also currently diagnosed based upon clinical grounds,
      through observation of the growth of the suspected lesions over regular intervals of time.
      Unfortunately simple slit lamp examination is currently the only clinical diagnostic visual
      instrument available in medical practice, and the early diagnosis of MM by slit-lamp
      examination is still rather poor. Further the diagnosis of invasive conjunctival MM is
      currently established by conjunctival excisional biopsy and defined by the invasion of the
      underlying substantia propria of the conjunctiva by atypical tumor cells, especially when
      there is loss of the maturation. Regarding the management of malignant melanoma,
      unfortunately the extensive horizontal and even vertical growth of this neoplasm does not
      always lend itself to simple excision leading to exenteration. As a vision-sparing
      alternative, local excision with cryotherapy has become the treatment of choice. Long-term
      follow-up has shown that local recurrences are common. More recently, topical chemotherapy
      with mitomycin C (MMC) has been used to treat cases with extensive PAM with atypia , because
      the pigmented margin is used as a guide for most conservative treatments, the tumor's edge
      may be missed.

      Recurrent conjunctival MM often presents as an amelanotic mass and may be mistaken for
      pyogenic granuloma in a patient who has had multiple previous excisions of conjunctival MM,
      even though the original tumor may have been pigmented. Because of the lack of pigment, these
      tumors can remain unrecognized and progressively enlarge, especially if the patient has had
      previous surgery and conjunctival scarring. In addition, the tumor margins of recurrent
      amelanotic conjunctival MM may be indistinct. These factors can lead to delayed recognition
      and the unnecessary need for exenteration. Despite these radical procedures, which usually
      lead to loss of vision or the eye, these patients have been shown to have a poor survival
      rate, suggesting that metastasis has already occurred at the time of treatment. This confirms
      that the extent of the disease at diagnosis is the most important factor to determine the
      outcome. Recurrence of conjunctival MM is reported at 26% at 5 years and, 51% at 10 years.

      MM of the conjunctival represents one of the greatest challenges in early or preventive
      detection. Whereas surgical excision in early stages of tumor development is almost always
      curative, delayed recognition puts the patient at risk of destructive growth and death once
      the tumor has progressed to competence for metastasis. Accurate diagnosis of pigmented
      lesions of the conjunctiva such as nevi, primary, and secondary acquired melanosis and MM
      present a challenge to both the ophthalmologist and the pathologist. It is not possible
      clinically to distinguish between PAM with and without atypia. The ability to detect early MM
      remains of paramount importance in our efforts to curtail deaths related to this malignancy.
      The implementation and utilization of in vivo imaging technologies in clinical practice would
      enhance our ability to detect MM while this cancer is in its early stages and curable.
      Further, accurate assessment of therapeutic tumor response is critical for evaluation of
      chemotherapy results in patients, and in clinical trials. Tumor response is also a guide for
      the clinician and patient or study. Early, accurate prediction of non-response would allow an
      early change to second-line treatment, thus sparing patient's unnecessary toxicity,
      psychological morbidity and delay of initiation of effective treatment. These are very few
      variables that investigators, as clinicians, can control regarding the management of
      conjunctival MM. However, early detection, technique and time of surgery may ultimate after
      tumor recurrence, need for orbital exenteration, tumor metastasis, and patient death. This
      non-invasive imaging technique that is now available for clinical studies might help in early
      detecting and preventing above mentioned problems.
    
  