
    
      In the UK about 41,000 patients are diagnosed with breast cancer each year. More and more
      patients are surviving breast cancer, mostly due to the earlier detection and improvements in
      treatment. Nevertheless, in about 6% of patients the cancer has already spread to other parts
      of the body when they are first diagnosed; in a further 30% of patients the cancer comes back
      elsewhere in their body after initial treatment. Once it has spread to other parts of the
      body, breast cancer is incurable, with patients living, on average, a further 24 months. The
      aims when treating patients with metastatic breast cancer are to prolong and improve their
      day to day life. A number of different chemotherapy drugs are available for treatment of
      metastatic breast cancer. There is, however, still a need to develop new treatments. The aim
      of this trial is to use a new drug called ZD4054 combined with an established chemotherapy
      drug (carboplatin) to see whether this prolongs the period for which patients live with the
      cancer kept under control.

      ZD4054 is a new, oral drug which may help to slow down cancer growth. It works by blocking
      growth that is controlled by specific proteins on cancer cells called endothelins.

      Endothelins act by binding to their endothelin receptors, presence of these receptors have
      been found in about 45% of breast cancer cases. ZD4054 is an endothelin receptor blocker. We
      hope to show that adding this new drug increases the effectiveness of carboplatin. We know
      from trials in other cancers that similar drugs may be able to slow down the growth of
      tumours.

      Metastatic breast cancer (MBC) remains incurable and there has been little change in long
      term outcomes. Chemotherapy is used to improve symptoms and prolong survival in patients with
      advanced breast cancer. Nevertheless, most tumours inevitably progress and the clinical
      response rates to subsequent chemotherapy agents are disappointing. There is, therefore, a
      need for continued clinical research into new strategies to enhance the effectiveness of
      currently available chemotherapy agents to improve survival.

      The endothelin pathway has been implicated in a number of oncogenic pathways. ET-1 and ETAR
      are frequently over-expressed in breast cancers and are prognostic for poor outcome.
      Inhibition of the endothelin pathway enhances cytotoxicity when combined with chemotherapy
      agents such as carboplatin in pre-clinical models. ZD4054 is a specific inhibitor of ETAR and
      represents a novel therapeutic target in breast cancer.

      This study investigates whether ZD4054, an oral endothelin A receptor (ETAR) inhibitor, in
      combination with carboplatin chemotherapy, has sufficient activity to warrant a future Phase
      III trial in patients with advanced/metastatic breast cancer.
    
  