
    
      Clopidogrel and Prasugrel are pro-drug necessitating conversion in active metabolites through
      CYP 450 system (CYP), particularly CYP3A and CYP2C19 isoforms.

      These drugs are platelet purinergic receptor antagonists, known as P2Y12. The link between
      active metabolite of Clopidogrel and Prasugrel to P2Y12 receptor prevents ADP receptor
      activation and inhibits several events leading to conformational change of platelets,
      therefore facilitating their activation and aggregation, that is the basis of acute coronary
      syndromes.

      Despite double antiplatelet drugs are the principle therapy for the treatment and the
      prevention of atherothrombotic events in cardiovascular diseases, they are the most important
      cause of bleeding peptic ulcer. Proton pump inhibitors (PPI) are actually considered
      principal agents reducing gastroenteric bleeding risk associated to antiplatelet therapy.
      Nevertheless the interaction between PPI and antiplatelet therapy has been object of
      interest. Several studies demonstrated PPI reduce efficacy of clopidogrel on platelet
      reactivity, probably through the inhibition of its metabolism, increasing the risk of
      cardiovascular events. Only few data about Prasugrel are available showing a minor effect of
      PPI on its antiplatelet activity than clopidogrel. Differing from prasugrel and clopidogrel,
      ticagrelor is a direct inhibitor of P2Y12, not necessitating biotransformation in the liver;
      therefore its interaction with PPI remains unclear. Nevertheless actual studies considered
      only clinical outcomes (MACEs), such as a subgroup analysis of the Platelet Inhibition and
      Patient Outcomes (PLATO) trial, showing a higher rate of MACEs in clopidogrel and Ticagrelor
      patients undergone PPI therapy, especially omeprazole treatment. Interaction between
      omeprazole and clopidogrel seems related to high inhibitory activity of PPI on CYP2C19,
      interfering with the conversion of clopidogrel in its active metabolite. It is yet unclear
      the higher rate of MACEs in the ticagrelor group, similarly to clopidogrel, despite it hasn't
      a hepatic metabolism.
    
  