
    
      The investigators will conduct a randomized 1:1 controlled trial with 338 mothers (ages 14 to
      24) and their children (ages 0-24 months) living in the three study sites (2 Navajo; 1
      Apache). Assessments in both groups will occur at baseline (< 32 weeks gestation), 36 weeks
      gestation, delivery (blood sample collection only), 2 weeks, 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, 9
      months, 12 months, 18 months, and 24 months postpartum.

      Intervention: The intervention group (n=169) will receive the FSN + OSC. OSC consists of
      transportation assistance to prenatal and well-baby clinic visits as recommended by the
      Indian Health Service (IHS) and American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and rescue services
      through linkages to community agencies as needed. The FSN home-visiting module consists of 36
      60-minute lessons delivered by trained local FHCs, from 28 weeks gestation to 18 months
      postpartum. The lessons will be delivered bi-weekly from 28 weeks gestation to birth, weekly
      from birth to 3 months postpartum, bi-weekly from 3 to 6 months postpartum and monthly from 6
      to 18 months postpartum. The lessons focus on three key content domains: 1) promotion of
      optimal breastfeeding, complementary and responsive feeding across early childhood; 2)
      promotion of healthy infant/toddler diet and physical activity, as well as reduced screen
      time and sedentary lifestyle; and 3) promotion of maternal psychosocial well-being,
      optimization of healthy food/beverage availability and identification/creation of safe play
      spaces in the home environment.

      Comparison Condition: The comparison group will receive IPE + OSC. The IPE home-visiting
      module consists of 8 30-minute lessons delivered by trained local Family Health Liaisons
      (FHL), from 28 weeks gestation to 18 months postpartum. The lessons will be delivered at the
      following assessment time points: 36 weeks gestation, 2 weeks, 2 months, 4 months, 6 months,
      9 months, 12 months, and 18 months postpartum. Injury prevention lessons focus on injury
      prevention topics relevant to the participating communities but that will not overlap in
      anyway with FSN content, including: motor vehicle safety for mothers and children; preventing
      scald burns; fire safety; child-proofing a home; preventing falls; preventing poisonings; and
      preventing animal bites.

      OSC transportation visits for both the intervention and comparison groups include
      transportation for up to 6 prenatal visits from 28 weeks gestation to birth and 8 well-baby
      visits during the first 18 months of life. OSC was selected because it optimizes the standard
      of care for young mothers and their children within reservation communities, addresses
      transportation and access barriers, provides beneficial and ecologically-valid services in
      the participants' settings, and was previously approved and endorsed by Community Advisory
      Boards and tribal Institutional Review Boards. By providing OSC to both intervention and
      control groups, the quality and dose of OSC is controlled so differences between study arms
      can be validly attributed to the FSN intervention. Two hours is allotted for each OSC visit
      (for transportation and waiting at clinic visit) x 14 visits = 28 hours of
      obstetric/pediatric care support. OSC visits will also be used to administer maternal
      self-reports at relevant time points for both study arms.

      Both the intervention and comparison condition participants will receive a follow-up
      assessment at 24 months, but no education sessions will take place with either study group
      between 18 and 24 months postpartum.
    
  