
    
      The concept that all patients with HIV-1 infection require continuous and indefinite
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) has been questioned. There are both theoretical reasons and
      supporting empiric evidence that suggest that discontinuing ART should not select for
      EFV-resistance. In Dupont Protocol 006, antiretroviral-naive patients were randomized to
      receive EFV, ZDV, and 3TC. This regimen was associated with an excellent and sustained
      virologic response. It is certain that many patients in this study were able to maintain
      sustained suppression of HIV-1 RNA to below limits of detection despite missing occasional
      doses of all medications. Since therapy with ZDV and 3TC alone is unlikely to maintain
      virologic control, emergence of substantial high-level EFV resistance should have led to
      virologic failure. The fact that there were relatively few virologic failures in that study
      provides indirect but strong evidence that simultaneous discontinuation of EFV, ZDV, and 3TC
      is unlikely to be associated with emergence of EFV resistance. Many individuals discontinue
      antiretroviral therapy because of adverse effects. This study provides the opportunity to
      determine whether the virologic response of patients who discontinue antiretroviral therapy
      will be compromised.

      Participants will discontinue their EFV. Other antiretroviral drugs in the patients' regimens
      may be continued for up to three days after the last EFV dose. Patients will not resume EFV
      or other antiretroviral agents for at least 28 days after stopping EFV, unless the CD4 cell
      count declines to a level that indicates the need to resume therapy. Throughout the study,
      patients will have blood drawn on specified days for plasma EFV assays, intracellular NRTI-TP
      assays, and demonstration of EFV resistance. After patients have been off their
      antiretrovirals for at least four weeks, they may choose to restart their ART, start a new
      regimen, or discontinue their ART. Patients who restart their ART need to come to the clinic
      seven days after restarting to have blood drawn. After plasma EFV assays have been completed
      and HIV resistance has not been demonstrated, three patients will have a clonal analysis
      performed.
    
  