
    
      Rationale:

      Commensal enterobacteriaceae of the digestive tract, mostly represented by E.coli, can cause
      a wide range of infections such as urinary tract infections or severe bacteraemia. For
      several years now, the misuse of antibiotics and cross-transmission in hospitals have led to
      the emergence of Enterobacteriaceae producing extended-spectrum β-lactamases (ESBL). The
      rising prevalence of ESBL is estimated at 8.2% in healthcare settings and at 6.2% in the
      community.

      Carbapenems are considered the reference treatment for ESBL-producing E.coli (EESBL)
      infections. They often remain the last effective treatment on an individual level. But on a
      larger scale, their increasing use contributes to the emergence of resistance that might soon
      become a major public health issue.

      Although the prevalence of ESBL remains low, the rate of ESBL epidemics in French hospitals
      has increased hugely since 2004. This could become a cause of concern especially because very
      few antibacterial agents are currently in development.

      So infectiologists and microbiologists have to consider alternatives to carbapenems to treat
      infections caused by EESBL, which is stipulated in the new recommendations from the French
      High Council for Public Health and the Infectious Disease Society of America.

      Older and well-known molecules that have proved to be effective in-vitro against EESBL may be
      an option. However due to a lack of conclusive studies, they're still not recommended in
      these cases. Cefoxitin, a cephamycin antibiotic, may be a good alternative treatment for
      EESBL infections and contribute to spare the use of carbapenems.

      Originality and innovation:

      Previous studies of cephamycins have shown encouraging results, but they were mostly cohort
      trials with retrospective data or subsets of non-randomized studies. So a randomized
      prospective non-inferiority study comparing ertapenem and cefoxitine is necessary. If the
      results show non-inferiority of cefoxitine versus ertapenem, immediate clinical application
      should ensue and lead to new recommendations, highly anticipated by the infectiologists who
      support this project via their clinical research network.

      Project feasibility:

      The pace of inclusions has been calculated based on recent data on cefoxitine,
      trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and ciprofloxacin sensitivity EESBL, 68% of EESBL are
      susceptible to céfoxitine and resistant to trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and ciprofloxacin.
      In 2011, 16 French laboratories, involved in the EARSS network, isolated 582 EESBL strains
      from blood culture. In the university hospital of Nancy, 205 EESBL strains were isolated from
      urine cultures in 2012. The challenge of including 250 patients with ESBL E.coli positive
      urine culture, in 18 months and in about 20 participating French centers, seems highly
      feasible.

      Recent data showed that 68% of EESBL are susceptible to céfoxitine and resistant to
      trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and ciprofloxacin. In the university hospital of Nancy, 205
      EESBL strains were isolated from urine cultures in 2012. The challenge of including 250
      patients with ESBL E.coli positive urine culture, in 18 months and in about 20 participating
      French centers, seems highly feasible.

      Expected benefits for patients and/or public health Immediate benefits are expected, on an
      individual level and on a wider scale. Indeed for the patient, the use of narrow-specturm
      antibiotics, but with an equivalent efficacy, decreases the risk of selecting even more
      highly resistant bacteria than EESBL in the digestive tract, such as carbapenemase-producing
      enterobacteriaceae (CPE). A patient colonized with CPE is at high risk of developing a CPE
      infection and the rates of recovery are low because of the small number of antibiotics that
      remain effective.

      At the community level, the main challenge is the preservation of carbapenems (one of the
      last families of antibiotics still effective in the treatment of ESBL infections), and the
      restriction of its usage to the treatment of severe infections only. The increasing use of
      carbapenems generates a high selection pressure on enterobacteriaceae which results in a
      worrying increase of the prevalence of CPE. Moreover, the few remaining effective
      antimicrobials induce high rates of side effects. The assessment of the non-inferiority of
      older, well-known and active molecules such as cefoxitin is a highly anticipated and
      encouraging research area, especially because the molecules currently under development are
      far from being on the market.

      Title: Non-inferiority study of cefoxitin versus imipenem as treatment for non-severe urinal
      tract infections (excluding cystitis) caused by extended spectrum beta-lactamases producing
      E.Coli susceptible to cefoxitin in-vitro

      Primary objective: to show the bacteriological non-inferiority of cefoxitin versus imipenem
      as a treatment for non-severe urinary tract infections (excluding cystitis) caused by
      extended spectrum beta-lactamases producing E.Coli susceptible to cefoxitin in-vitro

      Secondary objectives:

        -  to show the clinical non-inferiority of cefoxitin versus imipenem as a treatment for
           non-severe urinary tract infections (excluding cystitis) caused by extended spectrum
           beta-lactamases producing E.Coli susceptible to cefoxitin in-vitro

        -  to evaluate the impact of cefoxitin and imipenem on the emergence on multiresistant
           bacteria in the digestive flora
    
  