
    
      The purpose if this study is to improve glaucoma medication adherence in Veterans with
      medically-treated glaucoma. The study design is a single-site randomized controlled trial.
      Specific Aim 1. Evaluate the impact of an intervention to improve glaucoma medication
      adherence among Veterans at 6-month follow up.

      Hypothesis 1: Veterans randomized to the intervention will have a greater proportion of
      prescribed glaucoma medication doses taken as measured by the electronic medication monitor
      in the 6 months following the intervention compared to Veterans randomized to the control
      arm.

      The primary outcome for hypothesis 1A is the proportion of prescribed doses taken according
      to the electronic monitor. Participants in both arms will receive the electronic monitor or
      "smart bottle," which wirelessly transmits the date and time of opening of the smart bottle
      to the study team. From these medication events, the proportion of prescribed doses will be
      derived, defined as the ratio of the number of times the smart bottle was opened to the
      required number of doses prescribed according to the medical record over the period of time
      that the bottle is in use. For example, if a participant is advised to take his or her
      glaucoma drop twice a day for the 180 days that the bottle is in use and the smart bottle
      reveals 135 openings over the same time period, the proportion of prescribed doses taken is
      37.5%.

      Specific Aim 2. Evaluate the impact of the intervention on intensification of glaucoma
      therapy among Veterans at 12-month follow-up.

      Hypothesis 2: The proportion of Veterans in the intervention arm that are prescribed more
      intensive glaucoma therapy, defined as addition of adjuvant glaucoma medication or
      recommendation for laser or glaucoma surgery will be less than the proportion of Veterans in
      the control arm who are prescribed more intensive glaucoma therapy in the 12 months following
      the intervention.

      Baseline data collection will include cataloging the current glaucoma medication regimen
      prescribed to the participant. Chart abstractions will be performed at 12 months following
      the baseline visit and intensification of glaucoma therapy will be defined as either 1) the
      addition of another glaucoma medication to the baseline regimen, 2) recommendation for
      glaucoma laser treatment, or 3) recommendation for glaucoma surgery in the 12 months
      following the baseline visit . The investigators will collect these data at 12 months because
      the Metrics study suggested that 55% of participants in the control arm will have
      intensification of therapy within one year.

      Specific Aim 3. Evaluate the incremental cost-effectiveness and budget and workflow impacts
      of the intervention compared to usual care.

      Hypothesis 3: The intervention will be cost-effectiveness for the following ratios: 1) cost
      per percentage improvement in medication adherence; 2) cost per blindness averted; and 3)
      cost per quality-adjusted-life years saved.

      A direct measurement approach will be used to estimate per-patient intervention and control
      arm costs. Glaucoma-related health care utilization costs will be derived from VA
      administrative datasets. The cost estimates will be combined with observed improvement in
      medication adherence and reduction in escalation in therapy to estimate the first two
      incremental cost effectiveness ratios. Simulation using Markov modeling will be used to
      estimate the incremental cost per blindness averted and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs)
      gained. Cost estimates and labor time data collected will be combined with glaucoma
      prevalence rates among Veterans to estimate overall budget and workload impacts to the VA
      healthcare system.
    
  