
    
      SAMPLE: People between 18-45 years old and with 1) alteration of active cervical mobility in
      at least one of the six directions of analytic movement compared to normality or with
      alteration of motor control of the cervical region in at least one of the 7 tests included in
      the study compared to normal criteria.

      SAMPLE SIZE: The minimum size required has been calculated using the program G*Power 3.1.3
      for Windows (University Kiel, Germany, 2008) based on an effect size of 0.5, type I error of
      5%,type II error of 10%, an effect size of delta=0.20, a intra-measures correlation =0.5 for
      7 measurement points. An extra 20% for drop-outs was added. The final sample size is N=40.

      INTERVENTION:

      Maximum external rotation of the hip in lower limb elevation and the dorsal flexion of the
      ankle with flexion of the toes, performed in both lower limbs alternately and independently.
      During the performance of the technique, the patient must implement the work breathing
      learned in the first basal assessment session.

      It will be applied weekly during 6 consecutive weeks.

      DATA ANALYSIS:

        1. -Database cleaning and out-of-range data detection using Excel validation techniques.

        2. -For statistical analysis, a descriptive analysis using means and standard deviations
           will be performed, as well as ranges and quartiles for quantitative measurements.
           Qualitative variables shall be summarised by counts and frequencies. The assumption of
           normality (Kolmogorv-Smirnoff test) and sphericity (Maulchy's test) prior to the
           analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be checked for repeated measurements in which only the
           intra-unit factors (7 time measurements). Pair comparisons were made with the
           Dunn-Bonferroni correction for type I erro and the age, sex and BMI variables were
           entered into the model as covariates to estimate their possible effect on the dependent
           variables.

      The percentages of change from the baseline values in the intragroup comparison shall be
      calculated. The effect size will be estimated with the Hedges' g statistic.

      The significance level will be set to p<0.05 and calculations will be performed with jmv r
      package for R (R Core Team, 2019. R: A language and environment for statistical. computing. R
      Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria. URL http://www.R-project.org/)
    
  