
    
      Rationale: Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) has shown to be an effective therapy for patients
      with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) with Chronic Hypercapnic Respiratory
      Failure (CHRF). However, these COPD patients often report severe dyspnoea after switching off
      from NIV therapy, which leads to discomfort and distress. Currently, it is not known what
      causes this deventilation dyspnoea and therefore a possible treatment to prevent
      deventilation dyspnoea is not available.

      Objective: 1) To investigate what mechanisms underlie the phenomenon of deventilation
      dyspnoea in COPD patients. 2) To investigate how the change in electrical impedance, measured
      with electrical impedance tomography (EIT), is related to the change in inspiratory capacity
      (IC) before and after sleep.

      Study design: This study is an observational cohort study analysing changes occurring due to
      NIV which could explain the existence of deventilation dyspnoea in certain COPD patients
      using NIV. Ten patients with and ten patients without deventilation dyspnoea will visit the
      hospital for an afternoon sleep, during and after which several non-invasive measurements are
      performed to analyse the changes occurring during and after switching off NIV. In order to
      investigate the deventilation problem, we will measure:

        1. the degree of hyperinflation due to NIV: this will be assessed by measuring the change
           in end-expiratory lung volume (EELV) with EIT before, during and after NIV, and the
           change in IC before and after sleeping with NIV.

        2. the reduction of respiratory muscle activity due to NIV: this will be assessed by the
           change in electromyography of the frontal diaphragm before, during and after NIV.

        3. the effectiveness of NIV in reducing CO2 level: this will be assessed with
           transcutaneous CO2 measurements (PtcCO2) before, during and after NIV.

        4. the degree of deventilation dyspnoea before and after the afternoon sleep: this will be
           assessed with a 10-point Borg Scale.

      Study population: Twenty severe COPD patients (age>18yr) using chronic NIV will be included
      in the study: 10 patients with severe symptoms of deventilation dyspnoea (Borg Dyspnoea Scale
      ≥ 5) and 10 patients without symptoms of deventilation dyspnoea, matched with regard to the
      degree of static lung hyperinflation and NIV settings.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Knowledge about the changes occurring during NIV in patients
      with COPD with deventilation dyspnoea. The percent change in EELV, IC, respiratory muscle
      activity and PtcCO2 will be calculated for both groups and correlated with the degree of
      deventilation dyspnoea.
    
  