
    
      Patients in acute-care facilities (hospitals) who are being discharged to post-acute care
      skilled nursing facilities (SNFs) currently struggle, in the absence of decision aids, to
      obtain practical information about SNFs to which the patients must be discharged. The same
      difficulties affect the attending case managers, social workers, and discharge planners.
      Moreover, although preferred SNF (P-SNF) networks offer patients the potential for improved
      coordination of care over non-preferred SNFs (NP-SNFs)-via shared staff across facilities and
      electronic sharing of information-this aspect of SNF selection is not highlighted or shared
      with patients according to any established protocol in the post-acute care setting.

      The Repisodic application is a technology platform, accessed via laptop, smart phone, or
      tablet, intended to provide a user-friendly approach to rapid SNF facility identification and
      selection, with information provided on facility amenities and details, quality ratings,
      distance, and fit for the patient's needs. It functions in a manner analogous to online
      consumer search/sort/filter/quality applications, allowing the discharge planner to build a
      curated list of discharge options matched to each patient's needs.

      The purpose of the current study is to test whether highlighting and changing the
      organization of, or information about, P-SNFs in the Repisodic app increases the selection
      of, and placements in, P-SNFs, while decreasing length of stay (LoS) at the discharging
      Geisinger acute care hospital. Our hypothesis is that presenting the P-SNF options at the top
      of the list (for case managers) and as the only options on the first screen or default map
      (for patients) will increase selection of and placement in P-SNFs, compared with the default
      ranking of SNFs (according to fit) in Repisodic. Note that patients presented P-SNF options
      on the first screen will always have the ability to expand the list to see all options they
      have been given, thus preserving choice. We also hypothesize that the P-SNF focused
      presentations will reduce LoS thanks to easier coordination between Geisinger hospitals and
      P-SNFs. An introductory video describing the SNF selection and discharge process to patients,
      will be available for optional viewing by patients across conditions. The optional link to
      the video will be further highlighted and the video will include sections describing the
      advantage of P-SNFs for care coordination, in the P-SNF focused (patient) conditions. The
      video, when viewed, may therefore further enhance the appeal of P-SNFs to patients in the
      conditions in which P-SNFs are highlighted. Secondarily, we hypothesize an overall reduction
      in LoS (at the acute care hospital) due to the quicker decision making, selection, and
      transmission processes facilitated by the Repisodic application.

      The cluster-randomized trial study design will randomize case managers to one of two
      conditions (Default List vs. P-SNF Top-Sorted List) and patients to one of two conditions
      (Full List/Full Map/Default Video vs. P-SNF List/P-SNF Map/P-SNF Video). Primary outcomes
      include P-SNF selection and P-SNF placement (post-introduction of Repisodic) and LoS (i.e.,
      the change in LoS from prior to Repisodic to post-Repisodic introduction). Secondary outcomes
      include patient time spent selecting a SNF on Repisodic. Generalized linear mixed models will
      be used to examine outcomes as a function of the conditions, accounting for patients nested
      within case managers and controlling for potential covariates and moderators at the patient,
      case manager, and discharging unit level. The findings will enhance our understanding of how
      patients' informed choice, as facilitated by a bedside decision tool, affects SNF choice.

      Note: random assignment of case managers to conditions will occur upon launch of the
      application (anticipated: January, 2021) and any patients will be randomly assigned starting
      at that time. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, SNFs are experiencing aberrant
      operational issues and bed availabilities. Furthermore, many patients who would be discharged
      to SNFs under normal circumstances are being sent home instead. In order to improve
      generalizability of the present study to post-pandemic circumstances, formal data collection
      to assess the impact of the intervention on primary outcomes will begin after a "pandemic
      alleviation" benchmark has been met. This benchmark specifies 25 or fewer average cases per
      100,000 over a contiguous two-week period in the top 12 volume counties of Geisinger's
      catchment area (Centre, Mifflin, Juniata, Perry, Cumberland, Union, Snyder, Northumberland,
      Montour, Columbia, Luzerne, and Lackawanna.)
    
  