
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the optimal dose and schedule of melphalan for injection (melphalan
      hydrochloride [Evomela]) prior to autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      (auto-HCT) for multiple myeloma (MM).

      II. To collect the pharmacokinetic data and compare the exposure-response evaluations between
      the 2 infusion schedules.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the incidence of treatment related mortality (TRM) at day 90 after auto-HCT
      in newly diagnosed myeloma patients treated on different schedules and doses of Evomela.

      II. To determine the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negative complete response (CR)
      rate at day 90 after auto-HCT in newly diagnosed myeloma patients treated on different
      schedules and doses of Evomela.

      III. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) after auto-HCT in newly diagnosed
      myeloma patients treated on different schedules and doses of Evomela.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of melphalan hydrochloride followed by a
      phase II study.

      PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP 1: Participants receive melphalan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes
      on day -2.

      GROUP 2: Participants receive melphalan hydrochloride IV over 8-9 hours on day -2.

      TRANSPLANT: Participants in both groups undergo donor stem cell transplantation IV on day 0
      over 30-60 minutes.

      POST-TRANSPLANT: Participants in both groups receive filgrastim-sndz subcutaneously (SC) once
      daily (QD) starting on day 5 and continuing in the absence of disease progression,
      unacceptable toxicity, or until evidence of an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of 0.5 x
      10^9/L.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 3 months, every 3 months
      for 1 year, and then annually for 1 year.
    
  