
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a growing global health concern, causing
      considerable health-related costs and increased mortality. COPD is nowadays considered a
      complex, heterogeneous and systemic condition.

      In the late stage of the disease, non-invasive ventilation (NIV) is widely prescribed either
      to treat acute hypercapnic respiratory failure during COPD exacerbations or for long term
      home management.

      A meta-analysis has shown that higher daytime PaCO2 occurred in home NIV treated COPD
      patients when NIV compliance is less than 5 h/day. Thus, an optimal NIV adherence is a key
      target for controlling nocturnal and diurnal hypoventilation and improving prognosis.

      COPD is the clinical scenario during which a good NIV adherence is difficult to achieve.
      Particularly, in COPDs exhibiting hyperinflation, NIV can aggravate dynamic hyperinflation
      resulting in unrewarded inspiratory efforts, poor sleep and low NIV compliance. Alternatives
      to NIV are then desirable in this specific subgroup of hypercapnic COPD with poor adherence
      to NIV.

      During this trial, stable COPD patients treated by long term home Non-Invasive Ventilation
      (NIV) treatment following French national recommendations and exhibiting a NIV compliance of
      (less than 5 hours and more than 1 hour) per day in the last 3 months prior to inclusion will
      be randomized via a secure electronic website to either continue with their current NIV
      treatment or receive the nasal high flow (NHF) treatment delivered by myAirvo2 during 3
      months Nasal High-Flow (NHF) is a treatment delivering heated, humidified, and optionally
      oxygen-enriched air at high flow rates through a nasal cannula. The main physiologic effects
      of NHF are an improvement in gas exchanges including a reduction in hypercapnia, an
      optimization in breathing patterns with a reduction of work of breathing. Nasal High-Flow
      (NHF) is delivered via a comfortable nasal interface and has demonstrated good treatment
      adherence.

      The investigators hypothesize that in COPD-related hypercapnic chronic respiratory failure
      with limited compliance to NIV (less than 5 hours per night), nasal High-Flow (NHF) will be
      non-inferior for controlling nocturnal hypoventilation and might improve daytime subjective
      patients centered outcomes, physical activity and nocturnal adherence to treatment.
    
  