
    
      Patients will be randomly allocated into two groups of equal size to receive lidocaine
      nebulization, group L (GL) or distilled water nebulization, group W (GW/control).
      Randomization will be performed using GL and GW registers, which will be placed in sealed
      envelopes prior to study initiation and opened prior to anesthesia by a physician who will
      prepare the solution for nebulization and will identify it with the patient number, according
      to the envelope drawn. Group L patients (n = 40) will receive 10 mL lidocaine 4%, and GW
      patients (n = 40) will receive 10 mL distilled water (DW) by nebulizer mask 5 min prior to
      anesthesia. All patients will be preoxygenated with 100% oxygen for 3 minutes via mask gently
      placed over the face and thereafter Propofol 2.5 mg/kg slowly IV plus Fentanyl 1 µg/kg IV
      will be used for induction of anesthesia, and isoflurane for maintenance of anesthesia in
      both groups.

      After confirming sufficient level of anesthesia (loss of eye lash reflex and jaw relaxation),
      the standard technique for LMA insertion (Brain,s method) will be used in both groups. Water
      based jelly will be applied on the posterior surface of the LMA and pressed along the
      palato-pharyngeal curve using the index finger. It is finally pushed further down till
      resistance is felt. A size 3 LMA will be used in women and a size 4 in men. Proper placement
      of LMA will be confirmed with bilateral equally audible breath sounds, chest movements and
      square wave capnography. Patients will be allowed to breathe spontaneously after successful
      LMA insertion.

      The overall insertion condition will be assessed via a modified three point scale consisting
      of six variables, which include:

      Mouth opening (3: full; 2: partial; 1: none) Ease of insertion (3: easy; 2: difficult; 1:
      impossible) Swallowing (3: nil; 2: slight; 1: gross) Coughing or gagging (3: nil; 2: slight;
      1: gross) Head or limbs movement (3: nil; 2: slight; 1: gross), and Laryngospasm (3: nil; 2:
      partial; 1: total). Total score Insertion condition 18 Excellent 16-17 Satisfactory <16 Poor
      Any failure of insertion in both groups (defined as failure to insert the LMA after 3rd
      time), will be managed by endotracheal intubation.

      At the end of the operation, LMA will be removed under deep anesthesia and replaced with
      Guedel's airway. Oxygen will be continued with a face mask until full recovery, and then the
      patients will be moved to the PACU.
    
  