
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase II regimen of everolimus and
           erlotinib hydrochloride when given with bevacizumab in patients with advanced solid
           tumors.

        -  Evaluate safety of bevacizumab, everolimus, and erlotinib hydrochloride in these
           patients.

      Secondary

        -  Describe the impact of this combination therapy on dermal wound angiogenesis and
           inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 (VEGFR1), mTOR/p70S6K, and
           other related markers in granulation tissue.

        -  Evaluate clinical activity (partial response, complete response, or stable disease > 6
           months) associated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study followed by a randomized study.

        -  Part 1: Patients receive bevacizumab IV on days 1 and 15 and oral everolimus and oral
           erlotinib hydrochloride* once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of patients receive escalating doses of everolimus or escalating doses of everolimus
      and erlotinib hydrochloride* until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. Patients
      in part 2 of the study are treated at the MTD of everolimus and erlotinib hydrochloride.

      NOTE: *The first cohort of patients receive bevacizumab and everolimus only until the MTD is
      determined, the subsequent cohorts of patients receive bevacizumab, everolimus, and erlotinib
      hydrochloride

        -  Part 2: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral everolimus once daily beginning on day 1, oral
                erlotinib hydrochloride once daily beginning on day 15, and bevacizumab IV once
                every 2 weeks beginning on day 15. Treatment continues in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily beginning on day
                1, oral everolimus once daily beginning on day 15, and bevacizumab IV once every 2
                weeks beginning on day 15. Treatment continues in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  