
    
      Recruitment

      This was a randomized trial of eleven internal medicine and family medicine clinics of
      Providence Medical Group (PMG) in Portland Oregon. All of the clinics were non-residency
      clinics. The study was conducted between January 2015 and January 2016. Introductory meetings
      were held with leadership dyads (medical director and manager) of all 23 clinics in the
      Portland area to overview the curriculum and outline conditions of study participation.
      Expectations included: holding the curriculum sessions during usual work hours, endorsement
      of participation by clinic staff, and that specific individuals would be identified to
      facilitate sessions for the clinic. Leadership of each clinic, subsequently, discussed the
      curriculum with the staffs of the clinics and eleven committed to participate and were then
      randomized. The staffs of the intervention clinics then received the twelve session
      Strengthening Compassion curriculum. Four of the intervention clinics held the sessions at
      the beginning of the day and opened clinic 80 minutes late. One clinic held the sessions
      during an extended lunch hour.

      Randomization and Follow-up

      Eleven clinics volunteered to participate. (47.8% of eligible clinics) Five clinics were
      randomly selected to participate in the Strengthening Compassion curriculum and six were
      selected as controls.

      341 individuals participated in the study, including providers, clinical, and administrative
      staff. The baseline survey was completed by 153 participants in the intervention clinics and
      188 participants in the control clinics. 244 of the initial participants completed a survey
      at the end of the intervention period and 191 at 6 month follow up Participants in the
      intervention clinics engaged in a 12 session curriculum offered every other week for six
      months. Each session lasted 80 minutes and all staff at the intervention clinics were
      expected to participate. A total of 16 hours of experiences were provided.

      Each session was facilitated by internal non-physician staff (e.g. social workers, medical
      assistants, nurses) recruited by clinic leadership. The facilitators received two hours of
      on-line training in group facilitation, mindfulness meditation, content/exercises for each
      session, and were provided with a detailed facilitators guide. The facilitators also received
      one half hour of additional training before each session via networked phone calls and were
      supported by on-line materials.

      Study Outcomes

      Outcomes were measured utilizing a fifty one question survey administered at baseline, at the
      end of the 6-month curriculum and at 6 months follow-up. This survey was a composite of
      validated surveys that measure compassion, mindfulness, burnout, clinic relations, job
      satisfaction, and clinical satisfaction. The Compassion component of the survey used the
      Santa Clara Brief Compassion Scale (SCBCS). Mindfulness was measured with the Mindful
      Attention Awareness Scale (MAAS). Burnout was measured with the Maslach Burnout
      Inventory-Human Services Survey for Medical Personnel (MBI-HSS (MP)) comprised of three
      sub-scales that measure emotional exhaustion, depersonalization, and personal accomplishment.
      Questions about caregiver roles in the clinic, clinic relations, job satisfaction, clinical
      satisfaction, time working in the clinic, and time working in healthcare, were derived from a
      previously utilized survey provided by the Center for Outcomes Research and Education of the
      Providence Health and Services. Data on caregiver engagement was collected in October 2015
      and October 2016 via organization wide survey through Willis-Tower-Watson. Engagement and
      disengagement are pre-defined categories on the Willis-Tower Watson survey. Patient
      experience data was collected by Press Ganey as part of their standard survey process. Impact
      on productivity and quality were assessed from data, routinely collected, in the Providence
      St. Joseph Health administrative data base.
    
  