
    
      Postherpetic neuralgia(PHN) is a chronic neuropathic pain syndrome which persists more than 3
      months after the resolution of the acute shingles episode. PHN is the most common
      complication of herpes zoster in the pain clinic and it was reported that 2%-35% patients who
      suffer from herpes zoster may continue to suffer from PHN. Along with the coming of aging
      population, advanced age is one of the risk factors and about 20.6% patients aged 50 years
      and over may translate into PHN from acute herpes zoster . Besides, the proportion may
      increase with age which not only seriously impacts the quality of patients' life but also
      causes huge personal and social healthcare burden.

      PHN is a complicated neuropathic pain that results from the sustained peripheral injury by
      herpes zoster and its pathological mechanism in skin and spine has been reported. But the
      cerebral mechanism is still unclear. In the recent several years, fMRI is widely used in the
      cerebral mechanism in several diseases due to its no trauma and accurate positioning about
      brain regions. The existing fMRI research about PHN discovered that the alteration of brain
      activity and reorganization of cerebral functional connectivity in PHN compared with healthy
      subjects. Liu,et al. investigated the effects of PHN on resting-state brain activity
      utilizing arterial spin labeling (ASL) techniques and found that regional cerebral blood flow
      in left caudate, left insula, left S1, and right thalamus was highly correlated with the pain
      intensity, and meanwhile, the four brain regions exist functional connectivity with other
      regions in different degrees. Liang,et al. explored the difference of cerebral activity
      between acute herpes zoster and PHN and found PHN showed higher regional homogeneity in
      bilateral thalamus, right cerebellum, right hippocampus, right fusiform gyrus, right insula.
      They speculated tha the thalamus, cerebellum, insula may be associated with hyperalgesia and
      hippocampus may be associated with pain memory in PHN patients.

      In conclusion, fMRI showed that insula, thalamus, hippocampus, striatum and so on are
      connected with PHN. And then the investigators are curious about the cerebral alteration
      before the patient is definitely diagnosed as PHN. Meanwhile it's commonly presented in
      clinic that why some patients who suffer from herpes zoster can heal without PHN while
      someone are suffering from PHN in a long time. The investigators assume that cerebral
      alteration and its functional connectivity are associated with the transition to PHN. That is
      to say, it's a study of mechanism about the transition from acute herpes zoster pain to PHN.
      Some studies have shown that the reorganization of neural network, especially the function
      connectivity between cortex and limbic system, is involved in the transition to chronic back
      pain and affects the sense, emotion, cognition, movement of pain. Apkarian ,et al. used fMRI
      to identify intrinsic and extrinsic hippocampal functional connectivity, comparing subacute
      back pain (SBP, back pain 1-4 mo) and chronic back pain (CBP, back pain﹥1 yr) patients to
      control subjects. Both groups showed more extensive hippocampal connectivity than CON
      subjects. They then examined the evolution of hippocampal connectivity longitudinally in SBP
      patients who recovered (SBPr, back pain decreased﹥20% in 1 yr) and those with persistent pain
      (SBPp) and found that SBPp and SBPr subjects have distinct changes in hippocampal-cortical
      connectivity over 1 yr. Specifically, SBPp subjects showed large decreases in hippocampal
      connectivity with medial prefrontal cortex. These results demonstrated that the
      reorganization of hippocampal functional connectivity is associated with the transition to
      chronic back pain. They also found that nucleus accumbens(NAc)-medial prefrontal cortex(mPFC)
      functional connectivity is also involved in the transition to chronic back pain.

      So the investigators hypothesize that the process from acute herpetic pain (AHP) to PHN is
      also accompanied with the reorganization of functional connectivity.

      With the development of technology, 7 Tesla fMRI is coming into our sight. Andreas, et al.
      showed that 7 Tesla-fMRI with the increased field strength offers marked improvement for the
      localization of activation foci with high spatial specificity when comparing neural response
      to painful electrical stimulation with 3 Tesla. In our study, the investigators intend to use
      7 Tesla fMRI to observe the difference of brain activity and functional connectivity between
      acute herpetic pain and PHN. Meanwhile, the investigators examine the evolution of functional
      connectivity longitudinally in patients who is suffering from acute pain, so as to explore
      the central mechanism of transition to PHN.
    
  