
    
      During the screening visit the patient will arrive at the study site and written informed
      consent will be obtained by the investigator. Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      controlled and blood will be drawn for HbA1c, the efficacy and the safety parameters. A POCT
      pregnancy test will be conducted in women of childbearing age. Patient demographics and
      history will be collect and a physical examination will be performed. The patient will
      complete a QoL questionnaire and will receive training about the de-escalation therapy
      approach. After all necessary biomarker results of the screening visit are accessible for the
      selection of the De-escalation treatment the treatment initiation visit will be performed.
      During this visit the investigator will use these results to determine a most optimal
      personalized treatment combination for regeneration of the pancreatic ß-cells within the next
      three months. An ECG will be recorded and the patient will be informed about his/her
      personalized treatment and its execution. The patient will receive the drugs in the volume
      required until the next visit. During the next two visits the patient will arrive at the
      investigational site at the agreed time-point and information regarding potential adverse
      events will be collected. Vital signs will be measured, and blood will be drawn for
      assessment of the efficacy parameters. Information about hypoglycaemia will be collected, and
      the patient will receive drug supply that lasts until the next visit. The patient will be
      instructed to stop the anti-diabetic medication 3 days before the next visit.

      For the final visit (visit 5) the patient will arrive at the investigational site after an
      overnight fast and information regarding potential adverse events and hypoglycaemic events
      will be collected. Vital signs will be measured, and blood will be drawn for assessment of
      the efficacy parameters. An oral glucose challenge with 75 g of glucose will be conducted
      with blood draws for assessment of glucose and other biomarkers at time-points 0, 1h and 2h.
      The investigator will give a recommendation for the consecutive follow-up treatment
      requirements based on the results of the glucose challenge test. The patient will complete a
      QoL questionnaire (DTSQ) and this concludes study participation for the patient.
    
  