
    
      Objective: Our work is driven by the core hypotheses that many of the most severe
      neuropsychiatric disorders of childhood onset are associated with deviations from thepath of
      normal brain development, the neuroanatomical substrates of which can be detected by magnetic
      resonance imaging. Consequently, the long-term goals of the protocol are to: (1) map
      neuroanatomic and neurophysiological trajectories of brain development in health and illness;
      and (2) discern influences on those trajectories from demographic (e.g. age and sex),
      cognitive/behavioral (e.g. IQ), and clinical (e.g. presence/absence of a known neurogenetic
      disorders) factors. Data from the project have resulted in seminal papers on
      Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, Childhood-Onset Schizophrenia, and typical
      pediatric brain development. The biological bases of male / female differences are explored
      via studies of subjects with anomalous sex chromosome numbers (e.g. XO, XXX, XYY, XXYY,
      XXXXY).

      Study population: Our studies include data from typically developing youth, and individuals
      with a range of psychiatric presentations from behaviorally-defined (e.g. Childhood-Onset
      Schizophrenia, Autism Spectrum Disorder) as well as geneticallydefined (e.g. Sex Chromosome
      Aneuploidy) groups. Participants span a wide age range (from 3 years of age upwards).

      Design: The study design is to have participants come to the NIH for brain imaging,
      psychological/psychiatric testing, and genetic characterization. Assessment visits each take
      approximately 2 days to complete. Participants are invited to return for longitudinal
      assessments (at approximately 2-year intervals).

      Outcome Measures: Primary outcome measure used to date have derived from T1-weighted
      structural neuroimaging data which enable us to characterize how a range of anatomical brain
      phenotypes vary as a function of age, sex, behavioral/cognitive traits, diagnostic status and
      genotype. Analyses also consider how these factors relate to other outcomes of interest
      including; gene expression levels, functional metrics from in vivo neuroimaging, and
      questionnaire/interview-based assessment of clinical features.
    
  