
    
      It is a randomized clinical trial comparing VATS with thoracotomy for
      consolidation-predominant early stage NSCLC. The primary objective of this study is to
      determine VATS is non-inferior to thoracotomy with respect to DFS.

      To our opinion, NSCLC at very early stages could not objectively reflect the long-term
      advantage of VATS, while VATS is not a reasonable choice for late NSCLC. As a result, we
      design this trial by recruiting patients whose stage is cT1N0-1M0 and the lesion is
      consolidation-predominant. To determine the clinical stages, CT scan would be performed and
      PET-CT/EBUS-TBNA/mediastinoscopy would be conducted for those who are suspected to have
      mediastinum lymph node metastases or distant metastases. The detailed inclusion criteria
      includes tumor ≤ 3cm; Mediastinum lymph nodes diameter ≤ 1 cm on computed tomography (CT)
      scan, or a PET scan showing no uptake / a negative mediastinoscopy / a negative " EBUS-TBNA "
      following mediastinal lymph nodes diameter > 1 cm on CT scan; No distant metastasis; Solid
      tumor that C/T ratio =1, or part-solid tumor that 0.5 ≤ C/T ratio < 1 and diameter ≥ 1.5cm on
      CT scan. Specially, the lymph node whose diameter is larger than 1 centimeter in the lung
      field is considered as stage N1.

      In previous statistics of our center, the 5-year DFS of this subgroup patients by performing
      thoracotomy was 77.52%. If the 5-year DFS does not differ by more than 7%, the two arms will
      be regarded to be equivalent. Calculated by PASS software, the sample size of patients to be
      enrolled in the two arms is estimated as 948 cases. The benign cases diagnosed after
      operation would not be included in analysis according to modified intention-to-treat
      principle. Considering a 10% benign diseases may be diagnosed, the sample size is adjusted to
      1053 cases and the number of event (relapse or death due to tumor) is estimated to be 251
      cases.

      Patients were divided into two groups by the random table method. The random table has been
      generated by PASS software with Efron's Biased Coin (p = 0.67) algorithm. 527 cases have been
      allocated into either group.

      The lobectomy and mediastinal lymph node dissection by VATS or thoracotomy would be conducted
      by standard procedure. Each participating doctor would be evaluated by the trial management
      committee to ensure proper surgical technique. If the VATS were transferred to thoracotomy,
      the cause would be recorded and the prognosis result would be still analyzed as the VATS
      group. Patients would be follow-up by every 6 months after surgery and examination would be
      conducted routinely.

      The interim analysis is set at 5-year after the trial begin and at the timing that 50% events
      occurred (126 events). If either side of the two arms is determined superior to the other
      side and the imbalance was confirmed after evaluation, the study would be permanently closed
      to new patient enrollment and a primary outcome would be published. The follow-up of
      recruited patients would continue according to the study protocol.

      The final analysis would be performed as the follow-up period reach 5 years. The main outcome
      is DFS at 5 years post surgery. The secondary outcome measures include OS at 5 years post
      surgery, degree of pain evaluated by NRS and rate of patients with perioperative
      complication.
    
  