
    
      TRIAL DESIGN:

      A randomised controlled trial of the impact of video education in preparing patients for
      surgery within an enhanced recovery programme. Patients will be recruited from Leicester
      General Hospital and will include everyone undergoing colorectal(bowel) surgery. A standard
      protocol (treatment regime) is in place for all such patients. The primary end-point (main
      aim) will be length of hospital stay. Secondary end-points (other factors to be considered)
      will be patient satisfaction scores (using SF-36 outcomes in patients) and will allow the
      investigation of the potential implications of incorporating video education of enhanced
      recovery programmes into routine clinical practice.

      METHODS:

      All surgeons treating the patients in this trial will have a specialist interest in
      colorectal (bowel) surgery. All patients undergoing planned bowel surgery for benign
      (non-cancerous) and malignant (cancerous) disease will be eligible. Patients who cannot speak
      or understand english will have interpreters. Ethics approval will be sought and informed
      (signed) consent both for the surgery and the trial will be obtained. The study group will
      get a video and leaflet and the control group will receive a leaflet only. Randomisation
      (Division into groups) will be done using a table of random numbers to assign each study
      participant to a group. The consultants and registrars in charge of taking care of patients
      after their surgery will not be aware of which group patients belong to and a standard
      discharge criteria will be used (Patients for discharge should have normal observations and
      normal bloods results, free from lines in the hands and tubes in the waterworks, be fully
      mobile (walking), able to get in and out of bed unaided and dress independently. Hospital
      stay will be recorded in days from the time the patient is admitted to hospital. Social
      reasons for non-discharge such as delay in setting up home help etc will be recorded for both
      groups of patients.

      The time to passage of flatus (wind from the back passage) and bowel motion (stool) will be
      recorded for each patient. Episodes of nausea and vomiting (sickness) will also be recorded
      as will any complication up to 30 days after surgery.

      All patients will complete a questionnaire (SF-36) prior to surgery and at 3 months after
      surgery to assess satisfaction and return to normal activities such as leisure activities and
      work in the home etc.

      DETAILS OF THE ENHANCED RECOVERY PROGRAMME:

      Preoperative preparation (Prior to surgery) All patients will be allowed free fluids
      (liquids) and high calorie (energy) drinks for up to 2 hours before operation. Patients
      undergoing right hemicolectomy (right sided bowel surgery) will not receive bowel preparation
      (bowel cleansing) while those having left sided surgery will receive phosphate enema on the
      morning of surgery. All patients will receive antibiotic and DVT (blood clot) prophylaxis.

      All patients will have baseline blood tests.

      Anaesthesia (During surgery)

      A standardised anaesthetic (sleeping) protocol (treatment regime) will be used for all
      patients. Normal temperature will be maintained throughout surgery and all operations will be
      carried out through the smallest incision (cut) necessary to complete the procedure. No
      nasogastric tubes (stomach tubes) will be used.

      Postoperative pain and analgesia (Pain relief after surgery) Analgesia(Pain relief) will be
      provided in both groups for 48 hours via PCA (patient controlled pain relief), epidural (pain
      relief via injection at the back) or TAPP block (pain relief via injection on the belly).

      Paracetamol will be administered concurrently with NSAIDS (non steroidal drugs) and tramadol
      for breakthrough pain once morphine is discontinued. Visual analogue (facial expression) pain
      scores at rest and movement will be measured daily until discharge. All analgesia (pain
      relieving drugs) used after surgery will be recorded including any discharge medication.

      Diet and Fluids:

      Oral fluids will be pushed immediately postoperatively (after surgery) in both groups. In
      addition, protein drinks and normal food will be encouraged in both groups from day 1. All
      lines in the arm will be removed by day 2 unless there is a clinical reason to maintain them.
      Both groups will have daily blood tests.

      All patients will have chest physiotherapy (exercises) and will be encouraged to mobilise
      (walk) on day one with the help of a nurse or physiotherapist.
    
  