
    
      All participants complete a battery of measures in the waiting room during their PES visit.
      Youth will complete surveys that collect demographic information, assess current suicidal
      ideation, perceptions of future suicidal risk, connectedness to others, reasons for living,
      depression, alcohol use, and self-efficacy. Parents will complete questionnaires that gather
      demographic information, self-efficacy, baseline means restriction, expectations, hopes, and
      needs during their visit to PES, assess their child's adaptive functioning and behavioral,
      social, and emotional adjustment, parent psychiatric history, parental distress, and
      attitudes about the extent to which seeking mental health treatment is stigmatized. PES
      clinicians will also administer the Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale as part of
      standard PES practices.

      The first phase of intervention (Phase I) involves training clinical staff at PES to
      implement a new model of service delivery that focuses on the PES visit as an opportunity for
      crisis intervention for youth and families. The training incorporates best practices in brief
      crisis-focused interventions in emergency settings. When the provider training is completed,
      families will receive enhanced usual care by clinical staff along with a toolkit that
      reinforces evidence-based practices for crisis management such as safety planning,
      supervision, and monitoring of their at-risk youth. Parents and youth are asked to complete
      the battery of baseline measures at PES, then an online follow-up survey at 3 days (parents
      only) and 2 weeks (parents and youth) post discharge. Youth and parents are asked to report
      on the extent to which they recall their clinician promoting best practice interventions such
      as safety planning and means restriction during their visit and whether or not they felt
      their needs were met in PES. Families will also report on barriers accessing outpatient care
      and need for additional supports. Parents will be asked to report on any means restriction
      and safety planning activities with their child and whether their child was connected to
      outpatient services. Youth will be asked to report on the extent to which they feel supported
      by their families in addition to information about their level of suicide risk.

      The second intervention (Phase II) includes the interventions provided during phase I (i.e.,
      enhanced care and toolkit) and caring follow-up contacts for parent participants. Caring
      contacts post discharge may occur by phone, text, or email. This study will examine the
      benefit of text messaging contacts in addition to phone contacts in the days and weeks post
      discharge.

      Data from Phase I will be compared to pre-test data obtained at baseline to assess the
      potential benefits of enhancements to usual care as measured by families' increased abilities
      to implement safety measures (means restriction, safety plans, risk assessment), support
      (expressions of caring, modification of expectations), or link their child to outpatient
      psychiatric treatment. Secondary analyses will explore possible mechanisms of action for
      family behavior changes (or lack thereof), including levels of parent distress at baseline,
      parents' stigma regarding receiving psychological services, and markers of the severity of
      youth psychopathology (i.e., level of suicidality, depression, substance use, functional
      impairment, and low parental connectedness). Parent ratings of self-efficacy are hypothesized
      to change with the addition of the interventions during Phase I and Phase II.
    
  