
    
      Communication is an essential aspect of life for all individuals including children with
      autism. Many children with autism are severely impaired in their verbal communication
      development and there is a need for additional research demonstrating the effectiveness of
      interventions that improve communication for participants with autism and severe
      communication impairments. The proposed study directly follows from a recently published
      pilot study demonstrating both the feasibility and importance of an intervention designed for
      children with autism and minimal verbal skills (less than 20 words pre-intervention) (Brady
      et al., 2015). The project will follow up this pilot study with a two stage SMART (Sequential
      Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial) design that will allow comparison of results from an
      experimental intervention to a treatment as usual condition, and compare two intensities of
      multimodal intervention. Further, the project will investigate how proposed variables
      measured at the outset of intervention predict responsiveness to the treatment conditions.

      Aim 1. Investigate the effectiveness of a multimodal intervention aimed at teaching students
      with autism and minimal verbal skills to produce new words with speech and augmentative
      communication (AAC). Briefly, the multimodal approach combines joint book reading,
      computerized instruction, and AAC. The AAC component teaches participants to select target
      words on speech generating devices in communication routines. All components will focus on
      teaching a set of vocabulary selected for each participant based on results from digitized
      recordings of sounds produced over a 12-hour time period. Target vocabulary will be
      one-syllable words that consist of sounds in each child's phonetic repertoire in sequences
      that are highly represented in the English language (i.e., high phonotactic probability) and
      determine if increasing intensity leads to better outcomes for participants who do not
      respond to the initial intervention. Increased intensity or regular multimodal intervention
      may be better for those who do not respond to treatment as usual. Primary outcome measures
      include:

        -  Total number of words each child learns to say and the number of words each child learns
           to produce with AAC during intervention.

        -  Total number of words each child says in generalization contexts. Generalization of word
           use to classrooms and at home will be measured with recordings from generalization
           probes conducted in homes and classrooms.

      Aim 2. Investigate potential predictor variables for individual differences in learning
      outcomes measured in Aim 1. Results from Brady et al. (2015) showed 5 of 10 participants were
      "high responders" to multi-modal intervention - learning 18 or more new words over
      approximately 2 months of intervention. However, three participants learned to say only a few
      words and two participants essentially made no progress. The project will examine individual
      predictors of differential responding and identify variables that will enable clinicians to
      personalize intervention according to specific environmental and participant characteristics.
      The proposed predictor variables are:

        -  Environmental variables: Based on previous research linking the amount and type of
           environmental input to children's word acquisition, vocabulary input from parents and
           teachers will be measured with automated speech recognition technology. Existing
           technology available through LENA™ software (Warren et al., 2010) will be used to
           measure total number of words produced by communicative partners and conversational
           turns in home and school environments.

        -  Participant characteristics: Based on the pilot investigation as well as previous
           longitudinal studies, the following specific child variables are proposed to be
           predictive of responsiveness to one of the experimental interventions: verbal imitation,
           receptive vocabulary, adaptive behavior, autism severity, and nonverbal communication
           complexity measured with the Communication Complexity Scale (CCS; Brady et al., 2012).

      Results will drive the development of more effective adaptive language interventions for
      minimally verbal children with autism and related intellectual and developmental
      disabilities.
    
  