
    
      Adolescent depression can have a devastating impact on social, emotional, and family
      functioning. Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) is the most common treatment for depression;
      however, not all patients respond adequately to CBT. In addition, data on the effects of CBT
      among ethnic minorities are limited. Because Latinos are the largest minority group in the
      United States, the development of treatments specifically designed for depressed Latino youth
      are needed. This study will determine whether adding a psychoeducation intervention with
      parent involvement will be more effective in reducing depressive symptoms among Latino
      adolescents than treatment with CBT alone.

      The treatment phase of this study will last 12 weeks. Participants will be randomly assigned
      to receive 12 weeks of either CBT alone or CBT with psychoeducation. The psychoeducation will
      consist of 8 sessions over the 12-week treatment period. During the sessions, participants
      and their parents will be given detailed information about depression and ways the condition
      can be treated. They will also be taught coping skills and ways to recognize a relapse. CBT
      sessions will take place weekly during the study. During the sessions, a therapist will work
      with participants to modify the behavior and thinking patterns that cause and are associated
      with their depressive symptoms. Both participants and their parents will undergo interviews
      at study start, study completion, and 3, 9, and 15 months after study completion. During the
      interviews, participants' depressive symptoms, school attendance, and overall functional
      status will be assessed. Parents' stress levels and work attendance will also be assessed. At
      Months 6 and 12 after study completion, participants and their parents will complete
      questionnaires to assess any relapses in depressive symptoms.

      Study hypothesis: Active treatment with psychoeducation will be superior to no
      psychoeducation in reducing depression post-treatment. Because the psychoeducation
      intervention is designed to involve parents and thus impact other aspects of the family
      system, the treatment is expected to produce better outcomes in several functional domains.
    
  