
    
      Despite advances in reducing vitamin A (VA) deficiency worldwide, the prevalence remains
      highest and unchanged in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. Efficacy studies have
      demonstrated that increasing provitamin A carotenoid (pVAC) intake through consuming pVAC
      biofortified crops results in increased circulating β-carotene (βC) and VA body stores. It
      has also been shown that consumption of biofortified maize improved VA total body stores
      (TBS) as effectively as preformed VA supplementation, and significantly improved visual
      function in marginally VA deficient children. Despite the fact that βC is the primary focus
      of breeding programs for pVAC biofortified maize, there is convincing evidence that
      comparable dietary intakes of βC and β-cryptoxanthin (βCX) would result in 7-fold greater
      concentrations of βCX in blood.

      The study is designed to determine for the first time the bioefficacy of βCX in comparison to
      βC in humans using state of the art isotope dilution techniques in combination with
      compartmental modelling. The project is conducted in two phases: Phase 1) the determination
      of best time points for assessment of βCX bioconversion, intestinal and postintestinal
      bioefficacy as well as quantifying TBS of VA in healthy volunteers; Phase 2) to test the
      bioefficacy of βCX and βC in maize by comparing a high βCX and low βC maize variety to a high
      βC and low βCX maize variety.

      Phase 1 of the study involves 1 long study day (D0), where 10 ml of blood will be taken every
      2 hours, via cannulation, for a total of 12 hours (70 ml of blood total). Subsequently, there
      are 13 followup visits on the mornings of Days 1, 2, 4, 7, 11, 14, 21, 28, 35, 49, 63, 77,
      and 91 where one 10 ml blood sample is taken.

      Phase 2 of the study involves 2 whole days (D0 and D21) where approximately 10 ml of blood
      will be taken every 30-60 minutes, via cannulation, for a total of 8 hours (110 ml of blood
      total). Subsequently, there are 3 follow-up visits on the mornings of Days 1, 7, and 22 where
      one 10 ml blood sample is taken on each occasion.

      In the mornings of the long/whole study days at either D0 or D21, participants will receive
      the muffin test meal before stable isotopes, dissolved in sunflower oil, are administered via
      oral pipette. At D0 or D21, the total dose of pVACs (labelled and unlabelled carotenoids)
      consumed in the muffin and oil is 3 mg alongside 0.4 mg of pre-formed VA.
    
  