
    
      The best treatment for severe chronic kidney disease is usually a living donor kidney
      transplant (LDKT), but large racial disparities persist in receipt of LDKTs. In 2011, Blacks,
      who comprised 36.8% of the dialysis population, received 32.2% of deceased donor kidney
      transplants (DDKTs) but just 14.0% of LDKTs. Among kidney transplant candidates who are
      Black, their lower rate of LDKT largely stems from a lack of donor volunteers (persons
      interested in donating a living kidney to them). The most effective ways to motivate and help
      Black transplant candidates to "recruit" or identify any (or more) donor volunteers remain
      unclear. Several interventions appear promising and are being tested, but none has proven
      both practical and effective.

      Transplant candidates, particularly those who are Black, report that multiple barriers
      prevent them from receiving LDKTs. These barriers include minimal knowledge about LDKT; fears
      about donors' future health; guilt; medical mistrust; and discomfort about how to discuss
      LDKT with family and friends. Most transplant candidates have never met either a kidney donor
      or a recipient of a transplant or LDKT. A multi-component intervention that efficiently
      addresses these barriers could plausibly increase receipt of LDKT among Blacks.

      The main objective of this study is to test an educational and behavioral intervention that
      is designed to increase receipt of LDKT among transplant candidates (persons active on the
      DDKT waiting list) who are Black. Our overall hypothesis is that a multi-component
      intervention administered to Black transplant candidates will increase both readiness to
      pursue LDKT and actual receipt of LDKTs.

      To meet this objective and test our hypothesis, we propose a two-arm, parallel group
      randomized trial among 500 Black kidney transplant candidates. After Black transplant
      candidates are placed on the waiting list for a DDKT, we will randomize them to either: (1) a
      control group that will receive Usual Care, or (2) an Intervention group that will receive a
      group-based intervention as well as monthly mailings and a follow-up phone call by a
      transplant educator. Participants randomized to the Intervention will be asked to attend, in
      small groups with any family and friends, a 60-90 minute seminar that will feature brief
      talks regarding: ●basic facts about CKD, transplant, and the waiting list; ●the experience of
      receiving a LDKT transplant (by a Black LDKT recipient); ●the experience of serving as a
      living kidney donor (by a Black living kidney donor); and ●strategies to increase the chances
      of getting a transplant sooner.

      Our Specific Aims are as follows:

      Aim 1 (Primary Aim): To compare readiness to pursue LDKT and receipt of LDKT in the
      Intervention vs. Usual Care groups of our randomized clinical trial, during the 18 months
      after randomization

      Hypothesis: Exposure to the multi-component Intervention is associated with an increase in
      readiness to pursue LDKT and an increase in receipt of LDKT

      Aim 2: To determine the baseline social and behavioral variables that modify the effect of
      the Intervention upon readiness to pursue LDKT and actual receipt of LDKT

      Hypothesis: Greater knowledge of LDKT and greater readiness to pursue LDKT are associated
      with receipt of LDKT

      Aim 3: To determine whether changes in social and behavioral variables mediate the effects of
      the Intervention upon readiness to pursue LDKT and actual receipt of LDKT

      Hypothesis: Increases in readiness to pursue LDKT are associated with receipt of LDKT
    
  