
    
      When further medical management will not relieve intractable breathlessness, palliative
      oxygen is often prescribed regardless of whether the person meets the common oxygen funding
      criteria of severely low blood oxygen levels. The results of this study will inform best
      practice in the care of people with advanced life-limiting illness and intractable
      breathlessness, aid in the development of rational funding guidelines, and answer an
      international debate on the role of palliative oxygen.

      This study is a definitive international multi-center randomized double-blind controlled
      trial of oxygen versus medical air for the relief of breathlessness in participants with
      intractable dyspnea and PaO2>55mmHg (a measure of blood oxygen levels). Specific aims include
      demonstration of the effectiveness of oxygen versus medical air in relieving breathlessness
      in the palliative setting (Specific Aim 1) and improving QOL (Specific Aim 2). Additionally,
      we will seek to establish which patients derive the greatest benefit (Specific Aim 3), the
      risks of therapy (Specific Aim 4), and the costs of therapy (Specific Aim 5). The primary
      hypothesis is that oxygen therapy is superior to air in relieving the sensation of
      breathlessness for patients with intractable dyspnea due to life-limiting illness in the
      setting of PaO2>55mmHg.

      All participants are enrolled as outpatients. The "eligibility visit" occurs about 5-7 days
      before starting the study and will include review of the consent form, a short interview,
      physical exam, and blood tests. The visit can occur in the home or clinic. The blood tests
      include regular venipuncture and also an arterial blood gas, if these studies have not been
      done in the preceding month. The "randomization visit" occurs 2 days before the study starts
      (Day -2) and includes a short interview and quality of life (QOL) questionnaire; this visit
      is usually done in the home but can also occur in the clinic. The oxygen or air concentrators
      are delivered to the home on Day 0 by a trained person from the oxygen company. On the same
      day there is also a brief home visit from the study nurse that includes a short interview and
      QOL questionnaire. The participant uses the oxygen or medical air gas each of 7 days (Days
      0-6) for at least 15 hours each day. While using the oxygen/air the participant fills out a
      short diary form in the morning and evening, within 30 minutes of waking up or retiring. The
      diary focuses on the breathlessness, how the participant is feeling, and potential side
      effects of the gas. The study nurse conducts a "check-in" telephone call on Day 3 to make
      sure the participant is doing OK. On the last day (Day 6) the nurse visits the home to
      conduct a brief interview with a short QOL questionnaire. The oxygen company will pick up the
      concentrator, usually on Day 7.
    
  