
    
      Actually, there is not treatment or vaccine that can prevent or control the evolution of
      COVID-19. The epidemiological data reported in China by the Center for Disease Control (CDC)
      on February 2020, reported that 87% of the patients have been adults in an age range of 30-69
      years. In addition, different studies have shown that male gender are more vulnerable for the
      contagion of the virus (60%-80%), as well as the clinical evolution of COVID-19 (including
      mortality) compared to the female sex (20-40%), independently of individual such as diabetes,
      cardiovascular diseases, obesity, mainly.

      The mechanism of SARS-CoV-2 infection has been shown to occur with the interaction of
      angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), this enzyme is expressed in lungs, brain, heart,
      kidneys and gastrointestinal tract. Also, has been shown that older people have higher levels
      of ACE2 expression. Among the different molecular functions of ACE2 are the regulation of
      cell proliferation, cytokine production, and inflammatory response.

      It has been proposed that exogenous human recombinant ACE2 could be an alternative treatment
      for COVID-19, however, this treatment is not yet highly available and could entail high
      costs. Other molecules as estrogens have been proposed in different research groups, for its
      capacity to increase the gene expression of ACE2/Ang 1-7. This mechanism could reduce lung
      and endothelial damage and coagulopathy in COVID-19 patients.

      So, it is relevant to evaluate the effect of additional estradiol estrogen (as adjuvant
      therapeutic element) therapy on clinical response and mortality in non-severe COVID-19
      patients.

      A controlled clinical trial will be conducted in a tertiary hospital in Mexico City, Mexico.
      Participants will be divide in two groups; 1) intervention: who will receive EVRA skin
      patches (1 patch every week during 21 days) with norelgesetromin 6mg / ethinyl estradiol
      0.60mg and 2) control: who will receive conventional treatment
    
  