
    
      This study will collect high-quality randomized controlled data from a nationally
      representative sample of practicing rheumatologists to determine how they currently manage
      patients with SLE and how the results of the IFN-1 test change clinical decision making. Data
      from this study will better illuminate the clinical use cases in which the IFN-1 test has the
      most significant impact on clinical decision making (and thus the largest clinical utility)
      and the associated physician characteristics (e.g., age, practice setting, training)
      associated with test adoption.

      This study leverages simulated patient cases, called Clinical Performance and Value vignettes
      (CPVs), in a proven methodology to rapidly measure physician care decisions. CPVs are a
      unique and scalable tool that standardizes practice measurement by having all providers care
      for the same (virtual) patients. With all providers caring for the same patients, the CPVs
      generate unbiased data that yields powerful insights into clinical decision making and how
      these decisions change with the introduction of a new product or solution. CPVs have been
      validated and used effectively in rheumatology. Data from the CPVs can quickly demonstrate
      the clinical utility of a solution, be published in peer-reviewed literature, inform
      marketing strategies and positively impact coverage and reimbursement decisions.

      The study is a prospective cohort trial with six steps:

        1. Enrollment: The study will enroll an estimated 166 practicing rheumatologists who
           practice in the U.S. and are determined to be eligible by an eligibility screener.

        2. Provider survey: Once providers are enrolled in the study, they will be asked to
           complete a questionnaire describing their practice and professional background.

        3. Randomization: The 166 rheumatologists will be randomized into equally-sized control and
           intervention arms.

        4. CPVs (First Round): Physicians will complete three randomly-assigned CPV patient
           simulations. Cases will be identical across the intervention and control arms. All
           interactive cases are presented on an online platform, and are accessible via unique
           weblinks and any internet-connected computer.

        5. Intervention education: Intervention-arm rheumatologists will receive educational
           materials describing the clinical validation and use cases of the IFN-1 test. This
           material will replicate what physicians would receive as part of an actual marketing
           push introducing them to the IFN-1 test. These materials may be comprised of a slide
           deck, fact sheet, webinar, and/or case studies.

        6. CPVs (Second Round): Physicians will then complete three additional CPV patient
           simulations in random order. Cases will be identical across the intervention and control
           arms, except that the intervention arm will receive IFN-1 test results at an appropriate
           point in each simulated case in the post-intervention round. Control arm physicians will
           continue to have access to standard of care diagnostic tools only.
    
  