
    
      Lung cancer is the number one cause of cancer-related mortality in the United States, with an
      estimated 160,390 deaths in 2007. Over 80% of these patients will have non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC), and the majority of these patients have advanced disease at the time of
      diagnosis.

      Patients with advanced disease who have an adequate performance status clearly benefit from
      systemic chemotherapy, and many clinical trials have been carried out to determine the most
      effective regimen. Comorbidities associated with NSCLC preclude the use of cisplatin in
      doublet therapies, and, a meta-analysis comparing platinum-based doublet regimens to
      non-platinum based, third generation regimens revealed that survival outcomes between these
      regimens were equivalent. Despite poor response and overall survival benefits in this patient
      population with accepted treatment doublets, the addition of a third cytotoxic agent did not
      improve survival and demonstrated increased toxicity. Therefore, it appears a threshold
      maximum response can be gained with cytotoxic chemotherapy alone. However, the poor outcomes
      still associated with advanced NSCLC clearly demanded the need for continued improvements in
      treatment. It was postulated that anticancer therapy could be significantly improved by not
      only targeting the tumor cells directly, but also by targeting neo-angiogenesis. A randomized
      phase II trial demonstrated a significant improvement in time to progression (TTP) in
      patients receiving carboplatin, paclitaxel and bevacizumab compared to chemotherapy alone.
      Due to life-threatening and fatal hemorrhage patients with squamous cell histology, as well
      as those with a prior history of hemoptysis and brain metastases were excluded from all
      further clinical trials using bevacizumab. The definitive study of bevacizumab in NSCLC was a
      randomized phase III clinical trial conducted by ECOG (E4599) in which patients with advanced
      non-squamous NSCLC received carboplatin + paclitaxel with or without bevacizumab which met
      the clinical endpoint of improvement in survival and led to the approval of bevacizumab in
      first line treatment in patients with advanced NSCLC with non-squamous histology.

      The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) protein activation leads to TK activation and
      results in cell proliferation, motility, adhesion, invasion, survival, and angiogenesis. The
      EGFR is over expressed in many solid tumors, including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC),
      and multiple studies have suggested a shortened survival in NSCLC patients whose tumor over
      expresses EGFR . Although studies using small-molecule TK inhibitors (TKIs) in NSCLC did not
      meet efficacy endpoints, a phase III trial demonstrated the benefit of EGFR TKI monotherapy.
      Patients with advanced NSCLC who have received 2 or 3 prior therapies were randomized to
      erlotinib or placebo, and those receiving erlotinib demonstrated a survival benefit that led
      to FDA approval of this drug in 2004.

      The studies above clearly demonstrated a benefit to combining anti-angiogenic factors with
      chemotherapy, and as a monotherapy using anti-EGFR agents, in patients with advanced NSCLC.
      The potential benefit to simultaneously targeting these 2 pathways has been addressed in the
      recurrent disease setting.

      Vandetanib is a novel oral molecule (anilinoquinazoline) that has dual activity against both
      the VEGFR and EGFR pathways. Specifically, this compound has potent and reversible inhibitory
      activity against VEGFR-2 (KDR), VEGFR-3 (Flt-4), EGFR and RET . Vandetanib is a TKI and thus
      acts through inhibition of ATP binding to the tyrosine kinase domains of these receptors.
      Recombinant enzyme assays have demonstrated that vandetanib is highly selective for both
      VEGFR-2 (IC50=40 nm) with only slightly lower affinity for VEGFR-3 (2.7 fold). EGFR tyrosine
      kinase activity is inhibited with an IC50=500 nm. The results of a second-line setting phase
      II trial were presented by Heymach et al at the ASCO meeting in 2006. In this trial, patients
      were randomized to receive either docetaxel alone, or docetaxel with either 100mg or 300mg of
      vandetanib. Patients with squamous cell histology, controlled brain metastases and prior
      history of hemoptysis were allowed on study. The primary endpoint of prolongation of
      progression-free survival (PFS) was met in the 100mg arm (Hazard Ratio(HR) 0.64, p=0.07).
      There was no increased incidence of hemoptysis in patients receiving vandetanib, and no CNS
      hemorrhage events were observed, and side effects commonly attributed to EGFR inhibition
      (rash, diarrhea) were higher on the 300mg arm. Early combination studies suggest that in
      patients with NSCLC, vandetanib is safe in combination with chemotherapy, may improve the
      outcomes of chemotherapy when used at the 100 mg dose, and has activity as monotherapy at the
      300mg dose. In addition, none of the observed hemorrhagic complications seen with bevacizumab
      were observed, even in patients at high risk for this complication.

      In this study, our main goal is to study the combination of docetaxel + carboplatin and
      vandetanib, followed by a double-blind randomized assignment to maintenance therapy with
      vandetanib 300 milligrams (mg) or placebo by mouth daily until disease progression to
      determine if maintenance therapy can prolong progression-free survival. In addition to
      clinical efficacy outcomes we will monitor for safety and tolerability, as well as explore
      any differences in outcome based on age and gender.
    
  