
    
      This is a single center, randomized, 2-treatment, 2-period, 2-sequence, crossover, single
      dose study design, in which 50 healthy adult subjects will receive one of the study
      treatments during each study period.

      The objective of this study is to determine the bioequivalence of two different formulations
      of febuxostat after a single oral dose administration under fasting conditions.

      The intra-subject variation following a single dose of febuxostat appears to be up to 34% for
      Cmax and up to 12% for AUC0-T. Statistically, given that the expected Test to Reference ratio
      of geometric LSmeans should fall within 95 and 105%, it is estimated that the lowest number
      of subjects to meet the 80 to 125% bioequivalence range with a statistical a priori power of
      at least 80% is about 46. Therefore, the inclusion of 50 subjects should be sufficient to
      account for the possibility of drop-outs, variations around the estimated intra-subject CV
      and to conclude in favor of the hypothesis of bioequivalence with sufficient statistical
      power.

      Subject eligibility for this study will be determined at the screening visit and eligible
      subjects will be admitted to the clinical research unit at least 10 hours prior to drug
      administration for each study period.

      A subject who withdraws or is withdrawn during the pretrial evaluations but before receiving
      the investigational product (IP) will not be considered as a drop-out and will not be
      included in the final database. Standbys should be recruited and available to replace any
      subject who withdraws prior to the first drug administration. On-study drop-outs will not be
      replaced.

      Altasciences will generate the randomization code with a computer program according to the
      study design, the number of subjects and the sequence of treatment administration. The random
      allocation of each sequence of treatment administration to each subject will be done in such
      a way that the study is balanced. Once generated, the randomization code will be final and
      will not be modified. Eligible subjects will be randomized to one of two treatment sequences.
      There will be two sequences in the study: AB and BA, where A = the test product, B = the
      reference product (see detailed description of A and B items in Section "Arms and
      Interventions").

      For each study period, subjects will receive a single 120 mg oral dose of febuxostat (the
      test or the reference formulation), with approximately 240 mL of water at ambient
      temperature, following a 10-hour overnight fast. The tablet must be swallowed whole and must
      not be chewed or broken. Study participants will be aware they will receive different
      formulations of the same drug, without being informed which product (Test or Reference) is
      being administered. The date and time of each dose will be recorded. For each subject, all
      scheduled postdose activities and assessments will be performed relative to the time of study
      drug administration.

      Fasting will continue for at least 4 hours following drug administration, after which a
      standardized lunch will be served. A supper and a light snack will be served at appropriate
      times thereafter, but not before 9 hours after dosing. Water will be provided as needed until
      1 hour predose. Water will be allowed beginning 1 hour after the administration of the drug.

      In each study period, 21 blood samples will be collected for PK assessments. The first blood
      sample will be collected prior to drug administration while the others will be collected up
      to 36 hours after drug administration. Febuxostat plasma concentrations will be measured by a
      validated bioanalytical method.

      Subjects are to be discharged from the clinic after the 36-hour postdose PK sample
      collection, and following medical approval. However, they may be advised to stay at the
      clinical site for safety reasons, if judged necessary by the physician in charge.

      The expected terminal elimination half-life observed after a single oral 120 mg dose of
      febuxostat film-coated tablets under fasting conditions is 5.1 hours. To avoid any carry-over
      effect, a wash-out of 7 calendar days is planned between drug administrations.

      The decision of which subjects will be included in the PK analysis is to be documented by the
      pharmacokineticist (or delegate) and approved by the sponsor before the start of the sample
      analysis by the bioanalytical facility. Subjects who are expected to provide evaluable PK
      data for both the Test and Reference products (based on viable PK samples) will be included
      in the pharmacokinetic analysis. Concentration data of the remaining subjects will be
      presented separately. Subjects who do not complete the sampling schedule of one or more study
      periods may be included in the PK and statistical analysis and bioequivalence determination
      for only the PK parameters that are judged not to be affected by the missing sample(s).

      Statistical analysis of Tmax will be based on a non-parametric approach. Statistical analysis
      of all other pharmacokinetic parameters will be based on an analysis of variance (ANOVA)
      model. Two-sided 90% confidence interval of the ratio of geometric least-squares means
      (LSmeans) obtained from the ln-transformed pharmacokinetic parameters will be calculated.

      Statistical inference of febuxostat will be based on a bioequivalence approach using the
      following standards: the ratio of geometric LSmeans with corresponding 90% confidence
      interval calculated from the exponential of the difference between the Test and the Reference
      for the ln-transformed parameters Cmax and AUC0-T should all be within the 80.00 to 125.00%
      bioequivalence range.

      The safety population will include all subjects who received at least one dose of one of the
      IPs. Safety assessments will include clinical laboratory tests, and adverse event (AE)
      monitoring. Additional safety measurements may be performed at the discretion of the
      investigator for reasons related to subject safety. The physician in charge will be present
      at the clinical site for at least the first 4 hours following each drug administration and
      will remain available at all times throughout the study.

      Total study duration: up to 35 days (including screening).
    
  