
    
      Sample: Pregnant women experiencing high levels of stress, and/or who previously have had
      periods of depression or anxiety, and/or who have had some childhood neglect, will be
      eligible for the study. A sample of 170 mothers and their partners recruited from antenatal
      clinics in Stockholm will be asked to participate. The participants in the study will be
      randomized to either treatment or control intervention. The study uses an experimental design
      with assessments at baseline and post-intervention as well as follow-ups at 3, 9 and 15
      months post-partum. The intervention involves eight 2.5 h weekly group sessions in which
      exercises in mindfulness are practiced and associated theory is taught to increase
      metacognition, emotional regulation and body awareness. Participants in the control condition
      are being offered a standardized course in psychoprophylaxis.

      Measurements - parental outcomes PSYCHOLOGICAL FUNCTIONING - 10 item Perceived Stress Scale
      [10]. Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale [11]. Positive States of Minds [12].

      INTERVENTION ADHERENCE - Questions to assess intervention adherence. PHYSIOLOGICAL
      ASSESSMENTS - Heart Rate Variability (HRV) will be examined through ECG. The investigators
      hypothesize that the intervention will increase HRV in the pregnant women, thus providing an
      objective measure of stress. The investigators will test if women who receive the
      intervention during pregnancy have lower serum levels of the cytokines interleukin-6 and
      interleukin-10, Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor-s, and Corticotrophin Releasing Hormone
      compared to the control group - physiological components that influence the fetus and are
      associated with immune response, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis functions,
      stress-related mood disorders and preterm delivery [13-16].

      LABOUR - Labour records will be gathered from all participants.

      Measurements - infants PHYSIOLOGICAL ASSESSMENTS - Heart Rate Variability (HRV) examined
      through ECG at 15 months of age. The investigators hypothesize that increased maternal HRV in
      the pregnancy will be associated with increased infant HRV. The investigators will also test
      if infants whose mothers have received the intervention have lower serum levels of the
      cytokines interleukin-6 and interleukin-10, Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor-S, and
      Corticotrophin Releasing Hor-mone: Levels will be analyzed from PKU blood spots, routinely
      collected 3-4 days after birth.

      INFANT SOCIAL AND EMOTIONAL FUNCTIONING - The attachment style of the infants will be
      assessed at age 15 months, using the standard Parent-Child Early Relational Assessment
      developed by Clark [17].

      Data analysis: Appropriate methods will be applied to describe the sample. Hypothesis will be
      tested by multivariate repeated measures analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) with perceived
      stress as the primary outcome.
    
  