
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is prevalent in the general population, especially among
      low-income African Americans. Within primary care settings, PTSD may affect as many as one in
      four patients. PTSD is among the most difficult and costly psychiatric disorders to treat
      because it is necessary to go beyond traditional medical care to also address the trauma in
      patients' lives that interferes with treatment and potentially attenuates treatment benefits.
      African Americans are also less likely to receive care for mental health problems. Several
      social psychological barriers (e,g., mistrust in healthcare providers, skepticism about
      treatment efficacy, negative beliefs in one's ability to cope with PTSD), and logistical
      barriers (e.g., limited access to care, lack of transportation and childcare, lack of
      financial resources) impede engagement into care. Thus, a trauma-informed approach to care
      that emphasizes the promotion of trust, safety, self-efficacy, peer support, cultural
      competency, collaboration, and coordinates with social services in the community to address
      logistical barriers is required to treat PTSD in low-income African Americans.

      Growing evidence suggests that collaborative care for PTSD in primary care is effective. In
      two studies (Telemedicine-Based Collaborative Care for PTSD (TOP) and Stepped Enhancement of
      PTSD Services Using Primary CARE (STEPS-UP)) collaborative care significantly improved
      outcomes relative to usual care and attributed success in large part to the high levels of
      patient engagement (100%) associated with strategies to connect patients to care including
      behavioral activation, problem solving, and motivational interviewing. Three trials showed
      overall improvements but no relative advantage for collaborative care over usual care. The
      Coordinated Anxiety Learning and Management (CALM) study of anxiety disorders among civilians
      showed a trend favoring collaborative care (the effect in the PTSD subgroup was not
      statistically significant due to the insufficient sample size) but engagement was high (95%).
      Another trial for veterans Re-Engineering Systems for the Primary Care Treatment of PTSD
      (RESPECT-PTSD) found no difference between arms. Our recently completed Violence and Stress
      Assessment (ViStA) trial for low-income patients in Federally Qualified Health Centers
      (FQHCs) also found no differential effect. In both ViStA and RESPECT-PTSD, patient engagement
      was low - only 73% and 62% of patients initiated treatment, respectively. However, in both
      studies, use of mental health services was significantly higher among the patients who
      engaged in collaborative care suggesting that adding strategies to boost engagement would
      increase its effectiveness. Also in ViStA, prior to the intervention, there were significant
      disparities in care for the African Americans in our sample with rates of minimally adequate
      care of only 21% compared to Whites (33%). This suggests that a trauma-informed approach that
      addresses social psychological and logistical barriers may better engage patients, enhance
      collaborative care, and ultimately, improve outcomes.

      The Institute of Medicine has prioritized effective delivery approaches that engage
      individuals with PTSD. We propose to optimize, culturally adapt, and pilot test a
      collaborative care intervention that uses a trauma-informed approach to identify specific
      target mechanisms to improve treatment engagement, and reduce PTSD diagnosis and symptoms in
      primary care settings that serve low-income African Americans. Specifically, we will test the
      effectiveness of collaborative care, optimized based on lessons from previous studies,
      adapted to be culturally relevant for this population, and will directly address target
      mechanisms (outcome expectancy, coping efficacy, and trust). All components of collaborative
      care will be delivered by African American care managers (CMs) with the guidance of a local,
      African American community workgroup. We will compare this PTSD collaborative care with a CM
      (PCM) approach to minimally enhanced usual care (MEU). We submit this R34 application in
      response to RFA-MH-16-410, which elicits pilot effectiveness trials for treatment, preventive
      and services intervention. This proposal is an excellent fit for this funding opportunity
      because our intervention has potential to substantially impact practice and public health by
      improving mental health outcomes among African Americans with PTSD in New Orleans FQHCs using
      an empirically grounded approach. Our three Specific Aims are to:

      Aim 1: Optimize, culturally adapt, and implement an evidence-based trauma-informed model of
      PTSD collaborative care (PCM) compared with MEU for underserved African Americans. We will
      recruit patients at two FQHCs in New Orleans, LA to assess the feasibility, tolerability, and
      acceptability of PCM.

      Aim 2: Conduct a pilot randomized trial of the optimized/adapted PCM intervention compared
      with MEU in two FQHCs with 40 African American patients to evaluate its impact on social
      psychological target mechanisms - outcome expectancy, coping efficacy, and trust in
      facilitating treatment engagement.

      Aim 3: Evaluate the effectiveness of the PCM intervention (compared with MEU) on outcomes -
      PTSD diagnosis and symptoms (primary outcomes) and use of mental health care and non-medical
      community services and resources (secondary outcomes) either directly or indirectly as
      mediated by the target mechanisms before and one year after the start of the intervention.

      Preliminary data from this pilot effectiveness trial will pave the way for a larger-scale
      intervention.
    
  