
    
      Use of antipsychotic drugs can result in tardive dyskinesia and extrapyramidal symptoms.
      Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a syndrome that causes repetitive, involuntary, purposeless
      movements in the tongue, lips, or jaw. It can also cause facial grimacing, random movements
      of arms, legs, fingers, and toes, as well as swaying movements of the trunk or hips.
      Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) include a variety of symptoms, such as involuntary movements,
      tremors, rigidity, body restlessness, and changes in breathing and heart rate. TD and EPS are
      side effects of older antipsychotic drugs. Newer antipsychotic drugs, such as quetiapine,
      olanzapine, and risperidone, do not present as large a risk of developing these side effects.
      This study will assess the incidence of and risk factors for tardive dyskinesia and
      extrapyramidal symptoms associated with quetiapine, olanzapine, and risperidone among
      middle-aged and elderly individuals with psychotic disorders. Additionally, the study will
      examine the effect of these drugs on symptoms of pre-existing, drug-induced TD. It will also
      explore the impact of movement disorder symptoms on everyday functioning and quality of life.

      Some participants in this open-label study will be randomly assigned to receive quetiapine,
      olanzapine, or risperidone. Participants who are not randomly assigned to a medication will
      still receive one of the three medications, based on the decision of their physician. Initial
      evaluations will be conducted to collect demographic information, as well as medical,
      psychiatric, and pharmacologic histories. Dosing will be determined by each participant's
      psychiatrist. All participants will be followed for approximately 5 years. They will report
      to the study site for outcome assessments at baseline, Months 1 and 3, and every 3 months for
      the remainder of the study.
    
  