
    
      The primary goal of this research project is to improve the health status and decrease
      hospitalization and death for patients discharged with heart failure (HF) via education to
      patients, disease monitoring and medication titration through shared medical appointments
      (SMAs). Studies have found patient self-care behaviors in HF (e.g. medication/dietary
      non-compliance) and health system factors (e.g. care discoordination, limited access, lack of
      education to patients and caregivers) played an important role in patient's health status and
      hospitalization risk to the extent that 50% of the readmissions were judged to be
      possibly/probably preventable. To address patient and system factors based on the Chronic
      Care Model, redesign of care delivery, via SMA's, can be a good solution to provide patient
      self-management support while also performing disease monitoring and medication management in
      an environment of peer support. The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial to
      enroll patients within 12 weeks of discharge from a HF hospitalization and randomized them to
      receive either SMA intervention every other one-two weeks for 4 sessions versus usual care
      for HF. The investigators will determine, at 180 days from randomization, whether HF patients
      who participate in HF-SMA, as compared to patients who receive usual care:

        1. Experience better cardiac health status measured by Kansas City Cardiomyopathy
           Questionnaire (primary outcome), and overall health status (EQ5D, secondary outcome);

        2. Have fewer hospitalization or death and

        3. Experience improvement in intermediate outcomes: a) increase in HF Self-Care behavior,
           and b) decrease in plasma BNP levels.

      For patients who underwent HF-SMA, the investigators will also determine perceived benefits,
      areas in need of improvement, potential obstacles of implementation, and fidelity of the
      intervention across sites, by conducting (a) face-to-face interviews with patients and (b)
      telephone interviews with stakeholders (physicians of the patients and administrators).

      The sites will be Providence VA, Cleveland VA and Phoenix VA hospitals to enroll a total of
      250 patients. The study duration will be 180 days for all patients from the time of
      randomization. The investigators will use stratified (enrollment in other programs for HF
      care, <2 hospitalizations last 6 months, left ventricular ejection fraction <40%), block
      randomization with block sizes of 4 in each site to ensure balance of the stratified
      variables. The team will consist of a nutritionist, nurse, health psychologist, a clinical
      pharmacist and/or nurse practitioner, without the presence of a physician (cardiologist will
      be available on call). The session will contain an assessment of patient needs, theme-based
      disease self-management education, patient-initiated disease management discussion, and
      break-out sessions of individualized medication case management.

      The study findings will be used in health care management and system redesign to provide
      better quality and patient centered care for Veterans with HF. The long-term goal is to use a
      multi-disciplinary team approach in a group setting to manage HF support regular physician
      visits, in a peer support environment, all of which, are necessary to provide
      patient-centered care and improve outcomes.
    
  