
    
      The adipose tissue is the main energetic reserve, being constituted by adipocytes, cells that
      accumulate lipids inside its cytoplasm, in the form of triglycerides.

      Fat deposition can occur both in the subcutaneous compartment and in the visceral compartment
      and is the result of a positive energy balance in which there is an imbalance between the
      amount of calories consumed and the amount of calories expended. Thus, an excess of energy
      storage occurs in the form of triglycerides in adipose tissue, which results from a sedentary
      lifestyle and a diet based on lipid rich nutrients. When fat deposition occurs in abdominal
      adipose tissue may favor the development of metabolic disorders.

      Recently the effectiveness of an innovative physiotherapeutic intervention - radiofrequency
      on adipose tissue has been studied. This therapeutic modality stimulates the lipolytic
      cascade, converting the triglycerides to fatty acids and glycerol. In this way,
      radiofrequency seems to aid in the reduction of adiposity. In addition, it assists in the
      reduction of the inflammatory process related to obesity, by reducing the pro-inflammatory
      cytokines.

      The aerobic exercise, due to its low-moderate intensity, enhances the stimulation of
      lipolysis, by decreasing plasma insulin concentration and elevating the level of
      catecholamines. In this way, it influences the lipid metabolism, seeming to improve the lipid
      profile, through the degradation of the triglycerides as energetic substrate. In addition,
      the regular practice of physical exercise seems to promote a decrease in the inflammation
      state due to metabolic changes, through the reduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines, namely
      interleukin-6 and, consequently, C-reactive protein.

      This study purpose understanding whether an aerobic exercise session associated with
      abdominal radiofrequency increases the level of lipolytic activity; To analyse the effect of
      four intervention sessions on abdominal adipose tissue
    
  