
    
      Demand for Total Knee Arthroplasty (TKA) and Total Hip Arthroplasty (THA) is increasing
      steadily and is projected to continue trending upwards in the coming years. Postoperative
      infections are a common but also potentially devastating complication of total joint
      arthroplasty.

      Various strategies are employed both pre-operatively and post-operatively to prevent this
      complication. A 2011 Cochrane Review concluded that Iodine impregnated adhesive drapes had no
      impact on surgical site infection rate when used in various surgical procedures not specific
      to orthopaedics. The recent SSI prevention guidelines by the World Health Organization did
      not find any evidence to support the use of adhesive drapes during surgery and recommends
      against its use.

      Currently, iodine impregnated adhesive drapes in conjunction with either chorahexadine
      gluconate or Iodine Povacrylex and Isopropyl Alcohol are the standard of care at our
      institution.

      FloraSeal is a cyanoacrylate-based sealant. A cyanoacrylate microbial sealant minimizes
      endogenous bacteria spread to the surgical site by forming a sterile film bonded onto a
      patient's skin. This film, which is formed upon polymerization, prevents the spread of
      microorganisms. The protective mechanism is mechanical: the film traps and immobilizes
      microorganisms that survive on a patient's skin. It has been previously shown to effectively
      immobilize both gram positive and gram negative bacteria. Additionally, the sealant itself
      can effectively reduce the superficial bacterial burden on the skin surface and also helps
      reduce skin moisture buildup on skin.

      Furthermore, with conventional adhesive drapes, the edges must be peeled back at the time of
      skin closure in order to effectively close the surgical site. It is at this moment that the
      incision becomes most vulnerable to penetration by local microorganisms. FloraSeal and other
      cyanoacrylate based sealants remain on the skin for 5 to 10 days until the superficial skin
      sloughs off.

      Studies on sterile pig skin demonstrated FloraSeal to be more effective alone at immobilizing
      bacteria than incisional drapes. The efficacy was the same when FloraSeal was used with or
      without the incisional drapes, demonstrating that it may be used as a substitute.

      Additionally, a 2013 retrospective study in revision shoulder arthroplasty demonstrated a
      potential reduction in positive intraoperative deep tissue cultures when using a
      cyanoacrylate-based microbial sealant versus the iodine impregnated incisional drapes. The
      study lacked sufficient power to reach significance, calling for further investigation of
      this effect.

      Cyanoacrylate has been investigated in other surgical interventions. A 2008 prospective,
      randomized multicenter clinical trial in patients undergoing elective open hernia repair
      demonstrated cyanoacrylate-based microbial sealant independently reduced wound contamination
      over the course of the operation.

      Due to the potentially devastating complications associated with postoperative infection, the
      investigators seek to find alternative methods of prevention of surgical site infection.
    
  