
    
      A total of 81 participants will be enrolled in the study, randomized and allocated to one of
      the following three groups Usual Treatment Group: This group will perform standard
      physiotherapeutic treatment performed at the Naval School. This treatment consists of the
      application of conventional TENS whose parameters are: alternating current, rectangular
      pulse, pulse duration 100μs, frequency of 100Hz for 20 minutes. Laser therapy with an energy
      of 5 J at each point, irradiation area of 1cm², irradiation time of 20 seconds, 30
      repetitions and total time of 10 minutes.

      4.4.3 Transition from the Rearfoot to the Forefoot and Midfoot Group: Participants in this
      group will perform a training aimed at the transition of foot strike pattern from the
      rearfoot to the forefoot and midfoot progressively. Initially a ten-minute race will be held
      at a comfortable warm-up speed. Then the participants in this group will run continuously at
      the usual treadmill speed for thirty minutes in a 12-week progressive training program. See
      below: Week 1: 1min of barefoot running + 29 min of shod running Week 2: 2min of barefoot
      running + 28 min of shod running Week 3: 3min of barefoot running + 27 min of shod running
      Week 4: 5min of barefoot running + 25 min of shod running Week 5: 1min of barefoot running +
      3 min of shod running (repeat 7 times) + 2 finals minuntes shod running Week 6: 1min of
      barefoot running +3 min of shod running (repeat 10 times) Week 7: 1min of barefoot running +1
      min of shod running (repeat 15 times) Week 8: 10 min continuous of barefoot running + 20 min
      continuous of shod running Week 9: 15 min continuous of barefoot running + 15 min continuous
      of shod running Week 10: 20 min continuous of barefoot running + 10 min continuous of shod
      running Week 11: 25 min continuous of barefoot running + 5 min continuous of shod running
      Week 12: 30 min continuous of barefoot running Participants will receive verbal command
      "Avoid touching first with heel on the treadmill" and "Try to touch first with the middle
      region of the foot on the treadmill". If necessary, the investigator will provide additional
      feedback with verbal details about the foot strike pattern. During the first eight sessions
      continuous feedback will be given. In the last four sessions, feedback will be gradually
      removed. At the end of each session, participants will be asked a question about the
      naturalness of running the new foot touch pattern on the ground. A scale from 0 to 10 will be
      used, where 0 means "very difficult to perform / unnatural standard" and 10 indicates "easy /
      natural" pattern. The perception of pain will also be evaluated with the numerical scale of
      pain of 11 points (0 to 10), where 0 means "no pain" and 10 "the greatest pain possible".
      Weekly participants will receive visual feedback through slow-motion footage of their
      footfall during the race, along with investigator guidance on the new tread pattern. In
      addition to the treadmill transition protocol, this group will have free access to the
      standard physiotherapeutic treatment performed at the Naval School during and after the
      study.

      Muscle Strengthening Group: The participants of this group will perform muscle strengthening
      exercises for trunk and lower limbs divided into four phases of three weeks each, following
      the protocol adapted from Esculier et al. (Esculier et al., 2017) The total period of the
      program strength will be 12 weeks. Elastos® elastic bands of weak, medium and strong
      intensity will be used to provide progression to the exercises. The exercises will be
      supervised by two investigators.

        1. A Phase 1 will consist of four exercises:

           I. Participant lying sideways, raise the upper leg while lightly pushing it back. Hold
           position. The exercise should be performed on both sides of the body 2 times a week. In
           the first week, 2 sets with 10 repetitions and permanence time of 5 seconds, with
           progression in the following weeks to 15 repetitions of 10 seconds. An elastic band will
           be worn around the legs at the ankles.

           II. Participant lying sideways, knees bent, raise the upper knee. The pelvis should
           remain stable, both feet together. The exercise should be performed on both sides of the
           body 2 times a week. In the first week, 2 sets with 10 repetitions and stay time of 5
           seconds, with progression in the following weeks to 15 repetitions of 10 seconds. An
           elastic band will be worn around the legs at the knees.

           III. Participant lying on the back, knees bent, raise the pelvis and hold the bridge
           position. Extend one of the knees (one-sided bridge). The pelvis should remain elevated.
           The exercise should be performed with both legs 2 times a week. In the first week, 2
           sets with 10 repetitions and 5 seconds permanence time, with progression in the
           following weeks for 15 repetitions of 10 seconds IV. Participant looking at the mirror,
           step up the step slowly. Step down slowly with the same leg keeping the alignment of the
           knee and pelvis. The exercise should be performed with the 2 legs, 2 times a week. In
           the first week, 2 sets with 10 repetitions in the step with 10 cm in height, with
           progression in the following weeks for 15 repetitions and the height of the step to 20
           centimeters.

        2. Phase 2 will consist of five exercises:

           V. Participant stand, with elastic band around the knees, squat while keeping the knees
           in line with the feet (squatting). Do not allow the tip of the knees to move in front of
           the feet. The exercise should be performed twice a week. In the first week, 2 sets with
           10 repetitions and 5 seconds permanence time, with progression in the following weeks
           for 15 repetitions of 10 seconds.

           VI. Participant looking at the mirror, step down slowly. Step up again with the same leg
           keeping the focus on aligning the knees. The exercise should be performed with both legs
           2 times a week. In the first week, 3 sets with 10 repetitions in the step with 10 cm in
           height. with progression in the following weeks for 15 repetitions and the height of the
           step to 20 centimeters.

           VII. Participant with the elastic band around the ankles, push in 3 different directions
           using the hip musculature. The exercise should be performed with both legs, 2 times a
           week, 10 repetitions per direction and in 3 directions. The elastic tension is increased
           as needed.

           VIII. Participant holding the body up using elbows and forearms, raise the pelvis and
           keep the back straight (plank). Hold this position. The exercise should be performed
           twice a week. In the first week, 5 replicates with a 10 second residence time, with
           progression in the following weeks to 10 repetitions of 10 seconds.

           IX. Participant on the side, supporting the body using elbow and forearm, raise the
           pelvis and keep the back straight (lateral board). Hold this position. Exercise should
           be performed on both sides. The exercise should be performed twice a week. In the first
           week, 5 replicates with a 10 second residence time, with progression in the following
           weeks to 10 repetitions of 10 seconds.

        3. Phase 3 will consist of five exercises:

           X. Participant standing on one leg, squat, hold the knee toward the foot (one-sided
           squat). Hold this position. The exercise should be performed with both legs 2 times a
           week. In the first week, 2 sets with 10 repetitions and 5 seconds permanence time, with
           progression in the following weeks for 15 repetitions of 10 seconds.

           XI. Participant looking at the mirror, on a step and with an elastic pulling the knee
           inward step down and step up slowly. The exercise should be performed with both legs 2
           times a week. In the first week, 2 sets with 10 repetitions in the step with 10 cm in
           height, with progression in the following weeks for 15 repetitions in a step of 20
           centimeters.

           XII. Participant standing on one leg, perform the squat while rotating the trunk. Touch
           the outside of the foot using the opposite hand. Stay in that position. Return to the
           starting position by turning the hip. The exercise should be performed with both legs 2
           times a week. In the first week, 2 sets with 10 repetitions and 5 seconds permanence
           time, with progression in the following weeks for 2 sets with 15 repetitions and 10
           seconds of permanence.

           XIII. Participant holding the body up using elbows and forearms, elevate the pelvis.
           Remove one foot from the ground while remaining with the knee extended. Hold this
           position. The exercise should be performed with both legs 2 times a week. In the first
           week, 2 repetitions with 10 second permanence time in each leg, with progression to 5
           repetitions of 10 seconds in each leg.

           XIV. Participant on the side, supporting the body using elbow and forearm, raise the
           pelvis, keep the back straight (unilateral board) while raising the upper leg. Hold this
           position. Exercise should be performed on both sides. The exercise should be performed
           twice a week. In the first week, 5 repetitions and 10 second permanence time with
           progression in the following weeks for 10 repetitions and 10 second permanence time.

        4. Phase 4 will consist of five exercises:

      XV. Participant looking at the mirror, with an elastic pulling the knee inward perform a
      squat while maintaining the alignment of the knee. The other leg stays forward, with the foot
      off the ground. Hold this position. The exercise should be performed with both legs 2 times a
      week. In the first week, 2 sets with 10 repetitions and 5 seconds permanence time, with
      progression in the following weeks for 15 repetitions of 10 seconds.

      XVI. Participant looking at the mirror, on top of a step and with a stronger elastic than the
      one used in exercise XI pulling the knee inward, step down and step up slowly. The exercise
      should be performed with both legs 2 times a week. In the first week, 3 sets with 10
      repetitions in the step with 10 cm in height, with progression in the following weeks for 15
      repetitions in a step of 20 centimeters.

      XVII. Participant standing on one leg and looking at the mirror, jump off the step with one
      leg and land smoothly in the squatting position. Be sure to keep good control of the knee and
      pelvis. An elastic strap pulling the support knee inward can be used to increase the
      difficulty. The exercise should be performed with both legs 2 times a week. In the first
      week, 2 sets with 10 repetitions in the step with 10 cm in height, with progression in the
      following weeks for 15 repetitions in a step of 20 centimeters.

      XVIII. Participant holding the body up using elbows and forearms resting on flexible balance
      discs, elevate the pelvis. Remove one foot from the ground while remaining with the knee
      extended. Hold this position. The exercise should be performed with both legs 2 times a week.
      In the first week, 2 repetitions with 10 second permanence time in each leg, with progression
      to 5 repetitions of 10 seconds in each leg.

      XIX. Participant on the side, supporting the body using elbow and forearm supported on a
      flexible balancing disc, raise the pelvis, keep the back straight (unilateral board) while
      raising the upper leg. Hold this position. Exercise should be performed on both sides. The
      exercise should be performed twice a week. In the first week, 5 repetitions and 10 second
      permanence time with progression in the following weeks for 10 10 second repetitions.

      In addition to the muscle strengthening protocol, this group will have free access to the
      standard physiotherapeutic treatment performed at the Naval School during and after the
      study.
    
  