
    
      You were selected as a possible participant because you are suffering from a major depressive
      episode, and you have not previously tried the medication used in this study to treat
      depression. Approximately 60 subjects will participate in this study: 30 subjects who are
      currently suffering from a major depressive episode and 30 subjects who have never suffered
      from a major depressive episode.

      If you choose to participate, you will be seen at the clinic for a total of five times plus
      three MRI scans. You will be seen once for a screening visit. If you choose to enroll, you
      will return a week later for the baseline visit and again at weeks 2, 4 and 8. Around the
      time of week one (baseline), week 2 and week 8 you will also undergo an MRI scan of the
      brain.

      Screening Visit: The study physician and the research study staff will first screen you for
      eligibility. The screening visit includes meeting with a physician for a discussion of your
      medical history and current medications, taking your blood pressure, and checking your
      weight. Women of childbearing potential will also have a urine pregnancy test. You will meet
      with a member of the research staff for an interview to collect information about your
      depression and other psychiatric symptoms you have experienced. The purpose of the interview
      is to confirm your diagnosis and assess the current severity of your depression. The
      screening visit will take approximately 2 hours.

      Week 1 (baseline): If you are eligible to continue with the study, you will return to the
      clinic within 7 days for a baseline visit. At your baseline visit, you will complete several
      tests to assess your memory and concentration. These tests are being conducted because
      problems with memory and concentration are common in people who are depressed and the
      researchers want to find out if there is a difference in your memory and concentration before
      and after taking the study medication. We also wish to compare the results to any findings
      from the brain imaging. Following the baseline visit, you will begin treatment with the
      antidepressant citalopram. The starting dose is 20 mg once per day.

      Week 1 MRI: Around the time of your week one (baseline) visit and before starting
      medications, you will have your first MRI.

      Week 2 visit: At the end of your second week, the study physician will meet with you to
      assess your overall condition. Your antidepressant medication will be counted to verify that
      you have been taking it as prescribed. Your dose will likely not change, but it is possible
      that it will be increased to as much as 40 mg. If you are experiencing side effects, your
      dose may be decreased. We will provide you with enough medication to last until your next
      visit.

      Week 2 MRI: Around the time of your week 2 visit you will have your second MRI.

      Week 4 visit: The study physician will meet with you to assess your overall condition. Your
      antidepressant medication will be counted to verify that you have been taking it as
      prescribed. The dose may be left unchanged, increased up to a total of 40 mg daily or
      decreased, if you are experiencing side effects (to a minimum of 20 mg daily). You will also
      be asked about any other medications you have taken since your last visit. We will provide
      you with enough medication to last until your next visit.

      Week 6 (Telephone check-in): The study physician will check in with you by telephone to
      assess your overall condition. The dose of the citalopram may be left unchanged, increased to
      a maximum of 60 mg daily or decreased (to a minimum to 20 m daily) if you are experiencing
      side effects.

      Week 8: (End-of-study visit) In addition to the usual visit procedures, the end-of-study
      visit will include repeated tests of memory and concentration. The study physician will also
      discuss recommendations for further treatment of your depression. No study medication will be
      dispensed at this visit.

      Week 8 MRI: Around the time of your week 8 visit you will have your third and final MRI.
    
  