
    
      This study will be developed with patients with coronary disease submitted to angioplasty or
      myocardial revascularization surgery, provided they are considered of low and moderate risk
      for the practice of physical exercise of moderate intensity, according to the risk
      stratification proposed by the American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary
      Rehabilitation. Volunteers will be recruited at the outpatient at the University Hospital's
      Cardiac Rehabilitation Centre. The study will be made in conformity with the CONSORT
      guidelines for non-pharmacological interventions. After being invited to the study, the
      volunteer whose accept the participation and sign the consent form will be randomized into
      two different groups: Traditional cardiac rehabilitation (mostly supervised) and
      Telerehabilitation (mostly unsupervised). The randomization will be made through the
      www.randomization.com website in blocks of four volunteers each. A blind researcher will
      evaluate participants before and after test, and will fulfill the database.

      Intervention The parameters for the exercise prescription will be the same for both groups.
      Exercise sessions will be constituted of 5-10 minutes of warm up, 40 minutes of aerobic
      activity with heart rate between 60 and 80% of the heart rate reserve, and 5-10 minutes of
      cool down. The educational sessions will be given to both groups in six meetings with 40
      minutes each, and items regarding the control of risk factors and treatment of cardiovascular
      diseases will be approached. After the period of 12 weeks of intervention all participants
      will be stimulated to continue to practice physical exercises at home or at the community,
      and they will be invited to a re-evaluation after three months.

      Groups:

      Traditional cardiac rehabilitation as control group (CentreRehab) The CentreRehab group will
      be made supervised exercises and health educational activities, personally at cardiac
      rehabilitation centre. This intervention will last 12 weeks, with a total of 60 sessions: 24
      supervised and 36 at home (to complete five exercise's sessions for week). The participants
      of this group will be oriented to fulfill a training diary with information regarding the
      frequency of the exercises, the presence of symptoms, and the use of the scale of perceived
      exertion during exercises at home.

      Home-based cardiac rehabilitation (HomeRehab) The participants of the HomeRehab group will
      make the exercise mostly at home. There will be weekly phone calls, in person educational
      sessions, and monthly meetings to check the execution of the previous stage, solve doubts, or
      identify the presence of symptoms or undesirable effects. This intervention will have the
      duration of 12 weeks, with a total of 60 sessions: 2 supervised and 58 at home (to complete
      five exercise's sessions for week).

      In the first week, all individuals of HomeRehab group will receive a training regarding the
      use of the monitoring equipment. A heart rate monitor with the heart rate zone individually
      calculated will be given to the participant at the first session of the face-to-face training
      to monitoring exercises at home. Furthermore, all participants of this group will use a step
      counter (pedometer) to stimulate the execution of the exercises as well as training diary to
      be fulfilled with information regarding the frequency of the exercises, the presence of
      symptoms during the exercise, the perceived exertion, and the number of daily steps. The
      monthly meetings will take place to the educational activity, and to verify if the exercises
      and fulfilment of the training diary are correct as well as to clarify any kind of the
      participant's doubts.
    
  