
    
      The nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) are ubiquitous environmental organisms foundin soil and
      water that rarely cause disease in humans. Since exposure to these organisms is universal and
      disease is rare, it can be concluded that normal host defenses are almost always sufficient
      to prevent infection. It follows that otherwise healthy individuals who develop disease must
      have abnormal susceptibility or immune defects that permit infection with nontubercuolous
      mycobacteria. The organisms that are most commonly encountered in clinical practice include
      Mycobacterium avium, and M. intracellulare [collectively known as the M. avium complex
      (MAC)], M. kansasii, M. fortuitum, M. abscessus, and M. chelonae. These organisms share
      significant structural and biochemical similarities with their more pathogenic relative, M.
      tuberculosis (MTB). Recognition of host factors that predispose or lead to NTM infection may
      have important implications for pathogenesis and therapeutic intervention, and may be
      applicable to the more virulent MTB. Identification of genetic or acquired susceptibility
      factors may lead to recognition of endogenous pathways that can be exploited therapeutically
      and to possible gene identification.

      Over the last two decades, three important observations have been made regarding the
      pathogenesis of nontuberculous mycobacterial infections. 1) In patients infected with HIV,
      nontuberculous mycobacterial infections often occur when the CD4+ T-lymphocyte number falls
      below 50/mm3. This suggested that specific T cell products or activities were required for
      mycobacterial resistance. 2) An association was noted between pulmonary nontuberculous
      mycobacterial infections and a particular body habitus, predominantly in post-menopausal
      women (pectus excavatum, scoliosis, mitral valve prolapse). 3) Multiple defects have been
      found involving the interferon gamma synthesis and use pathways in patients with disseminated
      nontuberculous mycobacterial infection without HIV, suggesting this is a critical pathway for
      host defense against these organisms.

      We seek to better characterize the predisposition to mycobacterial infection. This study will
      specifically address several aspects of immune function and investigate the proposed link to
      body morphotype in the relevant population. By collecting this information, we hope to
      provide insight into disease associations, infection susceptibility, and genetic
      predisposition to mycobacterial infection.
    
  