
    
      This study is a multicentre, retrospective and prospective observational, cohort design,
      determining aggregate drug usage patterns and commonly used clinical outcomes associated with
      the use of long-acting injectable risperidone. The objectives of this study are to collect
      sufficient retrospective outcome data to allow the evaluation of treatment outcomes with long
      acting medication compared to previous treatments and to document clinical effectiveness and
      long-term treatment outcomes in actual practice. Additional objectives are to prospectively
      assess medication usage patterns and to evaluate reasons for initiation and/or
      discontinuation of new antipsychotic medications. The study design is a non-interventional,
      single-arm, observational survey on the use of long-acting injectable risperidone and other
      long-acting (depot) or oral atypical antipsychotics, with the aim to assess patient outcomes
      by existing risk or disease factors, patient characteristics, or previous medication. Having
      reached agreement with the patient on starting treatment with long-acting injectable
      risperidone, physicians have the opportunity to document the patient's clinical data in the
      Registry. At baseline, data will be collected retrospectively over a minimum period of
      12-months per patient. Data will be collected prospectively over a 24-month period per
      patient at approximately 3-month intervals after starting treatment. This study will document
      data of patients for whom treatment with the new antipsychotic medication is indicated, and
      who are being treated according to the local label. The start date for collecting data is the
      date the new antipsychotic treatment is initiated, whether as inpatient or outpatient. The
      preceding 12 months and the next 2 years are respectively for each patient the retrospective
      and prospective periods of interest. All patients starting with a new antipsychotic
      medication, decided after agreement between the physician and the patient, in accordance with
      the local label, are eligible for inclusion in this survey. While patients participating in
      randomized clinical trials are not excluded, their participation will be noted. Data will be
      entered by the treating physician. All data collected must be the result of the normal
      medical care of the patient. No intervention on treatment decisions permitted. The patient's
      baseline data will be collected within the first week following initiation of the new
      antipsychotic treatment. Prospective data collection has to occur 3 months, 6 months, 9
      months, 12 months, 15 months, 18 months, 21 months and 24 months after initiation of the new
      antipsychotic treatment. If a patient stops the newly initiated antipsychotic treatment the
      reason for discontinuation has to be reported. Patients discontinuing newly initiated
      antipsychotic treatment will continue to be followed for up to 24 months. In retrospective
      period the following treatment outcomes will be assessed: patient characteristics, treatment
      history with antipsychotics and other concomitant medication, hospitalization history, reason
      for initiating the new antipsychotic treatment, treatment satisfaction, remission, clinical
      global impression (CGI-severity), global assessment of functioning (GAF) and clinical
      deterioration. In prospective period clinical effectiveness will be assessing the following:
      employment status, remission, treatment satisfaction, CGI-severity, GAF, clinical
      deterioration, hospitalization, treatment adherence and (serious) adverse events. Long-acting
      injectable risperidone is flexible dose (25mg to 75mg), intramuscular injection given into
      gluteus for 24 months
    
  