
    
      During pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), vasoactive drug preparation for
      continuous infusion is both complex and time-consuming, placing children at higher risk than
      adults for medication errors. It is well established that CPR duration is inversely
      correlated to survival, decreasing linearly by 2.1 % per minute, and to decreased risk of
      neurological sequelae [1].

      In this study, the investigators recruit nurses working in 5 swiss Pediatric Emergency
      Departments or divisions to prepare continuous infusions of vasoactive drugs during a
      simulation-based pediatric CPR cardiac arrest scenario with a high-fidelity manikin (Laerdal
      SimJunior™). The scenario will take place in the shock room to increase realism.

      According to randomization with a 1:1 allocation ratio, nurses will have to prepare and
      deliver vasoactive drugs following their current conventional methods or by the aim of a
      mobile tablet application called PedAMINES™ (Pediatric Accurate Medication In Emergency
      Situations). PedAMINES™ is designed to support nurses step-by-step from order to delivery of
      a wide range of drugs, especially those requiring continuous infusion. PedAMINES™ has already
      been shown in a single-center simulation-based study to reduce time to vasoactive drug
      preparation, to delivery and the rate of medication errors [2].

      On the day of participation, after obtaining nurse's written informed consent and
      randomization, nurses will receive a standardized 5-minute training session on how to use the
      app. Then, the nurses will be asked to perform a standardized 15-minute highly realistic CPR
      scenario, including post-return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC). After epinephrine-induced
      ROSC, nurses will be asked to first prepare a continuous infusion of dopamine, using either
      PedAMINES™ or a conventional method, and then a continuous infusion of norepinephrine by
      crossing the procedure. Moreover, 2 questionnaires will be given before and after the
      scenario to ask the nurses about their demographics data, perceived stress and degree of
      satisfaction.

        1. Primary outcome will be to measure in each allocation group the number of medication
           dosage errors committed during each drug preparation sequence until injection.

        2. Secondary outcome will be to measure the time to drug preparation (TDP) and time to drug
           delivery (TDD).

      All the actions (i.e. primary and secondary outcomes) performed by the nurses during the
      scenario will be automatically recorded and stored by the responsive simulator detectors, the
      application and by several video cameras. To avoid assessment bias, two evaluators will then
      independently review these video recordings. In case of disagreement, a third independent
      evaluator will help reach a consensus.

      We aim to determine whether the use of PedAMINES™ might improve the management of acute
      life-threatening conditions by quickly delivering expertise in vasoactive drugs
      administration in other hospitals in Switzerland, even in non-university hospitals where
      nurses (and physicians) are either little or not exposed to pediatric CPRs. We hypothesize
      that PedAMINES™ might primary reduce medication errors, and secondary reduce delays to drugs
      preparation and delivery independently of the existing conventional preparation methods or
      nurses' skills.
    
  