
    
      Procedures. Following written informed assent of participants and consent of
      parents/guardians, the researcher will have a short introductory video call with the
      participant and parent to talk through the next steps, give instructions on how to complete
      fitness tests and answer any questions. After this introduction, participants can carry out
      their fitness testing at home remotely under the supervision of the researcher (via Zoom) or
      their parent. Following written consent, participants will complete all questionnaires online
      (approximately 15 minutes) - self-reported physical activity, sociodemographic and
      psychosocial measures (behavioural regulation in exercise questionnaire, body-appreciation
      scale and self-esteem scale - details of each listed below). Participants will then complete
      the fitness measures using the Resistance Training for Teens (RTFT) app (30 minutes) - 20m
      shuttle run tests, long jump and push up test. Participants will wear an Actigraph
      accelerometer on their don-dominant wrist continuously, as outlined in the study protocol,
      for 9 days before starting their 12-week physical activity programme. In total, assessments
      should take approximately one hour and will be conducted at baseline (week 0),
      post-intervention (week 12) and follow up (week 24).

      Randomisation. Participants will be randomly allocated to one of the four intervention arms
      following baseline measures. 40 participants will be allocated to each arm using block
      randomisation on Microsoft Excel.

      Intervention group - The goals of this physical activity intervention are to 1) increase
      adolescent girls total physical activity levels and 2) improve adolescent girls health
      behaviours, including body appreciation and motivation. This study hopes to build on our
      prior feasibility work to help us to understand which components of the intervention are most
      effective, i.e. a physical activity programme, individual behaviour change support or a
      combination. To achieve these goals the following elements will be implemented:

        -  Menu of physical activity options: Participants in all four groups will be given a
           booklet with suggestions of ways to be physically active, e.g. YouTube workouts, cycling
           or jogging, sports, or design their own using a home-based exercise booklet. They are
           asked to do 3 sessions of 30 minutes per week. Participants are asked to record what
           activity they did and the duration of the session using a method most convenient for
           them, e.g. notes on their phone, wall calendar or using an activity log template which
           the investigators will provide.

        -  Physical activity programme: Participants in groups 1 and 3 will receive -

             -  Non Reply SMS: Sent to the participant mobile three times per week by the primary
                researcher, Emma Cowley PhD candidate, from an online non-reply messaging service.
                This service is password protected. All messages will be standardised (not
                personally tailored) and will be focused on behaviour change techniques or
                reminders.

             -  Live exercise sessions: The researcher (with personal training and physical
                education teaching qualifications) will host two online group fitness classes each
                week which participants are also invited to join. This option is to allow
                participants the potential to engage with the other participants on the programme
                from the comfort of their own homes. It is also thought that having a scheduled set
                time to join a class on line may increase motivation and improve adherence, however
                the choice to join the class is optional. From previous feasibility work, these
                sessions were a highlight of the programme and often times parents and siblings
                would join in too. Participants are invited to turn their cameras on for the intro
                and warm up, however this is not mandatory.

             -  Access to a social media group: With participant and parental consent, participants
                are invited to join a private group community online where they can access
                additional resources provided by the research team, ask questions in an informal
                setting and communicate with the other participants in the programme. It is well
                researched that social connection is a facilitator to adolescent girls
                participation in physical activity and as participants will be exercising from home
                the investigators feel giving them access to a social, safe and virtual community
                can help give them this social connectedness to other adolescent girls of the same
                age. This is not compulsory and participants are free to join the group, leave the
                group or decline being added to the group without it affecting their participation
                in the rest of the programme.

        -  Individual behaviour change support:

             -  Participants in group 2 and 3 will be partnered with an 'activity mentor' whom they
                will work with for the duration of the intervention. These activity mentors are
                postgraduate students either studying for an MSc in sport and exercise psychology,
                or post-MSc and undertaking professional training. Their role is to support the
                participants with improving their health behaviours, autonomy and motivation.
                Participants will receive weekly calls from week 0-6 and then calls on week 9 and
                12. Calls will be via phone call, FaceTime or Teams video call. Behaviour change
                support will be based on self-determination theory principles (autonomy, competence
                and relatedness; Ryan & Deci, 2000). Each call will be based on a pre-planned
                session outline and will be goal orientated, participant centred and focused on
                physical activity. Calls are expected to last 10-20 minutes per participant. A
                sub-sample of calls will be audio recorded to assess intervention fidelity.

      Control: menu of physical activity options only. As this project runs for 6 months it will
      not be possible to provide the control group with the full physical activity programme (this
      is part of a PhD study). However, it is intended to provide the control group participants
      with intervention materials (home-HIIT booklets, field-based testing instructions) so that
      participants can implement the physical activity programme without the direct oversight of
      the research team. At the end of the intervention, control participants will also be offered
      to do a group behaviour change psychology session with an activity mentor.
    
  