
    
      The study included patients who underwent free flap surgery between January 2006 and December
      2019 in the Hospital de San José and Hospital Infantil Universitario de San José in Bogotá,
      Colombia. Criteria for exclusion were history of deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism,
      systemic lupus erythematosus, antiphospholipid syndrome, hypercoagulability syndrome, and
      previous medication with oral or parenteral anticoagulant within the past year of the
      surgery. A standardized Google App for Work form was created where participant's medical
      records were registered. The exposure criteria were RBCT, and the primary outcome was the
      occurrence of VPT, which was defined as the intraoperative visualization of arterial or
      venous thrombosis in the vascular pedicle, observed up until seven days after the procedure.
      As a secondary outcome, the presence of clinical signs of arterial flap suffering (pallor,
      decreased capillary filling time, decreased skin turgor, , venous congestion: blue dermal
      bleeding, and poikilothermia). As well as the absence of blood flow measured by Doppler
      ultrasound that was registered from the beginning until the outcome. Different clinical
      characteristics were recorded such as: age, gender, body mass index (BMI), diabetes (fasting
      blood glucose >126 mg/dl or random glucose value >200 mg/dl), arterial hypertension
      (persistently high value >140/90 mmHg or use of antihypertensive medication for adequate
      control) anesthetic risk (ASA Classification), most recent pre-surgical hemoglobin (Hb
      mg/dl), most recent pre-surgical hematocrit (Ht %), anemia (Hb <12mg/dl or Hto <36% in
      children under 14 and women of childbearing age, Hb <13 mg/dl or Hto <39% in men over 14 or
      postmenopausal women), history of chemotherapy during the past year, history of radiation
      therapy in the flap donor or free flap recipient site In regard to the surgery performed, the
      following variables were analyzed: indication of procedure, free flap donor site, free flap
      recipient site, type of flap, whether or not other concomitant surgical procedures were being
      performed (oncological resections, osteosynthesis, tumor resections) and intra-operative
      bleeding according to the records from anesthesiologists' evaluations. The information was
      exported from the standardized formats to a database for statistical analysis through
      statistical packages R and Stata 15® licensed by the Fundación Universitaria de Ciencias de
      la Salud - FUCS.

      The exposed group corresponded to patients who received red blood cell transfusion during the
      perioperative period of free flap surgery (defined as: 24 hours before, during and up to 24
      hours after the procedure).

      - The unexposed group corresponded to patients who did not receive red blood cell transfusion
      during the perioperative period of free flap surgery (defined as: 24 hours before, during and
      up to 24 hours after the procedure).
    
  