
    
      The COVID-19 global pandemic is significantly impacting healthcare providers and presumably
      affecting their stress level as they deal with this time of uncertainty. The COVID-19 public
      health crisis requires the full resources and attention of healthcare systems. This has led
      to several healthcare changes that affect physicians in training, including changes to
      rotations and schedules, risks of infection exposure to themselves or their families, and the
      unknown impacts this may have on their residency and fellowship experiences.

      These changes are likely impacting their stress, health, and well-being. Physician burnout is
      major concern for the medical community and likely to be further impacted by the current
      pandemic. Evidence-based interventions for stress include cognitive behavior therapy,
      although this can be time consuming, requires the need for specialized providers, and is not
      feasible for everyone during this COVID-19 pandemic. Pharmacotherapy can be used, including
      antidepressants and anxiolytics, however they have inherent limitations such as side effects,
      tolerance, and interactions that limit their use. Consumer based mobile applications (apps)
      may help individuals with self-management strategies for stress. Mindfulness meditation is
      one type of self-management strategy and is the practice of moment-to-moment awareness in
      which the person purposefully focuses on the present without judgement.

      "Calm" is a mobile app that offers a range of meditation lessons, sleep stories (bed-time
      stories for grown-ups), sleep music, and nature sounds with modules that vary in length,
      instruction, and content. Few studies on the use of "Calm" exist and include a randomized
      controlled trial evaluating its affect to decrease stress among college students and a
      descriptive study evaluating cancer patient's perceptions of the app. There is evidence to
      support the use of similar apps in resident physicians. A pilot study assessing the effects
      of a meditation app on resident wellness suggested both the feasibility and efficacy of such
      an intervention. During these unprecedented times of the COVID-19 pandemic, mobile apps such
      as Calm may be potentially beneficial to help with stress in house staff physicians, although
      this requires further investigation.
    
  