
    
      The Primary objective was to evaluate the proportion of patients in TFR within 48 weeks
      following nilotinib cessation.

      This study originally consisted of seven phases (five treatment phases and two treatment-free
      phases) from which two were the focus of this primary analysis report (consolidation, TFR and
      treatment re-initiation) The study consisted of 2 main phases: Consolidation and TFR

      Nilotinib treatment consolidation phase (NTCS): Patients who satisfied all
      inclusion/exclusion criteria were enrolled in the consolidation phase and continued to
      receive nilotinib for 52 weeks at the dose which the patient was receiving prior to study
      entry. If a patient maintained MR4.5 throughout the consolidation phase, he/she was eligible
      to enter in the TFR phase. If a patient had confirmed loss of MR4.5 during the consolidation
      phase, he/she was not eligible to enter in the TFR phase and continued nilotinib treatment.

      Nilotinib TFR phase: Patients who were eligible to enter in the TFR phase after completing
      the 52 week consolidation phase stopped taking nilotinib on the first day of the TFR phase.
      Duration of this phase was up to 520 weeks after the last patient enters in the TFR phase.

      Nilotinib treatment re-initiation phase (NTRI): If a patient had a confirmed loss of MR4 (two
      consecutive BCR-ABL >0.01% IS) or loss of MMR (BCR-ABL >0.1% IS) in the TFR phase, the
      patient restarted nilotinib treatment. Patients will be on nilotinib treatment for up to 520
      weeks after the last patient entered the nilotinib TFR phase, or until a patient experience
      unacceptable toxicity, disease progression and/or treatment discontinued at the discretion of
      the Investigator or if the patient withdrew consent. Nilotinib cessation was not attempted
      for a second time in the patient who reinitiated treatment or discontinued following the TFR
      phase.

      Nilotinib treatment continuation phase (NTCT) and Nilotinib treatment prolonged continuation
      phase (NTCT-P): Patients who were not eligible to enter into the TFR phase after completing
      the 52-week NTCS phase entered the nilotinib treatment continuation (NTCT) phase and would
      continue treatment with nilotinib for another 52 weeks (a total of 104 weeks of treatment).
      Patients who were not able to maintain MR4.5 and had a confirmed loss of MR4.5 during the
      NTCT phase were not eligible to enter the TFR-2 phase. These patients entered into the
      nilotinib prolonged treatment continuation phase (NTCT-P) and continued nilotinib treatment
      until 520 weeks after the last patient entered the nilotinib TFR phase, or until the patients
      experience unacceptable toxicity, disease progression and/or treatment would be discontinued
      at the discretion of the Investigator or withdrawal of consent.

      Nilotinib TFR-2 phase: Patients who maintained MR4.5 during the NTCT phase were eligible to
      cease nilotinib treatment and enter the TFR-2 phase. The duration of the nilotinib TFR-2
      phase is up to 520 weeks after the last patient entered the TFR phase. Patients stopped
      taking nilotinib therapy on the day they entered the TFR-2 phase.

      Nilotinib treatment re-initiation-2 (NTRI-2): If a patient had a loss of MMR or a confirmed
      loss of MR4 during the TFR-2 phase, he/she entered the nilotinib treatment re-initiation-2
      (NTRI-2) phase and resumed nilotinib treatment at a dose of either 300 mg or 400 mg bid.

      Safety follow-up was performed within 30 days after the last dose of study treatment or the
      last day in TFR/TFR-2.

      Post-treatment follow-up visits were performed every 12 weeks up to 520 weeks after the last
      patient entered the nilotinib TFR phase.
    
  