
    
      Ultrasound of upper limb vessels as a part of preoperative assessment of patients referred
      for arteriovenous access placement has been recommended repeatedly in several studies and
      guidelines. Each patient needing arterio-venous access (AVA) is unique and has different
      possibilities for fistula creation that depend on many factors as well the anatomical
      condition of inflow arteries and outflow veins, the so-called 'arteriovenous access map'. In
      2020 we created, published and retrospectively evaluated the inter-rater reliability of the
      AVAS classification, which is a simplified way of sharing the information about suitability
      for access creation depending on vascular anatomy (doi: 10.1093/ckj/sfaa189).

      However, before routine use of the AVAS classification system in clinical practise it
      requires prospective validation and comparison with other clinical factors. Finally, whether
      the AVAS classification can be used for the prediction of vascular access function as defined
      by uninterrupted use of vascular access for dialysis without need for any access
      intervention/procedures (SONG-HD, doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2017.12.003) remains to be tested.

      This project has two main parts:

        1. Validation of AVAS classification with and without combination with other factors using
           a predictive statistical model

           .

        2. Validation of AVAS classification in terms of prediction of uninterrupted use of
           successfully created vascular access for dialysis.

      The data will be collected prospectively. Both parts of the project will be taking place
      simultaneously.

      Data will be collected prospectively (Belfast City Hospital, UK, University hospital
      Královské Vinohrady Prague CZ). Other centres around the world will be asked for cooperation
      (announcement will be posted via Twitter, ResearchGate, LinkedIn, Facebook and Kidney
      Academy) in January 2021. The data collected will be the parameters of the vessels on the
      upper limb, in order to be able to evaluate AVAS (VAVASC FORM). Along with anatomical
      dispositions of the patients, other parameters will be collected.

      Obligatory parameters (parameters A):

      Side of the arm (Left / Right) Dominant hand (Left / Right) Allen's test (Positive /
      Negative) (A negative Allen's test is demonstration of a complete palmar arch and intact
      collateral blood flow to the hand) Sex(M / F) Age, Height, Weight, BMI, Diabetes (Yes / No)
      Central venous line previous or current (Yes / No) Side of the central venous line if place
      (Left / Right)

      Non-obligatory parameters (parameters B):

      Smoking history (Yes / No) Hypertension (Yes / No) Heart failure (Yes / No) Ischemic heart
      disease (Yes / No) Cancer (previous or current) (Yes / No)

      In order to evaluate uninterrupted use of the vascular access for dialysis (part 2 of the
      study), we will follow the patients and do a time to event analysis of the arteriovenous
      accesses for one year after creation or up until the first intervention for maintaining
      patency has been performed. If the patient dies during follow up the date of death should be
      recorded. The data for this part will be collected prospectively (Belfast City Hospital, UK,
      University hospital Královské Vinohrady Prague, CZ and other centres).

      Predictive models will be used for validation of AVAS classification. The data will be
      registered via electronic database and analysed by Waldauf, P. and O'Neill, S.
    
  