
    
      Hemodynamic continuous monitoring of critically-ill patients is increasingly performed with
      minimally-invasive methods, such as the proAQT sensor (PULSION Medical Systems SE, Munich,
      Germany).

      The proAQT sensor calculates hemodynamic variables such as the cardiac output, stroke volume
      (variation), pulse-pressure variation and systemic vascular resistance by pulse contour
      analysis of the arterial pressure waveform using an arterial radial or femoral catheter. This
      minimal invasive technique, also permits continuous beat-to-beat assessment.

      In patients in who an arterial catheter is placed for clinical reasons, the hemodynamic
      variables are continuously recorded. An extension line is coupled to a 3-way stopcock,
      connected to the proAQT sensor. In a neutral position of the 3-way stopcock, the pressure
      wave travels from the pressure sensor through the standard line. By turning the handle of the
      stopcock the standard line is bypassed and the pressure wave travels through the extended
      line.

      The hemodynamic registration will be as follows:

        -  two minutes in the neutral position;

        -  two minutes with one type of extension line

        -  two minutes in the neutral position

        -  two minutes with a second type of extension line

        -  two minutes in neutral position

      The arterial pressure curve and all calculated hemodynamic variables are electronically
      registered.

      The influence of two types of extension lines on the accuracy of the calculated hemodynamic
      variables will be evaluated by comparing the variables measured in neutral position and
      variables measured with the extended pressure lines. The changes in the calculated variables
      will be correlated to possible arterial pressure waveform modifications and used to evaluate
      different algorithms, which might be used to reconstruct the primary pressure wave.
    
  