
    
      The HVTN 073/SAAVI 102 study is evaluating the safety of two experimental HIV vaccines-SAAVI
      DNA-C2 and SAAVI MVA-C-given sequentially as a prime-boost regimen in healthy, HIV-uninfected
      adults. This is an extension of that study and will enroll people who participated in the
      HVTN 073/SAAVI 102 study. Previous studies have shown that a protein vaccine boost to an HIV
      vaccine may improve antibody responses. This study will evaluate the safety and immune
      response to an HIV envelope protein vaccine-the Sub C gp140 vaccine with MF59 adjuvant-in
      healthy, HIV-uninfected adults who have previously participated in the HVTN 073/SAAVI 102
      study. Study researchers will explore whether the addition of a protein boost vaccine to the
      SAAVI DNA-C2 and SAAVI MVA-C vaccine regimen improves antibody response.

      This study will enroll people who participated in the HVTN 073/SAAVI 102 study,regardless of
      whether they received vaccine or placebo. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive
      either the Sub C gp140 vaccine with MF59 adjuvant or a placebo injection during study visits
      at baseline and Month 3. At the baseline and Month 3 visits, participants will undergo a
      physical examination, HIV testing and counseling, pregnancy testing for female participants,
      interviews and questionnaires, risk reduction counseling, and blood collection (at the
      baseline visit only). They will then receive their assigned vaccine or placebo as one
      injection in their upper arm. Participants will remain in the clinic for 30 minutes after
      receiving the vaccination for observation and monitoring. For 3 days after the vaccination,
      participants will record any side effects in a symptom log and make contact daily with the
      study site staff.

      Additional study visits will occur at Weeks 1 and 2, 1 and 2 weeks after the Month 3 visit,
      and Months 6 and 9. At these visits, select baseline study procedures will occur. At Month
      15, study staff will contact participants for follow-up health monitoring. Participants will
      then complete any annual health contacts for the original HVTN 073/SAAVI 102 study.
    
  