
    
      Ovarian cancer (OC) is the second most common gynaecologic cancer and the leading cause of
      death from gynaecologic malignancy among women in industrialized countries. The global
      incidence in both developed and developing countries can be estimated as 165,000 new cases
      per year. A heavy difference in prognosis exists between the early-stage disease FIGO I-II
      (International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics and the advanced stages (FIGO
      III-IV). Unfortunately, at present, we do not have an effective screening strategy for this
      malignancy; most (70-80%) of the cases are diagnosed as advanced-stage disease, and this
      explains the high mortality rate. These aggressive features of the OC encouraged in recent
      years a big effort in order to find new strategies for early diagnosis of OC. These studies
      focused dominant on new markers and diagnostic algorithms among new markers. HE4 is one of
      the most promising. It is a protein initially identified in the epithelium of the distal
      epididymis and may be involved in sperm maturation. Despite its wide distribution, it is
      overexpressed only in pathological tissue, and it has demonstrated good sensitivity and
      specificity in detecting OC, overcoming the traditional role of CA-125. Despite an aggressive
      upfront treatment strategy (surgery plus chemotherapy), leading to clinical remission in more
      than 80% of patients, the relapse-free survival varies from 95.8% (for early FIGO stages) to
      33.6% (for advanced stages) at 2 years. At present, periodical evaluation of CA-125 combined
      with physical examination is the recommended strategy for OC follow-up, typically every 3 to
      4 months in the first 2 years after primary treatment and then every 6 months until the fifth
      year. Five years' overall survival rate, however, is 49.7% (ranging from 83%-89% in stage I
      OC to 18% in stage IV). New markers should be tested in the follow-up of patients with OC to
      improve the surveillance program performance: the challenge is to try to anticipate the
      diagnosis of OC recurrence and to translate this early diagnosis of relapse in a survival
      improvement. Few studies only are available to date about HE4 use in follow up of ovarian
      cancer. All of these studies analyzed a small number of women (8-73). HE4 was shown as an
      earlier indicator of recurrence of OC with respect to CA-125, with a lead-time of 5 to 8
      months. Only 1 prospective controlled study has been published. In this study the sensitivity
      and specificity of HE4, alone or in association with other markers (CA-125, CA-72-4), seems
      to be higher in the diagnosis of the OC relapse with respect to CA-125 alone. The other side
      of the question is whether the patient is advantaged by an earlier detection of the recurrent
      disease, in terms of overall survival, disease-free survival, and quality of life. Early
      detection and treatment of cancer in general or its recurrence are usually associated with
      better outcomes for patient, this being the rationale behind screening programs and follow-up
      strategies. In OC follow-up, periodical CA-125 evaluation can detect recurrence of cancer
      about 5 months before clinical signs or symptoms. At the same time, we have to remind, that
      treatments of relapsing OC are rarely curative and have heavy adverse effects, and elevation
      of CA-125 is often cause of anxiety in patients undergoing follow-up. The main study, that
      tried to clarify the role of CA-125 in OC follow-up was MRC OV05/EORTC (European Organisation
      for Research and Treatment of Cancer) 55955 trial a randomized study comparing early versus
      delayed treatment in women with relapsed OC. Patients in the delayed treatment group were
      treated only at clinical or symptomatic relapse. Women assigned to early treatment started
      chemotherapy 4.8 months earlier than those allocated to the delayed treatment. With a median
      follow-up of 56.9 months, there was no evidence of a difference in overall survival between
      the 2 groups. In particular, the results provided no evidence of an improved overall survival
      or a better quality of life in the early treatment group. The authors' explanation for these
      findings was that the lead-time between CA-125 rise and the clinical recurrence could be too
      short for chemotherapy to give a beneficial effect. At present, periodical evaluation of
      CA-125 combined with physical examination is the recommended strategy for OC follow-up,
      typically every 3 to 4 months in the first 2 years after primary treatment and then every 6
      months until the fifth year. Five years' overall survival rate, however, is 49.7% (ranging
      from 83%-89% in stage I OC to 18% in stage IV).
    
  