
    
      Memory loss and dementia, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), are heterogeneous in terms of
      pattern of symptoms and brain atrophy, likely due to underlying variability in AD biological
      processes, as well as comorbidity (separate diseases that co-occur with AD). The
      correspondence between clinical findings and underlying cause is imperfect, though, and the
      field has benefitted tremendously from development of biomarkers that can be used for
      diagnosis, for estimation of the biological burden of pathology, and/or for tracking disease
      trajectories. For example, in the National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association
      (NIA-AA) research framework, biomarkers of Amyloid beta, phosphorylated Tau, and
      Neurodegeneration (A/T/N) standardize the separation of cases with Alzheimer pathophysiology
      from those without it.

      A sub-cohort of UW ADRC Clinical Core participants who have amyloid deposition (A+ by
      cerebrospinal fluid [CSF] or amyloid PET) and mild degrees of cognitive impairment will be
      investigated for their specific pattern of tau deposition with tau PET. Additionally,
      participants who are thought to be resilient to Alzheimer disease, e.g. 85 years or older and
      normal cognition, or A+ by CSF or amyloid PET and normal cognition, will also be investigated
      for their specific pattern of tau deposition with tau PET.

      The ADRC Imaging and Biomarker Core will conduct and analyze these scans, and store the data
      in the Integrated Brain Imaging Center at the University of Washington Medical Center campus,
      which is directed by the PI, Dr. Grabowski. It will also use other data collected by ADRC
      Cores (such as neuropsychology testing) to perform other analysis, such as estimating
      resilience measures (i.e. the ability of the brain to function well in spite of the presence
      of AD).

      This sub-cohort will aid in the investigation of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias
      (ADRD) by providing a means to better understand the relationships between the spatial
      patterns of tau deposition, neurodegeneration in the brain, cognitive symptoms, and
      resilience. It will provide a ready source of potential participants to the larger research
      community. By standardizing and supporting the collection imaging and CSF for research
      participants with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias under the ADRC, we promote
      research synergism and productivity across UW studies of AD and related disorders.
    
  