
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of obtaining peritoneal fluid, peritoneal washings, and
      peripheral blood in patients receiving intraperitoneal (IP) chemotherapy for ovarian cancer
      at multiple institutions.

      II. Assess the recovery and viability of peripheral blood mononuclear cells and immune cell
      subsets in peritoneal fluid and washings.

      III. Assess the amount of peritoneal fluid that can be obtained pre-treatment and at
      specified time points during the course of IP chemotherapy.

      IV. Quantify the type and number of cells in peritoneal fluid, peritoneal washings, and blood
      recovered from women before and during treatment with platinum and taxane based IP
      chemotherapy.

      V. Determine the levels of immunomodulatory cytokines in peritoneal fluid, peritoneal
      washings, and blood recovered from women before and during treatment with platinum and taxane
      based IP chemotherapy.

      VI. Generate exploratory information on the impact of platinum and taxane based IP
      chemotherapy on immunomodulatory cytokines and tumor-associated alterations in cell
      phenotypes of peritoneal fluid, peritoneal washings, and blood.

      VII. To determine the feasibility of obtaining peritoneal fluid, peritoneal washings, and
      peripheral blood in patients receiving intravenous (IV) chemotherapy for ovarian cancer at
      multiple institutions (limited to patients that receive an IP catheter at the time of surgery
      and the catheter is left in by the investigator, but are subsequently treated with IV
      chemotherapy).

      VIII. Assess the amount of peritoneal fluid that can be obtained pre-treatment and at
      specified time points during the course of IV chemotherapy.

      IX. Assess the recovery and viability of peripheral blood mononuclear cells and immune cell
      subsets in peritoneal fluid and washings.

      X. Quantify the type and number of immune cells in peritoneal fluid, peritoneal washings, and
      blood recovered from women before and during treatment with platinum and taxane based IV
      chemotherapy.

      XI. Determine levels of immunomodulatory cytokines in peritoneal fluid, peritoneal washings,
      and blood recovered from women before and during treatment with platinum and taxane-based IV
      chemotherapy.

      XII. Generate exploratory information on the impact of platinum and taxane based IV
      chemotherapy on immunomodulatory cytokines tumor-associated alterations in cell phenotypes of
      peritoneal fluid, peritoneal washings, and blood.

      XIII. Explore whether there is a relationship between immune cell populations measured in
      peripheral blood, peritoneal fluid, and peritoneal washings AND immune cell subsets measured
      by immunohistochemistry in archival formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissue.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to a group based on which arm of treatment they are randomized
      to receive on Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG)-0252.

      GROUP A (IP CATHETER REMOVED): Archival formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor (collected
      during previous surgery), peritoneal fluid, peritoneal wash, and blood (for cell, plasma, and
      serum isolation) samples are collected before course one and blood (for cell, plasma, and
      serum isolations) is collected before courses two and three for translational research.

      GROUP B (IP CATHETER IN PLACE): Archival formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor (collected
      during previous surgery), peritoneal fluid, peritoneal wash, and blood (for cell, plasma, and
      serum isolation) samples are collected before course one and peritoneal fluid, peritoneal
      wash, and blood (for cell, plasma, and serum isolations) before courses two and three for
      translational research.
    
  