
    
      Transnasal esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (UT-EGD) offers physicians and patients a number of
      advantages compared with conventional peroral EGD (P-EGD) and has become increasingly popular
      in clinical practice over the past several years. However, insertion failure varying from
      2.3% to 62.7% due to tight nasal vault have been reported. Dumortire reported 17.9 % of
      patient refused UT-EGD due to nasal pain and epistaxis remains to be a common side effect.
      Therefore a well performed nasal anesthesia has been regarded as the most important step for
      UT-EGD.

      The concept of endoscopic guidance is actually an application of anterior rhinoscopy to
      select the most patent meatus for nasal anesthesia and endoscopic insertion. The scope should
      be placed in the side of the nasal cavity that is most patent. Therefore, it is reasonable
      that a nasal examination is performed prior to UT-EGD to determine the less obstructed side.

      In fact, anterior rhinoscopy is a common outpatient procedure by otolaryngologists and is
      performed with an otoscope. Instead, we use a transnasal endoscope to select the most patent
      meatus and thus we first introduce the concept of anterior "meatus-copy", which is different
      from "meatoscopy" for the urinary meatus.

      The conventional sniff nasal patency test is an inspection of nasal passability by asking a
      patient to compare the breathing-in air flow in either side of the nose. This is a
      self-selected and subjective method of choosing just the right or left nostril for transnasal
      endoscopy.

      Nasal septum and nasal turbinates, especially the inferior turbinates, are erectile tissues
      in the nose, fluctuate greatly in size depending on physiological changes (e.g. body
      temperature and exercise) and response to inflammation. Often, the sensation of a blocked
      nose is subjective. The otolaryngologist may find a perfectly patent airway and yet the
      patient will insist that his nose is clogged up. Therefore, an objective method to evaluate
      nasal patency would help to avoid a narrowed meatus, thereby reducing nasal pain and
      epistaxis during nasal anesthesia and transnasal endoscopy.

      Methods used to objectively measure nasal patency and resistance include rhinomanometry and
      acoustic rhinometry. However, these two methods are sophisticated and not straightforward.
      There is no literature describing the optimal selection method for transnasal endoscopic
      insertion. Assessments of nasal patency by dynamic methods include nasal peak flow,
      rhinomanometry, and acoustic rhinometry. However, a convenient endoscopic method of
      evaluating nasal meatus patency has not been proposed.

      Locating on the anterior portion of a meatus, the transnasal endoscope itself can act as a
      nasoscope to look for the most patent meatus.

      We found anterior meatuscopy allows the direct visualisation of the turbinates and meatus
      without causing discomfort. Thus it may be a useful ancillary technique to select the most
      patent meatus for scope insertion. Hence, the primary objective of this study is to evaluate
      whether a anterior meatuscopy scoring system could reduce nasal bleeding and improve
      tolerance associated with UT-EGD.
    
  