
    
      To find out how accurate V-CoS test is the investigator will study patients with confirmed
      Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy currently thought to be high risk. They will be tested by V-CoS
      and have their conventional risk score worked out. Patients will be followed up to 5 years to
      check if they have had a dangerously fast heartbeat or problems with their defibrillator.

      Patients will be recruited primarily from three specialist Inherited Cardiac Diseases clinics
      in London, but will include other centres as well.

      Participants will be interviewed in clinic by our team to explain the study, answer questions
      and to get permission for the test. Participants can leave the study at any time - it will
      not affect the way the investigator treat them as patients.

      Participants will spend a half day at the Cardiac Investigations unit. This day will consist
      of, in this order:

        1. Any remaining discussion of the study, the tests and the consent needed with the
           participant.

        2. Putting the sensor vest on which will be done by one of the research staff. It looks
           like a waistcoat with electrical connections and is secured to the patient's skin with
           conductive jelly underneath to help the recordings.

        3. A 3D 'CT' scan of the chest is done to show how the sensor vest lines up with the heart.
           The scan has a low radiation dose, equivalent to 6 months of natural background
           radiation.

        4. Then the participant will run on the treadmill whilst the vest is used to take
           recordings. The lowest V-CoS test score will be recorded from each participant and used
           to predict their risk.

        5. Participants will have the V-CoS test repeated whilst doing the Valsalva maneuver. This
           is when participant attempt to blow out as much air as possible from lungs, but without
           letting any out from mouth or nose.

        6. Participants with implanted pacemakers or defibrillators may undergo a test where the
           investigator give them extra heartbeats using their implanted device. The sensor vest
           will be used to take recordings. The investigator want to see if V-CoS scores can be
           lowered further than with exercise testing.

        7. Participants will have a blood test or cheek swab to send for genetic testing. Then
           participants will be followed up. If they have a defibrillator they will be telephoned
           and seen in the ICD clinic every 6 months. If they do not have a defibrillator they will
           get follow up by telephone every 3 months. Maximum follow up is 5 years.

      The results will be looked at by independent researchers to reduce bias.
    
  