
    
      The research will be conducted as a between subject design over a period of three days
      (Tuesday-Thursday). Upon arrival at the laboratory (on a Monday), participants will be
      provided with more information about the study and will complete a demographics
      questionnaire. A smartphone app will be downloaded onto the participant's phone and the
      participant will be provided with login details to access the food diary Intake24.
      Participants will be asked to complete the food diary every night over a period of three
      days. The diary will ask participants to record what they consumed for breakfast, lunch,
      dinner, as well as snack on a daily basis. All participants will receive a reminder
      notification on their phone each evening during the 3-day period to complete the Intake 24
      food diary. They will also be asked to rate how well they think they remembered the food they
      had eaten that day.

      During the 3-day period, some participants will also be asked to open reminders in sealed
      envelopes at particular times of the day. The app will additionally include a recording that
      participants will be able to listen to at their own convenience, as many times as they wish.

      The content of the reminders and recording will differ between participants depending on the
      condition they are allocated to. There will be three conditions: intervention, no distraction
      control, and no strategy control.

      In the intervention condition, participants will open reminders related to focusing on the
      sensory properties of their food while eating their meals. These participants will also have
      access to a recording that will encourage them to focus on the sensory properties of the food
      (e.g. its smell, look, texture).

      Participants in the no distraction control condition will open reminders related to eating
      their meals with no distractions. The recording provided to participants in this condition
      will encourage them to consume their meals with no surrounding distractions (e.g. to avoid
      watching television or listening to the radio). During the study, the number of times the
      recording is played as well as the date and time it is played will be recorded.

      In the intervention and no distraction control group, at the end of each of the three days
      participants will also be asked to rate the extent to which they adhered to the strategy they
      were provided with.

      In the no strategy control condition, participants will not receive any reminders to open or
      have access to a recording.

      After the three days (i.e. on a Friday), participants will return to the laboratory. They
      will be asked to complete a questionnaire regarding the usability of the mobile app and the
      online food diary. Via this questionnaire, they will also be asked about whether they thought
      taking part in the study influenced their eating behaviour and the amount of pleasure they
      got from their food during the three-day period. Additionally they will complete a
      questionnaire measuring sensitivity to reward. At this session participants will be asked if
      they are happy to have their weight and height measured. If they are, the researcher will
      measure their weight and height.
    
  