
    
      Alcohol abuse is a major burden on society and an enormous problem in the veteran population.
      Many people are aware that chronic alcohol ingestion can cause serious health problems like
      liver injury and brain damage but chronic alcohol consumption can also hurt the lungs. People
      who regularly drink more than the daily maximum levels recommended by the Centers for Disease
      Control and Prevention (CDC) (1 drink per day for women or 2 drinks per day for men) are more
      likely to suffer from pneumonia and acute lung injuries.

      The primary goal of this clinical research study is to determine if a Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) approved diabetes drug, called pioglitazone, can improve the lung immune
      defenses in otherwise healthy alcoholics. There is strong evidence from experimental animal
      models that pioglitazone preserves lung health even during daily alcohol ingestion.

      This National Institutes of Health (NIH) funded project will recruit veterans who are
      patients at the Atlanta VA Hospital. Half of the participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive pioglitazone and half will be assigned to receive no treatment. Participants assigned
      to pioglitazone will take the pill once per day for two to four weeks. To measure the effect
      of pioglitazone, participants will undergo a procedure called a bronchoscopy before taking
      the study drug and then again 2-4 weeks later to look for changes. The bronchoscopy will
      allow researchers to obtain fluid from the lungs to see how well their immune cells respond
      to bacteria (by determining phagocytic capacity). The researchers also plan to enroll 12
      healthy veteran patients who do not drink. These participants will undergo a one-time
      bronchoscopy and no other visits will be required of them.

      The findings from this study will guide future, larger scale clinical trials to determine if
      pioglitazone can be used in the clinical setting to improve outcomes in alcoholics who
      develop pneumonia or acute lung injury.
    
  