
    
      Hypothesis - Insulin independence (insulin injections no longer needed) will be achieved in
      subjects with type 1 diabetes receiving islet transplantation using the immunosuppressive
      regimen of cyclosporine and sirolimus. Amelioration of severe hypoglycemia will also be
      achieved in these groups.

      Primary Objective

      To determine the safety of islet transplantation in islet alone and in kidney transplant
      recipients. Safety analyses include:

        -  Incidence, timing and severity of adverse events and their relationship to the
           transplant protocol, islet infusion and immunosuppressive medications

        -  Proportion without protocol-related serious adverse events (SAE) at 1 year

        -  Incidence, type and severity of infectious complications

        -  Incidence and severity of procedural-related events, such as bleeding and portal vein
           thrombosis

        -  Incidence and severity of liver function test elevations

        -  Incidence and severity of hypoglycemia

        -  Incidence and severity of creatinine clearance and urine microalbumin changes

        -  Incidence and severity of lipid abnormalities

        -  Proportion of those who develop donor-specific alloantibody

      Secondary Objective

      To determine the efficacy of islet transplantation in islet alone and in kidney transplant
      recipients. Efficacy analyses include:

        -  Time to insulin independence, defined as freedom from insulin use (insulin injections
           not needed) for 14 or more consecutive days

        -  Proportion of those that achieve insulin independence at any time during the first year

        -  Proportion of those one year after final transplant who have:

             -  Positive C-peptide (≥0.3 ng/ml after stimulation)

             -  Full function of their graft

             -  Partial function of their graft

             -  Marginal function of their graft

             -  Mixed meal stimulated C-peptide >1.0 ng/ml at 6, and 12 months

        -  Proportion of those that have an acute insulin response to glucose (AIRg) >20uU/ml
           during frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test (FSIGT) at 6 and 12 months

        -  Proportion of those with blood glucose level <140 mg/dl two hours after oral glucose
           tolerance test (OGTT) at 6 and 12 months

        -  Proportion of those that have improved QOL at 6 and 12 months compared with baseline

        -  Proportion of those that have improved hypoglycemia and glycemic lability scores at 6
           and 12 months compared with baseline

      Definition of full islet function:

        -  Insulin independence

        -  A1C ≤ 6.5%

        -  Absence of severe hypoglycemic episodes

        -  Fasting glucose ≥140 mg/dl less than 3 times a week

        -  Post-prandial glucose (2 hours) >180 mg/dl less than 4 times a week

      Definition of partial islet function:

        -  Insulin requirement less than 50% of pre-transplant insulin requirement

        -  C-peptide positive (≥0.3 ng/ml after stimulation)

        -  A1C ≤ 6.5%

        -  No severe hypoglycemia

      Definition of marginal islet function:

        -  C-peptide positive (≥0.3 ng/ml after stimulation)

        -  A1C ≤ 7.5%

        -  No severe hypoglycemia

      This trial will have two study groups consisting of N=10 subjects with type 1 diabetes. One
      group (IA) will include subjects with preserved kidney function. A second group (IAK) will
      include subjects with renal failure secondary to diabetes who have received a prior kidney
      transplant at least 6 months previously and have stable renal function on a steroid-free
      immunosuppressive regimen.

      Potential study participants will be recruited from the Endocrinology and Transplant clinics
      at the Ohio State University, and community physician referrals. Those who are potentially
      eligible will undergo a screening evaluation after review of the medical records. If the
      subject remains eligible, he/she will be enrolled in the islet transplant study and will be
      placed on a waiting list for an islet transplant. Once a transplant becomes available, the
      subject will be admitted to the hospital to undergo the transplant procedure. Frequent
      follow-up visits in the transplant clinic will occur throughout the following year after the
      transplant. Subjects will be closely monitored for adverse events and insulin requirements.
      If the subject does not achieve insulin independence, he/she may be eligible for a subsequent
      transplant.

      There will be a 10-year enrollment with 12-month follow-up after last transplant. Since
      subjects may be eligible for a subsequent transplant within 18 months of the first
      transplant, the total duration may be up to 30 months after the first transplant in some
      subjects.

      The study will be completed one year after the last islet transplant. Subjects who have
      undergone the islet transplant procedure and have completed the post-transplant evaluations
      one year after their last transplant will be considered to have completed the study.
    
  