
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if treatment with cisplatin and volume-directed radiation followed by
      carboplatin and paclitaxel for 4 cycles (experimental arm) reduces the rate of recurrence or
      death (i.e., increases recurrence-free survival) when compared to chemotherapy consisting of
      carboplatin and paclitaxel for 6 cycles (control arm) in patients with stages III-IVA
      endometrial carcinoma (< 2 cm residual disease) or patients with International Federation of
      Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) 2009 stage I or II serous (uterine papillary serous
      carcinoma [UPSC]) or clear cell endometrial carcinoma and positive cytology.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if treatment with cisplatin and volume-directed radiation followed by
      carboplatin and paclitaxel for 4 cycles (experimental arm) reduces the rate of death (i.e.,
      increases survival) when compared to chemotherapy consisting of carboplatin and paclitaxel
      for 6 cycles (control arm) in patients with stages III-IVA endometrial carcinoma (< 2 cm
      residual disease) or patients with FIGO 2009 stage I or II serous (UPSC) or clear cell
      endometrial carcinoma and positive cytology.

      II. To compare the regimens with respect to acute and late adverse effects of therapy.

      III. To determine the impact of patient-reported quality of life during and following
      treatment for up to 1 year with the two treatment regimens.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor tissue and whole blood specimens
      for future research.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 29. Patients also undergo
      radiation therapy once daily (QD), 5 days a week, for 5-6 weeks. Some patients may then
      undergo brachytherapy over 2-3 weeks. Beginning within 8 weeks after completion of
      chemoradiotherapy, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  