
    
      Eligible thirty subjects will be randomized in a double blinded fashion to either
      Rosiglitazone 4mg pills twice a day versus placebo for six weeks. Then after this six week
      period, both groups will be treated for 48 weeks of standard therapy for hepatitis C
      consisting of Pegasys 180mcq weekly injections with Ribavirin 1,000mg-1,200mg daily depending
      if the subject weights less than 75 kg will then receive the lower dosage. In addition, the
      subjects will be continued on Rosiglitazone or placebo for the 48 weeks.

      The subjects will be monitored for side-effects by history taking and blood testing at
      predetermined time periods during the study. If the viral load has not dropped more than two
      log at week 12 of standard therapy for hepatitis C then therapy will be stopped and the
      subject is considered a treatment failure. Similarly, if there was a greater than two log
      drop in the viral load at week 12 but there is still virus present in the blood at week 24
      then therapy is stopped and the subject is considered treatment failure. If the virus is
      undetectable in the blood at week 12 and 24 then therapy is continued for the full 48 weeks.
      If the virus is detectable at week 48 then the subject is considered a treatment failure.

      After this 48 week treatment period and the virus is still undetectable, there is a follow-up
      period consisting of 24 weeks off therapy. At the end of the 24 weeks, blood will be tested
      for the virus and if the virus is not present then the subject has a sustained viral response
      and is a treatment success.

      During therapy if the subject becomes significantly anemic Procrit 40,000Units weekly
      injections will be started. Similarly, if the white blood cell count drops below a certain
      level then weekly Neupogen 300mcq injections will be started. In addition, if there is mild
      depressive symptoms treatment will be started but if there is major depressive symptoms, then
      therapy will be stopped and a referral to a psychiatrist will be made.
    
  