
    
      SURGICAL PROCEDURE:

      After local anesthesia and a large full-thickness mucoperiosteal flap in the area of
      interest, an osteotomy window on the side wall of the maxillary sinus will be opened using
      bone scrapers and / or ultrasonic instruments. Will be recorded the time needed for the
      opening dell'antrostomy and any perforations of the membrane at this stage. The Schneider
      membrane is then gently elevated with ultrasonic instrumentation and curettes manuals: after
      testing the integrity of the membrane by means of visual inspection and the Valsalva
      maneuver, the sealed envelope in which will be indicated to the surgeon the material to be
      used as a graft will be opened. The biomaterials selected for this study are a synthetic
      nano-hydroxyapatite (SNHA) (FISIOGRAFT Bone, Italy), to be used either alone, or mixed with a
      polylactic- polyglycolic copolymer (PLGA) (FISIOGRAFT, Italy), or mixed with autologous
      platelet derived (i-PRF) and inorganic bovine bone (ABB) (Bio-Oss, Geistlich, Switzerland).
      After completing the insertion of the biomaterial, the antrostomy will be protected with a
      resorbable collagen membrane (BioGide, Geistlich, Switzerland) and the flaps will be sutured
      with a synthetic monofilament.

      It will prescribe antibiotics for 6 days (amoxicillin 1 g twice daily or, in allergic
      patients, clarithromycin 250 mg twice a day) and NSAIDs (ibuprofen 600 mg), as needed. An
      aerosol treatment with beclomethasone dipropionate and n-acetylcysteine (Fluimucil, Zambon,
      Italy) will be prescribed at the discretion of the clinician.

      POSTOPERATIVE RECALLS:

      The sutures will be removed after 10 days and a cone beam computed tomography X-ray will be
      performed to assess the correct distribution of the graft material and early intercept any
      accidental leakage of the same in the sinus cavities.

      After six months it will proceed to a new radiographic evaluation to assess the resulting
      regeneration and be able to plan the implant placement.

      It will then proceed to the preparation of the sites for the implants using twist-drills. The
      fixtures are left healed submerged for a period of four months, at the end of which will be
      connected with the healing screws to start the prosthetic procedures.

      After therapy patients will enter a maintenance program with periodic reminders of
      professional oral hygiene. Patients will be re-evaluated clinically and radiologically after
      one, three and five years to control the condition of the plants and the stability of the
      performed regeneration.
    
  