
    
      Rationale: The increased prevalence of obesity and the related risk for metabolic diseases
      have resulted in increased interest in prevention of obesity through life-style
      interventions. The site of fat storage (visceral or subcutaneous) is considered to be
      relevant in terms of risk for metabolic disorders. The type of fat consumed may determine
      storage in either fat storage site and hence be related to metabolic disorders. Long-chain
      fatty acids have been suggested to be preferentially targeted to subcutaneous fat, whereas
      medium chain fatty acids may preferably be targeted to the visceral fat depot.

      Objective: The primary objective is to examine the effect of body fat distribution on the
      physiological response to a dietary fat intervention. Physiological response will be
      evaluated as fatty acid kinetics (plasma and subcutaneous fat appearance), targeted protein
      production (apoB and adiponectin) and satiety.

      Study design: The study is designed as a randomized, double-blind, cross-over trial. Two
      treatments will be supplied for three weeks, with a wash-out period of at least 3 weeks
      in-between.

      Study population: Twelve apparently healthy overweight/obese men (30-60 years of age) with a
      BMI of 27-35 kg.m-2 (6 upper body obese (high WHR) en 6 lower body obese (low WHR)).

      Intervention: Three weeks intervention with a fat replacement containing long chain fatty
      acids and three weeks intervention with a fat replacement containing medium chain fatty
      acids. The margarines will replace the normally consumed margarine. Consumption will take
      place with breakfast, lunch and dinner.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: On the last day of each treatment period subjects will come
      to TNO for evaluation of the effect of the dietary intervention on fat metabolism and fat
      tissue. This will be examined with stable isotope techniques and fat biopsies of subcutaneous
      fat. At baseline subjects will have a total body scan in the MRI to characterize body fat.
    
  