
    
      Background:

      The ion-loaded natural PMA-zeolite do not act on the body as ion-robber in the digestive
      tract. The naturally occurring zeolites absorb defined ions in accordance to their
      selectivity alignment from their surroundings - e.g. in the gastrointestinal tract in the
      case of the specific certified PMA-zeolite. At the same time the PMA-zeolite absorbs defined
      harmful substances (mainly heavy metals and ammonium ions) in the gastrointestinal tract,
      while at the same time the alkaline ions contained in the crystal lattice are released (Mg2+,
      Ca2+, K+, Na+). Loaded with harmful substances, the zeolite is then excreted through the
      gastrointestinal tract without interfering with the body's metabolism.

      The detoxification potential of zeolite was shown in various studies and the safety and
      efficacy is well documented. The measurement of the mineral metabolism was also included in a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT). The knowledge about its potential in releasing minerals
      needs however to be investigated further to broaden the knowledge from previous
      study-outcomes.

      Methods/study-subjects:

      Evaluation of the effect of the PMA-zeolite supplementation through analysis of defined
      blood-parameters before and after 28 days on two groups of 15 healthy volunteers (males and
      females) divided in NAiVE (started intake at day 1) and CHRONIC user group (intake of
      PMA-zeolite min. 28 before study-start).

      Hypothesis:

      Due to the defined effect mechanism of PMA-zeolite absorbing harmful substances (contaminants
      and heavy-metals) in the gastrointestinal tract and release of physiologically important
      minerals at the same time our hypothesis/ evaluated effects were that the PMA-zeolite has no
      negative impact on the mineral metabolism and might support. the natural body homeostasis,
      the measurement of the detoxification ability through a heavy-metal panel and other defined
      parameters.

      Aims:

      Aim of this intervention is hypothesized to lead to improvement of the enumerated values
      after an application after 28 days (NAiVE group).
    
  