
    
      Rationale: Anti-glomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM) glomerulonephritis is a rare
      organ-specific autoimmune disease that is mediated by anti-GBM antibodies. It is
      characterized by acute renal failure due to diffuse crescentic glomerulonephritis, often
      accompanied by pulmonary hemorrhage. Established treatment is cyclophosphamide and
      corticosteroids to suppress anti-GBM production and daily plasma exchange to remove
      circulating anti-GBM antibodies. The vast majority of patients with anti-GBM
      glomerulonephritis develop irreversible end-stage renal failure despite this treatment. The
      treatment goal in anti-GBM glomerulonephritis is to achieve undetectable anti-GBM titres as
      rapid as possible. Immunoadsorption is an extracorporeal technique that selectively removes
      antibodies and may lower anti-GBM titres more effectively than plasma exchange. With this
      technique the patient's plasma is passed through an immunoadsorption column that contains
      protein A that binds antibodies of the IgG class like anti-GBM antibodies. However, data on
      the efficacy of anti-GBM removal by immunoadsorption compared with plasma exchange are
      scarce. In the literature, there are only a few case descriptions of the clinical effect of
      immunoadsorption in patients with anti-GBM disease with some cases showing recovery of renal
      function despite unfavourable prognosis (serum creatinine >500 µmol/l and/or high percentage
      of crescents on renal biopsy). Immunoadsorption is presently not used in the Netherlands for
      anti-GBM disease.

      Objective: To study the efficacy, adverse events, logistic feasibility and costs of
      immuno-adsorption for the removal of anti-GBM antibodies in patients with acute renal failure
      due to anti-GBM glomerulonephritis.

      Study design: Interventional, open, non-randomized, pilot study. After informed consent,
      patients will be treated according to the current treatment protocol with the exception of
      daily immunoadsorption instead of daily plasma exchange.

      Study population: 8 patients with acute renal failure due to anti-GBM glomerulonephritis with
      or without accompanying pulmonary involvement.

      Intervention: Participating patients will be treated with daily immunoadsorption (2.5 times
      the plasma volume), instead of plasma exchange, until anti-GBM titres are undetectable. All
      other aspects of the treatment (e.g. immunosuppressive treatment, renal replacement therapy)
      will be standard.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary study parameter is the number of days that
      anti-GBM antibody titre is above a toxic level, defined as >30 ELISA units. Plasma levels of
      anti-GBM will be measured before and after each immunoadsorption treatment. Courses of
      anti-GBM titres will be compared with an historical cohort of patients with anti-GBM disease
      treated with plasma exchange. Secondary study parameters are: 1. Tolerability and adverse
      events of immunoadsorption. 2. Logistic feasibility defined as the time interval between
      diagnosis and start of first immunoadsorption treatment; 3. Costs of immunoadsorption
      (personnel and materials).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: From a patient's perspective, the burden of daily immunoadsorption is comparable
      with that of daily plasma exchange with regard to vascular access (central venous catheter)
      and blood sampling to monitor treatment response. The treatment time is approximately one
      hour longer than plasma exchange (4 hours instead of 3 hours). Possible adverse effects of
      immunoadsorption are part of the current study proposal but previous studies in other patient
      groups suggest that frequency and severity of adverse effects of immunoadsorption are
      comparable with plasma exchange.
    
  