
    
      There is evidence that vitamin D has a favorable effect on bone and muscle. Many adults have
      low blood levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) and consequently, vitamin D supplements are
      being widely recommended. The effect of a meal on the absorption of vitamin D is poorly
      understood. This single blind study will examine whether the amount and type of fat in the
      meal with which vitamin D is taken influences its absorption. Vitamin D dissolves in fat and
      so dietary fat may affect its absorption; moreover the type of fat with respect to mono- and
      poly-unsaturation may also influence absorption. This study should increase our understanding
      of how best to take vitamin D in order to achieve maximal absorption. Up to 65 healthy older
      men and women with 25OHDlevels in the insufficient range will be enrolled in order to get 60
      completers in this 1-day study. They will randomized to one of three meal groups: high
      MUFA/PUFA (n=30), low MUFA/PUFA (n=15), or fat-free (n=15). Those in the high MUFA/PUFA group
      will also be randomized to a single dose of either 1,600 or 50,800 IU of vitamin D. All
      participants in the other two groups will receive the 50,800 IU dose. They will consume only
      the three meals provided during the study day. In the morning they will come to the Center
      for a blood draw, to consume their breakfast meal, and to take their assigned dose of vitamin
      D (part of which is labeled with the non-radioactive tracer, deuterium to enable direct
      assessment of vitamin D absorption). They will also complete questionnaires about their diet
      and health and have a DXA total body scan. They will be given a boxed lunch to eat at noon.
      They will return to HNRCA for blood draws at 6:00, 8:00, and 10:00 pm. They will have dinner
      at HNRCA after the 6:00 pm blood draw. They finish the study after the final blood draw.
      Participants who receive the higher dose of vitamin D, 50,800 IU, will be asked not to take
      more than 400 IU of vitamin D or 1000 mg per day of supplemental calcium or attend tanning
      salons for the month after completing the study, in order to minimize any risk of symptoms
      from the vitamin D. Blood draws include screening visit 20 cc, morning visit 15 cc, and three
      evening blood draws of 15, 15, and 15 cc, respectively, total 80 cc.
    
  