
    
      Periodontitis is a multifactorial disease where microbial dental biofilms are considered to
      be a key etiological agent for the initiation & progression of the inflammatory process.
      Apart from the microbial biofilms, several other risk factors have been associated with
      increased susceptibility, progression and severity of periodontal diseases such as systemic
      diseases, genetic polymorphisms, socio-economic or educational status, tobacco smoking, oral
      hygiene level and psychological stress.

      With respect to other possible factors influencing chronic periodontitis, more direct
      evidence has emerged that stress, depression and anxiety contribute to the development of
      periodontitis in odds ratio of 1:2. Further, it has been shown that subjects with stress are
      more prone to develop periodontal disease than subjects without stress. It is speculated that
      chronic stress contribute to the development of periodontitis by having a net negative effect
      on the immunological response of body or by health related risk behaviors such as smoking,
      over eating and lessen compliance with the preventive behavior or even both. In addition, it
      has been found that patients experiencing stress were slower in recovery from periodontal
      treatment compared to subjects who are not experiencing stress.

      Interestingly, the impact of stress on the pathogenesis and periodontal treatment outcomes
      depends upon the individuals coping ability. Literature evidence shows that emotional-focused
      coping individuals (defensive coping, resigned coping, distractive coping which are
      advantageous in the short term) have more advanced disease and poor response to non-surgical
      periodontal treatment when compared to problem focused coping (i.e. active coping). Hence,
      assessment of a patient's stress level, their coping ability and stress management might be
      of value in understanding psychological effects on periodontal health and its disease
      process, which will be helpful in future preventive care. Considering these facts, we
      hypothesize that if stress is causally related to the worsening of parameters in a chronic
      periodontitis patient, its alleviation might result in an additive response to the
      conventional periodontal therapy. However, till date, there are no intervention studies on
      possibility of employing psychological intervention (stress reduction therapy) as adjunctive
      measure in the treatment of periodontitis subjects with unfavorable psychological background.
      Hence, considering this hypothesis, the present study is conducted which is first of its
      kind, to explore and evaluate, if intervention focused on stress management enhancement
      training may serve as adjunctive role in non-surgical treatment of periodontal diseases by
      monitoring the improvements in periodontal condition through clinical parameters and
      correlating with stress marker like salivary cortisol levels and Derogatis stress profile
      (DSP) scores.
    
  