
    
      Participation in daily physical activity programs by young children is currently recommended
      as a means of promoting bone health. Results from studies of adults indicate that beneficial
      effects of either physical activity or calcium (Ca) intake may be apparent only when both
      these factors are present. Our results in infants indicate that physical activity combined
      with a low Ca diet may be detrimental in terms of bone mass accretion. The overall objective
      of this study is to determine whether Ca intake modifies the bone response to activity in
      young children 3 to 4 years of age.

      Our hypotheses are that (1) the increase in bone mass resulting from a physical activity
      program will be more pronounced in children randomized to receive a Ca supplement compared to
      the increase in children randomized to receive a placebo; and (2) 12 months after cessation
      of the activity program, bone mass will remain higher in children randomized to gross motor
      activity compared to children randomized to fine motor activity, and the beneficial effect of
      Ca supplementation will persist only among children randomized to gross motor activity. We
      will test these hypotheses in a randomized 2 x 2 factorial trial in 3- to 4-year-old
      children. We will randomize children into either a gross motor or fine motor activity program
      that will be conducted in childcare centers 5 days a week for 1 year. We will further
      randomize each child into either a Ca supplement (1 g/d) or placebo group.

      The primary outcomes of the study are bone mass accretion and changes in bone mineral
      density, which we will determine by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry at the beginning and end
      of the study. We will do activity assessments throughout the study period to determine
      whether participation in the gross motor activity group also increases spontaneous activity
      in these children. Anthropometric measurements and dietary information will allow us to
      statistically control for these potential confounders. We will obtain additional bone mass
      and physical activity measurements 12 months after completion of the program to determine if
      these interventions have long-term effects on bone mineral density and physical activity.

      A finding of beneficial effects of Ca supplementation or physical activity, either
      independent of each other or in combination, will lay the groundwork for devising prevention
      strategies within the educational system that optimize bone health beginning early in life.
      However, we may find that increased physical activity in the presence of a low to moderate Ca
      intake may have a detrimental effect on bone mass accretion during periods of rapid growth.
    
  