
    
      It is estimated that 6 months after stroke, 45% of survivors have some type of functional
      dependence. The impact of stroke is quantified in disability adjusted life-years (DALYs),
      where DALY is 1 year of healthy life lost. Worldwide, the average number of post stroke DALYs
      is projected to be 60.9 million by 2030. Although, the incidence of stroke disease increases
      with age, rates in young adults are rising suggesting a need for strategies to improve
      prevention. Beyond vital prognosis, stroke patients are also at increased risk of poor
      outcome within the first year of the event including re-hospitalization, recurrent event,
      dementia, mild cognitive disorder, depression and fatigue, and all affect quality of life.
      Given these observations, an urgent development of acute care provision, as well as resources
      for post-stroke therapeutic strategies are needed. PROICTUS not only could improve PROMS
      (patient reported outcome measures) and quality of life, it is also the tool to increase the
      adherence to the treatment, reduce the risk factors and ensure an adequate secondary
      prevention. Patients will be recruited from the emergency service of the Hospital in a period
      within 14 days from the index event. Half of the selected participants will be part of the
      PROICTUS interventional project and the other half of the selected patients will receive the
      usual management. All patients will be contacted by a phone call, the PROICTUS project will
      be explained to both arms, inform consent obtained and a blood extraction (lipid profile and
      glycosylated haemoglobin) will be performed. Non interventional group will follow up usual
      medical care and they will not be contacted by the referent nurse for 12 months. After 1 year
      of the stroke, participants of the no intervention group will be contacted by phone and
      primary outcome measurements obtained.

      Interventional group will receive a second call 30 days after the stroke. In the second call,
      patients will get personalize information about his/her health situation and comprehensive
      individualized communication. For that, the main intervention will be direct contact with the
      lead nurse by telephone/email.

      Basal evaluation will be assessed by five surveys: PROMIS 57 Profile v.2.1, the EQ-5D-5L,
      survey of treatment adherence, survey of adherence to the Mediterranean diet and the Stroke
      Riskometer. These evaluation will be repeated at 90 days and 12 months after stroke. This
      group will also have a tensiometer to measure pressure blood, cardiac rate and detected
      arrhythmias. Additionaly, participants of this arm could call the nurse two days per week to
      ask her whatever they need.

      Acute ischemic stroke represents a very important and still to be solved health and social
      problem. For that, this project is a great challenge and many people would beneficiate of its
      progress.
    
  