
    
      A prospective, controlled, randomized study was carried out. Two parallel, randomly separated
      groups were monitored. The intervention group received treatment with true acupuncture
      techniques (TA) on a selection of points described as effective in the literature, and the
      control group received treatment with acupuncture needles on sham points (SA).

      The study was carried out with volunteers, who were informed about its rationale and invited
      to participate provided they met the following inclusion criteria: they had been diagnosed
      with the impingement syndrome, with compatible clinical symptoms of more than 3 months of
      progression; they presented with a unilateral injury; and they had signed their informed
      consent. Furthermore, the following exclusion criteria were also applied: previous surgery of
      the injured shoulder; previous luxation or fracture; neurological injuries or illnesses with
      musculoskeletal disorders.

      All the participants who met the selection criteria were invited to an initial consultation
      to receive information about the study and sign consent. Each participant was randomly
      assigned to one of the two groups to receive a treatment with: 1) acupuncture at true local
      and distal points (TA) or 2) acupuncture at sham points (SA).

      The random assignment of each participant to one of the two groups of the study was completed
      when the subjects agreed to participate and signed their consent. Each of them received a
      code that assigned them to one of the two groups.

      The distribution of the participants in each group was also known to the main researcher,
      having been completed according to a random sequence of codes generated by a random generator
      program (Numbers®) which produced a list of values (0=acupuncture on sham points (SA); 1=true
      acupuncture (TA)). Each patient who joined the study received an identification number
      dictated by the order of their recruitment to the sample, which was matched to the list to
      include them in one or other of the two groups.

      Each participant was informed about the sort of study they were taking part in, but they
      remained blind to their treatment arm at all times, during both the intervention phase and
      the monitoring phase.

      Each participant received four acupuncture sessions, one per week. Each patient was assessed
      by one of the researchers in their first consultation before receiving any acupuncture
      session to obtain a baseline (T0), once the four treatment sessions were completed (T1) and 3
      months after the end of the treatment (T2).

      After examination of the existing literature, it was decided that an improvement in the
      perception of pain measured by the VAS (Visual Analogic Scale) of at least a decrease of 20
      mm should represent achievement of a clinically significant outcome. In order to obtain a
      level of significance of 5% and a statistical power of 90%, it was calculated that 62
      subjects had to be included in the study. After factoring in an estimated drop-out rate of
      10%, a sample of 70 subjects was decided upon.
    
  