
    
      Study design: A single center single arm prospective study aiming to estimate the incidence
      rate of obturator nerve reflex and leg jerking during TURBTs, evaluate the efficacy of
      obturator nerve block (ONB) in the prevention of inadvertent muscle spasm, and identify
      predictors for both the jerking reflex and successful nerve block.

      Study population: patients who are scheduled for TUR for bladder tumor, as standard care, who
      are willing and able to participate in the study

      Intervention: a uni-lateral ONB (using Lidocaine 2%)

      Study outline: Once in the operating room patients will be monitored by continuous
      electrocardiography, non-invasive arterial blood pressure measurement, and pulse oximetry in
      the usual manner. They will then undergo general or spinal anesthesia according to their
      preference and at the discretion of the treating anesthesiologist, without the use of muscle
      relaxants. As part of the study, a uni-lateral ONB will be performed under ultrasound
      guidance- using 2% lidocaine for obtaining a short term block, for the duration of the
      procedure itself. The non-blocked nerve will be used as control. The surgeon will be blinded
      as to the side in which the ONB has been performed. A catheter will be used to fill the
      bladder with saline to its full capacity. The inner wall of the bladder will then be
      stimulated to test for an obturator nerve reflex and leg jerking. Stimulation will be done
      using a trans-resectoscope and a single-twitch electrical current generated by a
      neuromuscular monitoring device, as previously described by Mihara et al. Four different
      bladder volumes will be tested. For each bladder volume, a reflex response on both sides will
      be documented and graded. The investigators will then proceed with a TUR in the usual manner.

      Primary endpoints: frequency of obturator jerk reflex and efficacy of obturator nerve block
    
  