
    
      The study is a randomized controlled trial with an economic evaluation of a Red Cross respite
      care stay for homeless people, who have just been discharged from hospital in the capitol
      region of Denmark.

      The effect of a respite care stay for homeless people has never been investigated in Denmark.

      Intervention:

      The intervention consists of a 2 week stay at a Red Cross respite center. The intervention is
      intended for homeless or the functional homeless who is not ill enough to stay in the
      hospital, but to sick or frail to live on the streets. The homeless patients have received
      the standard medical care and treatment at the hospital and would under normal circumstances
      be discharged to live on the street and receive care from programs in the municipalities. The
      respite care center offers a free stay with a place to sleep, food three times a day, help
      with nursing tasks and help dealing with social problems such as economy and housing. The
      place is led by a nurse who is working during daytime from Monday to Friday and besides that,
      volunteers are used as staff.

      The control group is discharged from hospital to the street and the usual programs in the
      municipalities.

      Outcome:

      The primary outcome is the difference in health economic costs measured in DKK over a period
      of 3 months. The secondary outcomes are difference in Quality adjusted life-years (QALY) over
      a period of 3 month, health economic costs over a period of 6 months, difference in elective
      health care costs, difference in acute health care costs and difference in social costs.

      Quality adjusted life-years can be calculated by using the EQ-5D-5l questionnaire that
      measures health related quality of life (HRQoL). The answers from the questionnaire can be
      converted to an index value and is used to calculate QALY's. Quality Adjusted Life-Years is
      also used as the outcome measure of the cost-utility analysis (CUA).

      Data collection:

      Data about health economic costs for the CUA is going to be extracted from the National
      Patient Registry, Civil Registration System, The National Health Insurance Service Registry,
      communal databases and from the operational costs of the respite center.

      HRQoL is measured by using the questionnaire EQ-5D-5L. All participants answer the
      questionnaire at baseline at the hospital before randomization, then 2 weeks later and again
      3 month from baseline. The answers from the questionnaire can be converted to an index value
      and is used to calculate Quality Adjusted Life-years (QALY). In this way it can be
      investigated whether there has been an increase or decrease in QALY's and clarify if there is
      any difference between the two groups.

      Variables:

      There will be collected information on following variables, demographics, mental illness
      (reported from latest hospital admission by the social nurses), physical health by Charlson
      score, self-reported substance abuse and duration of homelessness. Moreover records from the
      Red Cross respite center will be reviewed and information about what the individuals received
      help with is registered.

      Analyses:

      Regarding the primary outcome, an analysis of variance is performed to determine the
      difference between the costs of the intervention and control group. Furthermore analysis of
      variance is performed to compare the development in QALY's in both groups. Both the analysis
      for the primary and secondary outcome is performed as an intention to treat analysis.

      The economic evaluation is performed like a CUA. Results from the CUA will be presented as an
      incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).

      In case of a skew distribution between intervention and control group in possible confounders
      like the variables mentioned above, the analysis will also be adjusted for these.

      Sample size:

      With a power of 80 %, p- values=0,05, an estimated health economic costs in the control group
      on 100.000 DKK and a standard deviation of 39.243 DKK. To detect a difference between the
      groups of minimum 25.000 DKK, a total of 96 participants are needed in the study. That
      includes 20 % drop-out for data regarding the questionnaires.
    
  