
    
      The study encompassed 79 patients who were retrospectively identified. Eligible patients were
      those who had developed acute-GVHD of the skin and had been treated by photochemotherapy at
      the dermatology department at Huddinge University Hospital before the end of 2005. The
      follow-up of survival and relapse was a minimum ten year follow up. Patients with elevated
      bilirubin or excessive diarrhoea fulfilling the criteria of acute-GVHD of liver or
      gastrointestinal acute-GVHD were excluded, this to prevent confounding of the primary outcome
      measure by secondary ARDS elicited from the viscera and to limit the confounding of
      generalized toxicity or infections. The patients were diagnosed in accordance with the
      Glucksberg criteria, i.e. the extent of skin rash was stratified into skin disease stage 1
      for an erytomatoeus rash covering <25% of the TBSA, skin disease stage 2 for a rash affecting
      25 - 50% of the BSA and skin disease stage 3 for a rash affecting more than 50% of the
      TBSA.(Glucksberg H., 1974, Ringden O., 1996). The acute-GVHD diagnosis was supported with
      biopsy- and post-mortem histopathology. The patients who received methotrexate i.v. as an
      immunosuppressive treatment combined with photochemotherapy were compared with the patients
      who only received photochemotherapy. Photochemotherapy was administered at the department of
      dermatology where treatment data, including number of treatments and dose, treatment effect
      and adverse effects of photochemotherapy were recorded. Methotrexate was administered at the
      transplant unit. Non-negotiable variables and outcomes where primarily chosen to limit the
      bias. Toxicity was estimated by photo toxicity, renal impairment, liver damage and
      myelosuppression. The effect on acute-GVHD, creatinine, ALAT, leukocyte counts was determined
      from the prospective data records at the transplantation unit. All data including cause of
      death was cross checked with the centre for allogeneic stem-cell transplantation, (CAST)
      quality register and the records from CAST, the intensive care unit and the department of
      haematology including the death certificate. The study was undertaken in accordance with the
      Helsinki declaration and approved by the regional ethics committee, number 2012/969-31/3 with
      addendum 2014/1569-32 and number 425/97.

      Treatment of acute-GVHD The acute-GVHD was treated with Corticosteroids in a dose of 2mg/kg
      prednisolone i.v. with additional bolus doses of methylprednisolone at the hands of the
      attending doctor. The variable corticosteroid treatment at the start of photochemotherapy was
      divided into: no corticosteroids, corticosteroid treatment but not corticosteroid resistant
      acute-GVHD, and finally corticosteroid resistant acute-GVHD (Remberger M., 2001). Oral
      8-methoxypsoralene (8-MOP), (0.4-0.8 mg/kg), was ingested 1.5-2 h before the BSA was radiated
      by Long-wave UVA (320-400 nm) from a Waldmann UV1000 supine unit (Waldmann,
      Villingen-Schwenningen, Germany) with 26 Waldmann F85 100-W fluorescent photochemotherapy
      lamps or a Waldmann UV3003K half-body unit with 15 Waldmann F85 100-W photochemotherapy lamps
      (Parrish J.A., 1974, Henseler T., 1981). During UVA the genital area of male patients was
      protected. Eyes were shielded for 24 h thereafter during therapy. The dose of
      photochemotherapy was divided into the binary variable; low dose i.e. (0 - 9) treatments
      versus 10 treatments or more. Methotrexate was administered i.v. in 7,5 mg/m2 body surface
      area (1-3) times not more often than three times a week (Nassar A 2014). Concomitant
      injection of methotrexate during the period of photochemotherapy was registered as the binary
      variable; present or not present.

      Outcome The Primary outcome; Crude pulmonary mortality was defined as lethal outcome of
      pulmonary disease and comprised IPS including interstitial pneumonitis with or without
      pulmonary infection, but also pneumonia and undefined respiratory insufficiency or
      interstitial fibrosis. As secondary outcome pulmonary mortality was divided into a binary
      variable; where those causes primarily associated with severe immunosuppression e.g.
      pulmonary mortality secondary to opportunistic infections; i.e. CMV-pneumonitis, fungal
      pneumonia or with a diagnosis of CMV-infection or fungal infections at the time of pulmonary
      mortality, was separated from the group of patients who died from pulmonary mortality without
      concomitant opportunistic disease (Yanik G., 2005, Watkins T.R., 2005, Forslow U., 2006,
      Bjorklund A., 2007) Chronic graft-versus-host disease was both included as a secondary
      outcome of acute-GVHD treatment and included as a predictor in the multivariate analysis for
      non-opportunistic pulmonary mortality.

      The study size

      The Study Size was all the patients in the closed photochemotherapy cohort who had cutaneous
      acute-GVHD without concomitant visceral disease at the start of photochemotherapy.

      Statistical methods Shapiro-wilk was used to define if the variables were parametric or
      non-parametric. Parametric data was described with mean and +- SD, while non-parametric data
      was described with median and max-min. Kaplan and Meier curves was used to depict cumulative
      incidence of survival and Cox proportional hazards ratio was used to evaluate the risk for
      death in respiratory disease not explained by infectious agents. Log-rank test was used to
      variables that did not fit into the cox-model.
    
  