
    
      Pakistan has the highest global newborn mortality rate (45.6/1,000 live births), with 1 in 22
      babies dying before the end of their first month (UNICEF, 2018). Some of the highest
      perinatal and neonatal mortality rates are found in districts of Pakistan's mountainous
      northern region, where geography, climate and security risks make it challenging for women in
      remote communities to reach health services in a timely manner. Implementation of a health
      facility mortality audit cycle has proved successful in reducing perinatal mortality by up to
      30% in other LMICs. Meanwhile evidence suggests that the most common factors contributing to
      high mortality rates are due to phase-one delays. Given the geographical location of GB and
      accompanying constraints such as terrain and security, this study will attempt to
      operationalize linkages between the community and facility to not only improve facility-based
      delivery services, but to effect change at the community, through community-feedback meetings
      to mitigate phase one and two delays and improve maternal, perinatal and neonatal outcomes.
      Data from this study may help inform government policy decisions about standardized mortality
      audits with community feedback.

      Objectives of the study

      Broad objective:

      The overall aim of the study is to assess whether implementation of facility-based maternal,
      perinatal and neonatal mortality audits (systemic clinical reviews of near misses and
      deaths), in combination with targeted community engagement and awareness activities,
      increases the recognition of danger signs during pregnancy, the number of facility deliveries
      and encourages the discussion of a birthing plan, thereby reducing phase -one, two and three
      delays as compared to implementing facility-based mortality audits only. This will be
      assessed by monitoring births and outcomes in public and private health facilities and their
      associated catchment communities in GB. The study will also evaluate whether these targeted
      community-engagement activities, informed by the clinical audits improve the quality of
      delivery services through better utilization of local resources and improvements in clinical
      signal functions.

      Specific objectives Primary objective

      To determine the effect of a combined approach of facility-based audits (clinical reviews)
      linked to community engagement on core community behaviours/practices to improve obstetric,
      perinatal and neonatal outcomes as compared to standard perinatal and neonatal facility-based
      audits only and no facility-based audits. Key practices include:

        1. Recognition of danger signs among women during pregnancy, labour and delivery, after
           delivery and in newborns

        2. Actions taken for a birthing preparation plan

      Secondary objectives

        1. Assess facility deliveries

        2. Assess severe maternal morbidity outcomes during delivery (including maternal near
           misses )

        3. Assess changes in quality of delivery services as measured through the delivery room
           checklist

        4. Assess changes in first delay (care-seeking decision) I. Delay due to lack of knowledge
           II. Lack of empowerment (sociocultural factors/barriers such as women's decision making,
           women's status)

        5. Assess changes in second delay (identification and reaching health facility)

        6. Assess changes in third delay (receiving adequate care and treatment at facilities)

        7. Assess perinatal mortality rates (fresh still birth or neonatal death in the first week
           of life)

        8. Assess neonatal mortality rates (deaths in the first 28 days of life)
    
  