
    
      Obesity is a major global health concern that is associated with significant disability and
      mortality. Worldwide, the prevalence of obesity has doubled since 1980, affecting 13% of the
      global population. Bariatric surgery has been shown to be the most effective and durable
      treatment of severe obesity and leads to significant improvement of obesity-related
      comorbidity. However, postprandial hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia (PHH) after bariatric
      surgery is a metabolic complication that is increasingly being recognized. Prevalence rates
      of up to 72% have been reported. PHH may have serious implications for affected patients,
      including negative effects on morbidity, mortality as well as quality of life. The
      pathophysiology of PPH is incompletely understood and suggests decreased adaptation of beta
      cell function to increased insulin sensitivity. The latter has been postulated to be largely
      secondary due to external factors outside the beta cells as a result of anatomical and
      hormonal changes after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB). However, the intrinsic mechanistic
      effects of altered beta-cell function after RYGB in vivo are unknown and more exploration
      could lead to a better understanding of PHH pathogenesis and help identify targets for
      possible interventions. Previous studies performed enhanced beta cell analysis by following
      insulin synthesis in real-time based on stable isotope labelling of C-peptide during an oral
      glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in cohorts with normal and diabetic glucose tolerance. Applying
      the same methodological approach, albeit in a different target population (PPH after
      bariatric surgery), the present study seeks to explore whether or not the insulin
      hypersecretion can be explained by an increase in insulin synthesis, and secondly, whether
      potentially increased insulin synthesis can be related to other glucoregulatory hormones and
      measures of insulin sensitivity.
    
  