
    
      Severe aplastic anemia (SAA), characterized by pancytopenia and a hypocellular bone marrow,
      is effectively treated by immunosuppressive therapy, usually a combination of antithymocyte
      globulin (ATG) and cyclosporine (CsA). Survival rates following this regimen are equivalent
      to those achieved with allogeneic stem cells transplantation. However, approximately 1/3 of
      patients will not show blood count improvement after ATG/CsA. General experience and small
      pilot studies have suggested that such patients benefit from further immunosuppression.
      Furthermore, analysis of our own clinical data suggests that patients with minimal blood
      count responses to a single course of ATG, even when transfusion independence is achieved,
      have a markedly worse prognosis than patients with robust hematologic improvement.

      The majority of the experience in the US and worldwide has been with horse ATG (h-ATG) plus
      CsA as initial therapy in SAA. Rabbit ATG (r-ATG) plus CsA has been employed successfully in
      about 1/3 of cases in those who are refractory to initial h-ATG/CsA (current NHLBI Protocol
      03-H-0249). In recent years, h-ATG and r-ATG have been used interchangeably in
      treatment-naive patients, and initial therapy with r-ATG/CsA is now frequent in the US and
      the only option in Europe and Japan, where h-ATG is no longer available. An active NHLBI
      randomized study is comparing the efficacy of h- and r-ATG as initial therapy in SAA, and the
      results from a recently completed interim analysis suggest that the hematologic response rate
      ultimately may not be comparable between these two agents (Protocol 06-H-0034). There is no
      published report on the outcome of repeat immunosuppressive therapy in those patients
      refractory to initial r-ATG/CsA, and thus the management of these patients is uncertain. We
      therefore propose this study of h-ATG/CsA in SAA patients who are refractory or have a
      suboptimal response to r-ATG.

      The primary endpoint will be the response rate at 3 months where response is defined as no
      longer meeting criteria for SAA.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the effectiveness (response rate) at 3 months of a
      second course of immunosuppression with h-ATG/CsA in subjects refractory to or with a
      suboptimal response to a course of r-ATG/CsA or cyclophosphamide at least 3 months post
      treatment.

      Secondary objectives include robustness of hematologic recovery, relapse, response rate at 6
      months, clonal evolution and overall survival.

      The primary endpoint will be changes in absolute neutrophil count, platelet count,
      reticulocyte count at 3 months.

      Secondary endpoints will include time to relapse, changes in cytogenetics, time to death.
    
  