
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a lifelong process resulting from the interaction of many
      risk factors, environmental influences, and genetic predisposition. Although the collection
      of medical history and standard risk factors provides essential information, the existence of
      complex interactions among different risk factors, risk modifications by medical therapy, and
      inter-individual differences complicate these issues. In the light of these limitations,
      alternative approaches have been sought, and the non-invasive assessment of endothelial
      function has been proposed as a possible non-invasive and inexpensive endpoint that could
      reflect the cumulative cardiovascular burden and/or the responsiveness to therapies at the
      level of individual patients.

      A total of 1000 consecutive patients undergoing elective coronary angiography will be
      studied. Patients have chest pain on effort according to the American College of
      Cardiology/American Heart Association 2007 Guidelines and/or a pathological exercise or
      dobutamine stress test. Patients undergoing catheterization for any reason other than stable
      (suspected) CAD (e.g. for hypertensive crisis associated with troponin elevation, or acute
      coronary syndromes, valvular heart disease, congenital heart disease, cardiomyopathy, etc.)
      will be excluded. Patients with known chronic inflammatory diseases, dialysis, or
      decompensated/severe heart failure will be also excluded.

      Blood samples will be drawn from all patients after a fasting period of at least 12 h and
      will be examined with the use of routine laboratory methods for blood counts, lipid
      parameters, C-reactive protein, renal and hepatic function. Coronary risk factors were
      defined as: obesity (body mass index >30 kg/m2); age; smoking (or previous smoking);
      hyperlipidaemia (total serum cholesterol >220 mg/dL and/or serum triglycerides >200 mg/dL);
      hypertension (systolic blood pressure >140 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure >90 mmHg on two
      consecutive seated measurements or therapy with antihypertensive medication); family history
      (first-degree relatives with cardiovascular disease); diabetes mellitus (fasting serum
      glucose levels >126 mg/dL or therapy with oral hypoglycaemic agents or insulin).

      The methods employed for L-FMC/FMD (flow mediated dilation)'analysis in our laboratory have
      been previously published (Gori Journal of the American College of Cardiology 2008). Briefly,
      patients will be placed supine, the left arm immobilized, and L-FMC and FMD will be measured
      using a Vivid 7 (General Electrics, Munich, Germany) ultrasound platform equipped with a 14
      MHz matrix probe and a micrometric probe holder. Low-flow-mediated constriction corresponds
      to the constriction observed during a 4.5 min occlusion of a pneumatic cuff placed distal to
      the site of arterial diameter measurement. Flow-mediated dilation corresponds to the maximal
      dilation observed in the 5 min following deflation of the cuff, i.e. during reactive
      hyperaemia. Repeatability and reproducibility data of these methods have been recently
      reported (intra-class correlation coefficient=0.68 and 0.80 for FMD and L-FMC, respectively).

      All data will be acquired digitally and analysed in a randomized, blinded fashion prior to
      coronary angiography by an investigator not aware of the clinical status of the patient,
      using automatic dedicated software.
    
  