
    
      80 adult patients (40 women, 40 men) scheduled to undergo elective surgical procedures
      requiring general anesthesia and necessitating endotracheal intubation, were included in this
      study. Patients eligible for participation were aged 18-60 yrs., ASA physical status I or II
      and BMI < 30 kg/m2. Before anesthesia induction, CP was verified as follow: the cricoid
      cartilage was first identified and then held between the thumb and middle finger and the
      pressure was applied by the index finger with a force that could be tolerated by the patient.
      After loss of consciousness, four predetermined forces: 0 , 10 , 20 and 30 N were chosen in a
      randomized method. Therefore, after applying the predetermined force, a GT 20 F insertion
      trial was performed and two outcomes were considered: 1) Failure of GT insertion: effective
      CP. The next trials were not attempted. 2) Success of GT insertion: ineffective CP. The
      patient received a second attempt with increasing force to the next scale of force. If the
      attempt was effective (failure of GT insertion) , the relevant force is considered as the
      effective CP force. Same trial was repeated using 0, 10, 20 and 30 N respectively in in a
      randomized fashion for each patient. The cricoid force was standardized by reproducing 10, 20
      and 30 N on a weighing scale prior to each application.

      Four anesthesia providers (operators) participated in the study: The first operator performed
      CP in all patients with his back towards the video monitor; the second operator performed
      laryngoscopy using GVL and GT insertion trials and he was not aware about the nature of study
      ; the third operator assessed the effectiveness of the applied CP and determined the position
      of the esophageal entrance in relation to the glottis. The fourth operator, who was standing
      behind the second operator, signaled to the second operator to start attempt for each trial
      with the predetermined CP forces and to the first operator who applying CP to stop or
      continue accordingly.

      In order to "blind" the second operator, a screen separated the laryngoscopist and the first
      operator applying CP, while the hand position for the CP was maintained, even when CP was not
      applied. Data collected before staring surgery.
    
  