
    
      Objectives: this study aims to characterize mechanical properties of ascending aorta (AA) in
      patients, with and without aortic dissection.

      Materials and methods : comprised an in vivo and ex vivo studies performed in 2 groups of
      patients : (1) patients admitted for acute type A dissection and treated with surgical
      procedure ; (2) healthy control group selected among patients without any ascending aorta
      pathology and who underwent transoesophageal echocardiography for various indications.

      In vivo study : Strain, distensibility, stiffness index and pressure strain elastic modulus
      (Ep) were calculated from aortic diameter variation in response to pressure variation. Aortic
      diameters were measured using transoesophageal echocardiography.

      Ex vivo study : biaxial tensile testing were performed on aortic wall samples. Dissected
      aortic samples were collected from patients who underwent surgical repair and healthy samples
      from unused donors hearts and lungs. Mechanical characterization was combined to a
      histological and microstructural analysis of aortic wall. The latter was conducted using
      multiphoton microscopy to visualize elastin and collagen fibers.

      Results :

      In vivo study: 22 patients in healthy control group and 13 patients in dissection group were
      prospectively investigated.

      In vitro study : Biaxial testing was performed on 4 samples of dissected aorta and 6 samples
      of non dissected aorta. Anisotropic and non linear behavior of aortic tissue was shown in the
      2 types of samples. Dissected tissue were stiffer than the intimal flap which was in turn
      stiffer than non dissected tissue.

      Histological data showed that in dissection group global elastin density was lower than in
      control. Microstructural analysis in dissection specimens revealed a higher collagen signal
      in the media mainly in circumferential plane, contrasting with a roughly similar intensity
      between the two planes in control. This higher signal reflects higher collagen fiber density
      and/or thicker fibers in this tunica.

      Conclusion : Both in vivo and in vitro data revealed that dissected aorta was stiffer than
      healthy ascending aorta. These findings has consequences on the choice of futur devices
      dedicated to AA
    
  