
    
      The present phase II randomized study evaluates the clinical outcomes and potential
      treatment-related toxicity following definitive ultra-high dose per fraction external beam
      radiation therapy delivered with two different regimens in patients with intermediate-risk
      adenocarcinoma of the prostate. An emerging body of data suggests that extreme
      hypofractionated radiation schedules, which employ ultra-high dose per fraction (≥7 Gy) in a
      small number of fractions (≤5), appear equal or superior to conventionally-fractionated (1.8-
      2.0 Gy/fraction) and moderately hypo-fractionated schemes (2.5-3.5 Gy/fraction) in terms of
      both tumor control and toxicity profiles. Modern computer-driven technology enables the
      implementation of ultra-high hypofractionated Image-Guided Radiotherapy (IGRT) safely.

      Prostate cancer patients classified according to the current National Comprehensive Cancer
      Network (NCCN) guidelines as intermediate risk (biopsy Gleason score of 7 and/or Prostate
      Specific Antigen (PSA) level >10 and ≤20 ng/mL and/or Stage T1, T2a, T2b or T2c) are eligible
      for this study.

      Extensive experience on extreme hypo-fractionation in prostate has been accrued over the past
      two years using organ stabilization by means of an endorectal balloon and urethral sparing
      technique with on-line target motion tracking. The standard dose prescription with this
      technique has been 45 Gy over 5 consecutive days.

      Outcome data on intermediate risk patients treated with single dose external beam
      radiotherapy are not yet available, although experience on single dose High Dose Radiotherapy
      (HDR) brachytherapy in prostate cancer indicates similar clinical outcomes and toxicity
      profiles to external beam hypofractionated schedules. Experience with ultra-high single dose
      radiotherapy for bone and soft tissue oligometastatic prostate cancer has been consistently
      shown to locally control >90% prostate cancer lesions, clearly indicating sensitivity of
      prostate cancer tissue to this mode of cancer radiotherapy. Stage IV oligometastatic prostate
      cancer patients failing androgen deprivation therapy were treated according to current
      standard of care with single dose 24 Gy to all foci of detectable disease, including the
      radiation-naive intraprostatic lesions, with excellent early results, using the same
      technique employed in the hypofractionated setting. Overall, toxicity profiles have been thus
      far extremely favorable indicating the intermediate range safety of this technique when
      applied to whole prostate radiotherapy. These data suggest single dose therapy when properly
      employed is both safe and effective in managing intra-prostatic cancer settings. Taken
      together, these observations provide the basis for the present prospective phase II study.
      Patients enrolled in the study will undergo image-guided, volumetric intensity-modulated arc
      radiotherapy (VMAT) with state-of-the-art treatment-planning and quality assurance procedures
      with emphasis on normal tissue sparing and delivery accuracy via the use of devices that
      ensure stability and beam location reproducibility. A rectal balloon with air filling will be
      used for prostate target immobilization and anatomical reproducibility, while a urethral
      catheter loaded with beacon transponders will be used to ensure set-up reproducibility and
      online target tracking. Previously untreated patients with intermediate-risk prostate cancer
      will be prospectively randomized to receive either 45 Gy in five fractions of 9 Gy each vs.
      24 Gy single-dose radiotherapy.

      Patients will be followed at one month post-treatment and every 3 months for up to 12 months
      (+/- 4 weeks) and every 6 months thereafter. Acute and chronic toxicity evaluations will
      focus, though not exclusively, on urinary, rectal and sexual functions and will be assessed
      through validated questionnaires. Serum PSA values will be acquired with the same schedule as
      clinical follow-up. A multiparametric MRI will be performed at baseline, 6, 12 and 24 months
      following intervention. Additionally, a post-treatment diffusion-weighted MRI (DW-MRI) will
      be performed within 15 minutes of the first treatment. Post-treatment prostate core needle
      biopsies will be obtained once at 24 months to evaluate pathologic response to therapy.The
      purpose of this scan is to measure early physiologic changes, such as perfusion and ischemia,
      that may correlate with clinically relevant endpoints. The study will be continuously
      monitored for a minimum of 5 years. In the event unexpected severe (grade ≥3) toxicities are
      observed in any one of the treatment arms, the study will be terminated according to the
      standard stopping rule >3/first 15 patients.
    
  