
    
      Corona Virus comprises a large group of viruses, that are common in human beings as well
      animals. There are seven different strains of corona virus, one of them is SARS-COV-2 (the
      novel coronavirus that causes coronavirus disease 2019, COVID-19) [1].

      On 11th March 2020. The World Health Organization declared the international spread of
      COVID-19 considering it a global pandemic. On 3rd July 2020. WHO declared the total number of
      confirmed cases of COVID-19 patients is 10,720,450 and number of deaths is 517,340 cases
      worldwide while in Egypt number of confirmed cases is 71,299 and number of deaths is 3,120
      [2].

      The largest disparity found was by age. People who were 80 or older were seventy times more
      likely to die than those under 40. Higher in males than females. Higher in those living in
      deprived area than those living in the least deprived and higher in Black, Asian and Minority
      Ethnic groups than in White ethnic groups [3].

      It was found that Demographic Characteristics, underlying health state and clinical
      presentation affect outcome of COVID-19 patients. For example, incidence highest among people
      aged > 80 years. Hospitalization is six times higher among patients with reported underlying
      comorbidity (45.4%) than those without reported underlying comorbidity (7.6%). Deaths were 12
      times higher in patients with reported underlying comorbidity (19.5%) compared to those
      without underlying comorbidity (1.6%) [4,5].

      Human to human transmission occurs via droplets, contaminated hands or surfaces with
      Incubation Period 2-14 days after exposure to virus. clinical presentation include: fever,
      cough, shortness of breath, new loss of taste and smell, body ache, headache, sore throat and
      diarrhea [6].

      Real time PCR used as diagnostic tool for COVID-19, other laboratory findings include
      leukopenia, lymphopenia, elevated CRP, elevated D-Dimer, high cytokine levels (IL-2R, IL-6,
      IL-10, and TNF-α), and high lactate dehydrogenase level were significantly associated with
      severe COVID-19 on admission [7][8].

      Computed Tomography (CT Chest) used for assessment severity of lung affection and follow up.
      Typical CT findings include Ground Glass Opacities: bilateral, subpleural and peripheral,
      crazy paving appearance (GGO and inter-/intra-lobular septal thickening), Air space
      consolidation and bronchovascular thickenings [9].

      The main therapies used in treatment include Home Isolation, drugs: antibiotic, antiviral,
      corticosteroids, multivitamins and anticoagulants, O2 therapy, non invasive intervention
      e.g.: CPAP and invasive intervention e.g.: Mechanical Ventilation. Outcome of patients depend
      on several factors e.g.: comorbidities, previous lung state, early diagnosis and start of
      treatment [10].
    
  