
    
      This was a single-blinded, randomised clinical trial conducted at University of Malaya
      Medical Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and approved by the Institutional Review Board of the
      hospital. Patients aged 18-75 years scheduled for vitrectomy under regional anaesthesia were
      included. Patients who could not understand English, who had psychiatric illness or mental
      retardation, or who refused to give consent were excluded.

      After obtaining informed consent, patients were randomised to two groups: Group A received
      additional preoperative counseling while Group B did not receive any additional counseling.
      Both groups received routine preoperative counseling regarding potential risks and benefits
      of vitrectomy by an ophthalmologist one day prior to the operation.

      The information covered during counselling and the method of delivery were standardised for
      all patients. An ophthalmologist reviewed the patient one day prior to the operation and
      patients who were randomised to additional counselling were counselled regarding the possible
      visual perceptions that they might encounter during surgery. These included lights, colours,
      movements, flashes, instruments and surgeon's hands or face. Twenty four hours after the
      surgery, another ophthalmologist blinded to the patient randomisation interviewed the
      patients on their visual perceptions during surgery using a standard questionnaire. Patients
      were interviewed regarding the types of visual sensations they perceived and if they caused
      fear to them. Patients were asked to grade their fear based on a visual analogue scale. The
      fear was graded from 0 to 10, with a score of 0 meaning no fear and a score of 10 being the
      maximum or extreme fear. At the end of the questionnaire the interviewer was allowed to ask
      the patient if he or she has received preoperative counselling and if they prefer to be or
      not to be counselled. Patients were asked to describe in details the images and objects that
      they saw during the operation. The data were analyzed using SPSS version 17.0.
    
  