
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the efficacy, as measured by 6-month progression-free survival, of a
           dose-intense temozolomide treatment schedule in patients with recurrent high-grade
           glioma.

      Secondary

        -  Assess the toxicities of this dose-intense temozolomide.

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this dose-intense schedule.

        -  Determine whether methylation status of the MGMT gene within patients' tumors predicts
           greater efficacy (progression-free survival), in patients treated on this protocol.

        -  Determine whether patients' tumors have functional alterations of the mismatch repair
           (MMR) system by PCR analysis for microsatellite instability (MSI) and whether such
           alterations may influence outcome in patients treated on this protocol.

        -  Determine how initial success with temozolomide may influence outcome in recurrent
           patients treated on this protocol by evaluating patients progressing after two
           first-line adjuvant courses of temozolomide, patients progressing within 6 months after
           the 6th adjuvant course of temozolomide, and patients progressing 6 months after
           temozolomide is voluntarily discontinued.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-7 and days 15-21. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue blocks or unstained paraffin slides from available
      surgical samples are evaluated for molecular abnormalities in the tumor, including (but not
      limited to) MGMT status and microsatellite instability.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients with WHO II grade 4 tumors (glioblastoma multiforme
      [GBM]) and 20 patients with WHO II grade 3 tumors (non-GBM) will be accrued for this study.
    
  