
    
      Sedation and general anesthesia are at the hub of modern medicine. The practice of the
      administration of anesthesia and sedation has evolved considerably and is now considered safe
      and reproducible. Still, one of the critical parts of anesthesia practice is the emergence:
      with the phenomenological variability of the clinical presentations of emergence, and its
      increased inherent risks of airway patency, insufficient respiratory mechanics, hyperreflexia
      and altered mental state.

      Our understanding of the underlying mechanisms of sedation and anesthesia is still somewhat
      lacking: The body of evidence concerning induction and maintenance is more evolved[1-4],
      whereas the most profound gaps of knowledge concern emergence.

      While anesthetic agent exert a global effect on the brain, it is clear that some foci are
      more sensitive[5] and more relevant to the achievement of the anesthetic goals of hypnosis,
      amnesia, and reduced responsiveness.

      Mechanisms of unconsciousness induced by general anesthesia[1] can be broadly dissected to
      two elements: consciousness and arousal: Current consciousness theories[6,7] ascribe to
      consciousness the ability to experience. To achieve that goal, information complexity and
      information integration are paramount. These faculties reside mainly in the neocortex.
      Arousal on the other hand, resides mainly in the thalamus, hypothalamus, midbrain and pons
      with the neural machinery of physiological sleep[8,9]. We tend to associate consciousness
      with arousability. Dreaming however - is a straightforward example of consciousness without
      arousal.

      A given level of arousal is the output of the balance of the mutual inhibition between the
      sleep promoting locus - the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus - and the multiple arousal loci,
      commonly known as the ARAS (Ascending Reticular Activating System)[10,11]. Shortly, this
      dispersed system is comprised of multiple nuclei with different neurotransmitters. Some of
      the nuclei have thalamic projections and some are extra-thalamic with direct and diverse
      cortical projections. The transition between sleep and wakefulness is further enhanced by the
      Orexigenic neurons in the hypothalamus[12,13], which serve as a flip flop mechanism.

      The research into consciousness has made some progress[14] using anesthetic approaches and
      most specifically, emergence from sedation and anesthesia, to describe the neural core of
      consciousness. Recently, publications by Purdon et al.[15,16] identified an EEG signature of
      consciousness transition state.

      The body of evidence concerning arousal pathways is less formidable, possibly due to the
      dispersed array of nuclei, and their "deep" subcortical locations, complicating their
      evaluation in less invasive methods (such as scalp EEG). The classic research tool of this
      field is lesions studies (both in animal models and unfortunate patients)[17,18] in discrete
      loci with an observed change in sleep-wake physiology. Recently, pioneering ex vivo (rat pups
      midbrain slices) research by Garcia-rill and Charlesworth[19], using intracellular recordings
      provided compelling data supporting electrical coupling and coherence of neurons within
      nuclei of the ARAS. However, to the best of our knowledge to this date there has been no
      explicit trial to capture or characterize the dynamic changes in the ARAS of human subjects
      emerging from sedation.

      Research objectives

        1. To characterize the spatiotemporal signature sequence of the arousing brain, focusing
           (but not restricted to) on deep brain structures. Arousal signature may include the
           following:

             -  A conserved sequence of brain structures mobilization.

             -  Summation of foci activations (without an explicit order).

             -  Hierarchy between different loci (cholinergic vs. monoaminic components of the
                ARAS).

        2. To identify a reproducible signal heralding imminent return of consciousness.

      Methods:

      The proposed study has been submitted to the Institutional Review Board committee for
      approval.

      Experiment summary:

      The proposed study is an interventional, single center study, conducted on 20 volunteers. A
      sample size of 20 was chosen in light of the relatively low signal to noise ratio inherent to
      fMRI imaging. subjects will be healthy males age 20-40, who are not taking chronic
      medications or using illicit drugs. All subjects, after signing the informed consent form,
      will fill a standard MRI questionnaire for the detection of metallic implants and will
      undergo medical evaluation and examination by the anesthesiologist. During the study period
      volunteers will be monitored by non invasive standard patient ASA monitoring: ECG, blood
      pressure, pulse oximetry, and exhaled CO2 levels. Each subject will be connected to an EEG
      recording cap, and will be placed in the magnet. Baseline recordings of EEG, MRI and fMRI
      will be taken. Then sedation will be induced with continuous IV propofol infusion with a
      Target Controlled Infusion pump - TCI, using the Marsh model[14,20,21]. Depth of sedation
      will be titrated to deep sedation (Ramsay scale 5)[22]. Subsequently, propofol administration
      will be discontinued, and continuous EEG and fMRI recordings will be taken until emerging
      from sedation to an awake calm/light sedation (Ramsay 2-3), as verified by a response to the
      subject's given name. At this point EEG monitoring and fMRI scans will cease. The subject
      will be helped out of the magnet and transferred to a post anesthesia care unit (PACU).

      All subjects will be monitored until reaching discharge criteria ascertained by an
      examination performed by an anesthesiologist.

      Brain monitoring

        1. Functional Magnetic Resonance (fMRI): brain BOLD fMRI - blood oxygen level dependent
           fMRI - harnessing the magnetic properties of the ferric ion of hemoglobin to image
           changes in blood flow to metabolically active brain loci. The underlying assumption of
           the imaging modality (similar to Positron Emission Tomography) is the metabolic coupling
           of cellular activity and blood flow. Analyses will focus but will not be restricted to
           subthalamic structures involved in the RAS.

        2. EEG (electroencephalogram), while in the MRI - EEG-fMRI. Combining the superior temporal
           resolution of the EEG with the localizing resolution of the MRI. The EEG will serve as
           an adjunct to the level of sedation and as source for data concerning thalamocortical
           pathways or arousal.

      Expected results:

      The results from this research project may help improve patient safety through the prediction
      of his/her arousal status. Anesthesia/Arousal level monitors have yet to prove their
      contribution to patient safety. Integration of deep brain structures data may prove to be the
      missing link to improving monitors' performance. Additionally, a thorough understanding of
      the arousal process can potentially help develop agents to hasten arousal, as it may serve as
      a screening paradigm for known pharmaceuticals (expanding their clinical indications) as well
      as new chemical entities (NCEs).

      Feasibility and perceived strengths:

      The feasibility of the proposed research project is very high. The project will be performed
      in Tel Aviv Medical Center in the Wohl Center for Advanced Imaging. The Wohl Center involves
      a prominent neuroscience research group with a significant number of publications related to
      emotional and cognitive processing in health and disease. Some of these studies include
      volunteers[23,24] and the use of fMRI and EEG to follow propofol induced sedation[25,26]. The
      proposed project will enjoy a full collaboration with the research center. In this light, the
      completion of the proposed imaging sessions and their subsequent analyses is realistic.

      A thorough characterization of the emergence process warrants careful, dedicated attention to
      deep brain structures while designing the experiment throughout its execution and during
      analyses. As stand-alone scalp EEG recordings have fallen short of finding the "emergence
      fingerprint" (as EEG signal represent mostly cortical activity) we contest that a combined
      EEG-fMRI carries more hopes for the characterization of emergence from sedation.
    
  