
    
      By using a 4-dimensional (4D) computed tomography (CT) scans researchers will create
      ventilation (circulation of air) calculations. This new calculation method is quicker and may
      produce better images than the standard ventilation calculations.

      If you agree to take part in this study and are found to be eligible, you will have lung
      function imaging. Lung function imaging gives researchers information on how well the lungs
      work, how air moves into the lungs with breathing, and blood circulation into the lungs.

      You will have three 4D CT scans performed while you are breathing quietly. A 2-inch plastic
      box will be placed on top of your chest to monitor the motion of your chest during the
      scanning. After you are out of the CT scanner (once the scanning is finished), ventilation
      images are calculated from the 4D CT images and will be compared with the standard
      ventilation imaging method. The 4D CT imaging will take about 30 minutes to complete.

      As part of standard care, once you have finished the 4D CT scan, you will have a single
      photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) pulmonary (lung) ventilation scan performed. The
      SPECT ventilation scan requires that you first breathe in a radioactive aerosol (or mist,
      called Tc-99m DPTA), which will help the study doctor tell where air goes when you breathe.
      Then you will be placed in the SPECT scanner, and images will be taken of your lungs. The
      SPECT imaging will take about 1 hour to complete.

      Within 10 days after the first imaging session, you will return for a second imaging session.
      During the second imaging session, you will have a standard of care SPECT pulmonary perfusion
      (blood supply to tissue and organs) test done. During this test, a radioactive substance is
      given by vein (called Tc-99m MAA). This substance will get trapped in the lungs, and the
      SPECT imaging will show the blood flow in the lungs. This test should take 45-60 minutes to
      complete.

      Once you complete the second imaging session, your participation will over in this study.

      This is an investigational study. All of the imaging scans used in this study are FDA
      approved and commercially available. The calculation of ventilation images from 4D CT
      scanning is investigational and authorized for use in research only. Up to 36 patients will
      take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  