
    
      Stage 1 Dose-Escalation and Maximum Tolerated Dose The dose-escalation portion of the study
      (Stage 1) will use a standard "3 + 3" design to determine the MTD for QD dosing.

      Approximately 6 - 12 patients with newly diagnosed GBM will be enrolled in Stage 1.

      The MTD for QD dosing will be determined. The initial dose level for QD dosing will be 60 mg
      (Dose Level 0). This dose is based on the phase 1 findings outlined in the rationale in the
      protocol, adding 1 dose level to test for a potential MTD increase.

      Dose-escalation will occur in Stage 1:

        -  The initial dose (Dose Level 0) for QD MTD determination in Step 1 will be 60 mg. Dose
           levels will increase in 15 mg steps;

        -  The dose-escalation portion of the study (Stage 1) will use a standard "3 + 3" design to
           assess the safety, tolerability, and PK of paxalisib administered orally in 28-day
           cycles;

      Decisions regarding dose-escalation and selection will be made by a Cohort Review Committee
      (CRC).

      All AEs, including DLTs, will be reported, with severity assessed according to National
      Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03.

      After determination of the MTD, patients continue to receive their protocol-assigned dose
      levels of paxalisib until progression of their disease or an unacceptable toxicity, whichever
      occurs first.

      Stage 2 Expansion stage (2) of the study will be a two-arm, randomized, open-label expansion
      study to further characterize the safety, tolerability and PK of paxalisib as well as to
      provide a preliminary assessment of single-agent activity of paxalisib in patients with GBM.
      Approximately 20 patients will be enrolled in the expansion cohort in 2 treatment arms (10
      per am) to examine the PK of paxalisib in fed and fasted-conditions, according to the defined
      study eligibility criteria.

      Stage 2 of the study will be initiated with recruitment of new patients as soon as the MTD
      has been determined.

      Patients enrolled in Stage 2 may continue the study at the dose allocated until disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  