
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of a conditioning regimen comprising temozolomide,
           radiotherapy, and busulfan followed by an infusion of autologous stem cells genetically
           modified with the MGMT gene and temozolomide and O6-benzylguanine in younger patients
           with newly diagnosed high-grade gliomas.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the tolerability of intrapatient dose escalation of temozolomide, in terms of
           transgene expression, in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the antitumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Surgery: Patients undergo biopsy or surgical debulking of the tumor. Two to six weeks
           later, patients proceed to stem cell mobilization and apheresis.

        -  Autologous stem cell mobilization and apheresis: Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
           subcutaneously or IV once daily for at least 4 days before apheresis and continuing
           until apheresis is complete. Patients undergo apheresis for up to 4 consecutive days
           until a target number of 5 X 10^6 CD34-positive peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) are
           collected. Patients with insufficient numbers of PBSCs either undergo bone marrow
           harvest to collect a sufficient number of cells or are removed from the study. The cells
           are selected for CD34-positive cells which are cryopreserved for later use. Patients
           then proceed to chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-42 and
           undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks. Four to eight weeks later,
           patients proceed to the low-intensity, nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen.

        -  Autologous PBSC or bone marrow transduction: Peripheral blood or bone marrow
           CD34-positive stem cells are transduced with the MGMT gene on day -4.

        -  Low-intensity, nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen: Patients receive busulfan IV over
           2 hours on days -3 and -2. Patients then proceed to autologous PBSC or bone marrow
           infusion.

        -  Autologous PBSC or bone marrow infusion: Patients undergo autologous stem cell infusion
           using transduced PBSCs or bone marrow on day 0. Three to six weeks later, patients
           proceed to chemotherapy.

        -  Chemotherapy: Patients receive O6-benzylguanine IV over 1 hour followed by oral
           temozolomide once daily on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients experiencing
           unacceptable toxicity due to O6-benzylguanine may receive temozolomide alone. Patients
           not experiencing dose-limiting toxicity and who have at least 5% transduced neutrophils
           by peripheral blood analysis after course 1 receive escalating doses (intrapatient) of
           temozolomide during courses 2-6. Some patients undergo second-look surgery after the
           first course of chemotherapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed monthly for 3 months, every 3 months
      for 3 years, every 6 months for 4 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10 patients will be accrued for this study within 1-2 years.
    
  