
    
      Peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) is a novel clinical technique used to treat achalasia. The
      conventional POEM myotomy length averages 8 to 10 cm (4-6 cm in the esophagus, 2-4cm in the
      LES, 2cm in the cardia & 6-8 cm above and 2 cm below the gastroesophageal junction [GEJ]) for
      typical achalasia (Chicago classification I, II), but there is no guideline or expert
      consensus with regard to minimal myotomy length recommended in POEM.

      Based on the facts that achalasia is a primary motor disorder of LES dysfunction, patients
      with type I/II achalasia may achieve a satisfactory outcome with shorter myotomy in procedure
      of modified POEM, which only focused on the forced relaxation of the LES. Recently, some
      retrospective studies have suggested that shorter myotomy is comparable with longer myotomy
      for treating achalasia with regard to clinical efficacy and has the advantage of shorter
      procedure time, which needs to be further confirmed by more prospective studies.

      In terms with the International Peroral Endoscopic Myotomy Survey, a longer myotomy is
      recommended for patients with type III achalasia. The length of myotomy in type III achalasia
      can be gauged by high-resolution manometry (HRM). Recent research showed that postoperative
      Eckardt score was significantly improved in the tailored group (myotomy length informed by
      HRM) versus non-tailored for type III achalasia, but this study was limited by its
      retrospective nature.

      There is still no conclusion on the thickness of muscle bundle dissection recommended during
      POEM. Selective circular muscle myotomy is designed to avoid gastroesophageal reflux (GER)
      postoperatively and decrease morbidity during POEM. But one meta-analysis showed that
      Heller's surgery could keep patients in long-time remission, mainly because of its
      full-thickness muscle bundle dissection to make sure of persist relaxation of LES. A
      retrospective study comparing the outcomes of full-thickness and circular muscle myotomy
      showed no differences in efficacy, GER or adverse events, although the procedural time was
      shorter in the full thickness myotomy group.

      Further randomized controlled trials are warranted to assess the efficacy and safety of
      different modified myotomy approaches in POEM for patients with achalasia.
    
  