
    
      Severe respiratory failure and multi-organ damage in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
      patients have not a unitary pathophysiological interpretation. There is evidence of an
      association between the clinical entity of the disease and its severity with the plasma
      levels of D-dimer and inflammatory indexes. On the basis of retrospective investigations
      there is accumulating evidence of alterations in the haemostatic parameters that with
      increased D-dimer values, increased coagulation time and platelets may be predictors of worse
      prognosis. A systematic survey conducted in the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Centre of
      the AOUI Verona, as part of the Database and Study on the role of platelets in the clinical
      manifestations of COVID-19 (Ethics Committee CESC Verona and Rovigo approved) revealed by
      means of computerized tomography (CT) angiograph in patients with a persistent respiratory
      deficit and very high D-dimer values mainly multiple, bilateral vascular occlusions involving
      the segmental and subsegmental branches of the pulmonary arteries. This finding is suggestive
      of a frequent and clinically relevant thrombotic process in a appreciable number
      (approximately 20%) of patients with COVID-19 pneumonia hospitalized in medical wards. It is
      a well-established clinical notion that acute and chronic inflammatory diseases may favour
      the onset of venous thromboembolic events in hospitalized patients. Thromboprophylaxis with a
      fixed dose of heparin/low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is recommended for medical patient
      with concomitant neoplasia or inflammatory disease. It is conceivable that under conditions,
      such as SARS-CoV2 pneumonia, an inflammation-dependent thrombotic process takes place and
      that platelet activation may play a pathogenic role both in the thrombotic process and in the
      amplification of the inflammatory process. In fact, there is experimental evidence that
      platelet activation in inflammation would lead to accelerated coagulation and a thrombotic
      vascular occlusion, with similarities to what is widely documented in atherothrombosis and
      thrombotic microangiopathies. The administration of antiplatelet drugs represents the
      cornerstone for the prevention and treatment of arterial thromboembolism in atherosclerotic
      disease and has also shown some limited efficacy also in the context of venous and arterial
      thromboembolism associated with atrial fibrillation. The use of acetylsalicylic acid may
      improve inflammation and respiratory function in humans as indicated by the results of
      observational studies. There are currently no validated protocols for thrombosis prevention
      in the field of pulmonary viral diseases, in particular COVID-19. There is scientific
      rationale to consider acetylsalicylic acid for the prevention of thrombosis in the pulmonary
      circulation and attenuation of inflammation. This is supported by numerous demonstrations of
      the anti-inflammatory activity of antiplatelet agents and the evidence of improvement in
      respiratory function both in human and experimental pathology. A retrospective observational
      study showed that patients with COVID-19 pneumonia treated with acetyl salicylic acid had a
      lower incidence of progression to respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation,
      without evidence of increased incidence of bleeding complications. The hypothesis underlying
      the present study project is that in Covid-19 platelet activation occurs via an
      inflammation-dependent mechanism and that early antithrombotic prophylaxis in non-critical
      patients, like those admitted to medical wards, could reduce the incidence of pulmonary
      thrombosis as well as respiratory and multi-organ failure, contributing to improve clinical
      outcome of the patients with pneumonia caused by SARS-CoV2 viruses. The anticoagulant
      activity exerted by a fixed dose of enoxaparin (4000U/day), recommended in patients with the
      described clinical features, according to a note of the "Italian Medicines Agency" (AIFA),
      together with the prevention of thrombogenic activity of platelets by acetylsalicylic acid
      could prevent aggravation of COVID-19 patients to a greater extent than enoxaparin alone
      given at the same dose. Early initiation of treatment should mitigate the presentation of
      pneumonia. The proposed treatment is feasible in all coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
      patients, regardless of the treatment regimen (antivirals, anti-inflammatory drugs), except
      for specific contraindications. To this aim, it was designed a randomised,
      placebo-controlled, double blind, parallel arms study to investigate the potential protection
      of acetylsalicylic acid towards the progression of lung failure in patients admitted to a
      medical ward for SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia. A 15-day treatment period is considered. Primary
      endpoint is the occurrence of one of the following events: admission to an intensive care
      unit, requirement of mechanical ventilation, PaO2/FiO2 less than 150 mm Hg.
    
  