
    
      Intensive care units (ICU) are life-saving units for critical patients with using advanced
      technology. In some cases, it becomes a unit where treatment is not possible, the fatal
      patients are admitted and the death process is extended. Most patients with end-stage cancer,
      advanced-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and advanced-stage Alzheimer's
      disease prefer to die at home, although many often refer to emergency services at the end of
      their life and are then transferred to the ICU. Intensive care treatments are often very
      invasive and painful interventions. The patient who lives in intensive care unit is faced
      with many psychological distresses such as communication, isolation and fear besides physical
      ache. For this reason, it is necessary to make decisions (end-of-life decisions) such as
      forbearing intensive care treatments applied to the patients in the death process or cutting
      out the ones started. In the world, the goal for the end of life patients is, improving the
      last phase of their lives with the application of these decisions and symptom therapy, living
      in a peace without pain and respiratory distress. However, there is an uncertanity in these
      issues in our country and intensive care physicians are hesitant to make decisions about the
      end of life with concern about legal problems. Although it is known that these patients will
      not benefit most from the treatment of ICU, they are getting treatments for saving their
      lives in ICUs. The fact that intensive care beds are not available due to the patients who
      are not get beneficial treatment, brings the result of difficult finding of the beds which
      will benefit from the intensive care, and in fact it is a waste of intensive care resources
      which is very expensive. The size of the problem is not known as there is no data on the
      frequency of patients in our country who are in intensive care and require end-of-life care.

      In this multicenter point prevalence study our aims are;

        -  to find out the incidence of patients in intensive care units in Turkey in the last
           period of life,

        -  to compare the resource use of end-of-life and non-end-of-life patients.
    
  