
    
      According to the World Health Organization, hypertension is the most common attributable
      cause of preventable death in developed nations, as uncontrolled hypertension greatly
      increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, and renal failure.
      Despite the availability of antihypertensive agents, hypertension remains inadequately
      controlled; only about one-third of patients continue to maintain control successfully.

      Although most antihypertensive agents are effective at the appropriate dose, the majority
      have side effects that limit their use. As a class, angiotensin II receptor blockers
      generally are considered more tolerable than other classes of antihypertensive agents.
      TAK-491 (azilsartan medoxomil) is an angiotensin II receptor blocker being evaluated by
      Takeda to treat essential hypertension.

      Treatments for essential hypertension commonly include use of a thiazide-like diuretic,
      either alone or as part of combination treatment. Although chlorthalidone was commonly
      prescribed in the past, its use has widely been replaced with hydrochlorothiazide, presumably
      due to a lack of available combination products containing chlorthalidone, the assumption
      that hydrochlorothiazide and chlorthalidone have similar antihypertensive effects and
      cardiovascular benefits, and the perception that chlorthalidone use is associated with a
      greater frequency of hypokalemia. However, the frequency of hypokalemia with chlorthalidone
      use is relatively low in the dose range of 12.5 to 25 mg and these doses have been shown to
      be associated with potent blood pressure reduction. Several long-term outcomes trials have
      shown that blood pressure reductions associated with chlorthalidone treatment reduce risk of
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

      Most hypertensive patients require two or more agents to achieve target blood pressure and
      diuretics are commonly used in combination with other antihypertensive agents. This trial is
      designed to compare chlorthalidone and hydrochlorothiazide when coadministered with
      azilsartan medoxomil.

      Participants in this study will receive either chlorthalidone or hydrochlorothiazide in
      combination with azilsartan medoxomil. Total commitment time for this study is about 13
      weeks. Participants will be required to wear a blood pressure monitor for three 24 hours
      periods during the study.
    
  