
    
      Metabolic syndrome is a term that is used to describe a group of risk factors for
      cardiovascular disease. The risk factors include obesity, insulin resistance, high
      cholesterol, and high blood pressure. Two of the most common risk factors for cardiovascular
      disease-tobacco exposure and abdominal obesity-are also known to influence the development of
      metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome risk factors, as well as higher obesity levels, are
      being observed increasingly in adolescents. It is important to understand the relationship
      between tobacco exposure, abdominal obesity, and metabolic syndrome during early adolescence,
      as this time period is when lifestyle habits, including diet, exercise, and tobacco use,
      develop. The purpose of the study is to determine how changes in abdominal obesity and
      tobacco exposure among adolescents affect the development of metabolic syndrome risk factors,
      including glucose intolerance and increased levels of cholesterol and blood pressure.

      This 3-year study will enroll children with a body mass index in the 50th to 98th percentile
      and one of their parents. At a baseline study visit, children and parents will complete
      questionnaires on health, nutrition, physical activity, smoke exposure, and stress levels.
      Children will undergo a blood and saliva collection; physical examination; measurements of
      blood pressure, height, weight, and waist circumference; a dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry
      (DEXA) scan to measure body fat and muscle; and skin fold measurements to measure body fat.
      Parents will undergo a saliva collection and measurements of blood pressure, height, weight,
      and waist circumference. Some children will wear an activity monitor for 7 days, and some
      children will complete a glucose tolerance test, which will involve an additional blood
      collection. Every 6 months, study researchers will contact parents to confirm the family's
      contact information. Once a year for 3 years, all participants will complete questionnaires
      and a saliva collection. Additionally, at Year 3, all participants will also undergo repeat
      measurements of blood pressure, height, weight, and waist circumference.
    
  