
    
      The transdermal nicotine patch is the most widely used form of tobacco dependence treatment
      in the US and Europe. Yet, abstinence rates following patch treatment are only ~20% at
      6-months and ~9% at 12-months. There is a growing recognition that nicotine dependence is a
      chronic disease, like asthma or diabetes, which requires maintenance therapy. While current
      guidelines established by the USDHHS's Public Health Service (PHS) recommend 8-week duration
      for transdermal nicotine therapy, support for this recommendation is limited. In a recent
      randomized placebo-controlled efficacy trial comparing standard (8-week) vs. extended
      (24-weeks) treatment with nicotine patches, we found that, at 24 weeks, point-prevalence
      abstinence rates were 30% in the 24-week arm vs. 20% in the standard therapy arm (p < .05);
      however, by week 52, 6 months after treatment was discontinued for the extended treatment
      arm, the quit rates were equivalent across the treatment arms. This was the first clinical
      trial to suggest that the benefits of extended treatment with transdermal nicotine are
      largely dependent on the continuation of active treatment. However, as an efficacy trial,
      this study was conducted under highly-controlled conditions with strict inclusion/exclusion
      criteria to enhance internal validity. If recommendations for the duration of nicotine patch
      therapy are to be formally revised to encourage maintenance therapy, these findings must be
      replicated and extended under "real-world circumstances" in an effectiveness trial. In
      addition, as done in clinical trials to support the use of methadone maintenance for opiate
      dependence, a replication study must include a treatment arm that receives maintenance
      therapy throughout the duration of the trial (52 weeks). Thus, we propose to conduct a
      randomized effectiveness trial to evaluate the benefits of maintenance therapy with
      transdermal nicotine patches for smoking cessation. Specifically, 540 smokers will receive
      brief counseling and will be randomized to: standard (8-weeks), extended (24-weeks), or
      maintenance (52 weeks) transdermal nicotine therapy. The primary outcome will be
      biochemically verified 7-day point prevalence abstinence at week 52. Additional study aims
      include assessing: 1) treatment side effects across study arms; 2) longitudinal patterns of
      relapse and recovery across treatment arms; 3) mediators and moderators of treatment effects;
      and 4) cost-effectiveness. Overall, the trial findings will provide critical data for future
      PHS reviews of maintenance therapy with transdermal nicotine for subsequent treatment
      guidelines; for third-party payer assessments of maintenance transdermal nicotine as a
      covered benefit; and for individual smokers' decisions to use maintenance transdermal
      nicotine through over-the-counter access. In turn, this study may help to attain the Healthy
      People 2010 goals of reducing the US rate of tobacco use.
    
  