
    
      Schistosomiasis is a widespread helminthic infection, with an estimated 249 million people in
      78 countries requiring preventive treatment each year. This infection has a significant
      association with morbidity worldwide. Earlier studies performed in endemic Areas showed that
      the reproductive tract was affected in more than 60% of the women who excreted S. haematobium
      ova in urine. Transplacental transmission has not been observed, but schistosomiasis of the
      pregnant uterus has been reported and placental schistosomiasis has been associated with
      stillbirth. Placental schistosomiasis (i.e. detection of schistosomiasis eggs in placental
      tissue) has been reported occasionally. Schistosomiasis has been postulated to be associated
      with premature delivery and low birth weight; however, existing data are inconsistent.

      Migration to the European Union was estimated at 1.7 million people in 2012. Migrants were
      predominantly from Africa and Asia. In these areas schistosomiasis has an estimated
      prevalence of 10-20%. While a large number of migrants from schistosomiasis-endemic areas
      enter Europe and receive Access to health care, many of them are unaware of helminthic
      infections they may have been exposed to, and their potential outcomes.

      Treatment of schistosomiasis during pregnancy is a matter of debate. The German society for
      tropical medicine recommends treatment with praziquantel only after the completion of
      pregnancy. Conversely, the South African Medicines Formulary suggests that pregnant women
      should be offered treatment individually and that they should not necessarily be excluded
      during treatment campaigns. By quantifying the effects of Schistosoma infection on pregnancy
      outcomes this study will help clinicians in deciding on the question of treatment during
      pregnancy.

      The aim of the study is to examine the association of maternal schistosomiasis on adverse
      birth outcomes (as defined by low birth weight, premature delivery or stillbirth) in migrants
      to Europe from schistosomiasis endemic areas.
    
  