
    
      A strategy based on early invasive coronary angiography followed by revascularization is the
      most effective treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome, especially in those with
      ST-segment elevation (STE-ACS). In patients with acute coronary syndrome without ST-segment
      elevation (NSTE-ACS), an early invasive strategy is associated with a reduction in cardiac
      death and myocardial infarction in patients at higher risk. In stable coronary artery disease
      rather no data so convincing. The undeniable evolution of techniques of PCI has been
      accompanied by a parallel progress of medical therapy and also from increased awareness, both
      cardiologists and patients, the importance of the control of coronary risk factors.

      European Society of Cardiology Guide give precise indications (but often ignored) on the use
      of PCI or coronary artery bypass grafting according to the extent of coronary artery disease
      and the site of injury . However, especially in patients with NSTE-ACS often we limit
      ourselves to dilate the culprit stenosis, leaving untreated other injuries that underlie
      large myocardial territory, that is, by configuring an incomplete revascularization
      framework. The calculation of the SYNTAX score residual (that is, what remains after
      percutaneous revascularization procedure) allows to objectively verify the incompleteness of
      PCI treatment, which correlates with the outcome in the patient's distance . Moreover, in
      case of equivocal stenosis, especially in patients with stable coronary disease, large should
      be the use of a functional assessment using the calculation of the Fractional Flow Reserve
      (FFR).

      This could indicate that the increase of the number of invasive diagnostic tests does not
      increase the number of patients with coronary artery disease extended, in which is usually
      indicated a surgical revascularization. So to identify patients at higher risk, may be enough
      specific investigations and conducted selectively.

      The purpose of the pilot study APACHE is to assess the appropriateness of indication and
      appropriateness of execution of a sample carried out PCI in patients with stable coronary
      artery disease and in patients with NSTE-ACS (in the ratio 4: 1). As such, the APACHE be
      considered a quality improvement initiative.

      Retrospective observational study, multicenter. The study population will consist of 20 cases
      of PCI per center (then about 400 PCI in total) selected randomly within the center of the
      case studies in the previous approval of the study. Of these 16 will be patients with stable
      coronary artery disease (including 8 with diabetes mellitus in medical therapy) and 4 will be
      patients with NSTE-ACS (4: 1 ratio).

      Patients with a history of coronary artery bypass are excluded. The series will consist of
      patients in whom the procedure was carried out in the previous year to a declaration of
      participation in the survey and in any case after the publication of the document. There have
      been no previous analysis of this type in Italy and is therefore not known what is the rate
      of inappropriateness for PCI procedures in stable patients. It is not possible therefore to
      perform a calculation of sample size. However, the investigators believes that for a pilot
      analysis, an initial sample of 400 PCI procedures, analytically considered, is sufficient to
      verify the magnitude of the problem in the Italian Catheterization Laboratories.

      The investigators anticipate the participation of about 20 centers in total between Lombardia
      and Veneto italian regions. The study will have an approximate duration of about 2 years.

      The data to be collected will be different in patients with nSTE - ACS compared to patients
      with stable coronary artery disease. As an initiative of quality improvement, and according
      to extensive international literature on the subject, will not be requested individual
      informed consent to selected patients but only the approval of the Ethics Committee of the
      Center Coordinator. Patient data will be de-identified and used only in the aggregate and all
      individual sensitive information (name, phone, address) will be erased.
    
  