
    
      Aim 1. In order to determine intrauser reliability of the Hertel exophthalmometer, patients
      will have 2 independent exams using the Hertel exophthalmometer on the same day performed by
      each of the same researcher (either DAC or HLP) in a blinded fashion. For each patient, we
      will independently measure the base value and the values for the right and left eye
      proptosis, respectively, using the same Hertel exophthalmometer. A randomization process will
      be employed to determine which researcher (either DAC or HLP) will take the first set of
      measurements. The distance of the observer from the patient will be standardized for all
      measurements. Patient research data will be de-identified and recorded for each patient and
      subsequently analyzed for interobserver reliability.

      Aim 2. In order to determine interuser reliability of the Hertel exophthalmometer, patients
      will have a second independent exam on the same day by the second observer as determined for
      Aim 1 above. For each patient, we will independently measure the base value and the values
      for the right and left eye proptosis, respectively, using the same Hertel exophthalmometer.
      The distance of the observer from the patient will be standardized for all measurements.

      Patient research data will be de-identified and recorded for each patient and subsequently
      analyzed for interobserver reliability.

      Aim 3. Variability in Hertel measurements may be related in large part to differences in the
      base measurement. The base measurement is determined by the bony orbital structures and
      should not be significantly affected over time by the soft tissue remodeling commonly seen in
      TED and most other orbital disease processes. We will have the second observer re-measure the
      same patient using the same Hertel exophthalmometer by beginning with the same base
      measurement determined by the first observer. Again, all measurement distances will be
      standardized. No other information will be provided to the second observer other than the
      beginning base measurement. Patient research data will again be de-identified prior to
      recording the information and subsequently analyzed to determine if beginning with the same
      base improves interobserver reliability.
    
  