
    
      Glenohumeral arthritis is one of the main reasons for persistent shoulder pain and reduced
      movement (range of motion, ROM) as it can compromise the work activity and also the normal
      daily activities, leading to the development of depressive syndromes. The final treatment is
      shoulder arthroplasty, which is effective but is associated with significant costs and
      morbidity rates. In addition, arthro-prosthesis is avoided in young patients due to longevity
      concerns and is not indicated in the early stages of arthritis. Currently, conservative
      treatments for patients with mild or moderate glenohumeral arthritis include non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), corticosteroid injections, with low efficacy and a
      significant adverse effect profile, hyaluronic acid infiltrations, with good efficacy in
      initial treatment, and infiltrations of platelet-Rich Plasma (PRP), which have shown
      beneficial effects in knee arthritis. However, evidence for the glenohumeral joint are
      limited. In cases not responsive to conservative therapy, and especially in young patients, a
      valid alternative to the prosthesis is the arthroscopic treatment, with good results in the
      short term, but with relatively high failure rates that increase over time. Other types of
      nonprosthetic surgical treatment for chondral-humeral defects have low scientific evidence,
      with variable and uncertain results. In recent years, mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), derived
      from bone marrow or adipose tissue, due to the ability to differentiate into chondrogenic
      line cells, have emerged as cells with great therapeutic potential in patients with
      degenerative joint disorders. Since the knee joint is the most susceptible to pathology
      because of its mechanical load, most studies based on stem cell therapy regard the knee
      joint, reporting promising results in treatment in the treatment of early stages of
      arthritis. As regards the glenohumeral joint, since the most frequent pathology affects the
      tendons of the rotator cuff, almost all studies investigate the effect of MSC in the
      treatment of rotator cuff disorders with or without associated surgical repair techniques.
      Only a prospective study analyzed the effect of intra-articular MSC injection derived from
      bone marrow in 34 patients with isolated glenohumeral arthritis, reporting a significant
      decrease in pain and an improvement in shoulder function measured by the Disabilities of the
      Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) scale at about 1 year, although study quality is very low.
      Since the use of intra-articular injections of mesenchymal cells obtained from the bone
      marrow has proved effective in the treatment of gonarthrosis, our study proposes to evaluate
      the long-term efficacy of this type of therapy in the treatment of the isolated glenohumeral
      arthritis.
    
  