
    
      Background. Only a few retrospective publications comparing these anastomotic techniques and
      no randomized clinical trial has been performed. We conducted a meta-analysis of the existing
      non randomized comparative studies on the argument: the results suggest that the IA results
      in better postoperative recovery outcomes, such as shorter hospital stay, faster bowel
      movement recovery, faster first flatus, faster time to solid diet and lesser analgesic usage.

      Design: Two-armed, double-blinded, randomized, controlled study.

      The patients will be randomized into two groups:

      A. After laparoscopic right colectomy for cancer, anastomosis will be carried out
      intracorporeally (IA) B. After laparoscopic right colectomy for cancer, anastomosis will be
      carried out extracorporeally (EA)

      Primary endpoint: Surgical morbidity rate defined as any diagnosed morbidity related to
      surgical technique (anastomotic leakage, anastomotic bleeding, wound infection, ileus) within
      60 days from surgery.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Intra-operative: operative time, largest incision length (mm), number of nodes
           harvested, intraoperative complications.

        -  Early postoperative: mortality, non-surgical site complications.

        -  Postoperative recovery: bowel movement, first flatus, time to solid diet, nasogastric
           tube (NGT) reintroduction, day of analgesic usage, length of stay, readmission.

      Randomization. The randomization will be obtained through a computer generated program
      (GraphPad Software, Inc, La Jolla, California, USA). The randomization, will be done before
      the beginning of the study and it will consist with an ordered series of numbers with a
      corresponding letter: A for intracorporeal anastomosis and B for extracorporeal anastomosis.
      This series of numbers will be kept in a central dedicated web database; after right colon
      cancer diagnosis, if the patient fulfills the inclusion criteria and signs the consent a
      number, progressive as in order of inclusion, will be assigned to him or her. The letter
      corresponding to the number, and hence the type of procedure to perform, will be notified to
      the operating surgeon, who will proceed accordingly.

      Blinding. A second surgeon team (different from the one who participate in the intervention),
      aware of the operative findings but not the management of the anastomosis, will then assume
      the care of the patient. Postoperative care and ability to be discharged from the hospital
      will be determined by the second surgical team. This second surgical team will be blinded to
      the kind of anastomosis. The primary operative team will be in every moment available for
      emergent consultation.

      Power Calculation. The reported prevalence of surgical morbidity after laparoscopic colectomy
      varies widely from 5-15%16-39, usually depending on the definition of complications and the
      type of resection performed. The most recent Cochrane review on the argument indicates a 8.6%
      of local morbidity (Wound infection, anastomotic insufficiency, postoperative ileus,
      postoperative bleeding)40. Therefore the number of patients required was based on the hope of
      improving the rate of surgical morbidity from 8.6% to 4.3%; considering a drop-out rate of
      5%, 384 patients (192 in the IA group and 192 in the EA group) are necessary to ensure an 80%
      power with an alpha of 5%, when using a two-sided log-rank test. The statistical power sample
      calculation was carried out using PASS 2005 (Power Analysis and Sample Size, within the
      statistical package "NCSS 2004 and PASS 2005").

      Sixty-four patients will be included by each of the six centers of the consortium. Only
      surgeons with at least 30 right colectomies performed with intracorporeal anastomosis will be
      allowed to recruit patients as first operator.

      Statistics. To evaluate significance of differences between the two groups, chi-squared and
      Fisher's exact test will be used as appropriated for categorical variables, and the
      non-parametric Mann-Whitney U-test for continuous variables. Significance level will be set
      at 5%. The statistical analysis will be carried out using the Statistical Package for the
      Social Sciences (SPSS version 13; SPSS Inc. Chicago, Illinois, USA).

      Monitoring. as commonly requested for Randomized Controlled Trials on patients, a strict
      control of outcomes has been planned during the study. Three experts in laparoscopic
      colorectal surgery will be designed as member of IN EXTREMO Trial Monitoring Committee. They
      would have access to the data during the whole course of the study and indicate cessation of
      the trial if one arm is providing manifestly inferior results.
    
  