
    
      Total Knee Arthroplasty (TKA) is a procedure commonly used in severe degeneration of the knee
      joint due to osteoarthritis. With an increasing number of TKA's performed in a population
      that is aging during a time where the amount of healthcare dollars allotted to rehabilitation
      is declining, there is a need to develop remote monitoring of rehabilitation and to engage
      and optimize self-management of recovery.

      Current management of TKA recovery is typically performed in the out-patient setting and is
      highly protocol driven. A typical case might be seen by the physical therapist 2-3x/week for
      8-10 weeks to perform specific exercises and to monitor progress (i.e. compliance with range
      of motion (ROM) and strengthening exercises). One recent study suggested that variation in
      patients' independent exercise and activity after arthroplasty surgery may contribute to
      variable functional gains.

      Telerehabilitation is an emerging method of delivering healthcare. It is likely to become
      more prevalent as technology improves and funding for clinic appointments diminishes. Recent
      studies have shown that telerehabilitation can be as effective as conventional treatment, as
      is well tolerated by both patients and healthcare professionals.

      The StepRite system developed by MedHab (http://www.medhab.com/) allows the physical
      therapist to monitor physical activity and exercise remotely, thereby reducing the need for
      frequent out-patient visits. A thin insole placed inside the shoe measures foot contact
      pressure and a small device attached to the shoe measures acceleration. This information is
      translated into quantitative feedback about exercise compliance and performance measures
      comparing the surgical side with the non-surgical side. Real time feedback during exercise
      and weight-bearing activities is provided to the patient, and a HIPAA secured user interface
      website also displays this information in an online dashboard for both physical therapists
      and the physician.

      Given the potential for improving patient engagement with rehabilitation, this study proposes
      a treatment model which includes monitoring activity outside of the clinic using the StepRite
      device and using a combination of outpatient appointments and remote consultations with
      therapists.

      Hypothesis

      Patients who use the device post-surgery will demonstrate superior short-term improvements
      (i.e. 6 months post TKA) with respect to self-reported functional outcomes and gait
      parameters, compared to a control group who does not use the device.
    
  