
    
      A 16-week longitudinal intervention study. Males, 30-65 years of age, with at least one
      component of metabolic syndrome, were randomly assigned to either the intervention group or
      the control group. At lunch, the intervention group was given 20 g of WGPF per day, which
      contained 10 g of dietary fiber and an antioxidant capacity of 7,258 ORAC (oxygen radical
      absorbance capacity) units. Both groups were asked to maintain their regular eating habits
      and lifestyles. Clinical evaluation, anthropometric measurements and biochemical blood
      analyses were done at the beginning and the end of the study.

      The intervention was carried out at a heavy mining machinery company in Santiago, Chile. All
      employees were informed about the study and invited to participate. Initially, 47 male
      workers free of exclusion criteria agreed to participate. The number of participants in each
      group was chosen based on the variation coefficients in the evolution of total cholesterol in
      the intervention and in the control group, observed in a previous work (Jiménez, J.P., et
      al., Effects of grape antioxidant dietary fiber in cardiovascular disease risk factors.
      Nutrition, 2008. 24(7-8): 646-53).

      Statistical analysis: Continuous variables will be shown as mean and standard deviation,
      while categorical variables as the number of cases and percentage. The student t-test for
      independent samples and the chi-square test will be used to analyze differences of means and
      proportions between the two groups, respectively. The student t-test for paired samples and
      McNemar's test will be used to analyze differences of means and proportions within each
      group. When appropriate, the Wilcoxon signed rank-sum test will be used to compare paired
      medians. All p values will be two-tailed and a value <0.05 will be considered to be
      statistically significant. Data processing and statistical analyses will be done with the SAS
      statistical software package version 9.1 for Windows.
    
  