
    
      Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is one of the most commonly sustained combat-related
      injuries. Complaints of poor attention often follow mTBI and can become chronic in some
      individuals. Chronic attention complaints have traditionally been treated with cognitive
      rehabilitation by speech pathologists. Recent research has shown that computerized programs
      may add additional value either independently or in conjunction with traditional therapies.
      Researchers at UC Riverside have already completed research showing that vision training,
      using the ULTIMEYES program that they created, led to improved vision both on standard
      assessments, such as reading eye-charts, and in real world skills, such as reading and
      playing baseball. This program is designed to broadly improve basic aspects of vision, such
      as visual acuity and contrast sensitivity, as well as high-level vision, such as attention.
      Furthermore, an associated memory training task (Recall The Game) shows improvements in
      memory tasks and transfer to skills such as fluid intelligence.

      The objective of this proposal is to evaluate the effectiveness of rehabilitation for visual
      attention deficits in U.S. military service members across three programs:

        1. Visual Attention and Memory Program (UCR Games)

        2. Cognitive and Psychological Based Rehabilitation (Speech Pathologist-Directed Therapy)

        3. General Cognitive Rehabilitation Games (Lumosity [2])

      The investigators hope to gain a better understanding of the unique and cumulative influence
      of different cognitive rehabilitation programs on improving attention complaints in mTBI.
      This proposal contains both retrospective and prospective components.

      The retrospective component consists of examining archival data from Lumosity, previously
      collected as part of routine clinical care. The data contain pre- and post-assessments of
      post-concussive symptoms, symptom frequency, and cognitive testing. The investigators expect
      that data analysis will reveal evidence of improvement in severity of post-concussive
      symptoms, in frequency of troublesome cognitive problems, and in performance on
      neuropsychological tests when pre- and post-assessments are compared.

      The prospective component will consist of 120 service members with mTBI who have ongoing
      attention complaints and are more than three months post-injury. Each service member will be
      randomly assigned to one of four arms, differentiated only by the specific computer-based
      rehabilitation program used. All individuals will also be treated per current standard of
      care guidelines by a speech pathologist.

      Each of the four arms will be comprised of 30 participants. A cognitive testing battery will
      be administered to each participant before and after implementation of each intervention. The
      cognitive testing battery form will vary based on time of administration in order to control
      for practice effects. Performance on the cognitive testing battery and self-report measures
      will be compared between and within the three arms.

      This research will help the military to identify the best cognitive rehabilitation treatment
      program to address ongoing attention complaints following mTBI.
    
  