
    
      BACKGROUND: nowadays becoming old is considered a results from the socioeconomic development
      and improvements in health care systems worldwide. The life expectancy of the average person
      doubled over the course of the last century and it is currently estimated at 85-90 years in
      western countries.. The number of elderly people will increase dramatically over the next few
      decades with population projections towards 2040 indicating a 66% increase in the age-groups
      65 to 74 years. More importantly, the age groups 75 years and above are projected to increase
      with >100%, which clearly will have implications for future health services. Thus, an acute
      medical insult may thus deprive a healthy 65- or 75-years old person from a considerable
      numbers of future life-years (20-30 years), either as lived in dependency. Older adults make
      up a large portion of surgical practice worldwide. In 2010, 37% of all inpatient operations
      performed in the United States were in patients 65 years and older, and this percentage will
      rise in the coming decades. Also, with increasing age comes an added risk of additional
      disease as well as the use of drugs, some of which clearly can interfere with emergency
      surgical conditions. Elderly patients with life-threatening abdominal disease are undergoing
      emergency surgery in increasing numbers and despite recent advances in surgical and
      anaesthetic techniques, elderly patients are at increased risk for major perioperative
      complications such as delirium, urinary incontinence, pressure ulcers,depression, infection,
      functional decline and adverse drug affects, longer hospital stays, and postoperative
      institutionalization. Even after controlling for co-morbid illnesses and functional
      impairment, age remains an independent risk factor for adverse postoperative events. Elderly
      who receive acute surgery often survives the initial treatment, but often suffers from severe
      complications due to comorbidity. If a complication occurs, it can lead to a cascade of
      events resulting in disability, loss of independence, diminished quality of life, high health
      care costs, and mortality. It is important with close post-operative follow up to avoid life
      threatening complicating conditions, and to involve geriatric consultants and other
      specialties if needed. Additional surgery and aggressive life-prolonging care, can in some
      cases, do more harm than good. Surgical decision making in this population is challenging
      because of the heterogeneity of health status in older adults and the paucity of tools for
      predicting operative risk. Commonly used predictors of postoperative complications have
      substantial limitations; most are based on a single organ system or are subjective, and none
      estimate a patient's physiologic reserves. therefore may need to undergo special pretreatment
      assessments that incorporate frailty assessments. Frailty is commonly associated with older
      adults and is identified by decreased reserves in multiple organ systems because of disease,
      lack of activity, inadequate nutrition, stress, and the physiological changes of aging. Given
      the inevitable rise of the aging population, it is vital that surgeons understand the concept
      of frailty and how it may affect surgical decisions and outcomes. Improving outcomes in
      emergency surgery for the geriatric population is a multifaceted task but has great clinical
      and health care system implications. valuation of current practice is important to improve
      outcomes for the future. Acting on the identified deficits and finding new areas for research
      is important to improve outcomes in the elderly.

      AIM: to evaluate stratification of the surgical risk in patient > 65yo underwent general
      emergency surgery. To evaluate specific parameters as variables for new score in the elderly
      patient. To underline hotspot in the managements of such patients.

      STUDY DESIGN: both retrospective and prospective cohort, multicenter, observational, no
      profit clinical study. All the study participants will collect data on elderly patients
      underwent general emergency surgery during a 18 month old period, guaranteeing a whole
      completeness of the picked data > 95%. This study was approved by the Health Sciences
      Research Ethics Board of the University of Rome La Sapienza.
    
  