
    
      This randomized comparative effectiveness trial examines whether active manipulation of a key
      component of semantic feature analysis (SFA) treatment for word-finding difficulty in aphasia
      improves outcomes. 40 study participants will be recruited and randomized to receive one of
      the two versions of the treatment. The total treatment time will be equated in the two
      conditions.

      Study participants will be housed locally at the Pittsburgh site at no cost and will be
      eligible to receive reimbursement for travel expenses. During the five-week treatment phase
      of the study, participants will receive 60 hours of SFA treatment with pre- and
      post-treatment assessment of their ability to name pictures of treated and untreated,
      semantically related nouns. Other secondary outcomes, including measures of connected speech
      and patient-reported communication ability will also be collected. In order to address
      unresolved questions about the underlying cognitive and neural mechanisms of SFA,
      participants will also receive concurrent pre- and post-treatment assessment of automatic
      word processing ability using eye-tracking methods and functional magnetic resonance imaging
      (fMRI). Participants will also be asked to return to Pittsburgh for two days approximately
      2-3 months later for follow-up language, eye-tracking, and fMRI testing.

      The language testing results will be used to determine which version of SFA treatment
      optimizes outcomes. The eye-tracking results will be used to infer whether SFA's positive
      effects can be attributed to improved activation of lexical-semantic representations,
      improved ability to inhibit competing representations, or both. The fMRI results will be used
      to identify the brain networks and activation changes associated with changes in naming
      ability resulting from SFA. This study will provide theoretically and clinically relevant
      information about how aphasia treatment should be delivered and the neurocognitive mechanisms
      underlying its effects.
    
  