
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the antitumor activity of pixantrone, cytarabine, methylprednisolone, and
           cisplatin in patients with aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in first relapse.

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the validity and safety of this regimen as a mobilization regimen before
           high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell support in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

        -  Salvage therapy: Patients receive pixantrone IV over 1 hour on day 1; cisplatin IV over
           30 minutes on days 1-4; methylprednisolone IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-5; and
           cytarabine IV over 2 hours on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After 2 courses of salvage therapy, patients are re-evaluated and treated as follows:

        -  Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR): Patients with a CR or PR who are
           suitable candidates for autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) proceed to
           mobilization therapy, high-dose chemotherapy, and ASCT. Patients with a CR or PR who are
           unsuitable candidates for ASCT continue to receive salvage therapy for up to 6 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Stable disease: Patients with stable disease continue to receive salvage therapy for up
           to 6 courses. Patients who have a CR or PR after 3-4 courses of salvage therapy and who
           are suitable candidates for ASCT proceed to mobilization therapy, high-dose
           chemotherapy, and ASCT off study at the investigator's discretion.

             -  Mobilization therapy (optional regimen; regimen used for mobilization is at the
                investigator's discretion): Patients receive rituximab* IV on days 1 and 7;
                pixantrone IV over 1 hour on day 2; cisplatin IV over 30 minutes on days 2-5;
                cytarabine IV over 2 hours on day 6; and methylprednisolone IV over 15-30 minutes
                on days 2-6. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously once daily
                beginning on day 7 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients receive 1 or
                more courses of mobilization therapy during which stem cells are harvested.
                Patients then proceed to high-dose chemotherapy and subsequent re-infusion of
                harvested stem cells.

      NOTE: *If this mobilization regimen is used, patients with T-cell lymphoma do not receive
      rituximab

        -  High-dose chemotherapy and ASCT: Patients receive high-dose chemotherapy and ASCT per
           institutional standard practice.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 75 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  