
    
      MM is associated with an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE). The use of targeted
      therapies, including immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), has improved outcomes for patients with
      MM but also increases the risk of VTE. Prevention of VTE has become a major management
      dilemma during MM treatment. There is a paucity of data with respect to the non-vitamin K
      oral anticoagulants (NOACs) in the cancer population, including patients with MM. However,
      the NOACs have been shown to offer comparable efficacy but improved safety compared with
      warfarin. Apixaban has shown excellent safety and efficacy for treatment and prevention of
      recurrent VTE (1,2). Compared with injectable thromboprophylactic regimens such as
      enoxaparin, apixaban offers the advantages of being orally administered and less reliant on
      renal clearance. The safety and efficacy of apixaban for primary prevention of VTE in MM
      patients has not been established. The current study will evaluate apixaban (2.5 mg twice
      daily) in a patient population without a history of prior VTE. Although the current study
      population is high risk for VTE, it is likely to be lower risk for VTE than those of the
      prior randomized controlled trials of apixaban for secondary prevention. Furthermore, current
      practice is to provide MM patients receiving IMiDs with prophylactic doses (not treatment
      doses) of low-molecular weight heparin (such as enoxaparin 40 mg injected daily).
      Accordingly, the rationale to test apixaban (2.5 mg twice daily) is consistent with the
      standard practice of prophylactic anticoagulation.

      The current study will provide event rates that will inform the design of a larger randomized
      controlled trial. If safe and effective, apixaban will satisfy a critical unmet need and will
      represent a substantial advance and "game changer" in the prevention of VTE in this high risk
      patient population.
    
  