
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Little was known about tracking of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors and risk related
      behaviors, or about predicting these variables in young children. Tracking was an important
      issue because it reflected the extent to which the disease processes found among adults start
      in childhood, and whether behavioral or social factors could be used to interrupt that
      tracking.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In Texas, physical risk factor data were collected at four annual clinics. Data on childrens'
      physical activity and diet were collected for up to four times per year for the three years
      between the annual measurement clinics. Similar data, although with some different
      measurement techniques, were collected in Georgia. For this data analysis, specific
      longitudinal research questions addressed whether these physical risk factors (blood
      pressure, lipids, lipoproteins and body composition) and risk related behaviors (diet and
      physical activity) tracked across the annual assessments, whether a variety of behavioral and
      social factors (demographic characteristics and family function) affected that tracking, and
      whether relationships obtained among adults between physical risk factors and these other
      variables could be found in this age child. The testing of these relationships was enhanced
      by the availability of multiple assessments of blood pressures and body composition at each
      point for more reliable assessments, and by multiple assessments of diet and physical
      activity within each year. It was further enhanced by the availability of observational data
      on physical activity and diet, which overcame the limitations of the more common self report
      approach to measurement. Models were developed in each data set and cross validated in the
      other. Procedures were employed to determine reasons for differences and to revise the models
      to produce maximal fit in both data sets. The results of these analyses contributed to a
      better understanding of at what age, and with what factors, it was most appropriate to
      intervene to mitigate CVD.
    
  