
    
      The Thinking Healthy Program (THP) is a cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT)-based intervention
      for maternal depression, delivered by non-specialists.In a recent meta-analysis commissioned
      by the WHO, THP was shown to have a large effect and has been adopted by the WHO for global
      dissemination through its mhGAP programme. A major challenge in the scaling up of this
      evidence-based intervention is the provision of training and supervision at scale, especially
      in post-conflict areas with weak health systems. The investigators aim to meet this challenge
      by providing technology based solutions to training and supervision. Building on the
      organization's previous work in this area, investigators aim to develop Avatar-assisted
      cascade training and supervision system that includes: (a) a interactive voice response
      system for phone based assessment to screen depression in the community; (b) a Tablet-based
      manual , using special characters or avatars allowing standardized training to be delivered
      without the need for a specialist trainer; and (c) a cascade training model whereby
      specialists supervise, from distance, the community health worker program supervisors, who in
      turn, supervise the community health workers (CHW) as part of their normal routine.

      The Lady Health Worker (LHW) Programme covers 85% of Pakistan's rural population through
      115,000 LHWs . If this study is able to provide a technological solution to the training and
      supervision of health workers, they have the potential to provide treatment to an estimated 5
      million women in rural Pakistan with maternal depression.

      Investigators intend conducting the study in District Swat affected by multiple humanitarian
      crises in recent years. Swat has a population of 1,257,602 persons, 86% of whom live in rural
      areas with the average household size of 8.8 persons with a low female literacy. The
      resurgence of the Taliban movement in the Swat Valley of Pakistan since 2004, and the
      military operations in 2009 and the displacement of residents created a humanitarian crisis
      in the area. The devastating floods of 2010 put thousands of people out of their homes, and
      caused destruction to houses, roads, schools and health facilities.The health infrastructure
      of a post conflict zone like Swat is particularly fragile with the health workers under
      threat of being attacked, limiting their mobility. Mental health impacts of conflict are
      often severe and may not be depicted in the national statistics.
    
  