
    
      Introduction :

      Postoperative pain is not only a consequence of the surgical lesion, but is also related to
      sensitization processes that appear in peripheral and central nerves. This sensitization
      induce clinically hyperalgesia and allodynia. From an experimental viewpoint it comes mainly
      from a central activation of NMDA receptors in neurons that conduct the nociceptive message.

      Recent studies have shown that high-dose opioids were able, via NMDA receptors, to enhance
      postoperative hyperalgesia and to increase pain scores and morphine consumption after
      surgery. Nevertheless per operative use of opioid is still necessary to avoid per operative
      stress and systemic consequence of the surgical stimulation.

      Some drugs (ketamine, nitrous oxide…) succeeded in reducing postoperative hyperalgesia and
      pains scores and acute morphine tolerance. They also were able to decrease pain
      chronicization.

      Nefopam, well known as an analgesic since the 80's, presents both analgesic and anti
      hyperalgesic properties as lately demonstrated in experimental trials. Nevertheless these
      anti hyperalgesic properties have never been evaluated in humans scheduled for cardiac
      surgery. Nefopam administration could reduce acute morphine tolerance and could enhance
      postoperative pain management by reducing sensitization processes and hyperalgesia.

      Objective :

      The main purpose of this clinical trial will be to evaluate in patients scheduled for cardiac
      surgery with sternotomy the nefopam effects on the nociceptive threshold evaluated with
      dynamic Von Frey mechanical stimulation.

      The secondary objectives will evaluate static hyperalgesia, postoperative pain scores,
      morphine consumption, cognitive functions, and development of chronic pain and dysesthesia.

      Methods :

      Prospective, randomized, double-blind study that will compare three parallel groups that will
      receive the same per operative anesthesia except for the nefopam doses.

      Group 1: nefopam infusion will start before the surgical incision, at the induction time of
      anesthesia and will be continued until postoperative H48. Group 2: nefopam administration
      will start at the end of the surgery and will be continued until postoperative H48. Group 3:
      control group that will receive a placebo from the induction time of anesthesia until H48.
      All patients will receive postoperatively morphine infusion following the Patient Controlled
      Analgesia concept.

      Number of patients to be included : 90 Duration of the study : 2 years Start : second
      semester of 2006

      Expected result :

      Reduction of the extend of hyperalgesia around the wound evaluated with dynamic Von Frey
      mechanical stimulation more than 20%.
    
  