
    
      In 2011, United Nations (UN) addressed the prevention and control of four non-communicable
      diseases (NCDs: cancer, cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease, and diabetes
      mellitus) worldwide. The UN, in its Political Declaration, recognized the critical importance
      of reducing the exposure to the common modifiable risk factors for NCDs, namely, tobacco use,
      unhealthy diet, physical inactivity, and the harmful use of alcohol.In Hong Kong, NCDs are
      responsible for more than 85% of all deaths and most of these are preventable. FAMILY Project
      Cohort Study (2014) also found that 88.6% of Hong Kong people had inadequate vegetable and
      fruit intake, 70.6% had inadequate physical exercise, 26.4% were overweight and 5.4% were
      obese.

      Families worldwide have been undergoing rapid changes with macro, social and economic trends.
      Demographic shifts, economic upheavals, changing societal norms and values, immigration
      across national borders and migration within nations are creating new and altered structures,
      processes and relationships within families. The increasingly complex and diverse family
      structure contributes to concerns regarding the well-being of families in Hong Kong,
      including their health, happiness and harmony (FAMILY 3Hs). Family life and health education
      should be strengthened to meet the increasing needs of promoting healthy lifestyle among Hong
      Kong families.

      The Fitter Families Project is developed based on the strong foundation of the Learning
      Families Project in the previous years. In view of the health challenges locally and
      globally, the new phase of FAMILY project will put more emphasis on health in the upcoming
      three years. Following the themes on FAMILY health, happiness and harmony (3Hs), the Fitter
      Families Project focuses on family holistic health with emphasis on the interaction and
      integration of both physical and psychosocial health.

      As an initial step of this project, the investigators conducted a need assessments before
      designing and conducting a train-the-trainer program. The train-the-trainer program aimed to
      prepare the staff and lay volunteers to conduct and or assist to implement a series of
      community-based activities and interventions for the participants of Fitter Families Project.
      Focus group interviews were conducted to obtain feedback and opinion from the trainees .
      Questionnaire assessments were conducted before, immediately after finishing the training,
      three months after training.
    
  