
    
      40 patients will be randomly assigned to either the traditional heparin management group or
      the intervention group. The traditional group will be treated with an initial heparin dose of
      400 units/kg and the standard amount of heparin, as dictated by the circuit size, will be
      added to the CPB circuit prime. An ACT target value of 480 seconds will be maintained
      throughout the bypass period. Should the ACT fall below 480 seconds,additional boluses of 100
      units/kg of heparin will be given until the ACT returns to the target value. At the end of
      CPB, heparin will be neutralized by the standard reversal of 4 mg/kg of protamine.

      An additional 20 patients will be enrolled to address the validation of heparin
      concentrations calculated by the Hepcon machine with laboratory-measured heparin
      concentrations. These patients will not be randomized and therefore will not receive an
      intervention.

      For the intervention group, a heparin dose (HDR) response assay will be performed prior to
      surgical incision by the Hepcon instrument. The hepcon machine performs a patient-specific
      HDR assay based on body surface area, and determines a projected heparin concentration
      required by that patient to achieve an ACT of 480 seconds. The HDR assay provides the initial
      dose of heparin to give the patient as well as the amount of heparin to be added to the CPB
      circuit. Additional heparin doses as determined by the hepcon instrument will be administered
      as needed if the patient's heparin concentration falls below the projected reference
      concentration. The hepcon instrument will also calculate the protamine dose needed to reverse
      heparin at the end of CPB.

      For comparison between groups, an assay using the hepcon machine to measure whole blood
      heparin concentration and an ACT will be obtained for each patient at the following
      intervals: after the initial heparin dose, 30 minutes after the initiation of CPB, the start
      of rewarming and immediately prior to the discontinuation of CPB. A sample for anti-factor Xa
      activity will also be obtained at each of the above time intervals to validate the heparin
      concentration determined by the hepcon machine to a laboratory measured value. Blood samples
      for biochemical markers of hemostatic activation will be collected from all patients before
      the initiation of CPB after the administration of the initial heparin dose and after the
      conclusion of CPB before protamine infusion. The following biochemical markers of hemostatic
      activation will be measured: prothrombin fragment 1.2, fibrinopeptide A, free tissue factor
      pathway inhibitor, factor V, factor VIII, and beta-thromboglobulin. The following measures of
      clinical outcome will also be recorded: amount of blood products transfused after protamine
      administration, time between the administration of protamine to leaving the operating room,
      24-hour chest tube drainage, first post-operative weight, time to extubation and duration of
      ICU stay.

      Additional 20 patients: These additional 20 patients will be enrolled to provide further
      validation of the Hepcon-measured heparin concentrations with the laboratory-measured heparin
      concentrations (anti-factor Xa activity). A blood sample will be obtained for a heparin dose
      response (HDR) assay prior to surgical incision Samples will also be obtained to measure a
      heparin concentration by the Hepcon machine and by anti-factor Xa activity at two time
      periods: after the initial heparin dose and immediately prior to discontinuation of CPB. In
      addition, these 20 patients will also have an ACT test analyzed by the Hepcon machine after
      protamine is given.
    
  