
    
      Nature & Purpose Myopia is the focus of growing attention and concern because of the now
      extremely high prevalence of myopia in some East Asian populations. For example, myopia
      prevalence figures in the low to mid 90's have been reported in some studies of University
      student populations in Taiwan and Shanghai, with a figure of 96.5% being reported for young
      adult Korean male conscripts in Seoul. Equivalent prevalence figures for the US have also
      been trending upwards, albeit lagging behind those of East Asia. For example, comparison of
      data from two studies of the same population over the time periods 1971-72 and 1999-2004,
      reveals an increase in the prevalence of myopia from 25% to 41.6% for the 12-54 year age
      range. These figures would not be of concern, were it not for the well-established link
      between myopia and sight-threatening ocular pathologies. Importantly, and as well summarized
      in a recent review by Ian Flitcroft, even low myopia is associated with an increased risk of
      pathology, with the latter, measured in terms of odds ratios, simply increasing with
      increasing myopia. Myopes are at increased risk of myopic maculopathy, retinal detachment,
      cataracts and glaucoma, with myopic maculopathy now the leading cause of monocular blindness
      in Japan and of new cases of blindness in Shanghai.

      The rapidly changing myopia prevalence figures are consistent with the increasing acceptance
      of the role that environmental influences play in the development of myopia. Some but not all
      studies have linked myopia with increased near work, e.g., books read,8 and one recent German
      study showed a correlation between years of formal education with level of myopia. There are
      other studies pointing to outdoor activities being protective against the development of
      myopia. While unresolved are the specific factors contributing to myopia development and
      progression, that visual experience appears to play a central role has refocused attention on
      the possibility that myopia progression can and should be controlled.

      Studies involving animal models for myopia (chicks, guinea pigs, marmosets, rhesus monkeys),
      provide compelling evidence for active emmetropization and a role for optical defocus in
      ocular growth modulation. Specifically, hyperopic defocus imposed on young eyes accelerates
      eye growth while imposed myopia slows it. Local retinal mechanisms have been implicated, with
      the peripheral retina apparently playing an important role in ocular growth regulation. Of
      relevance to the current study, in recent animal model studies, multifocal lenses
      incorporating zones of positive power were found to inhibit eye growth, even when these zones
      are limited to the periphery of the lenses. For already myopic eyes, both stabilization of
      myopia and reversal have been described.

      The above observations with animal models, translated to human myopia, raise the possibility
      of increased progression with standard corrective spectacle and soft contact lenses, given
      that the image shell providing accurate on-axis focus typically falls increasingly behind the
      retina with increasing distance off-axis. Furthermore, more prolate eye shapes, a common
      finding in myopia, are expected to exaggerate this problem. Conversely, prescribing optical
      devices that impose peripheral myopic defocus are predicted to slow myopia progression,
      consistent with results from a number of independent myopia control studies involving
      orthokeratology, which produces a relative myopic shift in peripheral retinal defocus, a
      consequence of induced corneal shape changes.

      While there are now many studies showing an average of around 50% control with both
      multifocal contact lenses and with orthokeratology, there are no published studies using
      either RGP or hybrid multifocal lenses for control of myopia. There are also no studies
      testing the efficacy of near center contact lenses for myopia control although animal studies
      suggest that the retinal location of imposed myopic defocus (i.e. focal plane in front of the
      retina), may not be critical to myopia control. Indeed, inhibited eye growth has been
      reported with positive adds located centrally, peripherally or in a multi-zonal format yet
      among clinicians there is a general belief that only multifocal contact lenses with
      peripheral adds work, no doubt a testament to the widely publicized finding in monkeys by
      Prof. Earl Smith's research group, that eye growth can be regulated by the peripheral retina
      alone. Nonetheless, Prof. Smith never stated that one could control myopia only through
      manipulation of the peripheral optics and indeed, his group more recently reported robust
      inhibitory effects on eye growth of multi-zonal lenses in monkeys.

      The specific aim of this proposal is:

      To compare the efficacy and thus merits of distance center and near center design bifocal
      hybrid contact lenses for controlling (slowing) progression of myopia in children and
      adolescents. Bifocal contact lens wearing participants will wear a distance center lens on
      one eye and a near center lens in their other eye, with one third of the participants wearing
      single vision contact lenses as a control (reference) group.

      Outcome measures to be used to assess efficacy in the study include ocular refractions,
      corneal curvature and eye length at intervals, with data to be collected at 6 months
      intervals over a period of 24 months.

      Participants Two groups of participants (all myopic), between the ages of 7 and 14 yr. (n=20
      in the control group and n=40 in the test group), will be recruited. All will be fitted with
      either Duette single vision or bifocal contact lenses.

      To be accepted into the study, participants will also need to be deemed suitable candidates
      for hybrid contact lenses. Successful single vision soft contact lens wearers will be
      automatically accepted into the study, while non-contact lens wearers will first undergo
      routine clinical pre-fitting assessment to verify their suitability for contact lens wear. To
      avoid excessive dropouts, only those who can demonstrate an ability to properly insert,
      remove and care for hybrid lenses will be enrolled.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to each treatment group, i.e. single vision vs.
      bifocal hybrid contact lenses. To lessen the chance of a poorly randomized sample due to the
      small sample size, a modified covariate adaptive randomization method will be used.

      Procedures All measurements specific to the vision screening, contact lens fitting and
      monitoring of myopia progression will be carried out at Thomas Aller's practice in San Bruno.

      Once the participants have passed the screening protocol and read and signed the informed
      consent form, they will be required to attend a maximum of 10 office visits:

        1. A baseline measurement session (this may be combined with screening and/or session 2)

        2. A contact lens fitting session

        3. A contact lens dispensing/training session

        4. A routine contact lens follow-up session to verify that the lenses fit satisfactorily,
           and the lenses are not adversely affecting eye health

        5. A 6-month follow-up measurement session

        6. A 12-month follow-up measurement session

        7. An 18-month follow-up measurement session

        8. A 24-month follow-up measurement session.

      The contact lens fitting session: Each participant will have their initial lenses selected,
      both single vision and bifocal lenses, based on the manufacturer's suggested fitting
      protocol. For all participants prescriptions will be modified as necessary to provide optimal
      distance vision, through both types of lenses (single vision and bifocal). Visual acuity will
      need to be at least 20/30 in the worse eye and at least 20/25 binocularly. Bifocal contact
      lens prescriptions will be selected to achieve both good distance and near vision. The add
      powers will be selected as the highest add power which results in acceptable distance visual
      acuity. The DCMF design allows for altering the zone sizes, but the default zone sizes will
      be used, subject to alteration as necessary to achieve good distance visual acuity. After Dr.
      Aller has determined the provisional prescriptions, the actual lens assignments will be made
      by a masked assistant. In this way it will be possible to mask and randomize the lens
      assignments appropriately. Bifocal contact lens wearers will also be randomly assigned to
      wear a distance center multifocal (DCMF) in one eye with the other eye wearing a near center
      multifocal (NCMF). At each six-month interval, the lens types assigned to the right and left
      eyes will be switched. The same procedure will be utilized for the single vision wearers,
      though this will only be a sham switch to help maintain masking. This crossover study design
      will help to identify any differences in myopia control efficacy between NC and DC designs,
      and also to lessen the chance of induced anisometropia, should there prove to be a difference
      in myopia control efficacy in these designs.

      Follow-up contact lens review (aftercare) session: In order to verify that the lenses
      dispensed to the participants are fitting well and there are no complications regarding
      vision or the health of the eye, the participants will return for a follow-up appointment 2
      weeks after the lenses have been dispensed. This is routine in clinical practice.

      Follow-up visits at 6-month intervals: Baseline measurements will be repeated at the 6-month
      follow-up session (see Table 1 for measurements and procedures). The fit of the contact
      lenses and health of the front surface of the eye will be assessed also, as per routine
      contact lens practice. Adjustments to contact lens prescriptions may also be ordered, based
      on the results of this exam. If the prescription has changed by ≥ 0.5D or if the visual
      acuity has dropped below 20/30 in the worse eye or below 20/25 binocularly.

      24-month follow-up measurement & aftercare session: Final measurements will be taken at this
      visit, repeating all baseline measurements. To lessen topographical changes induced by the
      rigid portion of the hybrid contact lenses, no lenses will be worn for 3 days prior to this
      visit.

      Benefits In addition to the 3 comprehensive eye examinations received at no cost each
      participant will receive two years' supply of lenses and lens-related solutions. Professional
      fees for contact lens fittings and followup exams will be charged to the subjects at the
      standard rate for the practice. Also, through participation in this study, individuals will
      have the opportunity to learn more about their myopia and the overall health of their eyes.
      Finally if, at the end of the study, results show that a participant may benefit from the
      alternative treatment (single vision contact lenses vs. bifocal lenses), the participant will
      be informed and offered a prescription for the alternative treatment.

      Risks The risks are limited to those associated with routine clinical procedures and are
      negligible. Reactions to local anesthetics are a rare but possible side-effect of their use
      for cycloplegia. Appropriate questioning of subjects and/or their parents about their prior
      experience with, and reaction to, local anesthetics, and exclusion of those with a history of
      previous reactions to local anesthetics can minimize this risk. Such reactions are treated
      with topical antibiotics and/or artificial tears and generally resolve within 24 hr. Hybrid
      contact lenses of both types are widely prescribed in routine clinical practice and the risks
      associated with their daily wear are minimal, given appropriate patient education and
      appropriately-timed "aftercare" exams. Aftercare exams are scheduled at 2 weeks, 6 and 12, 18
      and 24 months.
    
  