
    
      The goals of this study are to refine, implement, and evaluate a culturally relevant
      intervention designed to reduce the disproportionate HIV burden borne by Latino men who have
      sex with men (MSM) in the United States (US). This application is the culmination of ongoing
      research from an established partnership and was developed using community-based
      participatory research (CBPR). The proposed research refines an intervention that was
      developed, implemented, and evaluated using CBPR and was found effective in increasing condom
      use and HIV testing among heterosexual immigrant Latino men.1 Our CBPR partnership will
      refine the intervention based on findings from an R21 formative CBPR study among Latino MSM
      in rural North Carolina (NC) as well as ongoing insights provided by members of the
      partnership. CBPR will continue to be used to enhance the quality and validity of this
      research, continuing to equitably involve community members, organizational representatives,
      and academic researchers in all phases of the research. Together, the partners have developed
      the following specific aims for this proposal:

      Aim 1: Refine a culturally relevant HIV prevention intervention designed to increase condom
      use and HIV testing among adult Latino MSM.

      Aim 2: Implement and evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention by comparing Latino MSM
      in the intervention to those in the delayed-intervention comparison, using a study design
      recommended by members of the CBPR partnership.

      The Specific Aims will be met by applying principles of CBPR to:

        1. Refine the HoMBReS intervention, which has been found effective in increasing condom use
           and HIV testing among heterosexual Latino men, while retaining the integrity of
           intervention themes, concepts, and approaches;

        2. Recruit and enroll adult male Latino lay health advisors (LHAs; total n=20) who
           represent 20 distinct social networks of Latino MSM within central NC;

        3. Recruit and enroll 12 members from the social network of each of the 20 LHAs for a total
           of n=240 social network members;

        4. Randomize the 20 LHAs, coupled with their social networks, into intervention and
           delayed-intervention comparison groups;

        5. Train and support the LHAs in 2 waves (intervention and delayed-intervention) to serve
           as health advisors, opinion leaders, and community advocates;

        6. Evaluate the impact of the intervention by comparing rates of change in condom use and
           HIV testing from baseline to immediate post-intervention between those in the
           intervention group (10 LHAs; 120 social network members) and their peers in the
           delayed-intervention group (10 LHAs; 120 social network members), who will not have been
           exposed to the intervention, using an interviewer-administered assessment;

        7. Evaluate the sustainability of intervention by comparing rates of change in condom use
           and HIV testing from immediate post-intervention to a 12-month follow-up using data from
           both the intervention and delayed-intervention groups who will all have been exposed to
           the intervention; and

        8. Interpret and disseminate findings to community members, other key stakeholders, and
           policy leaders at the local, regional, and national levels.

      This study will advance the field of HIV prevention research by refining, implementing, and
      evaluating an intervention for Latino MSM, who are disproportionately affected by HIV.
      Currently, there are few HIV prevention interventions with evidence of efficacy and none
      tailored to the unique and growing Latino immigrant communities currently settling in the
      southeastern US. Moreover, although LHA interventions are widely promoted, outcome data
      supporting LHA interventions as an approach to health promotion and disease prevention are
      limited. Our HoMBReS intervention, which was developed, implemented, and evaluated using
      CBPR, uses an LHA approach and has evidence of effectiveness.1 The investigators propose to
      refine it to fill important gaps in both the science and the practice of HIV prevention. The
      results and products from this study will be disseminated to inform public health practice,
      research, and policy. Results and products will include: (1) a Spanish-language intervention
      that is: culturally relevant and gender-specific; designed to reduce HIV risk among Latino
      MSM; and ready for dissemination and adaptation; (2) a deeper understanding of HIV risk and
      prevention among Latino MSM; and (3) insight into a research process that includes community
      members, organizational representatives, and academic researchers.

      Study hypotheses. The investigators hypothesize that compared to participants in the
      delayed-intervention group, participants in the intervention group will demonstrate (a)
      increased self-reported use of condoms during sexual intercourse; and (b) increased
      self-reported HIV testing. The investigators also hypothesize that the sustainability of
      intervention will continue through 12-month follow-up (24 months after the Navegantes are
      trained).
    
  