
    
      Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) is a rare disease caused by a group of genetic
      disorders that leads to early death from recurrent infections in affected children.The only
      curative therapy for SCID is allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.Unrelated
      umbilical cord blood(UCB) is increasingly used as an alternative to bone marrow.The
      development of NBS in Europe and America has enabled more SCID patients to be diagnosed
      before symptoms appear, and to enter the normative assessment and intervention procedures as
      soon as possible. In China SCID has not been included in the NBS program,and there are few
      units that can diagnose SCID.Patients often delay diagnosis and miss the best period of
      transplantation. Department of Hematology, Children's Hospital of Fudan University, has used
      UCBT for the treatment of SCID patients with reduced intensity conditioning(RIC)since 2014.6
      of 8 cases were treated with disease-free survival. The encouraging efficacy of these
      patients suggests that RIC of UCBT may be an effective treatment for SCID patients to
      urgently hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The aim of this study is to investigate the
      efficacy of UCBT in the treatment of SCID, including engraftment rate, disease-free survival
      rate,overall survival rate and immune reconstitution, and to evaluate transplant-related
      mortality and complications. All the selected cases are diagnosed as severe combined
      immunodeficiency disease by immunological function and gene detection. These patients have no
      matched sibling donors. Their organs function should be normal. The guardian of the patient
      has the desire and requirement for UCBT and signs the informed consent before treatment. Cord
      blood stem cell selection:HLA high-resolution detection of patients before transplantation,
      searching through cord blood stem cell bank, selecting cord blood stem cells that meet the
      following criteria: HLA-A, B, C, DRB1 high-resolution (genotype) > 6/8matching,total number
      of nuclear cells >5x10^7/kg.Conditioning:busulfan+ cyclophosphamide.GVHD prevention:
      tacrolimus (FK506) or cyclosporine A. Infection prevention: Micafungin/caspofungin before
      engraftment, voriconazole after engraftment to prevent fungi. Ganciclovir is used from the
      beginning of conditioning to the infusion of cord blood stem cells, and acyclovir is used to
      prevent virus infection. SMZ prevents Pneumocystis carinii infection after engraftment until
      half a year after the withdrawal of immunosuppressive agents.

      This is a multicenter prospective observational study. Procedure/Surgery: Cord Blood Stem
      Cell Transplantation Unrelated cord blood stem cell selection: HLA high-resolution detection
      is performed before transplantation. High-resolution (genotype) matching of HLA-A, B, C and
      DRB1 was selected. The total number of nuclear cells is more than 5*107/kg.

      Reduced intensity conditioning : Busulphan 3.2mg/kg per day in divided doses for 3 days(total
      dose 9.6 mg/kg) and cyclophosphamide 50 mg/kg for 2 days (total dose 100 mg/kg).

      GVHD prevention: tacrolimus (FK506) 0.1 mg/kg/day, started 4 days before transplantation, is
      taken orally twice, and the blood concentration is monitored to maintain the concentration at
      5-10 ng/ml. If the patient does not have a GVHD transplant +100 days after the slow
      reduction, until the transplant 6 months after the withdrawal.

      Infection prevention: Micafungin/caspofungin before engraftment, voriconazole after
      engraftment to prevent fungi. Ganciclovir is used from the beginning of pretreatment to the
      beginning of reinfusion, and acyclovir is used to prevent virus infection until
      immunosuppressive agents are discontinued after reinfusion. SMZ prevents Pneumocystis carinii
      infection after engraftment.
    
  