
    
      The value of STAN (ST analysis) was assessed in 2 randomized trials and shows: 1) A reduction
      in the incidence of severe hypoxia in fetuses during labor and 2) A reduction in frequency of
      redemption with suction and caesarean section due to lack of oxygen during the birth process.

      Within the last year however, there is substantial new information regarding. STAN. The
      Swedish Social Board has published a newsletter (17) which describes a possible risk of birth
      of asphyxiated children, some died and others have cerebral palsy. A new Finnish study (18)
      suggests that there may be an increased risk of (moderate) acidosis after using STAN.

      The above has led to considerable debate, not just in Sweden but also throughout Europe. This
      has led to the Swedish, Danish (Newsletter 1, Annex 1b) and the common Nordic reference group
      for STAN orally has announced new clinical guidelines for STAN application. A recently held
      workshop in Utrecht, Holland will generate joint European guideline, these will be sought
      published. Against this background it has been necessary to develop new guidelines for the
      complement of scalp pH in the STAN arm of this project (Annex 1a)

      Common to the above studies is that there is consistently applied scalp pH before STAN
      monitoring begins. It is therefore important to elucidate whether, through the use of STAN
      monitoring is needed (more than 1) FBS - and if so to what extent FBS is required.

      STAN method currently winning widespread in Denmark and internationally (FDA has just
      approved), notwithstanding that it is not scientifically proven that fetal monitoring with
      STAN is better than the current monitoring method with scalp pH measurement. It is therefore
      important to get this resolved in a randomized study in the relative expensive STAN apparatus
      introduced in several places in Denmark.

      This study will provide an opportunity to highlight these issues and can prepare on our way
      to use STAN to prevent or significantly reduce these risks and thus justify continued STAN
      use or the continued spread of STAN should not by advised.

      If STAN by our method proves to be comparable with clean scalps pH measurement as an adjunct
      to CTG, it will be a significant advance in fetal monitoring technology, taking thus will
      have a primarily non-invasive, safe and continuous method cause less inconvenience to both
      mother and child.

      The study was approved by the Ethical nominee directors.

      The study will include all women > 18 years in labour with a fetus in the cephalic
      presentation with a gestational age of more than 36 weeks + 0, where there is the monitoring
      with CTG.

      Women who develop CTG changes that are interpreted as abnormal (according to STAN
      (FIGO)-guidelines and the scalp pH is normal, could be included in the study. Women will be
      randomised by telephone(electronic)to surveillance with eighter STAN monitoring or with CTG
      and scalp pH. In the latter group STAN results will be blinded (hidden) for later analysis.

      There are estimated to be 1200 women in the study and the study is expected to run for 2-3
      years, preceded by a pilotproject.

      During the pilot project we will follow the department's usual procedures for monitoring, but
      to CTG using the STAN device with blinded/concealed ST analysis. There is expected to be 100
      patients in the pilotproject. The aim is to investigate whether the calculations in the
      survey stick and simultaneously train staff at the maternity ward in STAN equipment and
      procedures and make them familiar with the work.

      The advantage in conducting the study at the maternity ward at Hvidovre hospital is that it
      is the largest birthplace in Denmark with nearly 6,000 births annually, with perhaps the
      highest use of scalp pH measurements during labor. In addition, nearly 3,000 births annually
      at Roskilde County Hospital, a total of 9,500 births. In addition, department and project
      managers areexperienced in scientific studies on fetal monitoring.

      Project participants have on their own initiative, initiated this project and has no
      financial interest in the instrument companies that produce the used equipment/ appliances/
      monitors.

      The project has been allocated 2.5 million DKr in funding for the project from Elsass
      Foundation, a private foundation with no financial interest in the project equipment/
      appliances/ monitors.
    
  