
    
      This will be a Phase II, randomized, placebo-controlled study. All subjects who meet the
      inclusion criteria, with no exclusion criteria, will qualify to enter the Screening Phase.
      The study will enroll 70 eligible subjects to receive blinded study drug in Treatment Phase
      I. All eligible subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive a blinded dose of
      either FCM 750 mg undiluted slow intravenous (IV) push at 100 mg/minute or a Placebo (15 ml
      of Normal Saline [NS]) IV push at 2 ml/minute on Day 0 and 7.

      A subject will be defined at Day 42 as a Responder if the International Restless Legs
      Syndrome Severity Scale (IRLSS) score is ≤10 or if the IRLSS score is >10 with a Clinical
      Global Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) score of much or very much improvement and the subject
      does not request further treatment for RLS. A subject will be defined as a treatment
      Non-Responder if neither of these criteria are met.

      Non-Responders who do not meet the laboratory criteria for additional dosing will be
      discontinued from the study and treated for RLS as deemed appropriate by the referring
      physician. Subjects who are Non-Responders at the end of Treatment Phase I and met the
      necessary laboratory criteria (ferritin <300 ng/mL and a TSAT <45%) will consented for
      enrollment in Treatment Phase II of the study. These subjects will receive the first of two
      unblinded doses of FCM (undiluted slow IV push 750 mg 100 mg/minute) on Day 0 of Phase II,
      which will occur within 7 days of the completing Treatment Phase I visit. The subjects will
      then receive the second dose of FCM (undiluted slow IV push 750 mg 100 mg/minute) on Day 7.
      All treated subjects will have blood samples taken for hematology, chemistries and iron
      indices on Day 14. Treatment efficacy (IRLSS score), medication review and adverse events
      assessment by phone will be done on Day 28. All subjects will return to the clinic on Day 42
      for end of study assessments. Subjects completing Treatment Phase II will be re-evaluated on
      Day 42 and defined as either a Responder or Non-Responder, using the same criteria described
      above. Subjects deemed as treatment Non-Responders will be discontinued from the study after
      final assessments are complete.

      Subjects who are evaluated on Day 42 (Week 6) as Responders from either Treatment Phase I or
      Treatment Phase II will continue through into the 46-Week, Long-Term Extension Phase III of
      the study, and be monitored and assessed by phone for RLS symptoms (IRLSS and Hopkins
      RLS-Sleep Quality Questionnaire [HRSQ]) and adverse events on (approximately every 9 weeks)
      Weeks 15, 25, 34, 43 and 52 (final follow-up visit). During Phase III subjects may receive
      additional unblinded treatments with FCM if at any time the subject reports worsening of RLS
      symptoms (an increase >4 points on the IRLSS compared to the last evaluation captured for
      that subject) and laboratory criteria are met (ferritin <300 ng/mL and a TSAT <45%). Subjects
      will receive a single FCM 750 mg undiluted slow IV push at 100 mg/minute. See section 6.6 for
      dosing and assessment outline. No additional treatment will be allowed after the Week 46. A
      final face-to-face study visit will occur on Week 52 (approximately 365 days since initial
      Day 0 Treatment). If a clinic visit is not possible, final evaluation will be completed by
      phone.
    
  