
    
      Clofarabine is a second-generation adenosine nucleoside analog with activity in hematologic
      malignancies. It has gained FDA-approval for use in children with relapsed-refractory ALL,
      and early phase studies have shown activity in patients with AML and MDS. Clofarabine's
      activity in acute leukemias and MDS has been established in multiple phase I and II studies,
      both alone and in combination with cytosine arabinoside (araC), and in both
      relapsed-refractory patients, and untreated older adults.

      Pharmacokinetic investigations comparing I.V. and P.O. dosing within the same patient have
      not been performed. Furthermore, the effect of OCT2 inhibition on clofarabine
      pharmacokinetics in humans has not been investigated. The potential for enhanced drug
      exposure and toxicity in the setting of OCT2 inhibition is of clinical importance as
      clofarabine gains broader indications in hematologic oncology. In particular, bioavailability
      and the OCT2 mechanism are important with prolonged drug exposure and oral administration in
      older adults, who are likely to have impaired renal function and take other drugs that
      interact with OCT2 such as metformin (a substrate) and trimethoprim (one of several
      inhibitors). OCT2 is expressed on several solid tumor cell lines, and is thought to play a
      role in tumor uptake of cationic cytotoxins. Whether OCT2 or other transporters are expressed
      on leukemic blasts, or influence drug uptake has not been investigated. However, variation in
      the expression of drug transporters could be one of several mechanistic explanations for the
      fact that clofarabine-responsive patients accumulate intracellular clofarabine triphosphate,
      whereas non-responders do not.

      Single nucleotide polymorphisms have been identified in the gene encoding OCT2, which may
      influence substrate uptake or inhibitor potency. Such polymorphisms may explain variation in
      clofarabine pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics between individuals, but the potential for
      this phenomenon has not previously been investigated.

      Patients will receive clofarabine as induction therapy in five doses. Initially, and unless
      dose escalation or de-escalation criteria are met, patients will be assigned to dose level 0
      (IV Clofarabine 15mg/m2; Oral clofarabine 30mg/m2). The first three doses (on days 1, 3 and
      5) will be administered followed by washout periods that extend until the next clofarabine
      dose is administered. During the washout periods, frequent phlebotomy for PK sampling will be
      performed in an outpatient setting at the UNC Clinical Translational Research Center (CTRC).
      The duration of the induction period will be determined by time to recovery of hematologic
      toxicity (platelets >50 x 109/liter, ANC >1.0x109/liter).

      AML patients achieving CR, and MDS patients achieving CR, PR or hematologic improvement will
      receive additional consolidation cycles of oral clofarabine daily on days 1 through 5 of each
      subsequent cycle, with clofarabine dose according to assigned dose level (0: 30 mg/m2, -1: 20
      mg/m2, +1: 40 mg/m2). Consolidation cycles will begin no sooner than 28 days after the first
      day of the previous clofarabine cycle. Patients will be evaluated for response after each
      cycle, and will be continued on trial for up to 6 total cycles of therapy as long as a
      response or lack of progression is maintained and no Grade 3-4 non-hematologic toxicities
      have been observed in that patient.
    
  