
    
      The presence of pain is the most frequent reason for a patient to visit the emergency
      department. the investigators know that severe acute pain can be a risk factor for developing
      chronic pain.

      Chronic pain is a symptom, devoid of biological utility, that persists despite the absence of
      nociceptive stimulus, even after a reasonable period of time that would have allowed the
      tissue lesion to heal. It is therefore a public health problem with a negative impact on
      patients' lives.

      Chronic pain has been studied in anesthesia and surgery in recent years. In 2006, a study
      showed the appearance of chronic pain (incidence between 10-50%) in patients who had
      undergone routine surgery. On the other hand, few studies have looked at the occurrence of
      chronic pain in patients who came to the emergency department for acute pain.

      It is in this context that the investigators find it relevant to assess the prevalence of
      moderate to severe chronic pain after an emergency department consultation for severe acute
      pain.

      The physiological mechanisms of pain are better identified and the activation of
      N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors contributes to the onset of hyperalgesia. These
      receptors are activated under certain conditions, such as during intense and prolonged pain
      or exposure to high doses of opioids. In addition, the hyperalgesic effect of opioids is
      known and widely described in the literature. Finally, in the perioperative period, it is now
      accepted that the administration of a low dose of ketamine can combat these hyperalgesic
      effects thanks to its NMDA receptor inhibitory action. This effect may have an impact on pain
      at six months after surgery.

      On the basis of these data, it seems relevant to question the prevalence of chronic pain in
      the course of an emergency department consultation, all the more so in patients with severe
      initial pain, in whom there is an initial indication for morphine titration, based on the
      recommendations of the French Society of Emergency Medicine (SFMU).

      In addition, the investigators need to question the effects of initial analgesia administered
      in the emergency department for patients with severe acute pain. Is there a link between the
      use of certain molecules or the combination of molecules on the onset of chronic pain?
    
  