
    
      Gambling disorder (GD) is a non-substance-related disorder with a high prevalence, which
      ranges from 0.12% to 5.8% (Calado & Griffiths, 2016). It contrasts with the small number of
      people requesting treatment. Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) could help to
      enhance the dissemination of evidence-based treatments as well as considerably reduce costs.
      The first-line treatment for GD is Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (CBT) and there are programs
      based on this approach applied by ICT that have shown its efficacy in other countries (Bücker
      et al., 2018; Carlbring & Smith, 2008; Hodgins et al., 2019). Nevertheless, as far as the
      investigators concern in Spain there is not any program with these characteristics. The main
      objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of an online CBT-based intervention for the
      treatment of gambling disorders. The study will be a 2-arm, parallel-group, randomized
      controlled trial. A total of 134 participants (risk, problem and pathological gamblers) will
      be randomly allocated to a waiting list control group (N=67) or an intervention group (N=67).
      The intervention program consists of 8 modules and, although it is recommended to perform a
      module per week, participants can realize it over 12 weeks. Individuals in the intervention
      condition will also receive weekly telephone support (15 minutes) and will respond to a daily
      Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) that immediately offers positive feedback in the case
      that participants do not gamble, and inform about the number of days without betting. On the
      contrary, if they bet, EMA sends an alert to the therapist, who can make a phone call to
      support the participant. Assessments will be conducted at pre-intervention,
      post-intervention, and at 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-up. The primary outcome is gambling
      severity using the Norc diagnostic screen for gambling disorders (NODS; adapted by Becoña,
      2004). Secondary outcomes include the urge to gamble, self-efficacy, cognitive distortions
      and stages of change. Other outcomes are impulsivity, emotion regulation, positive and
      negative affect, depression, anxiety, and quality of life. The main hypothesis is that the
      Internet-based psychological intervention group will obtain better results than the waiting
      list control group.
    
  