
    
      Tonsillectomy is one of the commonest childhood operations in the world; approximately 9200
      children have their tonsils removed every year in Norway alone.

      Postoperative pain following the procedure is significant and notoriously difficult to mange.
      It´s management is potentially complicated by nausea and the risk of tonsillar infection or
      re-bleeding. Post-tonsillectomy pain in children is persistent, with 75% of children
      experiencing significant pain for the first three days and 50% still suffering with
      significant pain one week after the procedure. As well as delaying recovery, reducing oral
      intake of food and drink and disturbing sleep, post tonsillectomy pain has been shown to
      result in more than 50% of patients and their parents consulting their primary care physician
      in the post operative period, with the ensuing costs to the families and healthcare
      providers.

      It is worth noting, that despite significant postoperative pain and potential complications,
      recovery after adeno / tonsillectomy is excellent.

      The operative nature of tonsillectomy and adenotonsillectomy necessitates the provision of
      general anaesthesia to the child. The technique must ensure sufficient depth of anaesthesia
      and analgesia and protection of the airway from blood and surgical debris. Whilst there are a
      wide variety of anaesthetic techniques employed to achieve these goals,Total Intra Venous
      Anaesthesia (TIVA) with propofol and remifentanil has been shown in previous studies to be
      superior to volatile based (gas) anaesthesia, resulting in less post operative nausea and
      vomiting, less long term adverse behavioural changes, improved quality of emergence from
      anaesthesia, and less environmental pollution.

      The use of remifentanil and propofol TIVA in children is well established and has been in use
      since at least the year 2000 for children undergoing tonsillectomy. Despite this the effects
      of remifentanil dosing on post-operative pain has not been studied in children undergoing
      tonsillectomy, though it may play a significant role.
    
  