
    
      Globally, Peptic ulcer disease is the most common cause of upper gastrointestinal bleeding
      (UGIB), accounting for about 50% of cases. It remains a serious medical problem with
      significant morbidity and mortality (1, 2). However, in Egypt, bleeding peptic ulcer comes
      second to the bleeding varices in order of frequency (approximately 30%) (3).

      Over the past 20 years, mortality resulting from bleeding peptic ulcer significantly
      decreased through researches on primary endoscopic hemostasis, due to improvement in pre- and
      post-endoscopic management, as well as identification of patients at a risk of catastrophic
      events-for close observation and focused intensive management (4).However, the risk of
      patients with bleeding peptic ulcers significantly increased owing to the aging population
      with multiple comorbidities, as well as the increasing use of aspirin and non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (5).

      Endoscopic therapy significantly reduces further bleeding, surgery, and mortality in patients
      with bleeding peptic ulcer and is now recommended as the first hemostatic modality for these
      patients. However, there is a high risk of peptic ulcer re-bleeding in 14-36% of patients, in
      spite of efficient endoscopic intervention (6).

      Intravenous proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are effective as adjuvant pharmacotherapy in
      preventing re-bleeding in these patients (7).

      Gastric acid inhibits clot formation and promotes clot lyses and accordingly, disturbs
      hemostasis of ulcers in the stomach and duodenum (8). Therefore, reduction of gastric acid
      secretion can prevent ulcer re-bleeding.

      The use of high-dose intravenous PPIs is standard practice in the management of upper
      gastrointestinal bleeding (9).

      High dose IV PPI has faster adequate acid suppression effect (gastric acid PH > 6) than high
      dose oral PPI . In addition, Compared to standard dose of oral PPI, high dose oral PPI has
      faster acid suppression (10, 11). However, the optimal route, dose, and duration of PPI
      therapy after endoscopic therapy of a bleeding peptic ulcer remain controversial.

      UGIB continues to represent a signiﬁcant clinical and economic burden to society. Intravenous
      PPI therapy is more expensive than oral one. Therefore, the therapy has to be assessed from a
      cost-effectiveness perspective (12).

      Several controlled trials and meta-analyses have shown the comparable efficacy of IV and oral
      PPI in treating ulcers at high risk of re-bleeding after endoscopic therapy. However, further
      studies to confirm their results were recommended (13, 14).

      The investigators will evaluate and compare the efficacy and safety profile of oral PPI
      compared to IV PPI in preventing re-bleeding from peptic ulcers.
    
  