
    
      Patients on hemodialysis (HD) exhibit an immensely increased cardiovascular mortality
      associated with extensive vascular calcification (VC). This forms - at least partially - the
      reason for the excessively increased cardiovascular mortality in this population.

      In the past years the development of VC was discovered to be actively regulated and as being
      influenced by inhibitors of calcification (e.g. matrix-Gla-protein, fetuin-A). Matrix Gla
      protein (MGP) is a powerful vascular wall-based inhibitor of VC. MGP is produced by vascular
      smooth muscle cells and needs post-translational modification by vitamin K dependent
      gamma-carboxylation to be fully active. The role of MGP was discovered in knock-out mice,
      which died from rupture of a massively calcified aorta. Functional vitamin K deficiency
      induced by administration of warfarin leads to the development of VC, which in turn can be
      inhibited by subsequent administration of vitamin K1. Warfarin inhibits the vitamin K
      mediated gamma-carboxylation, which leads to the production of noncarboxylated and inactive
      MGP (ucMGP).

      Warfarin is widely used due to its inhibitory capacity on the activation of coagulation
      factors. Now it has been discovered that the use of vitamin K inhibitors influences vascular
      health: long-term use of warfarin is associated with an increased prevalence and extent of VC
      in the normal population and HD patients. Warfarin is also a crucial risk factor for the
      development of calciphylaxis, a life-threatening complication in HD patients characterised by
      calcified cutaneous vessels. In turn, administration of vitamin K1 was accompanied by reduced
      intima-media-thickness (IMT) and increased elasticity of vessels in postmenopausal women.

      Based on the demonstration of increased PIVKA-II levels, about 97% of all HD patients exhibit
      insufficient carboxylation activity. Together with the increased VC they represent an ideal
      population for interventional trials in the vitamin K system. Recently we were able to
      demonstrate that supplementation of vitamin K1 in such patients is well tolerated, shows only
      very few side effects and induces a dose dependent decrease of the inactive form
      Dephosphorylated noncarboxylated matrix Gla protein (dpucMGP) in serum over a six weeks
      period. In this trial we also observed that all dialysis patients included had insufficient
      vitamin K serum levels, indicating no substantial influence of food intake on vitamin K
      deficiency. In addition, this demonstrates that all patients have insufficient vitamin K
      levels to facilitate adequate MGP carboxylation.
    
  