
    
      Acute mesenteric ischemia (AMI) is a rare but catastrophic abdominal vascular emergency
      associated with daunting mortality comparable to myocardial infarction or cerebral stroke.
      Computed tomographic angiography is the initial diagnostic examination of choice for patients
      in whom AMI is a consideration. Computed tomographic angiography can be performed rapidly and
      can be used to identify critical arterial stenosis or occlusion as well as providing
      information concerning the presence of bowel infarction. An uncommon cause of presentation to
      emergency rooms, lack of clinical suspicion often leads to delayed presentation, development
      of peritoneal signs, and subsequent staggeringly high mortality rates.

      Now in use for over 2 decades, the concept of damage control surgery (DCS) has become an
      accepted, proven surgical strategy with wide applicability and success in severe trauma
      patients. The concept has been mostly used in the massively injured, exsanguinating patients
      with multiple competing surgical priorities. With growing experiences in the application, the
      strategy continues to evolve into a nontrauma setting, especially in AMI.

      Although an increasing development of endovascular techniques, AMI remains a morbid condition
      with a poor short-term and long-term survival rate. Some authors advocated that laparotomy
      after mesenteric revascularization serves to evaluate the possible damage to the visceral
      organs. Bowel resection as a result of transmural necrosis is carried out according to the
      principles of DCS. Bowel resections are performed with staples, leaving the creation of
      stomas until the second-look laparotomy. The abdominal wall can be left unsutured and
      temporary abdominal closure (TAC) was applied. However, the use of DCS in the setting of AMI
      was limited in case series and mostly confined in large university teaching hospitals. The
      timing and details of how the DCS incorporated into the treatment algorithm of AMI deserved
      further investigations.

      An integrated intestinal stroke center (ISC) was established in our department, a national
      cutting-edge referral center for intestinal failure, to build up ideal coordination among
      gastroenterology physician, gastrointestinal and vascular surgeon, and intervention
      radiologist for this therapeutic challenge. DCS was liberally used since ISC was established
      in 2010.

      In this prospective cohort study, we aimed to compare the clinical outcomes of patients
      receiving DCS and non-DCS in the devastating conditions in our single center.
    
  