
    
      The scientific aim of this project is to determine the effect a medical clowning intervention
      may have on perceived pain levels and anxiety levels with patients, their families, and the
      medical staff during routine blood draw procedures in the Pediatric Oncology Hematology
      Clinic of LAC + USC.

      We are investigating the following claims: First, the physical, play-based, non-verbal based
      forms of communication that a clown implements is effective in creating playful distraction
      during the procedure. The presence of the clown in this capacity can meaningfully reduce
      perceived pain levels in patients during venipuncture and reduce the duration of crying.
      Second, the clown intervention decreases anxiety levels in the trial participants and
      families leading up to and during blood draw which supports the patient as well as increases
      efficiency for hospital staff. Third, the presence of the clown will significantly reduce
      physical restraint (i.e. medical stabilization board, known as a papoose board) usage during
      venipuncture. Lastly, we aim to prove that coulrophobia does not play a factor in medical
      clowning interventions.

      The USC School of Dramatic Arts Medical Clowning Program is the first academic and research
      program of its kind in the country, offering a groundbreaking opportunity to develop a new
      model for patient healing and wellness. While research studies have proven its effectiveness
      internationally, USC hopes to become a leading player by applying, proving, and advocating
      for the transformational impact of clowning in healthcare. Medical Clowns, Zachary Steel and
      Caitlyn Conlin, have both been clowning at LAC + USC County Hospital for the past two years.
      The practice, as perceived by the clown practitioners, staff and family members, has been
      extremely effective in lowering anxiety, reframing the hospitalization experience, and as a
      distraction tool. We are hoping to elevate the practice as a vital paramedical profession by
      proving the efficacy of the practice in this specific setting.

      Internationally, the practice of medical clowning has becoming increasingly prevalent in
      hospital and community settings. The efficacy of the practice continues to be proven, all
      without undue risk to human subjects, when applied to a large spectrum of populations and
      settings. At Carmel Medical Center in Haifa, Israel, a study on the effect of medical
      clowning on reducing pain, crying, and anxiety in children aged 2 to 10 years old undergoing
      venous blood drawing proved the clowns were effective, safe, and had less negative effect on
      future blood draw examinations compared with control or use of topical anesthetic.
      Furthermore, integration of medical clowns in physical examination was shown to improve the
      overall experience of the child and the caregivers and help the pediatrician to perform a
      complete physical examination, with shorter duration of discomfort (0.2 +/- 0.6 minutes vs
      1.6 +/- 2.0 minutes, p = 0.001); in the medical clown group, 94% of pediatricians reported
      that the medical clown improved their ability to perform a complete physical examination.
      Clowning has also successfully been used as a psychological distress buffer during anogenital
      examinations of sexually abused children.

      While the international community has successfully studied the efficacy of the practice, the
      practice of medical clowning varies from country to country as the patient's response to
      different forms of humor and play varies. Culturally, clowns play a different role in the
      United States than they do elsewhere due to coulrophobia (fear of clowns) that has surfaced
      in the U.S. due to blockbuster movies. In 2017, an Israeli group published a study that
      showed that only 1.2% of hospitalized children were afraid of clowns. In contrast, according
      to a poll conducted by Morning Consult 42% of Americans said they were, in some capacity,
      afraid of clowns.

      Participants will be randomized to either receive medical clowning intervention or no
      intervention. The total length of subject participation is the participant's one visit to the
      blood draw clinic.

      Each participant randomized to the medical clowning arm will undergo one medical clowning
      session which consists of two medical clowns accompanying them before, during, and after
      venipuncture. The data collection procedures (surveys, recordings), are not experimental but
      will be performed exclusively for research purposes. Initial pre-intervention surveys will be
      administered in the waiting room to the participant and legal guardians before the blood draw
      procedure. Post-intervention surveys will be administered once the participant leaves the
      blood draw room. For both the intervention and non-intervention group, the nurses will
      communicate to the research assistant if the papoose was used. For both the intervention and
      non-intervention group, audio will begin recording the moment the participant steps into the
      blood draw room to later assess duration of crying. The detailed design of the study is as
      follows:

      SCREENING & CONSENT FORM PHASE (15-20 minutes): Participants will be screened for eligibility
      based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria. After identifying eligible candidates,
      immediately following patient check-in at the clinic's front desk, the participant patient
      and legal guardian will receive a written overview of the study and will have time to ask
      questions regarding the purpose of the study and what's to be expected of them. If they agree
      to participate, participants aged 7-11 will be asked to give assent and all legal guardians
      will be asked to sign an Informed Consent Form. The participant and guardian will be given
      trial specific information. All referring physicians and nurses will be informed of their
      participants' enrollment. In the case that the participant and legal guardian are more
      proficient in Spanish than English, all of these forms and documents will be provided to them
      in Spanish.

      PRE-INTERVENTION PHASE (WAITING ROOM) (15-20 minutes): All documents will be copied and
      distributed / filed, including copies to the family. The participant will be registered and
      randomized as per protocol. Initial pre-intervention surveys will be administered.

      CLOWN INTRODUCTION PHASE (3-5 minutes): Participants and caregivers sit in a hallway before
      they are admitted into a blood draw room. For the intervention patient, once the survey is
      completed, the clowns will introduce themselves to the subjects and form an introductory
      bond. The clown will accompany the child to the blood draw room. For the non-intervention
      participant, no clown will be introduced and they will wait for the nurse to lead them into
      the blood draw room to continue usual care.

      CLINICAL PHASE (variable duration, estimated 30-40 minutes, depending on routine medical care
      duration): For the intervention group, the nurse administers usual standard nursing care
      (vitals: blood pressure cuff, temperature reading, oxygen saturation, etc.). The clowns will
      work in complement, finding opportunities to connect and find play opportunities with the
      patient and caretakers to ease anxiety, lessen crying duration, and improve the overall
      experience. The clown engages with the participant and all caregivers in the room and
      attempts to divert their focus away from pain and reduce their anxiety levels through play,
      laughter, and imagination during venipuncture and other nursing care. Following the
      collection of blood samples by the nurses, the clowns will stay in the room to soothe and
      play a transitional role prior to returning to routine care with subsequent providers (e.g.
      doctor, social worker, dietician). For the non-intervention group, no clown will be present
      and the nurses will proceed with routine tests and blood draw. The nurse will use the papoose
      only if determined necessary to subdue the child during venipuncture. For both the
      intervention and non-intervention-groups, the nurses will communicate to the research
      assistant if the papoose was used. For both the intervention and non-intervention groups,
      audio will begin recording the moment a child steps into the blood draw room to later assess
      duration of crying.

      POST-SURVEY PHASE (10-15 minutes): Post-intervention surveys will be administered.

      MEDICAL STAFF FOLLOW UP PHASE: At the end of the entire study, the medical staff will be
      asked to answer a questionnaire.
    
  