
    
      The autoimmune process along with a strong genetic-mediated destruction and dysfunction of
      pancreatic β-cells are the main pathogeneses of type 1 diabetes. These processes cause
      absolute and relative insulin and amylin deficiencies. For the last decades, insulin therapy
      has been the primary therapy for type 1 diabetes.

      Amylin is a 37 amino acid peptide hormone co-secreted with insulin mostly by the pancreatic β
      cells in response to meals. Amylin has several known effects including suppression of
      postprandial glucagon secretion, regulation of gastric emptying, and reduction of food
      intake. Pramlintide is an amylin analog recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) to be given at meal time as an adjunct to insulin therapy in patients with type 1 or
      type 2 diabetes who have failed to achieve desired glucose control despite optimal insulin
      therapy or insulin therapy with or without a sulfonylurea agent and/or metformin. Several
      clinical trials showed that meal time amylin replacement with pramlintide along with insulin
      therapy improved post-prandial hyperglucagonemia, and reduced post-prandial glucose
      excursion. A recent randomized control trial showed that pramlintaide reduced weight by up to
      2kg in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.

      The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) demonstrated that intensive diabetes
      therapy delays the onset and progression of microvascular disease such as retinopathy,
      nephropathy and neuropathy. The DCCT also showed that the prevalence of obesity, defined as a
      body mass index (BMI) ≥ 27.8 kg/m2 for men and ≥ 27.3 kg/m2 for women, was 33.1% in the
      intensive treatment group compared with 19.1% in the conventional treatment group.
      Intensively treated patients gained an average of 4.75 kg more than conventionally treated
      patients (P < 0.0001). Weight gain was most rapid during the first year of therapy. Several
      mechanisms have been proposed to explain the weight gain associated with insulin therapy.
      These include decreased glycosuria due to improved glycemic control, the direct lipogenic
      effects of insulin on adipose tissue, and increased food intake due to recurrent mild
      hypoglycemia.

      Obesity, especially in type 2 diabetes, is associated with the accumulation of triglyceride
      in muscle as well as in the liver. These are thought to cause insulin resistance and diabetic
      metabolic complications. Sub-analysis of the DCCT showed that in the intensive treatment
      group, higher weight gain correlated with a higher waist to hip ratio as well as higher LDL
      and lower HDL levels similar to what is seen in the metabolic syndrome. An association
      between weight gain due to intensive insulin therapy in type 1 diabetes and the risk of
      coronary artery disease has yet to be determined. However, the DCCT showed some reduction in
      cardiovascular risk factors among the intensive treatment group as well as reduction in
      cardiovascular events. The DCCT did not evaluate cardiovascular risk based on degree of
      obesity within the intensive insulin treatment group.

      The DCCT has shown that the intensive insulin therapy group maintained a higher stimulated
      C-peptide level than the conventional group. Preserving β cell function, even modest levels
      of activity can be advantage in preventing hypoglycemic episodes and also reducing the
      incidence of retinopathy and nephropathy. No study to date has been designed to analyze the
      effect of pramlintide treatment on the preservation of β cell function in newly diagnosed
      type 1 diabetic subjects.

      This pilot study will evaluate the effect of pramlintide on the prevention of weight gain and
      its effects on beta cell function among early onset type 1 diabetes patients. Early onset is
      defined as those who are diagnosed with type 1 diabetes six to twelve months prior to entry
      in this study.
    
  