
    
      The main aim is to develop and test the clinical efficacy of a novel, web based,
      rehabilitation application. Listen In will provide an effective speech comprehension training
      tool that patients can use to practice independently. This will free up SALT time to provide
      additional assessment, supervision and functional intervention in a highly cost effective
      manner.

      Phase 1 (24 months. London, Newcastle, Cambridge): Development of Listen In, including
      diagnostic and therapeutic components, driven by patient user's feedback (alpha and beta
      testing). The intervention is detailed below and is based on current SALT practice. It will
      be adaptive, provide feedback and target auditory perception at many levels: the phonemic,
      lexical and sentence level processing of heard verbal stimuli, as well as auditory short term
      memory and nonverbal sound discrimination.

      Phase 2 (12 months. London and Cambridge): A pilot, randomised, crossover, clinical trial of
      Listen-In in a group of aphasic patients in the chronic post-stroke period. A power
      calculation suggests that we will need 36 patents, 18 in each arm. The comparison will be
      standard SALT clinical care. The main outcome measure is a clinically relevant improvement on
      the comprehension of spoken language score of the Comprehensive Aphasia Test (Swinburn,
      2004). Secondary outcomes include improvements in social activity and participation. The
      milestones for this phase will be: 50% recruitment into study and last patient, last visit.

      Phase 3 (funded outside i4i grant) will be the rollout of the therapy application on the
      internet with a pragmatic trial of whether therapy gains can be made outside the confines of
      a clinical trial. The comparison will be on similar outcome measures as Phase 2 with a
      control test on sustained attention (internal control) that we predict will not improve with
      therapy.
    
  