
    
      This is a research study comparing the outcomes of LASIK surgery for nearsightedness when
      using the two different excimer laser technologies. Patients will have both eyes treated with
      the Alcon WaveLight Allegretto excimer laser. You will be one of 150 sighted patients at
      Stanford to undergo treatment in this clinical research trial. This will be a prospective,
      randomized, research study in which up to 300 consecutive eyes scheduled to undergo excimer
      laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) using one laser technology in the first eye and the
      second laser technology in the fellow eye for the correction of myopia (nearsightedness) with
      or without astigmatism will be enrolled. The choice of which eye receives the wavefront
      guided technology and which eye receives the wavefront-optimized technology will be
      randomized prior to enrollment. Randomization will be done according to a randomization
      schedule. You will know which eye is being treated with which each technology. The
      randomization will determine only whether your right or left eye is treated with the
      wavefront guided technology. The other eye will be treated with wavefront-optimized laser
      technology. You have a fifty percent chance of having your left eye treated with custom
      wavefront guided technology as your right eye. Subjects will undergo bilateral (both eyes at
      once) LASIK treatments using the Alcon WaveLight Allegretto excimer laser. All subjects will
      be followed for one year after the vision correction procedure. Subjects scheduled to undergo
      LASIK for the correction of myopia (nearsightedness) with or without astigmatism will be
      screened for eligibility. Eligible subjects will be examined preoperatively to establish a
      baseline for ocular condition (the general health and glasses prescription of the eyes).
      Postoperatively, subjects will undergo an ophthalmic evaluation (complete eye examination) at
      regular intervals as specified in this protocol. Retreatments (a second operation on the same
      eye for residual nearsightedness) will not be allowed during the first twelve months of this
      study. If you elect to undergo a retreatment of your LASIK surgery prior to the 12-month
      post-operative visit, the retreated eye will be exited from the study as of the retreatment
      date.

      Any significant new finding developed during the course of the research which may relate to
      the subject's willingness to continue participation will be provided to the subject or
      subject's representative in a timely manner.
    
  