
    
      The study is a prospective, multi-center, open-label, randomized, and controlled phase II
      clinical trial.

      The trial will include stage IIIB/IV EGFR activating mutation positive NSCLC patients who got
      disease progression after frontline EGFR-TKI treatment. Clinical staging is determined
      according to the routine protocol, which includes enhanced chest CT scans, abdominal
      ultrasonography or CT scans, brain MRI or CT, and bone scintigraphy. Positron emission
      tomography (PET)/CT scan is optional. Measurement of acquired resistance to EGFR-TKIs is
      based on Jackman criteria.

      Eligible patients will be randomized to 2 arms. Patients in arm A will receive 4 cycles of
      cisplatin (75 mg/m2, d1) and pemetrexed (500 mg/m2, d1) every 3 weeks, those without disease
      progression (PD) and being tolerable judged by investigator will continue single-agent
      pemetrexed (500 mg/m2, d1) every 3 weeks as maintenance until progression or intolerable
      toxicities. Patients in arm B will receive pemetrexed (500 mg/m2, d1) every 3 weeks until PD
      or intolerable toxicities. All patients will be administrated with vitamin B12 and folic acid
      supplement (vitamin B12 1mg intramuscular injection at least 7 days prior to the first dose
      of pemetrexed and repeated approximately every 9 weeks during pemetrexed treatment till 22
      days after the last dose of pemetrexed; folic acid 0.5 mg orally administered once daily from
      at least 7 days prior to the first dose of pemetrexed till 22 days after the last dose of
      pemetrexed).

      Efficacy data will be analyzed by intention-to-treat (ITT) population using all randomized
      patients, and safety data will be evaluated using CTCAE v4.0 criteria for patients who
      received ≥ 1 dose of study treatment. If the criteria for drug administration (absolute
      neutrophil count ≥1500/μl, platelets ≥100 000/μl, creatinine clearance ≥45 ml/min, no grade
      ≥3 nonhematologic toxicity [except for alopecia]) were not met, drug administration have to
      be delayed to allow sufficient time for recovery. If a delay of more than 42 days due to
      toxicity was necessary, the patient will be discontinued from the study. Dose adjustments
      according to hematologic toxicity at the start of a subsequent cycle of the therapy will be
      based on platelet and neutrophil nadir counts from the preceding cycle. Granulocyte
      colony-stimulating factor is allowed to use for neutropenia event. Patients will be
      discontinued from study treatment for the following reasons: disease progression;
      unacceptable toxicities; patient's refusal to continue.

      Radiological examinations (according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria) at baseline will be repeated
      for tumor response evaluation following every two cycles of chemotherapy. Patients will be
      followed up to 30 days after the last dose of study chemotherapy, and then every 3 months.

      Blood samples [8ml with ehylene diamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) as anticoagulant each time]
      will be collected at the time of baseline, tumor response evaluation every 2 cycles, and
      disease progression. Blood samples at baseline and disease progression are mandatory to be
      provided. Tumor samples collection at the time of baseline and/or disease progression is
      strongly recommended but not mandatory for this study.
    
  