
    
      The study aims to compare the effectiveness of two telephone-based psychotherapy (Tel-PT)
      interventions for patients with mild to moderate depression. Patients are randomized into one
      of two conditions: Patients in the condition "Tel-PT including mail" additionally receive a
      motivating letter from their psychotherapist after each telephone session, while patients in
      the condition "Tel-PT without mail" receive no further interventions. Patients refusing to be
      randomized are to be assigned to the condition "Tel-PT without mail". This study takes place
      within a larger study evaluating a stepped care model for depression (01KQ1002B-TP7).

      In both conditions, patients are referred to telephone-based psychotherapy by their general
      physician within the framework of the larger study. Both intervention programs are based on
      the translated and adapted German version of a depression-specific program developed by
      researchers in Seattle. Both include psycho-educational materials (patient workbook and
      therapist manual) and comprise 1 personal session, 8 to 10 telephone contacts (20 to 40
      minutes) carried out weekly and in some cases bi-weekly, as well as up to 2 maintenance
      therapy telephone sessions for patients responding well to telephone-based psychotherapy (see
      monitoring process below). Both programs have a duration of approximately 3 months and follow
      a cognitive-behavioral approach with main focus on behavioral activation and cognitive
      restructuring and are carried out by licensed cognitive-behavioral psychotherapists receiving
      weekly to bi-weekly supervision.

      In both conditions, depressive symptoms are monitored with the Patient Health Questionnaire
      depression module (PHQ-9) at the personal session at baseline and the fourth and eighth
      telephone sessions. Additionally, psychotherapists complete non-standardized assessments
      regarding general progress and therapeutic alliance after each session. Decisions about
      further treatment are to be supported by monitoring results: If symptoms are reduced by at
      least 20% from baseline to the fourth telephone session, the following sessions are to be
      stretched to a bi-weekly frequency; if not, continued weekly sessions are recommended. If the
      PHQ-9-score lies under the cut-off point of 5 by the eighth session, patients are to continue
      with maintenance therapy. If the PHQ-9-score remains above the cut-off point, transfer into a
      higher-intensity treatment is recommended. For those patients receiving maintenance therapy,
      a further monitoring at the end of maintenance therapy is performed and patients above the
      PHQ-9 cut-off score are also recommended to transfer to a higher-intensity treatment. In case
      of acute suicidality, emergency measures are carried out: e.g. additional psychiatric
      treatment in an in- or outpatient setting. Psychotherapists contact the patients' general
      physicians at begin and end of treatment, as well as on other occasions if necessary.
      Psychotherapists facilitate transferrals to other mental health care specialists within the
      stepped care project if necessary.

      Patients in the study condition "Tel-PT including mail" receive a one-page letter from their
      psychotherapist after every telephone session. The letter contains motivational messages as
      well as a summary of the homework planned during the session and a reminder of the
      appointment made for the next session. The letters will usually be received by patients
      approximately two to three days after the telephone session and are meant to refresh memory
      of and motivation for the planned assignments.

      Patients in the study condition "Tel-PT without mail" receive no letters from their
      psychotherapist.
    
  