
    
      Eight million men and women in the United States have lower extremity peripheral arterial
      disease (PAD). PAD is expected to be increasingly common as the population survives longer
      with chronic disease. Patients with PAD have greater functional impairment and faster
      functional decline compared to those without PAD. However, currently there are only two FDA
      approved medications for improving functional performance in patients with PAD. Furthermore,
      these FDA approved medications are only modestly beneficial for improving walking performance
      in patients with PAD.

      Emerging evidence, including our pilot data, demonstrates that calf skeletal muscle
      mitochondria dysfunction contributes to functional impairment in people with PAD.
      Resveratrol, a polyphenol and natural supplement, has pharmacological properties that target
      specific mitochondrial impairments that are associated with functional impairment in older
      people with PAD. Animal models and preliminary human evidence show that resveratrol protects
      against ischemia-reperfusion injury, reduces inflammation, and improves endothelial
      dysfunction. Ischemia-reperfusion injury, inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction are all
      present in people with PAD and contribute to adverse outcomes in PAD.

      We now propose a pilot study of 66 PAD participants age 65 and older: a double-blind,
      randomized controlled pilot clinical trial to provide preliminary data to address our
      hypothesis that resveratrol significantly improves lower extremity functioning in people with
      PAD by improving calf skeletal muscle oxidative metabolism, increasing calf skeletal muscle
      mitochondrial biogenesis, and improving systemic endothelial function in older people with
      PAD.

      In our primary specific aims, we will determine 1) whether PAD participants randomized to
      resveratrol 500 mgs daily achieve greater increases or have less decline in six-minute walk
      performance at 6-month follow-up, compared to those randomized to placebo and 2) whether PAD
      participants randomized to resveratrol 125 mgs daily achieve greater increases or have less
      decline in six-minute walk performance at 6-month follow-up, compared to those randomized to
      placebo. In our secondary aims, we will determine whether PAD participants randomized to
      resveratrol have improved treadmill walking performance, increased calf muscle
      biopsy-measured mitochondrial function, increased calf muscle biopsy-measured mitochondrial
      biogenesis, and improved brachial artery flow-mediated dilation at six-month follow-up,
      compared to those randomized to control. For each secondary specific aim, participants
      randomized to 500 mgs of resveratrol (N=22) will be compared to those randomized to placebo
      (N=20) and participants randomized to 125 mgs of resveratrol (N=22) will be compared to those
      randomized to placebo (N=22), respectively. In an exploratory specific aim, we will determine
      whether participants randomized to resveratrol 125 mgs (N=22) have greater improvement in
      each study outcome compared to those randomized to resveratrol 500 mgs (N=22).

      If our hypotheses are correct, results will be used to design a large, definitive randomized
      controlled trial of resveratrol therapy to improve lower extremity functioning and prevent
      mobility loss in the large and growing number of older people who are disabled by PAD. By
      studying two doses of resveratrol, our results will also provide guidance on the most optimal
      dose of resveratrol to use in a large definitive trial.
    
  