
    
      New-onset diabetes after transplantation (NODAT) is strongly associated with postoperative
      hyperglycemia, and reduced patient as well as graft survival. In our recent proof-of-concept
      clinical trial (TIP), we have shown that immediate post-transplant basal insulin therapy
      decreases hyperglycemia and reduces the prevalence of NODAT by improving pancreatic β-cell
      function.

      In consequence, this study as an interventional trial comparing aggressive glycemic control
      with early institution of insulin therapy to standard of care (dietary precaution, life-style
      modification, oral hypoglycemic agents and/or insulin as needed) aims to assess the effects
      of early basal insulin therapy in previously non-diabetic de novo kidney transplant patients
      in reducing the incidence of new onset diabetes in particular and abnormal glucose metabolism
      in general during subsequent follow-up.

      Patients will be enrolled through the University of Michigan and the Medical University of
      Vienna, Austria (MUV), who is the official sponsor of the European part of the ITP-NODAT
      study. This record only refers to the European part of the ITP-NODAT study, specifically to
      all study patients from the following study Centers: MUV; Medical University of Graz,
      Austria; Charité Berlin, Germany; Hospital Del Mar, Barcelona, Spain. For the patients
      enrolled through the University of Michigan (i.e., the US-part of the ITP-NODAT study), a
      separate records exists (responsible PI: Dr. Akinlolu Ojo).

      This study will involve previously non-diabetic ESRD patients undergoing kidney
      transplantation with either a deceased or living donor kidney who will receive standard
      triple immunosuppression regimen including a calcineurin inhibitor (once-daily tacrolimus in
      Europe, twice-daily tacrolimus in the U.S.), an anti-metabolite (mycophenolate mofetil) and
      corticosteroids (prednisone) and be followed at each transplant center's outpatient clinic
      for at least 2 years following transplantation according to the established standard center
      protocol.

      Methods: Combining the study presented here (ITP-NODAT) and the SAPT-NODAT study mentioned
      above will yield three study arms, with 28 patients in each arm, namely: [1] the control arm,
      treated by standard-of-care; [2] the basal insulin arm, treated predominantly with
      intermediate acting NPH insulin (human insulin isophane, Humulin N, Eli Lilly); [3] the SAPT
      arm, treated with short acting insulin (Insulin lispro, Humalog, Eli Lilly), applied
      continuously by SAPT technology. Adult patients with absence of diabetes will be randomized
      prior to renal transplantation and stratified by deceased donor or living donor, if they are
      capable of understanding the study and are willing to give informed written consent for all
      three study arms. Patients will receive standard triple immunosuppressive medications
      (twice-daily tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil or mycophenolic sodium and steroids) with
      predefined tacrolimus targets and steroid doses. The algorithm for insulin administration is
      designed to account for the prominent evening peak of hyperglycemia observed in our previous
      TIP-study. The primary endpoint is HbA1c (in rel.%), at 3 months, and superiority will be
      assumed if a statistically significant difference between the SAPT-treatment group versus the
      standard-of-care control group can be determined, by two-sided Student's t-test. Secondary
      endpoints will be compared between all three groups and will include hypoglycemic events,
      glycemic variability, 2h glucose ≥200 mg/dL (by oral glucose tolerance test [OGTT] to
      determine prevalence of diabetes, prediabetes and normal glucose tolerance), beta cell
      function and insulin sensitivity derived from OGTT, serum creatinine, quality of life
      measures, patient and graft survival. All secondary endpoint comparisons relying on OGTTs
      will be made at 6, 12 and 24 months after kidney transplantation, respectively. The result of
      the 6-months OGTT will be blinded to patients and investigators to prevent subsequent
      treatment bias.
    
  