
    
      COPD, characterized by progressive airflow obstruction, airway inflammation, and systemic
      effects or comorbidities, is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality and is projected to
      be the third leading cause of death worldwide by 2030. Since breathlessness, exercise
      limitation and health status impairment broadly exist in COPD patients, effective management
      should be based on an individualized assessment of disease in order to reduce both current
      symptoms, which involves relieving symptoms, improving exercise tolerance and health status.
      At present, although appropriate pharmacologic therapy can relieve COPD symptoms, reduce the
      frequency and severity of exacerbations, and improve health status and exercise tolerance,
      its cost and adverse effects can never be ignored.

      Acupuncture, an important part of traditional Chinese Medicine, has been used for thousands
      of years in treating many painful and non-painful conditions. To date, it has become popular
      and widely practiced in many countries around the world. In the past two decades, acupuncture
      research has grown markedly, in both the proportion of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) and
      the impact factor of journals. Evidences from both clinicians and patients suggest that there
      is some beneficial effect of acupuncture on COPD.

      At present, there are many therapies available for patients with COPD, it is difficult for us
      to identify the most suitable therapy. Thus, this study aims to compare the efficacy of
      conventional drug, acupuncture and the combination of conventional drug and acupuncture, and
      then determine which is the most suitable therapy, providing a scientific basis for clinical
      decision.

      This is a multi-center, randomized, controlled trial to compare the efficacy of three
      therapies for patients with COPD. After a 14-day run-in period, 150 subjects will be randomly
      assigned to one of the three therapies (conventional drug, acupuncture, and the combination
      of conventional drug and acupuncture) for 12 weeks treatment. After the treatment period,
      subjects in three arms will be followed up for 12 weeks. The primary outcomes will include
      exercise capacity (6MWD) and St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), and secondary
      outcomes dyspnea (mMRC), acute exacerbation, lung function, quality of life (COPD assessment
      test, clinical symptom assessment questionnaire, COPD-PRO and EQ-5D) and health economics.
    
  