
    
      Intensive Neurophysiologic Rehabilitation System (INRS) is an intensive multimodal
      rehabilitation system, whereby versatile and multi-faceted methods are combined with the aim
      of improvement of functioning and quality of life of children with CP. Treatment components
      are addressing different functional goals in the Body Functions domain of the International
      Classification of Functioning (joint mobility, muscle tone, voluntary movement, pain,
      intellectual functions) and Activities and Participation domains (fine hand use, walking,
      moving around, interpersonal interactions and family relationships.

      The Intensive correction course includes up to four hours of daily training. The treatment
      program is tailored individually according to the patient's condition and incorporates some
      of the following component according to individual indications and contraindications:
      Physical therapy, Occupational therapy, Full body massage, Spinal manipulative therapy, Joint
      mobilization techniques, Paraffin and wax applications, Reflexotherapy, Strength training,
      Computer game therapy, Suit therapy, Vibration therapy, Treadmill training, Group session of
      "rhythmic gymnastics". The influence of one technique complements and potentiates other
      rehabilitation components.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate effects of Intensive Neurophysiological Rehabilitation
      System in children with cerebral palsy in a randomized controlled trial.

      A single-blinded randomized controlled trial with two groups will be conducted. The
      experimental group will undergo treatment course according to INRS, control group will
      continue receive usual home activity and care while staying on the waiting list. To avoid
      possible information leak about patient group allocation, the study should be performed in
      two independent centers: Evaluation center and Treatment center. Assessments will be
      conducted three times: at the baseline, in 3 weeks, and 7 weeks after the baseline.
    
  