
    
      Introduction: Administration of radiographic contrast agents often result in a reversible
      acute reduction in renal function that begins soon after contrast dye administration.

      The incidence of contrast induced nephropathy varies from 5% to 50% depending on the
      patients' population and the criteria for contrast induced nephropathy (CIN), definition used
      and it is considered as one of the leading causes of hospital acquired acute renal failure.

      The pathogenesis of contrast-induced nephropathy is uncertain. There are two main theories.
      According to the first one a possible influence on renal hemodynamics, mainly
      vasoconstriction, resulting in medullary ischemia possibly mediated by an alteration in
      endothelin and adenosine. In addition to direct vasoconstriction of renal vessels, iodinated
      contrast agents also block an important pathway for vasodilation and autoregulation possibly
      by reducing the production of nitric oxide. And according to the other main theory contrast
      agents exert direct toxic effects on tubular epithelial cells. It seems that reactive oxygen
      species have a role in CIN.

      A lot of studies had examined the incidence of contrast agent-associated nephrotoxicity
      mainly in stable patients undergoing elective radiographic procedures.

      Numerous agents have been examined for their ability to prevent contrast-induced decreases in
      renal function. Among them the use of low-osmolarity, non anionic contrast agents, and
      prophylactic hydration have reduced the incidence of CIN. Administration of drugs such as
      calcium antagonists, theophyllin, dopamine and atrial natriuretic peptide does not prevent
      CIN. In some studies antioxidant agents like acetylcysteine and ascorbic acid seem to reduce
      the incidence of CIN.

      Critically ill patients represent an absolutely discrete group because they may have acute
      decrease in renal function, multiple organ failure and they often receive multiple
      potentially nephrotoxic agents like antibiotics, vasoconstrictives, NSAIDs etc. Critically
      ill patients frequently required radiographic studies with contrast agent administration in
      order to improve diagnostic accuracy in the detection of abscesses, or in the diagnosis of
      suspected embolism. Radiographic studies are often done on an emergent or urgent basis so
      there is not enough time for patients to receive prophylactic regiments. Despite improvements
      in supportive care, acute renal failure increases the morbidity and mortality rates in
      critically ill patients.

      We think that it is important initially to investigate the incidence of CIN in critically ill
      patients a fact that is not established (there is only one retrospective cohort study) and
      after that to see the impact of a combination of prophylactic strategies in this population.

      The ability to prevent CIN in high risk patients will result in significant public health
      benefits by reducing in-hospital mortality, the hospital stay and the need for dialysis and
      subsequent the devastating cost of hospitalization.

      N-acetylcysteine is a reduced thiol, which is a potent antioxidant that may scavenge a wide
      variety of oxygen derived free radicals. Ascorbic acid is a potent antioxidant capable of
      scavenging a wide array of reactive oxygen species and additionally it can regenerate other
      antioxidants. Acetylcysteine and ascorbic acid are inexpensive treatments with generally mild
      adverse effects.

      Material and methods: This study represent a prospective randomized open label controlled
      trial. The study will take place in the intensive care unit of the University Hospital of
      Larissa. Consecutive sampling will be used to recruit patients hospitalized in the ICU
      department between October of 2009 and October of 2010. The patients who undergo radiographic
      studies with the administration of contrast agent will be randomly assigned to receive IV
      either 1200mg acetylcysteine and 2g ascorbic acid or placebo at least 2 hours before the
      start of the index procedure, followed by 1200mg acetylcysteine and 1,5g ascorbic acid or
      placebo the night and the morning after the examination. All the patients independently from
      the randomization will receive hydration with at least 100ml/h IV 0,9% or 0,45% sodium
      chloride in water, from randomization until at least 6 hours after the examination. The
      variation of the hydration type and rate allowed for adjustment according the special needs
      of every patient.

      An acute contrast induced reduction in renal function was defined as an increase in the serum
      creatinine concentration of at least 0,5mg/dl at 72 hours after the injection of the
      radiocontrast medium or a relative rise of at least 25% fro baseline.

      Baseline serum creatinine and urea concentration will be measured from blood sample drawn at
      the time of randomization, and the follow-up serum urea and creatinine concentration will be
      measured the 1st, the 2nd and 3rd day after the examination. At the same time intervals we
      will study the renal function using more sensitive tests like serum cystatin and serum
      lipocalin (NGAL).

      We also will examine the plasma total antioxidant status from blood and urine samples drawn
      at the time of randomization at the beginning of the procedure and during the following
      morning.

      The daily urine output will also be registered the day before the study and the three
      subsequent days.

      Authorization has been given from the Scientific Council and the Ethical Committee of our
      hospital.

      Clinical and biochemical characteristics of the study patients will include demographic data,
      diagnosis on admission in ICU, APACHE II score on admission and before randomization, medical
      history as the presence of cardiac insufficiency, hypertension, coronary disease, hepatic
      insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, nephrotoxic medications which patients
      receive like antibiotics, NSAID, chemotherapeutic agents, diuretics, inotropic and
      vasopressor agents, ACE inhibitors, calcium antagonists,mechanical ventilation during ICU,
      ICU length of stay, and ICU outcome, the need for renal replacement therapy, the quantity of
      received radiocontrast agent and the route of administration.

      Statistical analysis. All analysis will be performed on an intention-to-treat basis and
      probability values will be 2-sided. Data will presented as mean +/- SD and 95% CI for
      continuous variables and as percentage for discrete variables. Analysis will performed using
      statistical software, SISS 15 for Windows. Data will be compared between the two groups.
      Characteristics will be compared using the x2 test and the t-test.
    
  