
    
      Excessive pressure within the peritoneal cavity, known as intra-abdominal hypertension (IAH),
      can adversely affect not only intra-peritoneal organ function, but also other organ systems
      throughout the body. When IAH > 20 mmHg induces new organ dysfunction, a potentially lethal
      condition known as the abdominal compartment syndrome (ACS) is defined. Practically, this
      syndrome can be considered multi-system organ failure occurring from severe IAH. While the
      physical effects of IAH/ACS are increasingly being described, the humoral ones, related to
      IAH-induced ischemia are poorly understood. Recent animal work suggests that aggressively
      removing intra-peritoneal fluids, assumed to be vasoactive mediator-rich, leads to better
      systemic outcomes. There is no human data to support this however. Previous attempts at
      peritoneal drainage in inflammatory conditions such as sepsis and pancreatitis where not
      conclusive, but this may have been due to the inefficiency of the systems used and the lack
      of attention to IAH. Recently, efficient systems providing a temporary abdominal closure
      (TAC) to both drain intra-peritoneal fluids and to control IAH have been introduced. One of
      these dressing systems, known as the KCI AbThera™ Abdominal Dressing is currently approved
      for use in Canada as a temporary abdominal closure (TAC) device but its role in ameliorating
      systemic sepsis/SIRS has not been evaluated.

      We propose a randomized trial of using either the "home Calgary Stampede Vac" involving wall
      suction or the KCI AbThera™ Abdominal Dressing, to dress the abdomen whenever the operative
      surgeon determines that an open abdomen is warranted to treat the patient.

      In general, others have hypothesized that cytokines, especially peritoneal levels, are
      sensitive indicators of the post-operative inflammatory reaction and may predict
      complications. In experimental models IL-6 levels are higher in non-survivors. Further,
      previous work has noted that the blood level of IL-6, which has a longer half life than TNF-α
      or IL-1β, is a good index of the overall cytokine cascade activation. Thus the main outcomes
      to be compared will be between mean cytokine levels measured in each of the two treatment
      groups - to determine if the KCI AbThera™ Abdominal Dressing can significantly reduce the
      blood concentration of IL-6 when compared with the "Stampede VAC" system. We are hoping to
      better understand how the body responds to the inflammatory process that naturally occurs
      during and after an episode of intra-abdominal hypertension, to identify signals or markers
      of inflammation and infection as well as its progression and outcome.
    
  