
    
      We and others have shown that a majority of younger patients with Myalgic
      Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) have orthostatic intolerance (OI), the
      inability to tolerate orthostatic stress such as prolonged standing. OI in ME/CFS comprises
      postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS) in which symptoms occur along with excessive upright
      heart rate, and neurally mediated hypotension (NMH) in which symptoms occur along with an
      upright fall in blood pressure. The causes of OI are diverse but are clearly initiated by
      postural contraction of central blood volume (BV) by gravitational translocation of 500-800
      mL of blood from the upper to the lower body. Intravenous central BV expansion with isotonic
      saline is commonly and effectively used to reduce OI regardless of etiology, but has
      complications if used long term. Usual forms of oral hydration fail to provide similar
      benefit. Interestingly, a specific isotonic oral rehydration solution (ORS W.H.O. formula),
      making use of co-transport of glucose and sodium, has been shown to efficiently rehydrate
      cholera patients suggesting an ability to increase central BV rivaling intravenous fluids.
      Since the circulatory effects of saline or ORS BV expansion are incompletely understood, we
      propose to study the neurovascular physiology of fluid loading during orthostatic stress in
      ME/CFS patients with POTS or NMH, comparing results with healthy control subjects. We
      hypothesize that equal volumes of ORS is not inferior and may be superior to intravenous
      saline infusion in increasing intravascular and interstitial fluid volume and improving
      orthostatic tolerance. Using noninvasive measurements of heart rate and blood pressure by
      Finapres and oscillometry, cardiac output and peripheral arterial resistance by inert gas
      rebreathing, cerebral blood flow velocity by transcranial Doppler ultrasound, and regional
      fluid shifts by impedance and venous occlusion plethysmography, we have acquired preliminary
      data in ME/CFS patients with OI demonstrating superior restoration of orthostatic tolerance
      with ORS. We will recruit patients aged 15-29 years who have confirmed ME/CFS with OI,
      including 15 with NMH and 15 with POTS, and compare them to 15 healthy volunteer subjects. In
      Specific Aim 1 we will measure BV by Daxor iodinated albumin technique before orthostatic
      stress imposed by step-wise lower body negative pressure (LBNP) to measure the threshold for
      OI. Relative changes in BV using serial hematocrits in OI patients will be compared to data
      from control subjects similarly tested. In Specific Aim 2, all subjects will be randomized to
      receive saline or ORS in a cross over study. On one day, total BV and neurovascular
      properties will be measured in patients and control subjects before and 1 hour after
      completing one liter administration of intravenous normal saline infusion or ORS. On another
      day (separated by 1 week), we will repeat measurements using the other hydration route. We
      will perform LBNP on each day following saline or ORS to determine whether orthostatic
      intolerance and circulatory physiology are improved similarly with equivolumic IV saline or
      ORS hydration.
    
  