
    
      Data from clinical trials suggest that pharmacological therapies prescribed at appropriate
      doses will lead to dramatic improvements in survival and hospitalization rates in patients
      with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). Consequently, major cardiovascular
      societies assign the highest level of recommendation to use these therapies in all eligible
      patients. However, data from several registries over the last three decades has failed to see
      use of these evidence based therapies at levels noted in clinical trials, despite aggressive
      guideline recommendations and promotion by thought leaders in the field.

      It remains unclear as to why many patients with HFrEF are not on evidence-based therapies,
      and why the percentages are consistent across national registries over time. One explanation
      might be that providers know the data regarding evidence-based therapies, but the therapies
      only benefit a narrow population. Another factor might be a lack of knowledge among providers
      about the appropriate management of HFrEF patients. A simple way to test this hypothesis is
      to examine whether electronic health record (EHR) based "best practice advisories" (BPAs) can
      increase use of evidence based therapies. If found to be effective, these low cost
      interventions can be rapidly applied across large healthcare systems.

      This study will conduct a randomized controlled trial across outpatient clinics within a
      single health system comparing the effectiveness of an EHR-based alerting system that informs
      practitioners about what evidence-based medications they can prescribe for HFrEF patients
      versus usual care (no alert). One hundred eligible unique providers will be randomized to an
      intervention in which an alert will appear for all eligible patients with HFrEF, or to a
      control group in which no alert appears and usual care will continue, with a target patient
      enrollment of 1,310. The primary outcome for the trial will be the proportion of patients
      with HFrEF with an increase in evidence based medical therapies for HFrEF (beta-blockers,
      ACE-I/ARB/ARNI, MRA, SGLT2i). Secondary outcomes will include 30-day hospital admission
      rates, 30-day ED visits, one year all-cause mortality, and total 6 month healthcare costs.
    
  