
    
      Hepatitis C (HCV) is the most common chronic, blood-borne infection in the U.S. and,
      untreated, can result in liver failure and liver cancer. Despite advances in treatment and
      remarkable improvements in cure rates, very few persons with chronic HCV infection are
      receiving this treatment, especially among people who use drugs, who are also
      disproportionately HIV-infected and incarcerated. Existing efforts to ensure linkage to and
      retention in medical care following release from incarceration among people living with both
      HIV and HCV are generally insufficient. Increasing treatment engagement following release
      from incarceration can drastically reduce HCV and HIV in the blood, which can limit
      transmission to sexual and injection drug use partners.

      The goal of this study is to evaluate the effect of a novel navigation intervention to
      improve HIV/HCV treatment engagement among HIV/HCV co-infected adults with criminal justice
      involvement. The investigators hypothesize that the navigation intervention is more effective
      than the current standard-of-care approaches to link this population of adults to HIV/HCV
      treatment. All participants, regardless of study arm, will complete one baseline interview
      around the time of study enrollment. Follow-up interviews are done at 3 months and 8 months
      following enrollment (if enrolled in the community) or after release from jail (if enrolled
      in the jail).

      Blood samples to analyze the HCV RNA will be collected or requested from participants'
      clinics both for the baseline assessment and the assessment conducted 12 weeks after
      completion of the HCV treatment course (if the HCV RNA result cannot be obtained at 12 weeks,
      it will done at the 8-month follow-up interview). HIV RNA will be collected from the clinics.

      In addition to the interviews and the HCV/HIV RNA assessments, participants assigned to the
      intervention arm will engage in a six- or seven-session navigation intervention. Participants
      will be in the study for about 12 months but no more than 3 years.
    
  