
    
      Chronic kidney disease consists of kidney damage, with consequent progressive and
      irreversible loss of kidney function. Lower circulating levels of α-klotho protein are
      related to worsening kidney function and as it is affected, systemic changes occur and lead
      to the involvement of other organs. Supplementation of soluble α-Klotho protein carried out
      in experimental studies has been shown to be effective in protecting renal function, in
      addition to slowing the progression of CKD. Endogenously, physical exercise seems to be a way
      to increase circulating levels of α klotho. In addition, it is suggested that the contractile
      activity of the skeletal muscle modulates the expression of circulating Klotho. The practice
      of physical exercise is considered fundamental in the treatment of patients with CKD, since
      they present loss of muscle mass and decline in muscle function, and consequently low rates
      of physical activity and physical inactivity, which is strongly associated with mortality in
      this population.

      As an alternative to mitigate the deleterious effects of sarcopenia in this population,
      studies have shown beneficial effects of electrical stimulation, such as increased muscle
      strength, functional capacity and protection against muscle atrophy of the lower limbs. In
      addition to the clinical and functional effects, electrostimulation reduces DNA damage in
      patients on hemodialysis (HD), suggesting that electrical stimulation has a systemic effect.
      In this context, the aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of electrical stimulation
      on renal function and physical capacity in patients with CKD on HD.

      The sample will consist of 20 patients of both sexes, with CKD in stage V of the DRC
      recruited from the HD outpatient of Santa Clara hospital at ISCMPA. Patients will be
      randomized into an control or electrical stimulation group. The control group will be
      evaluated and reassessed. Evaluations will be carried out before and after follow-up:
      analysis of the plasma content of soluble α-Klotho and creatinine to assess renal function,
      six-minute walk test (6MWT) to assess functional capacity, sit-and-stand test (STS) with 10
      repetitions and dynamometry per load cell to assess muscle strength of lower limbs and
      application of the EuroQoL-5D questionnaire for quality of life.

      Electrical stimulation will be performed during HD, twice a week, for eight weeks, totaling
      16 sessions. In the same session, a protocol of neuromuscular electrical stimulation will be
      applied to quadriceps muscle for 20 min. After, a protocol of sensory electrical stimulation
      will be applied on kidney anatomical region for 45 min.

      At the end of the study, is expected from patients who received electrical stimulation an
      increase in kidney function and improvement on physical capacity, muscle strength and quality
      of life.
    
  