
    
      The ERCP procedure enables doctors to examine the regions of the digestive system called the
      pancreas and bile ducts. After sedating a patient, a bendable tube with a light (called an
      endoscope), is inserted through the mouth and into the digestive system. Within the digestive
      system, the doctor is able to identify the opening to where the gallbladder drains into the
      small bowel called the ampulla. Using the endoscope, a small plastic tube is then placed in
      the opening and dye (also called contrast material) is injected bile duct (where bile leaves
      the liver from). X-ray pictures can then be taken to provide further information to the
      doctor.

      Sometimes it is necessary to make a cut to enlarge the opening to allow easier removal of
      stones from the bile duct or to place plastic tubes (stents) in the bile duct. To make this
      cut, there are two different approaches that the doctor can take:

        1. The standard way of making the cut is referred to as a "sphincterotomy". Using this
           method, a heated metal wire cuts the opening to the bile duct after a wire has been
           passed into it.

        2. The second way of making the cut is referred to as a "pre-cut". There are various types
           of "pre-cut" techniques; the technique being evaluated in this study is called the
           "needle knife fistulotomy". When using this technique, the doctor makes a cut directly
           into the bile duct using a tiny knife called a "needle knife".

      Currently, there is not a standard that tells doctors what cutting technique to use. The
      decision is entirely up to the individual doctor.

      Patients that participate in this study give their permission to allow the study doctor to
      use the "needle knife fistulotomy" cutting technique first to gain access to the bile ducts.
      If the study doctor is unable to gain access through this method, then they will use the
      standard sphincterotomy technique.

      The purpose of this study, called a feasibility study, is to determine if the needle-knife
      fistulotomy is at least as safe and effective as the standard access technique, if not safer.

      If it can be shown that the needle-knife fistulotomy is safer and/or more effective, then it
      could change the way that doctors conduct this procedure in Canada and the rest of the world.
    
  