
    
      Burns can lead to lesions of total thickness, which extend the reticular layer of the dermis
      requiring a repair process 1-2. This healing process, generally due to external and internal
      stimuli, causes scarring changes, among them, the hypertrophic scar 3-4. They develop about
      two months after the burn, occur more frequently in areas of high tension, preferably in the
      extensor faces of the joints or when they cross perpendicularly the lines of force of the
      skin. They exhibit scar tissue growth above the surface of the skin, respecting the limits of
      the original wound and are characterized by their reddish color, high stature, decreased
      flexibility and altered sensitivity 5-10. Patients with this type of scar can present
      stiffness in scar tissue, disfigurement, joint contractures, reduced range of motion,
      difficulties in daily functions and even psychological problems 11.

      Mechanical strengths, when applied externally, can decrease the thickness of the epidermis,
      reduce the inflammatory response and promote a reorganization of the collagen fibers
      contained in the dermis, and thus improve the appearance of the vascularization and
      flexibility of the hypertrophic scar. Based on this principle, one of the therapeutic
      resources that can exert this external compressive effect is the elastic bandage - kinesio
      tape 12-13.

      The use of elastic bandage - kinesio-taping is based on the principles of kinesiology and the
      self-healing ability of the organism. It takes advantage of the physical and mechanical
      properties of the bandage and the therapeutic action by the specific method of its
      application. Improving the appearance and perception of the scar, reducing functional
      limitations, thus repairing the patient's self-esteem 14-15.

      Due to the few publications on the mechanism of action of elastic bandage, and its benefits,
      in the treatment of cicatricial sequelae due to burn. There was interest in seeking evidence
      that could support the mechanism of action of this therapeutic resource, and thus, a
      randomized, triple blind, controlled sham clinical trial was developed. It will be held at
      the Rehabilitation Center of the Governador Paulo Guerra Restoration Hospital (HR) located in
      Brazil and reference in the care of the burned patient. The study period will be from March
      2018 to March 2020, with collection expected for June 2019 to November 2019.

      The study population is the patients with hypertrophic scarring in the rehabilitation clinic
      of the HR. Patients will be picked up at the reception of this service, and they will be
      referred to the researcher responsible for the project. Once identified, the checklist of
      eligibility criteria and if eligible, patients will be invited by the researcher to
      participate in the study. In case of acceptance, the Informed Consent Form will be read aloud
      and if they agree to participate, they will sign it.

      Those selected will be referred for initial clinical evaluation and other protocols that
      involve the study, among them, the selection of the scar, which will obey the inclusion
      criteria, and define the lesion treated with kinesio tape. In sequence, participants will be
      allocated randomly and stealthily through a computerized algorithm according to a table of
      sequential numbers from 1 to 30 using software R version 2.5.1. Generating the list of random
      allocation order, patients will use the letters A and B not knowing their meaning, being
      established only as treated with tension or without tension. Randomization is simple in two
      groups, the experimental or intervention group that will receive the kinesio tape with
      tension between seventy to ninety percent and the sham group with zero tension.

      Patients will be referred for evaluation of the functional and aesthetic aspect of the
      hypertrophic scar, using as instrument of the Vancouver scale. In sequence will be taken to
      collect the scar material studied, through a biopsy performed at the Center for Treatment of
      Burns HR. After data collection, evaluation and biopsy, the treatment of patients is started.
      The therapeutic proposal will follow the routine of the service and the therapeutic protocol
      of the study common to all patients with cicatricial sequelae consisting of lubrication and
      massage of the scar and performing active free exercises and stretching for the limbs
      involved in the injury. It follows with the application of kinesio tape in the patients
      involved in the intervention and control groups.
    
  