
    
      This is a double blind, placebo controlled, randomised study with an additional randomised
      non-blinded arm. Two hundred women between the ages of 18-45 years, who are Implanon users
      with prolonged or frequent breakthrough bleeding (WHO definition) will be recruited and
      randomised into 4 equal-sized treatment groups of 50 women assigned to Marvelon 7 days or 21
      days, NuvaRing 21 days or placebo. Recruited subjects will maintain a daily menstrual diary
      chart for a minimum of 90 days prior to randomisation, and will be enrolled into the
      treatment phase provided that they have met one of the World Health Organization criteria for
      prolonged or frequent bleeding (in the 90 day reference period one episode of bleeding and/or
      spotting lasting > 10 days, or more than 4 bleeding/spotting episodes). Randomisation will be
      performed by computer generation of a random number table in blocks of ten, with equal
      numbers in each of the four groups. The medications will be packed in sequentially numbered
      and sealed opaque envelopes (independent of the investigators).

      Following the initial 90 day record, eligible women will begin designated treatment on day 1
      of the next episode of bleeding or spotting. Analysis of the subsequent menstrual pattern
      will begin from day 1 of that bleeding/spotting episode and will continue through 90 days.
      Analysis of the pre-treatment menstrual pattern will include the 90 days immediately
      preceding the bleeding episode in which treatment starts.

      Women will participate in the study for approximately seven months depending on their
      bleeding pattern.

      Data analysis:

      Data will be analysed on an intention to treat basis, entered on SPSS and analysed prior to
      breaking the randomisation code. Frequency analyses will be undertaken for demographic data
      and means (SD) compared to check effectiveness of the randomisation scheme. Total number of
      days of spotting, bleeding, bleeding and spotting and number of episodes during the pre and
      post 90 days reference period will be entered.
    
  