
    
      African American men experience health disparities across a number of preventable chronic
      diseases, including cardiovascular disease, strokes, obesity, and diabetes. Physical activity
      (PA) is a modifiable risk factor for these conditions. The few PA promotion studies that have
      included African American men have resulted in successful short-term behavior change, yet in
      order for the health benefits of PA to be realized, PA levels must be maintained. While
      behavior change maintenance programs have been shown to assist participants in sustaining
      behavior change, we were unable to identify any studies that have developed maintenance
      programs specifically targeting African American men. The purpose of this proposal is to
      develop a PA maintenance program for African American men. This Phase I Small Business
      Technology Transfer (STTR) project, MobileMen, will deliver the intervention utilizing mobile
      health (mHealth) technology and therefore, will be led by researchers and multimedia
      developers at Klein Buendel, Inc. (KB) and Pennington Biomedical Research Center (Dr. Newton,
      PI). The use of mHealth, as opposed to other avenues of intervention delivery, is based on
      published reports documenting that African Americans perceive mobile technology as an
      acceptable means of intervention delivery. In addition, ownership of smartphones and the use
      of text messaging are highest among African Americans compared to other ethnic groups. There
      is a need to tailor this intervention towards African American men because they have unique
      gender role beliefs which influence exercise promotion. There is also increasing recognition
      of the need for researchers to develop interventions in collaboration with the target
      population. Therefore, the current proposal will involve conducting formative research with
      African American men to identify the key elements for program development. The fact that
      mHealth is acceptable to- and the fact that the application will be developed in
      collaboration with African American men, leads us to hypothesize that African American men
      will view the mHealth intervention as acceptable, feasible, and usable. In this Phase I STTR,
      KB will: (1) conduct multi-method formative research to guide app design and content, (2)
      produce a functioning app prototype, and (3) conduct usability testing on the prototype for
      functionality, ease of use, and interest among African American men. To KB's knowledge, no
      study has utilized mobile phones as a means of effecting PA levels in African American men.
      MobileMen will address an unmet need in the marketplace as it will be the first smartphone
      app that is targeted toward PA maintenance in African American men.
    
  