
    
      Background Esophageal carcinoma is a common digestive system tumor, with number of deaths
      ranking No. 4 in malignant tumors. Surgery is the preferred method of treatment for
      esophageal cancer, but the local recurrence rate is as high as between 40% and 60%, and
      5-year overall survival is only about 30%. Most of esophageal cancers are found in the middle
      and late stage, losing the chance of operation. Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in stage
      Ⅱ, III is the most common in China. The esophageal cancer during these stages is no longer
      localized lesions, and cancer will be transferred to other organs of the body through blood
      transmission, leading to tumor metastasis, which is the main cause of the patients' death.
      The tumor cells invade the surrounding tissues of primary tumor cells and enter the blood and
      lymphatic system, thus the circulating tumor cells (CTC) is formed and transported to a
      distal tissue, then effusing, adapting to the new microenvironment and finally forming
      metastases through the process of seeding, proliferation and colonization. In recent years,
      as liquid pathology, CTCs are used for several studies of tumor, including the auxiliary
      diagnosis, recurrence and metastasis detection, prognosis, individualized treatment, medical
      screening, development of new targeted cancer therapy drugs, searching for a new target for
      cancer therapy, exploring the mechanism of drug resistance, etc.

      Recently, the controversy of surgical treatment of esophageal carcinoma is concentrated on
      the neoadjuvant therapy during perioperative period. Neoadjuvant therapy has been widely
      studied in recent years. Compared to the postoperative radiochemotherapy,the preoperative
      chemotherapy is less toxic and better tolerated. Pure radiotherapy could only work on the
      local tumor, yet without lethal effect towards micrometastases and CTCs. Studies have shown
      that neoadjuvant radiotherapy can only improve the resection rate, but could not prolong the
      patient's survival; the advantages of neoadjuvant chemotherapy include: 1. lower tumor stage,
      reduce tumor volume , and increase the resection rate; 2. control and treat the tiny
      metastasis, reduce the recurrence rate; 3. chemotherapeutic drugs can reach to tumor issues
      with sufficient amount , through the undamaged blood supply system; 4. assess the
      chemosensitivity of drug in body to guide postoperative treatment.

      NCCN guideline of 2015 recommended that patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in
      T1b, N + and T2-T4a, N0-N + may consider preoperative neoadjuvant therapy, but its supporting
      literature (David Cunningham 2006, Marc Ychou 2011 and P. van Hagen, 2013) includes patients
      with pathology of the type adenocarcinoma. The esophageal cancer treatment guidelines of
      Japan 2015 adopted the opinion of NCCN Guidelines, and recommended neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      and radical surgery as the standard treatment for stage II and III esophageal cancer patients
      based on the results of randomized controlled clinical trial JCOG9907. However, the
      guidelines also pointed out that the role of neoadjuvant chemotherapy for resectable
      T1-3N0-1M0 cancers remains unclear according to the results of some meta-analysis. But at
      least for the present studies, compared to direct surgery group, the patients received
      neoadjuvant therapy did not show inferior effect at aspects such as radical surgery,
      postoperative complications, disease-free survival and overall survival.

      The effect and necessity of neoadjuvant chemotherapy to esophageal squamous cell carcinoma
      patients in stage Ⅱ, Ⅲ, and its influence to disease-free survival still lack authoritative
      evidence-based medical support, is a clinical urgency need to be solved.

      Research objectives Choose the detection of peripheral venous blood CTCs and the disease-free
      survival as the main index, to compare the treatment effect of patients, those received
      neoadjuvant therapy, surgery and those received directly surgery, postoperative chemotherapy
      with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in stage Ⅱ, III by means of evidence-based medicine;
      Define the indication of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of esophageal squamous
      cell carcinoma in stage Ⅱ, III; Draft the solution to evaluate the treatment effect of
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy to esophageal cancer in stage Ⅱ, III, and the indication of
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy by test the peripheral venous blood CTCs and join the Chinese
      clinical guideline.

      Main research content:

      Design dual-center (Second Hospital of Shandong University and Shandong Cancer Hospital
      Affiliated to Shandong University) prospective clinical contrast trials by selecting the
      preoperative patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in clinical stage Ⅱ, III.
      Complete the work of patients screening, informed consent, preoperative preparation, surgery,
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy and follow-up visits under the guide of Standardized treatment
      program. Detect the CTCs by extract the peripheral venous blood at the time of the day before
      initial treatment (neoadjuvant chemotherapy or surgery), one week after surgery and the
      follow-up visits of 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, 2years after surgery. The main evaluation
      index of the study is the change of CTCs in peripheral blood and the survival period of
      disease-free of patients, with secondary evaluation index including the surgery effect,
      pathology, recurrence rate of the patients, long-term survival as well as other prognostic
      indicators. Assess the guidance of CTCs detection towards neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the
      treatment of esophageal squamous carcinoma in stage Ⅱ, III.
    
  