
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO) when added to
      GCLAM in patients with newly-diagnosed AML requiring induction chemotherapy. (Phase I) II. To
      evaluate the 6-month and 1-year event-free survival (EFS) rate with GO + GCLAM treated at the
      MTD. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Describe, within the limits of a phase 1/2 study, the toxicity profile of the study
      regimen.

      II. Compare, within the limits of a phase 1/2 study, measurable residual disease (MRD) rates
      with GO + GCLAM at the MTD to patients treated previously with GCLAM alone.

      III. Estimate, within the limits of a phase 1/2 study, the relationship between MRD status
      after induction therapy and relapse risk/time to relapse as well as relapse-free and overall
      survival.

      IV. Compare, within the limits of a phase 1/2 study, complete remission rates with GO + GCLAM
      at the MTD to patients treated previously with GCLAM alone.

      V. Compare, within the limits of a phase 1/2 study, overall survival rates with GO + GCLAM at
      the MTD to patients treated previously with GCLAM alone VI. Evaluate, within the limits of a
      phase 1/2 study, the impact of GO dosing regimens on the duration of cytopenias.

      VII. Collect biological specimens for use for the future laboratory investigation of
      biomarkers for response to GO.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose escalation study of gemtuzumab ozogamicin followed by a phase
      II study.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Participants receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin intravenously (IV) either as a
      single dose on day 1, or as three doses on days 1, 4, and 7. Participants also receive G-CSF
      subcutaneously (SC) on days 0-5, cladribine IV over 2 hours on days 1-5, cytarabine IV over 2
      hours on days 1-5, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV on days 1-3. Patients who do not achieve
      a CR or CRi following the first cycle of induction are eligible for a second cycle, which is
      given without gemtuzumab ozogamicin. Participants with a complete remission (CR) or complete
      remission with incomplete count recovery (CRi) may then proceed to Post-Remission Therapy.

      POST-REMISSION THERAPY: Participants receive G-CSF, cladribine, and cytarabine as in
      Induction Therapy during cycle 1, and cytarabine IV every 12 hours on days 1-6 of cycles 2-3.
      Treatment repeats every month for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for 5 years.
    
  