
    
      Clinically depressed individuals that could benefit from newer treatments for depression
      often do not receive care. Low treatment rates are of particular concern since depression is
      projected to be the second leading cause of disability worldwide by 2010. Major depression
      has been the focus of numerous intervention studies with primary care patients during recent
      years. However, despite advances in the development and testing of quality intervention
      models for depression treatment, very little is known about the effectiveness of
      interventions with Latinos. This is important because Latinos are less likely than whites to
      receive depression treatment, even though the rates of depression are similar for both
      groups. A major public health challenge is to make available the benefits of intervention
      developments in depression treatment for all groups in society. As a first step, we examined
      the impact of a quality depression intervention with Puerto Ricans. The specific aims were:

        1. To examine the effect of a Collaborative Depression Management Program in reducing
           depressive symptoms, improving quality of life, and decreasing health-related functional
           impairment among Puerto Rican patients in general medical settings.

        2. To determine whether a Collaborative Depression Management Program is effective in
           improving satisfaction with care and reducing barriers to depression treatment among
           Puerto Rican patients in general medical settings.

      This study employed a randomized experimental design. Depressed patients receiving general
      medical care were assigned to one of two conditions: 80 to the Depression Management Program
      and 80 to treatment as usual. All subjects completed assessments at baseline, week 8, week 16
      and week 24. Our overall programmatic goals were to increase the likelihood that depressed
      patients receive care and to make available for the Puerto Rican community advances in the
      treatment of major depression.
    
  