
    
      The study will be comprised of four components as outlined below:

        1. Site implementation component:

           In this component, the investigators will use previously developed implementation
           facilitation strategies and resources to train ED providers and staff at approximately
           30 diverse EDs in treatment initiation with SL-BUP and XR-BUP and develop ED
           buprenorphine protocols and procedures. The investigators anticipate that this will
           result in a minimum of 24 sites (80%) that will meet the implementation milestones for
           competence in ED-initiated BUP using standard SL and XR-BUP inductions.

        2. Effectiveness RCT component:

           This component is a large pragmatic RCT using a Hybrid Type 1
           Effectiveness-Implementation design. Sites that satisfactorily complete the site
           implementation component will be activated on a rolling basis for the RCT after
           demonstrated implementation milestones have been met. In this Hybrid Type 1 design the
           primary research question is the effectiveness of SL-BUP induction compared with that of
           XR-BUP on the primary outcome measure of engagement in formal addiction treatment at
           7-days post ED visit. This design also allows us to gather information and report on
           implementation processes.

        3. Ancillary component - XR-BUP Induction for patients with COWS < 8:

           This observational case series will begin in advance of the Effectiveness RCT component
           at approximately 4 ED sites with extensive experience in ED-initiated BUP. The
           investigators will collect quantitative and qualitative data on the use of XR-BUP in ED
           patients with low COWS scores for approximately 75 patients. Sites will receive a supply
           of XR-BUP for provision to up to 5 patients with a COWS score > 8. The purpose is to
           pre-study the procedures at the four ancillary study sites on treating OUD patients with
           XR-BUP prior to initiation of the ancillary component. Data collected from this
           pre-study will not be included in the analysis of the ancillary and effectiveness RCT
           component. These initial up to 20 pre-study patients will meet all other study criteria
           and undergo all assessments. It is anticipated that the information collected from the
           75 patients in the ancillary component will allow for modification to the larger
           Effectiveness RCT by expanding eligibility criteria to include patients with COWS <8.

        4. Development and validation of EHR ED opioid-related phenotypes component:

           In this component, the investigators will develop EHR phenotypes of opioid-related
           illnesses that accurately and automatically characterize patient conditions, enhance the
           ability to actively monitor and surveil, and better identify representative samples and
           patients potentially eligible for study inclusion, leading ultimately to an enhanced
           inclusion and understanding of opioid-related conditions. At the primary Yale New Haven
           Health System sites, the phenotypes (rules- and machine learning-based) will be
           iteratively developed and internally validated. The rules-based phenotype will be mapped
           to a common data model and externally validated at 4 trial sites.

        5. An exploratory outcome of this study will be to assess the impact of COVID-19 on ED use
           for opioid-related diagnoses using EHR data.

      The primary focus of this clinicaltrials.gov registration are the RCT outcomes.
      Implementation and ancillary outcomes will be identified as secondary outcomes for the
      purpose of this clinicaltrials.gov registration
    
  