
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients with metastatic renal cell adenocarcinoma
           treated with medroxyprogesterone vs recombinant interferon alfa-2a and/or aldesleukin.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the objective response rate (complete and partial) of patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the quality of life of patients before and after induction treatment with these
           regimens (week 10).

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (medroxyprogesterone): Patients receive oral medroxyprogesterone once daily for 12
           weeks. Patients may receive a second 12-week course in the presence of responding or
           stable disease. Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at weeks 12 and 24.

        -  Arm II (recombinant interferon alfa-2a): Patients receive recombinant interferon alfa-2a
           subcutaneously (SC) 3 times weekly for 12 weeks. Patients may receive a second 12-week
           course in the presence of responding or stable disease. Quality of life is assessed as
           in arm I.

        -  Arm III (aldesleukin): Patients receive aldesleukin SC twice daily on days 1-5, 8, 9,
           15, 16, 22, and 23 and once daily on days 10-12, 17-19, and 24-26. Courses repeat
           beginning in weeks 6, 13, and 20. Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at weeks
           10 and 24.

        -  Arm IV (recombinant interferon alfa-2a and aldesleukin): Patients receive recombinant
           interferon alfa-2a as in arm II and receive aldesleukin as in arm III. Quality of life
           is assessed as in arm III.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 456 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  