
    
      The use of adjuvant chemotherapy and endocrine therapy has had a significant impact on breast
      cancer survival. However, not all patients will benefit from each of these therapies.
      Increasing data suggests that patients with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer derive
      marginal benefit from the addition of adjuvant chemotherapy. Identification and
      characterization of cellular signaling pathways active in the pathogenesis of breast cancer
      has lead to the development of multiple targeted therapies that hold enormous promise for
      patients with less toxicity than conventional chemotherapy. Treatment strategies employing
      neoadjuvant therapy have found that pCR is predictive for ultimate outcome. Due to this, the
      use of neoadjuvant therapy has become an intense area of investigation in operable breast
      cancer. In the IMPACT trial, the aromatase inhibitor anastrozole was found to improve
      eligibility for breast conservation and was associated with a favorable clinical objective
      response after 12 weeks of therapy.

      In this proposed study, we plan to study the combination of ZD6474, a dual inhibitor of EGFR
      and VEGFR-2, with anastrozole in the neoadjuvant setting for patients with Stage I-III breast
      cancer. The aim is to overcome mechanisms of resistance and simultaneously block multiple
      critical signaling pathways known to stimulate breast cancer. The two agents have
      non-overlapping toxicities and are both administered orally, allowing for a more tolerable
      treatment regimen. By using this combination in the neoadjuvant setting, we will target the
      critical signaling pathways early and follow tumor responses during therapy, allowing for
      prompt evaluation of the effectiveness of this treatment strategy. Pathologic tumor specimens
      obtained at the time of definitive surgery will be evaluated for pathologic complete response
      thus adding to the body of literature. By examining molecular markers such as ER, PR, EGFR,
      and Ki-67 pre- and post-treatment, we hope to correlate modulations in these biomarkers to
      response. Finally, using a novel second generation functional breast MRI we will investigate
      the ability of MRI to predict response to antiangiogenic therapy.
    
  