
    
      Integrin αvβ3 is an important member of this receptor family and expressed preferentially on
      regenerative vascular endothelial cells, but not or very low on the quiescent vessel cells
      and other normal cells. The αvβ3 integrin is a key mediator of angiogenesis and thus may be
      an important diagnostic and therapeutic target associated with cerebrovascular repair
      processes after stroke.

      The tri-peptide sequence of arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) can specifically bind to the
      integrin αvβ3 receptor. Accordingly, a variety of radiolabeled RGD-based peptides have been
      developed for non-invasive imaging of integrin αvβ3 expression via positron emission
      tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to monitor the
      angiogenesis in clinical Oncology and Cardiology. In Neurology, angiogenesis imaging based on
      integrin αvβ3 receptor has not been found in clinical trials, but preclinical animal studies
      showed it had great potential for clinical translation. Recently, series of RGD dimeric
      peptides with PEG linkers have been studied. The new types of RGD peptides showed much higher
      in vitro integrin αvβ3 binding affinity than the single RGD tri-peptide sequence. As a
      representative, 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 could be easily prepared and exhibited excellent in vivo
      behavior in animal models and also tumor or myocardial infarction patients. No adverse
      reactions are observed in animal models or patients to date.

      For the further interests in clinical translation of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2, an open-label brain
      PET/CT study was designed to investigate diagnostic performance of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 in stroke
      patients in convalescence. A single dose of nearly 111 MBq 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 ( ≤ 40 µg
      BNOTA-PRGD2) will be intravenously injected into the patients. Visual and semiquantitative
      method will be used to assess the PET/CT images. Changes of brain 18F-FDG PET/CT, enhanced
      brain MRI or CT, and any adverse events will be collected from the patients.
    
  