
    
      The incidence of candidemia in the overall population ranges from 1.7 to 10 episodes per
      100,000 inhabitants and Candida is one of the ten leading causes of bloodstream infections in
      developed countries. An estimated 33-55% of all episodes of candidemia occur in intensive
      care units (ICU) and are associated with mortality rates ranging from 5% to 71%. Candida
      fungemia may have an endogenous or an exogenous origin, and in recent years a growing
      proportion of episodes of candidemia have been caused by Candida species other than albicans.
      The most important independent conditions predisposing to candidemia in ICU patients include
      prior abdominal surgery, intravascular catheters, acute renal failure, parenteral nutrition,
      broad-spectrum antibiotics, a prolonged ICU stay, the use of corticosteroids and mucosal
      colonization with Candida. In recent years, several studies have shown that ICU patients with
      mucosal Candida colonization, particularly if multifocal, are at a higher risk for invasive
      candidiasis, and that colonization selects a population amenable to antifungal prophylaxis or
      empirical therapy. Candidemia in ICUs is associated with a con- siderable increase in
      hospital costs and length of hospital stay.

      Invasive fungal infection (IFI) is a grave infection associated with serious effects in
      patients with chronic diseases including liver cirrhosis. The diagnosis of IFI re- quires
      histopathological evidence of tissue invasion, or isolation in blood cultures, or isolation
      from a normally sterile body fluid or site, with samples collected intra-op- eratively or by
      percutaneous needle aspiration. Awareness of IFI has been increased in clinical practice with
      the increased survival of patients in immunocompromised states. Such infections are
      associated with a high morbidity and significant mortality, requiring early diagnosis and
      appropriate treatment, but also optimal prophylaxis in patients at high risk.

      Globally, several studies had assessed fungal infections in non-neutropenic patients,
      however, to our knowledge, searching for fungal infections in these patients are un-
      derestimated in our locality.
    
  