
    
      Study Aim:

      The previous multi-centre observational study (TOPCOP), funded by Prostate Cancer Canada,
      demonstrated important declines in multiple areas of quality of life, and fatigue and
      functional decline which were common issues that often limited further treatment. Emerging
      data from other settings demonstrate that (a) close monitoring of symptoms may reduce
      treatment toxicity and improve survival; (b) improving physical activity and targeting pain
      and sleep may improve fatigue and function. Whether these are feasible in the setting of
      older or frail men with mCRPC is unclear. Incorporating what the investigators have learned
      from TOPCOP and emerging supportive oncology literature, our main aim is to examine the
      emergence of key symptoms (fatigue, pain, insomnia) and explore whether reductions in daily
      physical activity are early indicators of toxicity over one treatment cycle (3-4 weeks) and
      therefore targetable in a subsequent intervention study.

      Study Design:

      This is a prospective multicentre observational study. The investigators will enroll
      English-speaking men with mCRPC who are either age 75 or older or age 60-74 and frail using
      (a) chemotherapy; (b) abiraterone or enzalutamide; (c) Radium.

      Daily telephone-based brief symptom screening will be done with the Edmonton Symptom
      Assessment Scale (ESAS). Daily monitoring of physical activity (step counts) will be done
      with commercial smartphone apps or a Fitbit device. Moderate or higher symptoms (>3/10) on
      ESAS or a decrease in daily step count of 15% or more triggers more detailed telephone-based
      toxicity assessment and measures of pain, sleep, and fatigue as appropriate. The study
      duration is 3 weeks (1 cycle of chemotherapy) or 4 weeks (abiraterone/enzalutamide/radium).
      Qualitative interviews will be done to explore challenges with treatment tolerability and
      adherence.
    
  