
    
      Aim of the Study At present, due to the global therapeutic approach, the prognosis of
      Thalassemia Major and Severe Thalassemia Intermedia is open-ended. Regular transfusional
      regimens from childhood and early iron chelation therapy prevent bone deformities that in the
      past characterized this disease even though according to several authors a high percentage of
      patients suffers from osteopenia-osteoporosis. This persistent complication may be explained
      by one or more coexistent factors such as anaemia, genetic factors, sex hormones involved in
      the bone metabolism, iron and chelation therapy, hypothiroidism, low or subnormal
      concentrations of serum vitamin D, etc.

      Pain resulted to be the only parameter that may be considered to distinguish patients with
      Thalassemia Major from healthy patients of the same age through a survey about Quality of
      Life performed in the Center of Genoa. More frequently pain is localized in the lumbar
      vertebrae, it is often described with invalidant pictures and it has to be referred to
      osteoporosis of vertebral bodies.

      The incidence of spontaneous fractures observed in the specialistic centers treating these
      pathologies is increasing.

      Thalassemia Intermedia is an eterogeneous clinical entity including a wide range of
      phenotypes from mild to severe forms. In the mild forms hemoglobin levels range between 8-9
      g/dl, which is stable without the need for regular transfusion therapy unless an intercurrent
      episode aggravates anemia; no expansion of the bone marrow is observed. By contrast, there
      are forms in which anemia is persistently more severe (6.5- 7.5 g/dl) with marked ineffective
      erythropoiesis. In these cases, especially when the diagnosis is made in childhood, patients
      should receive a transfusional regimen similar to Major forms with similar complications such
      as osteoporosis.

      For these reasons in patients affected with Severe Thalassemia Intermedia and with
      Thalassemia Major prevention and early diagnosis of osteoporosis are important as well as
      treatment of the established disease in order both to improve quality of life and life
      expectancy.

      In therapeutical trials previously described bisphosphonates have been shown to be effective
      because of their ability to inhibit bone resorption and their relatively few side effects
      resulting in an increase bone density. Since all the previous trials were conducted on a
      small number of patients, we propose a randomized, open label large multicentric trial to
      test the efficacy of Neridronate. The possibility to administrate this drug every 90 days
      intravenous makes dosing regimens simple and reduces the frequency of administration. These
      are important factors to improve adherence to therapy in patients already subjected to an
      heavy daily therapeutic load.

      Primary Objectives The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of
      Neridronate (an aminobisphosfonate of third generation that has been proved in several
      clinical trials to have the ability to inhibit osteoclast-mediated bone resorption) to
      increase Bone Mass Density (BMD) measured through Double X-ray densitometry (DXA). Bone
      densitometry will be performed at basal screening and then at 6, 12, 18, 24 months from the
      beginning of the treatment.

      Secondary objectives The effect of Neridronate on bone turn over will be evaluated through
      bone alcaline phosphatase (BALP) and telopeptide C-terminal of type 1 seric collagen (CTX-s),
      at screening and then at 6, 12, 18, 24 months from the beginning of the treatment.

      The dosage of the markers will be centralized. Study design An Italian Multicentric
      randomized, open-label therapeutic trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of Neridronate in
      the treatment of Osteoporosis in patients with Thalassemia Major and Severe Thalassemia
      Intermedia.

      Efficacy and safety of the drug will be evaluated measuring at every visit this parameters:

        -  haematological: Haemochrome

        -  blood chemistry: creatinine, BUN, AST, ALT, Ca, P, proteins electrophoresis, total
           proteins.

      The prevalence of ectopic calcification and pseudoxantoma elasticum (PXE)-like syndrome and
      their follow-up will be evaluated at the beginning of the study vs 24 months through physical
      examination, abdominal echography and fundus oculi examination.

      During the trial other known risks factors for osteoporosis will be recorded, including
      prevalence and incidence of bone fractures and, if executed, Polimorphisms COLIA1 At the
      beginning of the study and at months 12 and 24 morphometry DXA for the evaluation of the
      presence of bone deformities Furthermore data regarding QOL and symptom pain will be
      evaluated trough administration of scale SF-36.

      During the trial all adverse events will be recorded

      Extension study:

      Objectives of the extension study

        1. In vitro analysis of the effects of iron overload and chelating molecules on mesenchymal
           stem cells growth and osteogenic differentiation

        2. Evaluation of the effects of neridronate on normal and thalassemic MSCs'proliferation
           and differentiation.

        3. Phenotypical characterization of MSCs prepared from thalassemic patients treated with or
           without neridronate Study design A. In vitro analysis of the effects of iron overload
           and chelating molecules on MSCs growth and osteogenic differentiation B. Evaluation of
           the effects of neridronate on normal and thalassemic MSCs'proliferation and
           differentiation.

      C. Phenotypical characterization of MSCs prepared from thalassemic patients treated with or
      without neridronate A. In vitro analysis of the effects of iron overload and chelating
      molecules on MSCs growth and osteogenic differentiation

        1. Preparation of a collection of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells from normal subjects
           To isolate and prepare MSCs, we will utilize the protocol described in detail in Oliva
           et. al. (Molec. and Cell. Biochem., 2003, 247:55-60). The details of MSCs preparation
           are reported in annexes.

           The cells expressed specific surface markers, such as CD13, CD29, CD44, CD105, CD166,
           and were negative for hematopoietic cell markers CD14, CD34 and CD45.

           In this way, we are preparing a normal MSCs'bank, on which perform the experimentation.
           At present, we have already available more than 10 preparations of MSCs from normal
           subjects.

        2. Analysis of the effects of iron overload on proliferation and differentiation of MSCs
           Although it is well known that thalassemic subjects undergo iron overload, no data are
           available in Literature on the effects of this metal on proliferation and
           differentiation of MSCs. To this aim we will proceed as indicated below. We will
           evaluate the proliferation rate and iron and ferritin intracellular levels in MSCs in
           logarithmic phase incubated with increasing concentrations of iron, starting from
           physiological hematic amounts, i.e. 2-18 microg/ml, until reaching values 10-fold
           higher, similar to those occurring in thalassemic patients. We will analyze the effect
           on growth rate by direct cell count, MTT vitality assay, and 3H-thymidine incorporation
           (DNA synthesis).

           Successively we will analyze the effects of iron overload on the levels of the main
           proteic product of MSCs, namely type I collagen, following the protocol reported.
           Confluent cultures of early passages (0-3) of MSCs, nontreated and treated with iron
           overload, are tripsinized, counted and centrifuged at 800xg. The pellets are resuspended
           in 0.5 M acetic acid containing 250 microg/ml pepsin.

           After 16 hours of gentle shaking at 4°C, the insoluble residue is pelleted at 20.000xg
           for 1 hour, solubilized in run buffer and analyzed by 6% SDS-PAGE. Afterwards, proteins
           are blotted to a nitrocellulose membrane and incubated with rabbit monoclonal antibodies
           specific for human type I collagen. The immunoreactive bands are then incubated with
           horse radish peroxidase conjugated secondary antibodies and detected by means of
           enhanced chemoluminescent technique (ECL).

           The effects on differentiation will be evaluated analyzing the expression of specific
           markers of osteoblastic phenotype, namely alkaline phosphatase activity and osteocalcin
           production. In addition, we will evaluate the osteogenic capacity of MSCs expressed by
           extracellular matrix mineralization. Confluent cultures are incubated with an osteogenic
           medium composed of dexametasone 100 nM and beta-glycerophosphate 10 mM. If osteogenic
           capacity is present, calcification noduli appear within 2-4 weeks. To further confirm
           the matrix mineralization we will measure calcium levels and finally carry out a
           specific stain by von Kossa method.

        3. Analysis of effects of iron chelating molecules on proliferation and differentiation of
           MSCs We will evaluate the effects of DFO, which represents so far the most used
           chelating molecule in the therapy of thalassemia in spite of the well known
           disadvantages and toxicity. MSCs cultures, nontreated or treated with iron overload,
           will be added with DFO at concentrations similar to those obtained in vivo following
           drug administration to thalassemic patients. We will analyze the effect of the treatment
           on growth rate, collagen type I levels, alkaline phosphatase activity, osteocalcin
           production, as well as the osteogenic capacity.

        4. Characterization of cell cycle components in MSCs subjected to iron overload and/or DFO
           It is well known that characterization of cell cycle components represents the basis for
           the comprehension of pivotal events of proliferation and differentiation processes.

      Thus, cell extracts obtained from both MSCs cell populations treated as described above (i.e.
      iron, DFO or iron overload and/or desferrioxamine) will be analyzed by immunoblotting
      employing antibodies against several cycle proteic components. Among them in particular:
      cyclin D1, D2, and D3, cyclin E, cyclin A; CDK4, CDK6, CDK2 and CDK1; p16, p14, p15, p21, and
      p27. Moreover, the phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma protein and the cdk activities will
      be analyzed.

      B. Evaluation of the effects of neridronate on normal and thalassemic MSCs'proliferation and
      differentiation.

      The objective of this study will be the in vitro analysis of the effects of the neridronate
      on normal and thalassemic human MSCs. In particular, we will evaluate if the drug, tested at
      concentrations between 10(-4) M and 10(-6) M being 10(-5) M the therapeutic dose, affect the
      viability, proliferation, and cellular activity of MSCs. The effects on proliferation will be
      assessed in terms of 3H-thymidine incorporation, MTT test and cell cycle engine modulation.
      The action on differentiation will be evaluated analyzing the expression of specific markers,
      namely type I collagen levels, alkaline phosphatase activity and osteocalcin production. In
      addition, we will evaluate the osteogenic capacity of MSCs expressed by extracellular matrix
      mineralization, by the measure of calcium levels and by von Kossa staining.

      C. Phenotypical characterization of MSCs prepared from thalassemic patients treated with or
      without neridronate The aim of this study will be to investigate whether the treatment of
      thalassemic patients with neridronate might positively affect the osteoporotic condition and,
      at the same time, improve the osteogenic capacity of MSCs. Therefore, we will prepare MSCs
      from thalassemic patients treated or not with neridronate and cultivate them according to
      standard method. In particular, we will analyze the growth rate, the cell cycle machinery,
      the collagen levels, the AP activity and the osteocalcin synthesis. Most importantly we will
      evaluate the extracellular matrix mineralization.
    
  