
    
      This study design is a randomized placebo control trial.

      Aside from randomization to aromatherapy versus placebo, no procedures will be performed for
      study purposes that would not be normally performed in the clinical evaluation.

      Women scheduled for urodynamic testing at the Los Angeles County University of Southern
      California (LAC+USC) Urogynecology clinic will be invited to participate. Participants who
      meet inclusion criteria will be randomized to the aromatherapy or the placebo group after
      informed consent is obtained and immediately before undergoing multichannel urodynamics.
      Sequentially numbered sealed opaque envelopes containing the identity of the study arm will
      be used for randomization. The urogynecology clinic nurse will prepare the aromatherapy
      versus distilled water on the paper towel that the patient is routinely given to hold over
      their mouths when asked to cough during the procedure; two drops of each will be utilized.
      Before the physician comes in, the nurse will ask the participant to take a deep breath while
      holding the towel 3 inches from her face and will instruct the participant to continue to
      take normal breaths subsequently. It will not be possible to blind the participants or the
      examiner to the assigned group since the lavender oil will have a different scent than the
      placebo. However, the use of distilled water on the towel will allow the possibility that the
      deep breathing accompanying the instruction may have an effect on reported pain and anxiety.

      The participant will undergo the standard clinic exam in standardized order. The participants
      will complete the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Survey (HADS) at baseline. The HADS is
      reliable instrument for detecting states of depression and anxiety in the setting of a
      hospital medical outpatient clinic; it is available in English and Spanish versions. This
      will be used to establish their baseline anxiety levels. Participants will then be asked to
      rate their level of anxiety and pain immediately before beginning the exam, immediately after
      catheter placement, and 15 min after termination of the study using a 10 point visual
      analogue scale and the Wong-Baker pain scale.
    
  