
    
      Methotrexate (MTX) co-medication can improve the therapeutic effect of biological therapies
      (e.g. TNF-inhibitors) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but its role in Psoriatic Arthritis (PsA)
      remains unclear. Differences in phenotypical manifestations between PsA and RA might
      influence the impact of co-medication, treatment response and treatment adherence
      differently.

      Independent from this data, the impact of use of MTX in Ustekinumab (UST) treated patients
      with active PsA remains unclear: No data from Randomized Clinical Trials (RCTs) are available
      to address the questions whether add-on of MTX to UST monotherapy, or the other way around, a
      withdrawal of continuous MTX therapy in patients with newly initiated UST treatment or
      simultaneously induction of MTX with UST in patients will influence outcome.

      There is some evidence that MTX may contribute to improved treatment persistence with
      anti-TNF therapy, particularly when used in combination with infliximab, but there is very
      little data to support a benefit in effectiveness in patients receiving concomitant MTX.

      Additionally, MTX may play a role in immunogenicity: In the PSUMMIT program the patients with
      concomitant MTX had lower anti-drug-antibody (ADA) rates than those on UST-monotherapy,
      although there was no effect on efficacy and safety.

      Furthermore, methotrexate treatment manifestations such as dactylitis or enthesitis seems to
      be ineffective.

      In this study, the effect of blinded MTX-co-medication on outcome in patients treated with
      UST will be analysed. Differences on efficacy, safety and treatment adherence will be
      calculated related to MTX use in four arms of the stratified, randomized placebo-controlled
      clinical trial which contains a study treatment period of 52 weeks. The primary endpoint,
      differences in DAS28 in the treatment groups, will be measured at week 24.
    
  