
    
      While smoking cessation leads to significant improvements in mortality and morbidity, weight
      gain post-cessation partially attenuates this benefit. Furthermore, concerns about
      postcessation weight gain are common and are often cited as a reason to delay cessation
      attempts. In addition, postcessation weight gain is associated with smoking relapse. Thus,
      although the health benefits of smoking cessation outweigh the negative impact of weight
      gain, ideally there would be intervention "packages" that would not require that people
      choose between smoking cessation and nontrivial weight gain. Thus, in the proposed study, the
      investigators will determine whether two very promising methods of reducing postcessation
      weight gain, namely a weight stability intervention (based on the evidence-based Small
      Changes intervention) versus a weight loss intervention (based on the evidence-based Look
      AHEAD intensive lifestyle intervention) followed by a smoking cessation intervention are
      efficacious for reducing postcessation weight gain. The investigators will randomize 400
      smokers to one of three arms: a) a weight stability intervention prior to cessation (Group
      1); b) a weight loss intervention prior to cessation (Group 2), or c) a self-guided
      intervention prior to cessation (Group 3) and to determine the efficacy of the interventions
      on preventing weight gain at 12 month follow-up. All three conditions receive a highly
      efficacious in-person smoking cessation behavioral intervention and six months of Varenicline
      (ChantixTM) pharmacotherapy. Those participants randomized to the Group 1 and Group 2
      conditions will receive monthly booster weight management sessions, after completing the
      behavioral smoking cessation intervention. The primary outcomes will be weight change and
      smoking cessation at 12 month follow-up. In addition, the investigators will gather process
      data on mediators of treatment outcome via measures of treatment engagement (e.g., session
      attendance, varenicline utilization). The investigators will be able to determine whether a
      weight stability intervention or a weight loss intervention is efficacious in reducing
      post-cessation weight gain. The intervention results, if successful, could be disseminated
      and make a significant contribution towards curtailing obesity in this vulnerable population.
    
  