
    
      Respiratory failure is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality, and one of the most
      frequently encountered problems at the emergency department. Hypercapnic or hypercarbic
      respiratory failure, also dubbed respiratory failure type II, is characterized by failure of
      the respiratory system in one of its two gas exchange functions: carbon dioxide (CO2)
      elimination. It is thus usually defined via partial pressure of CO2 in the arterial blood gas
      (PaCO2), a value greater than 50 mmHg being a commonly used cut-off. Hypercapnic respiratory
      failure is often associated with severe airway disorders, such as asthma and chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but might also be found in other conditions, where
      respiratory drive is restricted, such as intoxications, neuromuscular diseases or chest wall
      abnormities. Hypercapnic respiratory failure, i.e. respiratory failure type II, is often
      associated with hypoxemic respiratory failure, i.e. respiratory failure type I, failure of
      oxygenation. However, type I failure is also often observed without hypercapnia. Respiratory
      failure, both type I and II, may be further classified into either acute or chronic.
      Distinction between both forms is often challenging, and, in addition to arterial blood gas
      analysis, might require additional tests to identify clinical markers such as polycythemia or
      pulmonary heart disease. For practical reasons, acute respiratory failure is often defined as
      a condition, in which respiratory failure develops too fast to allow for renal compensation
      and an increase in bicarbonate (HCO3-) levels, and thus leading to acidosis (pH less than
      7.3). Therapeutic strategies for hypercapnic respiratory failure include non-invasive CPAP
      ventilation support, intubation and mechanical ventilation (both assisted and controlled
      forms), and, in very severe cases, extracorporeal methods, such as extracorporeal life
      support systems.

      Non-invasive CPAP ventilation support via either helmets, or different kinds of tight masks,
      is the current method of choice for the treatment of patients with acute respiratory failure
      in the intensive care setting. Eligible patients include those with an intact airway,
      airway-protective reflexes, who are alert enough to follow commands, whereas patients who
      lack those criteria require immediate endotracheal intubation. Non-invasive CPAP ventilation
      support improves both oxygenation (by providing an inspired fraction of oxygen (FiO2) of
      100%, which is not possible via a simple venturi-mask, and the possibility of positive
      end-expiratory pressure (PEEP), preventing collapsing of the alveoli), and decarboxylation
      (by increasing tidal volume). It has been shown to decrease both need for intubation and
      in-hospital mortality. Non-invasive CPAP ventilation support, however, requires a high grade
      of skill from providers, and intensive communication with the patient to explain the
      usefulness of a tight-sitting device in the face in a situation of perceived massive dyspnea.
      Although severe adverse effects of non-invasive CPAP ventilation support are very rare, pain
      and pressure marks may occur. Despite all efforts of care providers, there is a relevant
      proportion of patients who do not tolerate ventilation support via a tight mask at all. About
      15% of patients not tolerating the therapy, with an additional 25% of patients presenting
      with contraindications. These might include general contraindications against non-invasive
      techniques, such as aforementioned lack of airway-protective reflexes, but also such specific
      for tight masks, such as anatomical abnormities of the face.

      High-flow Air via Nasal Cannula (HFA) therapy is usually applied via a wide-bore nasal
      cannula. It provides up to 60 litres per minute of a heated and humidified gas mixture (with
      an adjustable FiO2). This therapy is much less invasive for the patient, and thus often
      better tolerated. HFA has been increasingly used in the last years to treat hypoxic
      respiratory failure (i.e. type I failure), and numerous studies have shown its efficiency in
      this indication both at the intensive care unit and at the emergency. A recent systematic
      review and meta-analysis has concluded in improved patient comfort and reduced dyspnea
      scores. Despite this good evidence for HFA in hypoxic respiratory failure, it has only
      reluctantly been used for hypercapnic respiratory failure. This might be explained in a large
      part by the fact that patients with chronic hypercapnia are known to diminish their
      respiratory drive when exposed to hyperoxia. However, evidence has begun to change on this
      indication in recent time. HFA has been shown to generate PEEP, despite not being a closed
      system, and to improve CO2 clearance by flushing anatomical dead space. It might also help to
      reduce inspiratory resistance and facilitate secretion clearance from humidified gas. A study
      on COPD patients showed an increase in breathing pressure amplitude and mean pressure, as
      well as tidal volume, with a trend towards reduction of pCO2. Based on these findings, the
      use of HFA has increased in clinical practice, and a number of case reports and -series
      indicate successful use. Fraser et al. successfully investigated the use of HFA in patients
      with chronic COPD changes in arterial blood gases during use of HFA in the ED for both
      hypercapnic and non-hypercapnic patients were analyzed in previous studies, and found a
      significant reduction of pCO2.

      There is, however, to date no randomized controlled trial investigating the effect of HFA in
      acute hypercapnic respiratory failure.

      The study will be performed as a randomized controlled non-inferiority trial. The study site
      is the Department of Emergency Medicine (ED) at the Vienna General Hospital, a leading
      academic research center for emergency medicine at a large, tertiary care hospital. Around
      90,000 patients are being treated at the department each year, approximately 150-200 of them
      suffering from hypercapnic respiratory failure, and requiring non-invasive ventilation
      support. The department features its own ICU and intermediate-care unit, with 7 positions
      each, for a total of 14 positions capable of providing CPAP therapy. The HFA-device is also
      at regular use at the department.

      Patients who are temporary not able to give informed consent due to hypercapnia will be
      randomized and treated. They will be informed post-hoc as soon as they are able to give
      informed consent, and will have the possibility to give consent to the use of their data.

      A random sequence will be generated by a person not involved in the enrolment of patients
      using standard software. Randomisation will be performed in variable blocks of 4 to 6, to
      yield an unpredictable allocation yet warranting balanced group sizes. Sequentially numbered
      sealed opaque envelopes (SNOSE), containing allocation either to the intervention or the
      control group, will be pre-produced. The envelopes will be opened after consent immediately
      before the start of the intervention to allow for allocation concealment and reduce the risk
      of immediate post-random exclusion.

      Intervention consists of HFA using standard equipment at the department. A gas flow of 60
      litres per minute and a FiO2 as clinically feasible will be used. Therapy will be continued
      until a pCO2-level of 50 mmHg or less is reached, or therapy has to be aborted because of
      lack of tolerance by the patient or indication for intubation.

      Control consists of non-invasive CPAP ventilation support using a tight mask and standard
      respirator equipment of the Department of Emergency Medicine. A positive airway pressure of
      3,67 mmHg and a FiO2 as clinically feasible will be used. Therapy will be continued until a
      pCO2-level of 50 mmHg or less is reached, or therapy has to be aborted because of lack of
      tolerance by the patient or indication for intubation.

      Based on treating physician's discretion, both intervention and control treatments might be
      aborted at any time, and any other therapy (simple Venturi-Mask, HFA, non-invasive
      CPAP-ventilation support, intubation, extracorporeal methods) might be initiated.

      Baseline characteristics and demographic variables will include age, sex, smoking status,
      prior diseases, especially any history of COPD or asthma, and duration of treatment of those,
      medication, body size, pre-hospital treatment. pCO2 levels will be measured using blood gas
      analysis at 0 -30 -60 (and every 60 minutes thereafter) minutes after the beginning of the
      therapy, and at the end of the therapy. Patient's perception of the therapy will be assessed
      after the end of the therapy using a 10-point Likert-Scale from very uncomfortable to very
      comfortable.

      Sample size considerations are based on the primary outcome pCO2 reduction per hour. The
      investigators assume baseline pCO2-levels of 50 to 100 mmHg. Based on the published
      literature, the investigators assume that the outcome in the control group is 4±3mmHg/hour.
      Based on our clinical judgment the investigators assumed a limit of non-inferiority of 2
      mmHg, which lies well within one standard deviation of the outcome. Hence, the investigators
      would need 28 experimental subjects and 28 control subjects to be able to reject the null
      hypothesis that the lower limit of a two-sided 90% confidence interval of the true difference
      between two groups is above the non-inferiority limit, at a power of 80%. Formally the
      investigators will have to enroll 56 patients. To allow for potential loss to follow up,
      missing data, measurement issues, or other design factors the investigators will increase
      actual sample size to 62. In terms of feasibility, the investigators expect approximately 150
      to 200 eligible patients within one year, resulting in an expected study-duration of
      approximately 6 months.

      Due to the relatively small sample size, there are no preplanned interim analyses.

      Baseline data and demographics will be tabulated for the intervention- and control-group to
      assess success of randomisation. Reduction of pCO2 per hour will be compared between
      individuals in the intervention and individuals in the control group. The investigators will
      calculate effects as differences with 95% confidence intervals. This will be done using a
      linear mixed model with pCO2 as the outcome, treatment group as a factor variable, and
      baseline pCO2 and treatment time as covariates. The investigators will assume non-inferiority
      if the two-sided 95% confidence interval lies within predefined limits of non-inferiority. As
      a sensitivity analysis the investigators will also test for time/treatment-interaction in the
      model. As another sensitivity analysis, the investigators will analyze data during first 6
      hours of treatment at maximum. In case of therapy failure, the investigators will use the
      last-observation-carried-forward method to 6 hours. Primary analysis will follow the
      intention-to-treat principle. The unit of analysis will be single persons.

      Categorical secondary outcomes will be analysed by calculating relative risks with exact
      standard error based 95% confidence intervals. The investigators will assume non-inferiority
      if the two-sided 95% confidence interval lies within predefined limits of non-inferiority.
      Continuous secondary outcomes will be analyzed like the primary outcome. Length of stay data
      are expectedly lognormally distributed, therefore the investigators plan to use
      log-transformed values for further calculations. For data analysis the investigators will use
      Stata 11. A two-sided p-value less 0.05 is generally considered statistically significant.
      Reporting will follow the standards of the CONSORT extension for non-inferiority and
      equivalence trials.

      Privacy and Data safety Directly and indirectly patient-related data will be stored
      physically and logically separated. In addition, only members of the study-group will have
      access to study data. Data will be stored on a secured computer of the department of
      emergency medicine and will be accessible only via restricted access for members of the
      study-group.
    
  