
    
      In 2004, based on AVF2107g clinical research, FDA has approved bevacizumab as first targeted
      drugs for the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer[1].So far, chemotherapy combined with
      target agents is currently first line standard of patients with advanced colorectal cancer.
      The anti-EGFR monoclonal antibodies((cetuximab and panitumumab) also have been demonstrated
      to be efficient in the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. In the CRYSTAL and OPUS
      studies, adding cetuximab to first-line chemotherapy (CT) improved clinical benefit in
      patients (pts) with KRAS wild-type (wt) mCRC [2,3]. FIRE-3 and TAILOR once again proved
      cetuximab combined FORFIRI or FOLFOX will improved clinical benefit[4]. Target agents are
      expensive, so It is necessary to explore a new evaluation criteria to avoid unnecessary
      economic waste.

      RECIST(Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) is not suitable for the target or
      immunotherapy. The effect of chemotherapy not only displayed as morphology(tumor size
      reduction), but also as the biological activity change of tumor cells(e.g.cystic degeneration
      and cavity).PET-CT combined imaging of molecular function and morphology, but PET-CT was low
      cost -effective. The tumor markers is a rapid, easy to repeat method, but the change of the
      markers can not evaluation the response of tumor as an individual indicator. So we need a
      more sensitive effective evaluation marker.

      Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are rare cancer cells released from tumors into the
      bloodstream that are thought to have a key role in cancer metastasis. The distant metastasis
      is the leading cause of death in patients with mCRC. CTCs is a method to detect the early
      tumor micrometastasis. CTCs is predictive of PFS and OS in lung cancer and breast cancer.
      CTCs is also predictive of response of tumor. CTCs is more accuracy, more sensitive way than
      imageology or other tumor marker to predict therapy effect and outcome.

      The anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody (cetuximab) target the human epidermal growth factor
      receptor and have been integrated into treatment regimens of mCRC. The EGFR expression is not
      the predicted marker of cetuximab, in patients who express EGFR, the ORR only 10%-20%[5,6].In
      CRYSTAL, The addition of cetuximab to FOLFIRI as first-line therapy improves PFS in patients
      with KRASwild-type mCRC[2]. Up to now, we know only RAS wild type patients would benefit from
      anti-EGFR therapy.[7] The CALGB/SWOG80405 confirmed the conclusion. Some study also found the
      patients with B-raf (V600e) mutation would not benefit from anti-EGFR therapy[8]. Taken
      together, we need a more accuracy, more sensitive method to predict the effect of cetuximab.

      The study is a single arm, single-center, observational study undertaken in anticipated 100
      patients with histologically confirmed RAS and B-raf wild type mCRC. These patients received
      FOLFIRI±cetuximab therapy.

      Peripheral blood samples of 10 mL were collected from the patients for CTCs analysis and
      tumor marker in every cycle D0 and D8. The CTCs sued the integrated subtraction enrichment
      (SET) and immunostaining-fluorescence in situ hybridization (iFISH) platform.Tumor
      assessments will be performed every four cycles based on RECIST v1.1 criteria using CT/MRI
      scan. If the assessments are inconsistent, we will collect 10ml peripheral blood for ct DNA
      test, which using BEAMing, to analyze mutant gene.

      The correlation of the RAS status on CTCs and the mutant gene in ctDNA to the therapeutic
      response will be evaluated, and found the cut-off of CTCs.
    
  