
    
      Papillary thyroid cancer represents 75% of all epithelial thyroid malignancies. Imaging not
      only delineates the primary tumour within the thyroid gland, but also helps assess lymph
      nodal metastatic disease helping guide the extent of surgical neck dissection.
      Ultrasonography (US) is the current imaging standard (American Thyroid Association
      guidelines). However, US is limited by operator skills and lacks specific anatomic references
      essential to plan surgery. CT is performed to address these issues, often without intravenous
      (IV) contrast for fear of saturating thyroid tissue with iodine present in it, thus rendering
      iodine-labeled nuclear testing/treatment ineffective for a finite period of time. But
      post-contrast nodal enhancement is a predominant morphologic feature of suspicious
      lymphadenopathy in papillary thyroid cancer, and contrast-CT can facilitate an earlier
      detection. Iodine-saturation is not a concern in these patients as its concentration will
      normalize during recovery.

      In pre-surgical thyroidectomy patients with proven papillary thyroid cancer, the use of
      intravenous (IV) CT contrast improves the reliability and accuracy of suspicious head and
      neck lymph node detection, in comparison to CT without IV contrast.

      This study will help define the accuracy and reliability of intravenous (IV) contrast use in
      the detection of metastatic neck lymph nodes from papillary thyroid cancer. Improved
      detection of suspicious metastatic lymphadenopathy in papillary thyroid cancer will directly
      impact the patient's management since the surgical plan will be based upon the detection of
      these suspicious lymph nodes. CT imaging provides an anatomically relevant approach to
      surgery and is consistently reproducible, thus providing direct benefits to the pre-surgical
      assessment. Ultimately, this will result in decreased nodal recurrences within the neck.
    
  