
    
      The radiotherapy treatment preparation requires performing a dosimetric scanner (CT) of the
      patient in the treatment position, with the compression. The repositioning of the ENT sphere
      can be complex, especially in cases where there is irradiation of the supraclavicular lymph
      node areas. Indeed, the height of the irradiated area can easily exceed 20cm and it is
      necessary to ensure a good reproducibility of the repositioning of the spine relative to the
      skull.

      At the end of the dosimetric CT, the radiotherapist delineates the macroscopic tumor volume
      (GTV) as well as the clinical tumor target volumes (CTVT) and lymph nodes (CTVN), which take
      into account the infiltration risks of the tissue around the macroscopic tumor. Margins
      around the VCTs then make it possible to obtain the estimated PTV target volumes (T and N),
      defined so that the VCTs receive the prescribed dose despite the geometric uncertainties
      associated with the treatment. Contours of organs at risk (OAR) are also carried out on the
      dosimetric CT. Margins around the most critical OARs (eg: marrow, brainstem, chiasma and
      optic nerves) are then added to generate predictive target volumes of organs at risk (PRV),
      taking into account the geometric uncertainties. These uncertainties are separated into
      errors in the treatment execution (random) and errors in the treatment preparation
      (systematic).

      Execution errors include repositioning errors, organ movements (overnight), patient
      anatomical changes, intrafraction movements.

      Errors related to treatment preparation include repositioning errors related to patient's
      skin spotting of the treatment isocenter during the dosimetric CT (thanks to room lasers),
      errors related to the CT acquisition that sets the CTV in a given position, the CTV
      delineation errors.

      Dosimetry is then carried out taking into account the dose criteria to be respected on the
      PRVs and PTVs. Whatever the protocol used [Shrinking Action Level (SAL), non-action-level
      (NAL) or e-NAL (extented NAL)], it must at least make it possible to guarantee that the
      delivered dose complies with the planned dose. An optimization of the imaging protocol must
      then be able to reduce the margins without compromising the treatment quality, while reducing
      its toxicity for the patient.

      On the Centre Léon Bérard accelerators equipped with both CBCT and ExacTrac®, we would like
      to assess the possibility of replacing or reducing the frequency of CBCTs using ExacTrac®.
      The time-consuming and irradiating characteristics of CBCT encourage to propose this study,
      which will define the patients for whom the use of CBCT can be minimized.

      In addition, if the correlation between ExacTrac® and CBCT is good, the use of ExacTrac® will
      make it possible to control and correct intrafraction movements, and therefore reduce the
      random uncertainties associated with carrying out the treatment.

      The possibility of using ExacTrac® imaging for the repositioning of patients treated with
      RCMI ENT would allow a reduction in treatment time and therefore less discomfort for the
      patient, a reduction in the dose linked to repositioning imaging, follow-up and correction of
      patient movements during the irradiation period.

      Finally, this project will enable to propose new pre-treatment imaging strategies and
      personalized margins according to the position of the lesions to be treated at the ENT level
      in order to reduce the session time when possible, and to reduce the radiation doses. X due
      to imaging.

      The overall objective is to improve the care and quality of treatment for the patient.
    
  