
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Although considerable evidence exists for associations between diet and subsequent
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) among younger and middle-aged adults, no comprehensive studies
      of these relationships have been conducted using a national sample of older Americans.
      National guidelines have recommended reductions of dietary fat, saturated fat, cholesterol
      and sodium as dietary practice to reduce CVD. However, it is possible that the focus on
      eliminating dietary components may obscure the advantages of consuming diets that are
      nutritionally adequate.

      Findings from this study could have important implications for setting research priorities to
      further study the effects of specific dietary variables on CVD, and for implementing national
      nutrition policies to assist Americans in selecting healthy diets.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Data from NHANES I and the three cycles of NHANES I Epidemiologic Followup Study (NHEFS) were
      used to 1) to examine the associations between several measures of dietary quality at
      baseline and subsequent 14-year morbidity and mortality from CVD for a national sample of
      6109 United States adults aged 45 to 74 years at baseline; 2) to assess the relative
      importance of the associations of dietary quality and CVD for older adults compared to
      middle-aged adults. Dietary variables were based on responses to the 24-hour dietary recall
      and the food frequency questionnaire administered at baseline and included a composite
      measure of dietary quality, intakes of specific nutrients, and usual consumption of foods
      from 19 food groups. Baseline measures used as covariates included body mass index, blood
      pressure, serum cholesterol, sociodemographic variables (e.g., age, race, income,
      occupation), behavioral variables (e.g., smoking, alcohol consumption, activity level), and
      chronic health conditions. CVD outcomes were determined from medical history questionnaires,
      hospital records and death certificates. Change in blood pressure between baseline and
      10-year followup were examined as an outcome variable as well as a covariate in the
      association between diet and CVD.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  