
    
      Prematurity-associated respiratory failure is a growing public health problem. Although
      mortality has dropped with advances in perinatal care, this condition consumes considerable
      healthcare resources and is increasingly associated with worrisome long-term morbidity,
      developmental delay, and family burden. Inhaled nitric oxide (iNO), a selective pulmonary
      vasodilator that improves short-term outcomes in term neonates with respiratory failure, may
      benefit premature infants. Consequently, a NHLBI-funded randomized controlled trial (iNO RCT-
      NHLBI U01 HL064857) is assessing the effect of iNO on the combined end-point of mortality or
      oxygen dependency at 36 weeks post conceptional age in 800 infants with
      prematurity-associated respiratory failure.

      However, prematurity-associated respiratory failure has a different etiology from respiratory
      failure in term infants and the wide array of long-term consequences that may be affected by
      iNO are not captured under the existing study design.

      We therefore are extending and enhance the follow-up of the NHLBI iNO RCT. Specifically, we
      are assessing the effects of INO use on: #1. - long-term clinical and childhood developmental
      outcomes; #2. - family burden, and; #3. - healthcare costs of prematurity-associated
      respiratory failure. Under aim #4, we will use data from aims #1-3 to assess the
      cost-effectiveness of iNO in ventilated premature infants.

      We are achieving these aims by augmenting the NHLBI iNO RCT data collection with: i.)
      survival follow-up for an average of 4 1/2 years; ii.) comprehensive, standardized follow-up
      clinic visits at 1, 2, 3 and 4 1/2 years to assess clinical outcomes, childhood development,
      and family burden; iii.) structured telephone interviews with parents every 3 months in year
      1 and every 6 months thereafter for an average of 4½ years to assess chronic morbidity and
      post-discharge healthcare use; iv.) collection of detailed hospital bills for the primary
      hospitalization, and; v.) a comprehensive analysis plan.

      This study will allow us to determine the long-term consequences of iNO therapy in this
      condition, aiding clinicians, families, and policymakers and immediately affecting care of
      critically ill infants. By combining with the NHLBI iNO RCT, we take advantage of an
      important opportunity to gather prospective long-term outcome data in a randomized fashion.
      Our proposal will significantly increase the return on investment in the RCT through a
      greater understanding of the impact of iNO therapy from a societal perspective. Neonatal
      intensive care has changed dramatically in the last ten years. This study will also provide
      contemporary information on the long-term outcomes of prematurity-associated respiratory
      failure following modern management. Finally, our data will allow assessment of the
      robustness of early proxies for subsequent outcomes, key for future study design in this
      area.
    
  