
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of 3 groups of patients with extraocular retinoblastoma (stage
      2 and 3: regional extra-ocular disease;, stage 4a: disseminated metastatic disease not
      involving the central nervous system [CNS]; or stage 4b: patients with CNS disease) who
      achieve long-term event-free survival after treatment with aggressive multimodality therapy
      compared to historical controls.

      II. To estimate the response rate to the induction phase of the regimen. III. To evaluate the
      toxicities associated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive vincristine intravenously (IV) on days 0, 7, and 14,
      cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 0, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour and etoposide IV over 1
      hour on days 1 and 2, and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 3 and
      continuing until blood counts recover.

      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of induction chemotherapy, patients with stage 2 or 3 disease who have at
      least a partial response proceed to radiotherapy. Patients with stage 4a or 4b disease who
      have at least a partial response proceed to high-dose consolidation chemotherapy and
      autologous stem cell infusion.

      STEM CELL HARVESTING (stage 4a or 4b disease only): Peripheral blood stem cells (preferred)
      or bone marrow cells are collected after at least 1 course of induction chemotherapy.

      HIGH-DOSE CONSOLIDATION CHEMOTHERAPY (stage 4a or 4b disease only): Patients receive
      carboplatin IV over 4 hours on days -8 to -6 and thiotepa IV over 3 hours and etoposide IV
      over 3 hours on days -5 to -3.

      AUTOLOGOUS STEM CELL INFUSION (stage 4a or 4b disease only): Patients undergo autologous stem
      cell infusion on day 0. Patients then receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day
      1 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      RADIOTHERAPY: Patients with stage 2 or 3 disease (orbital and/or regional involvement)
      undergo radiotherapy to sites that were initially involved beginning within 42 days after the
      start of course 4 of induction chemotherapy. Patients with stage 4a or 4b disease undergo
      radiotherapy to sites initially involved based on response beginning approximately 42 days
      after autologous stem cell infusion. Patients with stage 4a disease who achieve a complete
      response to induction chemotherapy or with less than 5 mm of residual tumor at the time of
      planned irradiation, or patients with stage 4b disease who achieve a complete response to
      induction chemotherapy do not undergo radiotherapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then
      annually thereafter for 9 years.
    
  