
    
      Yellow fever (YF) is a disease caused by a mosquito-borne flavivirus that is endemic in
      sub-Saharan Africa and tropical South America. Ninety percent of YF cases are in Africa where
      YF virus is transmitted by different mosquito genera in three recognized transmission cycles.
      A sylvatic cycle involves transmission between forest-dwelling mosquitoes (Haemagogus spp)
      and non-human primate reservoirs, with sporadic incidental transmission to humans (e.g.
      forest workers). An intermediate cycle, occurring only in Africa, involves mosquito
      transmission between non-human primates and humans, or human-to-human transmission among
      humans living or working close to forested areas. An urban cycle involves transmission
      between humans and urban mosquito vectors, primarily Aedes aegypti, and occurs when a
      viraemic person, infected in the sylvatic or intermediate cycle, introduces YF virus to areas
      with a large non-immune population and A. aegypti vectors resulting in disease outbreaks.

      Infection with YF virus is characterised by a wide range of manifestations, ranging from
      subclinical infection with mild and non-specific symptoms, to severe, life-threatening
      illness with jaundice, renal failure and haemorrhage.

      A highly effective vaccine is available for use against YF in adults and children aged ≥9
      months. The vaccine is a freeze-dried preparation of live attenuated YF virus strain 17D,
      which was developed in 1937 and is produced by four WHO-prequalified manufacturers. A single
      dose of YF vaccine is considered sufficient to confer life-long protective immunity against
      all seven known genotypes of wild-type YF virus. Protective levels of YF virus neutralizing
      antibodies are developed in 80-100% vaccine recipients within 10 days after vaccination, and
      in 99% within a month.

      Although fractional dosing has recently been used in vaccination campaigns in Kinshasa and
      Brazil in 2016, 2017 and 2018, WHO recommendations were based on a limited number of clinical
      studies and important data gaps remain.

      fractional vaccine dosing is compounded by the uncertainty surrounding minimum dose
      requirements.

      This study therefore aims to determine the lowest dose in International Units (IU/dose) that
      is non-inferior to the standard full dose among populations in sub-Saharan Africa. The data
      generated in this study will provide information regarding the re-definition of the minimal
      dose and potency requirements of the vaccine. The study will also provide further confidence
      in the use of fractional doses of YF vaccine during epidemics. In addition, the investigators
      will assess the range of views and perceptions of key stakeholders in vaccine policy and
      implementation on reduced vaccine dose usage during YF epidemics and for routine use.

      . The study will be conducted at the KEMRI CGMRC in Kilifi, Kenya and at Epicentre in
      Mbarara, Uganda. Both these sites are already working together in an ongoing study
      (ClinicalTrials.gov number: NCT02991495).

      Adult participants (n=480) will be randomized for vaccination with full standard dose or with
      1000, 500 or 250 IU (i.e. 4 arms) with a 1:1:1:1 allocation ratio. Results for the safety and
      primary outcome of the adult study will then be reviewed by the DSMB, and the lowest
      non-inferior dose in the adult study selected for assessment in children aged 9 months to 5
      years (n=420) in comparison to full standard dose (i.e. 2 arms) with a 1:1 allocation ratio.
      The determination of the non-inferior dose to use in children will be made by the sponsor in
      discussion with the study Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB), vaccine manufacturer and
      relevant stakeholders, and the final decision communicated to the various regulatory
      authorities as a notification (i.e. Scientific and Ethics Review Board (SERU) at KEMRI,
      Oxford Tropical Research Ethics Committee (OxTREC) and Pharmacy and Poisons board (PPB) for
      the Kilifi site, Mbarara University of Science and Technology's Research Ethics Committee
      (MUST-REC), Uganda National Council of Science and Technology (UNCST) and National Drug
      Authority (NDA) for the Mbarara site).

      Adult vaccinees will be followed up for 2 years, and children for 1 year. There will be no
      gradual age de-escalation on the basis that there are few safety concerns with the full dose
      of YF vaccines, having been used in millions of children worldwide.
    
  