
    
      INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND

      Pre-operative carbohydrate loading is one of the many components of enhanced recovery after
      surgery (ERAS) protocol. It has been identified as one of the independent predictors among
      ERAS components to improve peri-operative well-being and reduce post-operative complications.
      While well-being is a subjective outcome, several surrogate outcomes have been used to
      quantify some of the aspects. These surrogate outcomes of well-being include post-operative
      nausea and vomiting, pain, and preservation of muscle strength.

      Although the exact mechanism of how pre-operative carbohydrate loading improves these
      outcomes is unclear, there appears to be an anabolic effect by increasing insulin
      sensitivity, improving glucose control and reducing catabolism. Patients in anabolic state
      undergo less post-operative nitrogen and protein loss, which translates to preservation of
      muscle strength. Carbohydrate loading keeps the body in a fed state during the fasting period
      before surgery. This abolishes the starvation effects which causes reduced insulin
      sensitivity commonly seen with conventional fasting practice. This is an independent
      predictor which prolongs length of hospital stay, preservation of muscle mass and handgrip
      strength post-operatively.

      While most studies have demonstrated benefits of carbohydrate loading in patients undergoing
      abdominal surgeries, the number of studies conducted in the orthopedic hip fracture
      population are limited. In addition, there may also be barriers to introducing a new protocol
      with carbohydrate loading to replace the existing conventional fasting practice. Studies
      showed diverse feasibility in terms of implementation, which seemed to be multifactorial.
      More studies are therefore required to identify the factors promoting or impeding such a
      practice in respective centres. Given that a significant number of the hip fracture
      population are malnourished elderly who may benefit from this intervention, the gap in
      literature in this population deserves a thorough attention.

      The University Malaya Medical Centre is a tertiary hospital with an average of 200 hip
      fracture cases annually. To date, these cases are subjected to conventional fasting starting
      from midnight. They are usually fasted up to extended hours, putting them in a starved state
      before surgery. It is therefore the great interest of the current multidisciplinary teams
      involved in the clinical care of hip fracture patients to introduce carbohydrate loading as
      part of the fasting practice. This study aims to introduce the concept and assess the
      feasibility of such a practice. The results from this pilot study may be used to
      revolutionize the fasting practice in our hospital.

      OBJECTIVE

      Primary objective

        1. To study the feasibility of implementing pre-operative carbohydrate loading in patients
           undergoing hip surgery

        2. To study the safety of pre-operative carbohydrate loading in patients undergoing hip
           surgery

      Secondary objective

      1. To evaluate the effect of pre-operative carbohydrate loading among patients undergoing hip
      fracture surgery

      METHODS

      This is a pilot study to collect data on feasibility of implementing carbohydrate loading
      before orthopaedic hip fracture surgery. It is also an open labelled, randomized controlled
      study to identify correlation between pre-operative carbohydrate loading and surrogate
      outcomes of well-being. A computer generated randomization method will be used to allocate
      participants to each arm (intervention vs control) on a 1:1 ratio basis. The randomization
      allocation will be revealed after consent and baseline assessment.

      The amount of carbohydrate load required to induce an effect must be enough to shift the body
      from a fasted to a fed state. A 50g oral carbohydrate ingestion has been shown to stimulate
      insulin release resembling post-prandial state. Therefore, the ERAS society recommendation is
      based on the following dose: a loading dose of 100g carbohydrate the day before surgery (as
      glycogen store) followed by a 50g dose 2 hours before surgery (to keep patients in a fed
      state).

      In our study, the intervention group will receive the carbohydrate beverage (Nestle
      RESOURCE). Each serving is 237ml containing 53.6g of carbohydrate and 9g of protein.
      Intervention group will consume two servings of the carbohydrate beverage (53.6g each, total
      of approximately 100g) on the day before surgery and one serving 6 hours prior to scheduled
      surgery time. The control group will receive usual hip fracture care as determined by the
      clinical team.

      SAMPLE SIZE

      For this pilot study, a sample size of 40 is targeted. 20 will be randomized to the
      intervention group receiving the supplement drink, while 20 will be randomized to the control
      group who will not be receiving any supplements. No formal sample size calculation was used.
      One of the objectives of this feasibility study is to provide estimates of recruitment and
      retention rates for a larger study. The number of participants for this study will be
      determined by resources and the recruitment period.

      ANALYSIS

      Baseline demographic data will be presented as mean ± SEM. Feasibility outcomes will be
      reported as numbers and percentages. Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation, and
      median for continuous variables; frequencies and percentages for categorical variables) will
      be calculated separately by group. For the group comparison, appropriate tests based on their
      distribution will be performed.
    
  