
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLT) of the
      combinations of brentuximab vedotin and ipilimumab, brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab, and
      brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the complete
      response (CR) rate for the regimens of brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab compared to
      brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate complete response (CR) rate, partial response (PR) rate and overall response
      rate (ORR), for the combinations of brentuximab vedotin and ipilimumab, brentuximab vedotin
      and nivolumab, and brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase I) II. To evaluate
      the duration of remission (DOR) to these combinations and compare with the DOR achieved with
      the most recent prior systemic therapy. (Phase I) III. To evaluate the progression-free
      survival (PFS) and the overall survival (OS) in patients receiving the combination of
      brentuximab vedotin and ipilimumab, brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab, and brentuximab
      vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase I) IV. To evaluate the ORR, PR, and stable disease
      (SD) rate for the combinations of brentuximab vedotin and nivolumab and brentuximab vedotin,
      ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase II) V. To evaluate the DOR to these combinations and
      compare with the DOR achieved with the most recent prior systemic therapy. (Phase II) VI. To
      evaluate the 5 year PFS and OS in patients receiving the combinations of brentuximab vedotin
      and nivolumab and brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase II) VII. To further
      evaluate the safety and characterize the toxicity for the combinations of brentuximab vedotin
      and nivolumab, and brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and nivolumab. (Phase II)

      CORRELATIVE STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the ability of these combinations to alter tumor specific T cell immunity.
      (Phase I) II. To evaluate the effects of these combinations on systemic immunity. (Phase I)
      III. To evaluate a panel of cytokine and T cell specific biomarkers from the peripheral blood
      as a potential immune signature of treatment response to therapy with these combinations for
      patients with relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). (Phase I) IV. To evaluate using gene
      expression profiling (GEP) a signature of response to these novel combinations of an antibody
      drug conjugate with immunomodulatory therapy. (Phase I) V. To evaluate the ability of these
      combinations to alter tumor specific T cell immunity, and circulating T cell phenotypes, in
      patients as a function of treatment response at multiple timepoints during therapy. (Phase
      II) VI. To evaluate peripheral blood cytokine profiles in responding and resistant patients
      at multiple timepoints during therapy. (Phase II) VII. To evaluate using GEP a signature of
      response versus (vs.) resistance to these novel combinations of an antibody drug conjugate
      with immunomodulatory therapy. (Phase II) VIII. To evaluate the influence of human gut
      microbiome dysbiosis on HL lymphomagenesis and the systemic immune response. (Phase II)

      IMAGING CORRELATIVE STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate atypical response patterns with currently available response evaluation
      criteria. (Phase II) II. To correlate response evaluated using currently available response
      evaluation criteria with duration of response (PFS, event free survival [EFS], failure free
      survival [FFS]). (Phase II) III. To evaluate response patterns in different immunotherapy
      treatment schemes and correlate with historical data using chemotherapy. (Phase II) IV. To
      correlate imaging changes in all treatment schemes quantitatively with PFS. (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate outcomes (CR, PFS) between patients with/without prior transplants. (Phase II)
      II. Evaluate outcomes (PFS, OS) between the patients who stay on treatment and do not go to
      transplant in both arms (the post auto and the few others who don't want transplant) vs the
      patients who go off for transplant. (Phase II) III. Evaluate outcomes (CR, PFS) in pediatric
      population (age 12 to < 18 years of age) vs. adult population. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of brentuximab vedotin, ipilimumab, and
      nivolumab followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients are assigned into 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1 and
      ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-4, 8, 12, and 16. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for up to 16 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-16 and
      nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-46. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up
      to 16 cycles and every 14 days beginning cycle 17 for up to 46 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-16,
      nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-46, and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1 every 12 weeks for up to 9 doses. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 16 cycles
      and every 14 days beginning cycle 17 for up to 46 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-16 and
      nivolumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-34. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up
      to 34 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-16,
      nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-34, and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes on
      day 1 every 12 weeks for up to 9 doses. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 34 cycles
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of phase I study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1
      year, then every 6 months for 2 years. After completion of phase II study treatment, patients
      are followed up for 5 years.
    
  