
    
      The SonoClear ACF will be used in combination with conventional ultrasound imaging equipment,
      with the transducer positioned at the cortex or on top of the surgical entry point in the
      brain. Any CE-marked ultrasound system and transducer that can provide high-level image
      quality may be used.

      The study is a pivotal single-arm trial in 3 or 4 centres on approximately 20 participants
      with either low grade (WHO Grade I/II) or high grade (WHO Grade III/IV) gliomas undergoing
      primary surgery, to collect performance and safety data on Sonoclear ACF in comparison with
      saline solution (the saline standard of care) as an acoustic coupling fluid during ultrasound
      imaging in brain surgery.

      There are two primary performance outcomes, Contrast-to-Noise Ratio (CNR) to quantify the
      reduction in noise and the Surgeons Image Rating (SIR) to assess the image quality and a
      primary safety outcome. The two primary performance outcomes will be addressed in a
      hierarchical gatekeeping approach. First, the SonoClear ACF will be tested for superiority
      over saline with respect to reduced image artefacts as detected by CNR. Besides the
      superiority of SonoClear ACF on CNR, it will be tested for superiority over saline using SIR.
      SIR is designed to assess if the expert panel, given an objective improvement in the
      quantitative CNR measures, can see a difference in image quality which potentially may help
      surgeons to deliver better excisional margins and more complete tumour resection (which might
      then lead to improved patient outcomes). By specifying this gatekeeping hierarchy, we present
      the two performance outcomes which are important clinically and in their logical order, and
      in such a way that the statistical chance of a false positive (a type 1 error) is still
      controlled at the usual 5% without the need for adjustment for multiple comparisons.

      The primary analysis will be according to a modified Intention to Treat (mITT) set, which is
      a subset of the safety set and will include all participants who have a biopsy confirmed
      glioma and who have a complete set of interpretable images for each of the performance
      outcomes (i.e. an interpretable image on both SonoClear ACF and saline for both the CNR and
      the SIR outcomes showing the tumour).

      The safety set will be defined as all participants who received at least one dose of
      SonoClear ACF.
    
  