
    
      In recent years, SEMSs have provided an attractive alternative to surgery for palliation of
      malignant gastric outlet obstruction. Several studies have assessed the clinical and
      technical success rates of pyloro-duodenal SEMS for malignant gastroduodenal obstruction.
      Technical success rates of 90% to 100% and clinical success of 80% to 95% was achieved.The
      procedure was associated with quicker recovery and reduced morbidities as compared to
      surgical gastrojeunostomies. However, the long-term patency of uncovered SEMS is limited by
      the risk of tumor ingrowth that would lead to subsequent re-stenosis of the stents requiring
      re-intervention. Thus to palliate malignant gastric outlet obstruction, surgical
      gastrojejunostomy is preferred in patients that are at good risk for surgery with prolonged
      life expectancy whilst insertion of pyloro-duodenal SEMS is preferred in patients that are
      associated with high-risk for surgery and short life expectancy.

      In lieu of the above reasons, it would be the ideal situation if a gastrojejunostomy could be
      created endoscopically without surgery. The procedure could potentially avoid the risk of
      morbidities and mortalities associated with surgery whilst enjoying the superior patency
      associated with a gastrojejunostomy. However, a number of hurdles need to be overcome for
      safe creation of an anastomosis endoscopically. Firstly, the collapsed bowel (duodenum or
      jejunum) needs to be easily identified from the stomach. Secondly, a reliable method of
      creating an anastomosis needs to be available. Lastly, a device for maintaining the
      anastomosis between two non-adherent organs is required.

      The use of EUS as a platform to create a gastrojejunostomy endoscopically may theoretically
      tackle all of the above hurdles. The device could be used in the stomach to visualize the
      adjacent duodenum or jejunum for anastomosis. A 19-gauge needle could be used to puncture the
      adjacent bowel for passage of a guide-wire to connect the two non-adherent organs.
      Thereafter, a SEMS could be placed between the two organs for creation and maintenance of the
      anastomosis.

      Initial results of EUS-guided gastrojejunostomies from two studies have become available.
      Khashab et al reported EUS-GJ in 10 patients. Technical success was achieved in 9 patients
      (90%). Clinical success with resumption of solid oral intake was achieved in all 9 patients
      (100%), who underwent successful EUS-GE. 8 patients were able to tolerate almost a normal
      diet and/or full diet, and 1 patient tolerated a soft diet. There were no procedure-related
      adverse events. Mean procedure time was 96 minutes (range 45-152 minutes), and mean length of
      hospital stay was 2.2 days. In another multicenter study, 26 patients received EUS-GJ.
      Technical success was achieved in 24 patients (92 %). Clinical success was achieved in 22
      patients (85 %). Of the 4 patients in whom clinical success was not achieved, 2 had
      persistent nausea and vomiting despite a patent EUS-GJ and required enteral feeding for
      nutrition, 1 died before the initiation of an oral diet, and 1 underwent surgery for
      suspected perforation. Adverse events, including peritonitis, bleeding, and surgery, occurred
      in 3 patients (11.5 %). In both of these studies, the AXIOS stent was used for creation of
      the anastomosis (Boston Scientific, Natick, MA, USA).

      However, a common technical problem exists in both of these series. The target duodenum or
      jejunum needed for creation of a GJ is collapsed and it is difficult to identify the target
      organ by EUS from the stomach. Furthermore, the insertion of the stent for creation of the
      anastomosis may be difficult with a collapsed bowel and this may result in catastrophic
      outcomes. Our group has overcome this problem with a novel device - the double balloon
      occluder. The device comprises of two balloons that could occlude a segment of bowel. Saline
      could then be injected in to the occluded segment resulting in distension of the bowel and
      making it possible to be targeted by EUS from the stomach.

      Our group has published the results of using the double balloon occluder in conjunction with
      the AXIOS stent for creation of a GJ in 20 patients (Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided
      double-balloon-occluded gastrojejunostomy bypass - EPASS). The technical success rate was 90%
      (18/20). The median intubation time from the double-balloon tube intubation to stent
      placement was 25.5 min (range 10-39 min). Post-treatment gastric outlet obstruction scoring
      system (GOOSS) score improved in all 18 cases in which EPASS was successfully performed. The
      mean post-GOOSS score was significantly higher than the pre-GOOSS score (0.6±0.75 vs
      2.94±0.23, p<0.001). None of the patients with successful placement of the stent suffered
      from adverse events or recurrent obstruction.

      The outcomes of EUS-GJ were recently compared with that of conventional procedures for
      management of malignant GOO. In a retrospective study, EUS-GJ was compared with DS. 30
      patients received EUS-GJ and 60 patients DS. The technical success rates were similar between
      the two groups (96.7% vs. 86.7%, P=0.07). Clinical success was also similar between the two
      groups (70.0% vs. 86.7%, P=0.08). The re-intervention rate was significantly higher in the ES
      group (43.3% vs. 3.4%, P<0.001), whilst adverse events were comparable (13.3% vs 18.3%, P =
      0.549). On multivariate analysis, DS was independently associated with need for
      re-intervention (OR 25.7, p=0.004). In another study, EUS-GJ (25 patients) was compared with
      laparoscopic gastrojejunostomy (29 patients) 20. Technical success was comparable (88% vs
      100%, P = 0.11). Clinical success was similar (84% vs 90%, P = 0.11). Average post-procedure
      length of stay was 9.4 days in the EUS-GJ group and 8.9 days in the Lap-GJ group (P = 0.75).
      Adverse events were significantly more the lap-GJ group (41% vs 12%, P = 0.03).

      Thus, based on the above results, EUS-GJ may be associated with improved outcomes as compared
      with conventional procedures for management of malignant GOO. Hence, the aim of the current
      study is to compare the efficacies of EPASS versus uncovered pyloro-duodenal stents (DS) in
      unresectable malignant gastric outlet obstruction in a randomized setting.
    
  