
    
      The current will use a neuropsychological evaluation capable of detecting the broad range of
      cognitive difficulties associated with relapsing remitting MS (RRMS). It is a sub-study of an
      investigation already underway, called Care-MS II, in which participants diagnosed with RRMS
      are treated with either Campath® or Rebif®. We will observe those participants already
      assigned to one of the two study arms in Care-MS II and compare cognitive functioning over
      time of those taking Campath® and those taking Rebif®. We will also compare the change in
      cognitive functioning for each active group to that of a matched control group. This will
      help to control for practice effects and help to establish whether either medication helps to
      truly stabilize cognitive decline (i.e., relative to non-MS controls). We will obtain
      neurocognitive data at baseline (prior to the first study dose of Campath® or Rebif®), 12
      months (before second dose for Campath® participants), 14 months (2 months after the second
      dose for Campath® participants), 24 months (prior to the third dose for Campath®
      participants), and 26 months (2 months after the third dose for Campath® participants). The
      neurocognitive battery will include gold-standard traditional neuropsychology measures as
      well as newer, validated computerized measures capable of detecting changes in attention and
      processing speed that are often missed by traditional measures. Since participants in Care-MS
      II will also have MRI data at baseline, 1 year, and 2 years, cognitive findings will be
      correlated with MRI data and analyzed in a post-hoc, exploratory manner for the participants
      with MS.

      Hypotheses include:

        -  1: Participants taking Campath® will demonstrate relative stability in cognitive
           functioning relative to those taking Rebif®. Specifically, the cognitive performance of
           Rebif® participants will decline somewhat over time, but the cognitive performance of
           Campath® participants will remain stable.

        -  2: Participants taking Campath® will demonstrate similar cognitive change (i.e., change
           in scores over 2 years) as normal, matched controls.

        -  3: Participants taking Rebif® will demonstrate greater cognitive change (i.e., change in
           scores over 2 years) as compared to normal, matched controls.

        -  4: Cognitive stability in Campath® participants will correlate with stability in MRI
           parameters.

        -  5: Cognitive change in Rebif® participants will correlate with greater activity on MRI
           parameters.
    
  