
    
      The study will be run in the Orthodontic departments of Dundee Dental School and Perth Royal
      Infirmary, both in NHS Tayside. The investigators will recruit a total of 80 participants to
      the study. Clinicians within the orthodontic departments will determine when a patient could
      be a potential participant of the study, and one visit prior to debonding of their brace, the
      treating clinician will discuss the study with the potential participant. If they are
      interested in finding out more, the clinician will issue the potential participant with the
      appropriate PIL. There will be a PIL for potential participants over sixteen years old, and
      separate PILs for those aged twelve to sixteen years old, under twelve years old, and for
      parents/guardians of potential participants under sixteen years old.. The clinician will then
      inform the PI/SI that a PIL and supporting documentation has been issued. There will be a
      potential participant referral form, which can be completed to aid the transfer of
      information to the PI/SI. Potential participants under twelve years old will be advised that
      a parent or guardian must attend with them for the debond appointment, when written informed
      consent (IC) will be sought from the parents/guardians by the Investigators of the study.

      Once IC has been obtained, resting and stimulated salivary flow rate will be measured by the
      Investigators or delegated member of the research team using a Saliva-Check Buffer kit (GC
      Corp, Leuven, Belgium). The kit will allow observation of the quantity and viscosity of
      resting saliva produced in one minute, and the pH of the sample will also be tested and
      recorded. Participants will then chew a piece of paraffin wax for a two-minute period to
      produce a stimulated salivary sample. The liquid component of the sample will be measured to
      allow a flow rate in ml/minute to be calculated, and the pH again tested and recorded. The
      buffering capacity of the stimulated saliva will also be determined by challenging the saliva
      with varying amounts of lactic acid. As a lack of saliva would bias the results for the study
      due to increased caries risk, and as saliva is essential for the hydrolysis of the CPP-ACP
      from the TM, if the resting salivary flow rate is below 0.2ml/min, or the stimulated rate
      below 1.0ml/min, then the subject will be excluded from the study. Participants will then be
      randomly allocated to the control or the experimental group.

      Each subject included in the study will have their WSLs assessed and categorised clinically
      using the International Caries Detection and Assessment System, (ICDASii) (International
      Caries Detection and Assessment System Coordinating Committee, 2009a), by ICDASii calibrated
      examiners. Examiner reliability will be determined by scoring extracted teeth and teeth
      validated by histology. Reproducibility will be measured using Kappa scores. All lesions on
      the buccal surfaces of teeth will be included in the study. Intra-oral digital photographs
      will also be taken of each participant in a reproducible manner, and the photographs analysed
      by two different blinded ICDASii calibrated examiners, who will be recruited to the study
      simply to score the clinical photographs. A colour standard (CasMaTCH; Bear medic, Tokyo)
      will be used to allow colour matching of the images.

      The experimental group will receive TM crème to use daily. The oral and written instructions
      regarding crème application will be provided, indicating that the crème should be applied to
      all surfaces of the teeth, agitated (swished) for one minute and then retainers placed for
      night-time wear as per crème application protocol.

      Subjects in the control group will not use any crème in their retainers, but will simply be
      asked to place their retainer for night-time wear.

      At commencement of the study it will be recorded how long participants fixed appliances had
      been in situ, and all participants and clinicians will receive a questionnaire to determine
      their fluoride use, oral hygiene regime, diet and preventive interventions e.g. visits to
      hygienist, topical fluoride application, during their fixed appliance treatment. The
      participants dental records will be reviewed and any record of pre-existing developmental
      defects of enamel or WSLs will be documented. Participants will be asked to score their own
      perception of the appearance of their teeth, considering the presence of their WSLs, using a
      validated Visual Analogue Scale (VAS).

      Participants will be reviewed at 6 weeks and at 12 weeks. At both visits WSLs will be
      reassessed and categorised by a calibrated examiner (PI/SI) using ICDASii. Digital
      photographs will be retaken for analysis by other blinded, calibrated examiners and the where
      appropriate, the participants will be asked to bring their tube of unused crème to be weighed
      to help determine compliance to the study protocol. A decision has been made not to issue
      subject diaries to determine compliance as evidence in the Orthodontic literature hasn't
      found self-reporting of this type, in this area to be reliable. Participants will be asked to
      score the appearance of their teeth using the VAS again and subjects in the experimental
      group will complete a questionnaire on acceptability, taste and convenience of using the
      crème.

      A transition matrix incorporating ICDASii severity and activity scores will be used to assess
      the stability, regression or progression of WSLs between baseline and follow-up examinations.
    
  