
    
      The impact of Type 1 Diabetes. In the U.S. alone, approximately 1.3 million people, including
      children and adolescents, suffer from type 1 diabetes (T1D); the disease incidence is
      increasing in many countries, also in children and adolescents. Chronic autoimmune T cell
      responses against pancreatic beta -cells are considered the primary cause of T1D, leading to
      loss of beta cell mass and insulin secretion and in turn a life-long dependence on insulin
      injections.

      The disease severely impacts quality of life and confers risk of both acute and chronic
      complications linked to significant morbidity and mortality, such as end-stage renal disease,
      blindness, cardiovascular disease, diabetic ketoacidosis and hypoglycemia. The economic
      burden caused by T1D amounts to approximately $14.4 billion in medical costs and lost income.
      There is a significant need to develop new therapies or improve existing ones to prevent,
      treat, and cure T1D. Diabetes socioeconomic impact primarily stems from the serious
      complications associated with it. Such complications include blindness, amputations, kidney
      failure, heart and vascular disease, stroke, nerve damage, and even birth defects during
      pregnancy.

      Although the specific etiology of T1D remains unknown, it is well established that T1D
      results from the autoimmune destruction of the insulin-producing beta cells in the endocrine
      pancreas (i.e., the islets of Langerhans). Consequently, treatment options in T1D are limited
      to insulin supplementation. Insulin supplementation can be either in the form of multiple
      insulin injections daily, or biological replacement of the insulin-producing beta cells which
      provides a natural source of insulin. On the one hand, conventional insulin supplementation
      via injection has saved countless lives of diabetic patients since the discovery of insulin
      in the early 1900s. However, it is well established that exogenous insulin injection therapy
      is suboptimal in preventing hyper- and hypo-glycemia fluctuations. On the other hand, it has
      been shown that even a partial level of endogenous insulin secretion protects from chronic
      diabetic complications such as hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis, which can lead to
      death.

      Therefore, beta cell replacement therapy through transplantation of isolated pancreatic
      islets offers a great therapeutic option in T1D. Several approaches of beta cell replacement
      have been pursued in the last few decades. Regenerative approaches such as regeneration of
      existing mature beta cells, differentiation of stem cells and/or trans-differentiation of
      other endocrine or non-endocrine (e.g., ductal and exocrine) cells into insulin-producing
      cells hold great promise in treating T1D. However, these approaches have yet to materialize
      into safe and reliable clinical application. Transplantation is also another option of
      biological replacement but has limitations as well. Limited availability of donor tissue
      remains a significant obstacle in transplantation therapies in general, including pancreatic
      islets. Other limitations of transplantation therapy are associated with the mandatory use of
      systemic anti-rejection immunosuppressive drugs. Chronic systemic immunosuppression exposes
      transplant recipients to serious and potentially deadly side-effects and complications such
      as increased susceptibility to infections, sepsis and cancer. Therefore, immunosuppressive
      agents are continuously being improved and new ones are being developed to better protect
      transplanted tissues (e.g., pancreatic islets) while reducing undesired side-effects of
      systemic immunosuppression and its associated complications.

      T1D patients currently receive transplant therapy either in the form of whole pancreas or
      isolated pancreatic islets. On the one hand, whole pancreas transplantation has been shown to
      achieve insulin independence in T1D patients, but it is also very invasive and is associated
      with high risk of complications and adverse events including mortality. On the other hand,
      transplantation of isolated pancreatic islets is minimally invasive and has significantly
      less complications compared to whole pancreas transplant, but survival of the islet graft
      might be severely limited due to complications associated with the current site for clinical
      islet transplant, the portal (venous) system of the liver. Nevertheless, hundreds of T1D
      patients have received islet transplants in the liver in the last three decades of clinical
      trials of islet transplantation. These studies have demonstrated that islet transplant
      recipients benefit from improved glycemic control, reduced hypoglycemia episodes, and
      prevention of diabetes-associated complications. These benefits improve the patients' quality
      of life significantly. Importantly, it has been shown in transplanted T1D patients that
      restored hypoglycemia awareness following transplant is maintained even after some of these
      patients had to get back on insulin therapy due to rejection or loss of the islet graft.
      Therefore, transplantation of isolated pancreatic islets has emerged as a promising therapy
      for T1D. Consequently, islet transplantation has become standard-of-care in many countries
      and is on the verge of being so in the United States.
    
  