
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the response rate to treatment with OSI-906 (linsitinib) 150mg BID in
      patients with advanced wild-type (WT) gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the clinical benefit rate (CBR) (stable disease [SD] >= 9 months, partial
      response [PR], or complete response [CR]) in patients with advanced WT GIST treated with
      OSI-906.

      II. To determine the response duration, progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival
      (OS) in patients with advanced WT GIST treated with OSI-906.

      III. To determine the tolerability and adverse event profile of OSI-906 in patients with
      advanced GIST.

      IV. To explore patterns of protein expression in serum and tumor tissues as predictors of
      response and progression-free survival (PFS) in advanced WT GIST treated with OSI-906.

      V. To evaluate the metabolic response to OSI-906 using fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG)-positron
      emission tomography (PET).

      VI. To determine if tumor metabolic response correlates with anatomic response and clinical
      benefit.

      VII. To measure changes in tumor metabolism by FDG-PET qualitatively and semi-quantitatively
      with standard uptake value (SUV) and tumor body ratio (TBR) from baseline to first computed
      tomography (CT)-response evaluation and correlate the findings with size changes as defined
      by conventional cross-sectional imaging scans.

      VIII. To investigate correlations between glucose, insulin, and candidate tumor tissue and
      blood biomarkers with FDG-PET metabolic response.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive linsitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, every 12 weeks for
      2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  