
    
      Rationale: In Pakistan, around 15% of children under five are wasted, which is almost twice
      that of the global prevalence 7.5%. There is a demand for a reliable and consistent locally
      available severe acute malnutrition (SAM) treatment option since currently the only option is
      to use an imported ready-to-use-therapeutic food (RUTF). While imported RUTF is successful
      for treatment of children with SAM, Pakistan is often faced with supply chain issues and
      consequentially management of SAM with RUTF is unreliable. The World Food Programme (WFP)'s
      work in Pakistan supports government-led efforts to improve food and nutrition security,
      including the development of Acha Mum, a chickpea containing lipid-based ready-to-use-food.
      Acha Mum replaces the peanut in standard RUTF formulation with chickpea, a locally available
      legume. Acha Mum is well accepted by children in Pakistan and is currently being used as a
      treatment for children with moderate acute malnutrition (MAM) in targeted supplementary
      feeding programs (TSFP) throughout the country.

      Objectives: The broad objective of this clinical trial is to test the effectiveness of a
      chickpea-based specialized nutritious food Acha Mum, compared to a standard RUTF for the
      treatment of SAM.

      Study Area: The study will be conducted in 10 basic health units (BHUs) operating by PPHI in
      Umerkot district of Sindh, Pakistan.

      Study Design: This will be an individual randomized, double-blinded, controlled clinical
      non-inferiority trial assessing the treatment of SAM with one of two therapeutic foods.

      Sample Size: A total of 1700 children will be part of the study (850 children in RUTF and 850
      children in Acha Mum group).

      Study Population: Children aged 6-59 months with SAM, i.e. MUAC <11.5 cm and/or with
      bilateral pitting oedema (+, ++), with appetite and without medical complications presenting
      at selected rural therapeutic feeding clinics.

      Timeline: The duration of study will be 24 months (3 months for protocol and tool
      development, 18 months for enrollment and follow-ups and 3 months for data cleaning, analysis
      and report writing.

      Expected outcomes: The primary outcome is recovery from SAM, deﬁned as: MUAC ≥ 11.5cm (for
      two consecutive weekly visits), clinically well, no bilateral pitting oedema (for two
      consecutive weekly visits). The secondary outcomes include neurocognitive performance after
      first 4 weeks of treatment as assessed by eye tracking and infant problem solving; changes in
      MUAC, weight, and length; time to recovery from SAM; time to recovery from MAM defined as
      achieved a MUAC ≥12.5 cm; relapse into MAM; relapse into SAM and any adverse events.
    
  