
    
      Derived from folk tradition, the notion that rubbing the skin over a painful area relieves
      pain, found scientific support in the gate-control theory proposed by Melzack and Wall 1.
      Since then, electrical stimulations for pain relief have spread worldwide.

      The most known technique is Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulator (TENS). Surface
      electrodes are placed over the lower back (paravertebral at level L1-L2) it and the
      stimulation is delivered at high frequency and low intensity (below pain threshold), to
      produce an intense activation of Ab afferents and to evoke paresthesiae that cover the
      painful area.

      In the literature about TENS in neuropathic pain a few controlled trials (classes II-IV) were
      found 2-8. The most studies dealt with painful diabetic neuropathy were very-high-frequency
      stimulation of lower-limb muscles were found more efficacious than standard TENS and
      low-frequency TENS or acupuncture-like more efficacious than sham stimulations.

      Studies dealing with peripheral mononeuropathies found standard TENS better than placebo.

      One crossover, small-sample study (class III) in painful cervical radiculopathy found that
      standard TENS applied to the cervical back was better than placebo but a TENS with random
      frequency variation was superior7. For chronic back pain no benefit was found for TENS
      compared to TENS-sham using a VAS and other outcome measures, but benefit was found comparing
      exercise to no exercise (Class I)9. In another Class I study, TENS vs TENS-sham was studied
      in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and chronic low back pain. After correction for
      multiple comparisons, there were no significant differences in the VAS or the secondary
      measures10. Both studies were adequately powered to find at least a 20% difference in pain
      reduction by VAS between TENS and TENS-sham. But in other articles no benefit were found for
      chronic back pain treated with TENS11,12. Therefore a recent report of the Therapeutics and
      Technology Assessment Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology did not recommend
      TENS for the treatment of chronic low back pain due to lack of proven efficacy but TENS
      should be considered for the treatment of painful diabetic neuropathy 13

      In our study design, we will investigate the feasibility and efficacy of TENS in a subgroup
      of patients with neuropathic pain. Those patients are suffering of neuropathic pain at the
      lower back and leg after spinal surgery with a predominance of pain in the leg.
    
  