
    
      Studies evaluating the effect of various prophylactic treatments invariably focus on CIN
      instead of clinically relevant measures as primary outcome. CIN itself being asymptomatic, it
      is important to determine whether prophylactic treatment has a preventive effect on
      clinically relevant endpoints sometimes associated with CIN, such as dialysis and mortality.
      Consider for example: even if it transpires that prophylactic treatment reduces CIN
      incidence, it may be that intravenous hydration merely dilutes serum creatinine to such an
      extent that it masks CIN, having no protective effect on renal function. It has been shown
      that changes in volume status can influence serum creatinine levels, but a potential dilution
      effect of intravenous hydration has not been investigated to date.

      On the other hand, it is important to realise that prophylactic intravenous hydration is not
      without risk. Patients may suffer mild to serious complications ranging from phlebitis to
      pulmonary oedema, the latter being potentially fatal. Those patients selected according to
      the guidelines for the risk of CIN - risk factors including poor renal function, age,
      diabetes and cardiac disease - are especially sensitive to complications of intravenous
      hydration. The risk of intravenous hydration in this population has not as yet been charted,
      and is not taken into account by guidelines for the prevention of CIN.

      It stands to reason that a patient's pre-existing hydration status may be a determining
      factor for the net effect of intravenous hydration: from the same treatment dehydrated
      patients may enjoy benefits, whereas overhydrated patients may suffer complications. The
      importance of hydration status in determining the effects of prophylactic hydration, however,
      has not been investigated to date.

      The mechanism by which prophylactic hydration may protect renal function from injury by
      iodinated contrast material is unclear, as the mechanism by which iodinated contrast material
      may induce CIN is unclear. Indeed, in patients with chronic renal insufficiency biological
      variation of serum creatinine in the absence of contrast material has been shown to be
      indistinguishable from CIN. The question has arisen in recent literature whether CIN is
      anything more than an asymptomatic increase in serum creatinine, lacking any prognostic
      negative impact, and not significantly different from that observed in controls not receiving
      iodinated contrast material.

      Recent studies comparing patients with chronic renal deficiency receiving intravascular
      iodinated contrast material to those patients not receiving iodinated contrast material found
      no association between increase in serum creatinine (CIN) and contrast administration.
      Indeed, it has been suggested that renal damage after intra-arterial procedures is caused,
      not by contrast material, but by cholesterol embolism arising from the erosion of aortic
      atheromatous plaques by the catheter used in such procedures.

      It is perhaps of importance to note that relatively recently, monomeric non-ionic low-osmolar
      iodinated contrast materials - with less toxic properties than 'traditional' contrast
      materials - have been introduced and are now widely used, perhaps altering the landscape of
      CIN.

      Patient Risk Any risk incurred by participating in the AMACING study will be due to not
      receiving prophylactic intravenous hydration. The true risk incurred from foregoing
      prophylactic treatment is unknown; however, recent literature suggests that it is likely to
      be minimal.

      The estimation of risk of CIN according to current guidelines is largely based on renal
      function and an eGFR threshold of <60 ml/min/1.73 m2 in combination with other risk factors
      is currently applied for prophylactic hydration according to Dutch guidelines. The incidence
      of chronic kidney disease stage 3 (eGFR 30-60 ml/min/1,73m2) in the Netherlands is 5.3%, of
      which at most an estimated third will have an eGFR <45 ml/min/1,73m2.

      The European Society of Urogenital Radiology updated their CIN prevention guidelines in 2011
      to indicate that intravenous prophylactic hydration is unnecessary in patients with an eGFR
      ≥45 ml/min/1.73m2 before intravenous contrast administration. Risk analyses revealed that
      intravenous contrast administration does not impose a nephrotoxic risk above an eGFR of
      30ml/min/1.73m2. Indeed, zero incidence of dialysis and mortality is consistently reported
      after intravenous contrast administration, even in patients with severe renal insufficiency
      (eGFR<30) and in absence of prophylactic treatment. Since intravenous contrast administration
      procedures make up more than an estimated 70% of all contrast procedures this implies that
      prophylactic intravenous hydration is superfluous in the majority of patients currently
      receiving it. This patient population is also the larger proportion of patients to be
      included in our randomized controlled trial - an estimated 75% - who are therefore not
      thought to incur any risk from participation and not receiving prophylactic intravenous
      hydration.

      Other patients we shall include may incur some risk of CIN: some have an eGFR between 30-44
      ml/min/1.73m2, and some will be administered iodinated contrast material intra-arterially.
      The risk of CIN for the first group does not appear to be much elevated. A pooled overview of
      studies involving iodinated contrast material administration without prophylactic intravenous
      hydration yielded a CIN incidence of 3.9%: 83% of the patients diagnosed with CIN had an eGFR
      of ≥45 ml/min/1.73 m2. Baseline eGFR of the other CIN cases was not published.

      As for the second group, although cases of long term adverse effects such as dialysis and
      mortality have rarely been reported following CIN after intravenous contrast administration,
      they have been reported after intra-arterial contrast administration. It has been thought,
      therefore, that intra-arterial administration led to more nefarious effects of iodinated
      contrast material than intravenous administration. This too, however, has been repeatedly put
      to question. A recent study found no difference in the risk of CIN after intra-arterial or
      intravenous contrast administration when an adjustment was made for patient related risk
      factors. Several studies found no increased risk of CIN after intra-arterial contrast
      administration as compared to intravenous administration, and one report even goes against
      all previous literature, reporting a higher risk of morbidity and mortality after intravenous
      contrast administration than after intra-arterial administration. In short, it is not clear
      whether an increased risk of dialysis and mortality arises from contrast administration and
      CIN or whether it is inherent in the patient population studied (i.e. a population requiring
      intra-arterial contrast procedures or requiring prophylactic hydration according to CIN
      prevention guidelines may conceivably have such an increased inherent risk). Indeed, chronic
      kidney disease, the main criterion in the guidelines for increased risk of CIN, in itself
      increases the risk of all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease and progression to kidney
      failure.

      Causality between an increase in serum creatinine after contrast administration (CIN) and
      adverse events has not been shown to exist. A recent meta-analysis by McDonald et al
      including a 157 140 contrast procedures showed no difference in incidences of CIN, dialysis,
      or death between patient groups receiving contrast material versus patients not receiving
      contrast material (7.2% CIN after contrast-enhanced scans versus 11.1% CIN after unenhanced
      scans in medium- to high-risk populations, suggesting that contrast material may not be
      causally related to CIN). More and more the opinion rises that, where it occurs, it is the
      risk inherent to specific populations that leads to higher morbidity/mortality incidence
      after CIN or specific administration routes, and that CIN is merely a marker for such
      populations instead of there being a causal relationship between CIN and morbidity/mortality,
      or even a causal relationship between all diagnosed CIN and intravascular contrast material
      administration.

      On the other hand there is no evidence that prophylactic intravenous hydration has a
      protective effect on renal function. Almost all studies evaluating prophylactic intravenous
      hydration to date are uncontrolled trials or retrospective cohort analyses, often involving
      experimental additions to the standard administration of saline prescribed in the guidelines,
      and thus no conclusions on its effectiveness can be drawn.

      In a recent Dutch study on CIN, 35 of 454 patients at risk of CIN according to current
      guidelines did not receive prophylactic intravenous hydration (for reasons unexplained); yet
      the incidence of CIN in this subgroup was not significantly higher than that found in the
      population having received prophylactic treatment (1/35 or 2.9%, versus 10/419 or 2.4%).
      Furthermore, in studies including patients receiving contrast material without prophylactic
      intravenous hydration (up to 94% of the patients did not undergo prophylactic intravenous
      hydration in some of these studies), and having severely diminished renal function (up to
      49.3% of patients), low CIN incidences were seen (range: 1.3% - 5.2%; pooled incidence 3.6%),
      and zero long term adverse effects were reported.

      Another issue is that prophylactic intravenous hydration is not without risk. Complications
      may occur, especially in those patients with cardiac and/or kidney disease, such as pulmonary
      oedema and/or cardiac failure which could lead to respiratory insufficiency. There is a
      considerable overlap between patients considered to be at risk of developing CIN and patients
      with at risk of complications from prophylactic intravenous hydration, and therefore this is
      a real concern in clinical practice. A study performed in a Dutch hospital using Dutch CIN
      prevention guidelines reported an incidence of serious complications of intravenous hydration
      of 1.4% in hydrated patients. The incidence of clinically relevant events after CIN is <1%
      when monomeric non-ionic low-osmolar iodinated contrast material is used, thus putting the
      appropriateness of the prophylactic treatment to question, and highlighting the importance of
      its evaluation against a proper control group not receiving intravenous hydration.

      The AMACING study will be pivotal in deciding the future role of prophylactic intravenous
      hydration in routine clinical practice. Considering the potential benefits of the results of
      this study to a large population - who are perhaps burdened with unnecessary and sometimes
      harmful treatments - and the potential benefits to our health care system in terms of
      efficiency and costs, we believe the risk for all patients included in this RCT is
      acceptable. The incidence of CIN is low, CIN itself has no direct relevant clinical
      implications, and prophylactic intravenous hydration may have negative effects largely
      disregarded until now. Based on current evidence, therefore, we see no ethical barriers to
      performing the RCT in our study population. Importantly, we will not include patients that
      have an eGFR of < 30 ml/min/1.73m2 even though in all probability even these patients will
      not be at greater risk without intravenous hydration, and we will include only those
      procedures involving non-ionic low osmolality monomer contrast material.
    
  