
    
      Acute pancreatitis (AP) is a potentially serious illness characterized by inflammation of the
      pancreas with variable involvement of peri-pancreatic tissues and/ or remote organ systems.
      AP contributes to thousands of annual hospital admissions, of which severe acute pancreatitis
      (SAP) accounts for 10-20%. The course of SAP tends to be prolonged and the patients usually
      are hyper metabolic and high protein catabolic due to systemic inflammatory response syndrome
      (SIRS) induced by acute local inflammatory process and subsequent vital organ dysfunction.
      There are currently no specific proven treatments. Therefore, current therapy for AP is
      directed to intensive medical care, nutrition support, infection control and medicine
      administration.

      Nutritional support plays an important role in the management of patients with SAP, which is
      very critical and complex. Thus, if nutritional support is not appropriately administered to
      match the rapidly increasing demand in the treatment of SAP, the patients consequently come
      down with gross metabolic imbalance and nutrition deficiency. This is considered to increase
      mortality due to impaired immune function, increased risk of infections and intractable
      vital- organ failure.

      Despite the recently reported encouraging results on early enteral feeding in patients with
      acute pancreatitis, total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is still frequently performed in the
      management of patients with AP. However, longer periods of TPN are known to be associated
      with mucosal atrophy and increased gastrointestinal permeability, two established risk
      factors for endotoxemia and bacteriemia.

      Artificial nutrition can prevent complications and provide long term nutritional support for
      SAP patients. Enteral nutrition is preferred to parenteral nutrition for improving patient
      outcomes and has largely replaced the parenteral route. Early nasogastric enteral nutrition
      (NGEN) was considered potentially to lead to pancreatic-unrest and thereby prove to be
      harmful to the early acute phase of AP. However, Eatock et al introduced the early
      nasogastric feeding into the nutritional management of SAP and Pandey et al applied oral
      re-feeding in patients with SAP, suggesting that the nasogastric feeding is feasible in up to
      80% cases. A meta-analysis and a recent randomized controlled trial showed that early NGEN
      would be as effective and safe as early Naso Jejunal enteral nutrition (NJEN) or TPN in SAP
      patients, without increase in mortality and pain on re-feeding.

      EN could preserve the intestinal permeability, proven by the assessment of excretion of
      polyethylene glycol and antiendotoxin core antibody IgM levels, which would be the best
      barrier for prevention of certain complications. Serum interleukin-6 levels are elevated very
      early in patients with necrosis infection and C-reactive protein (CRP) is considered a
      valuable independent predictor of mortality. IL-6 and CRP levels play a similar role in the
      control of systematic inflammatory response of early EN and TPN groups at each time point.
      Moreover, biochemical/ nutritional parameters such as serum albumin and prealbumin
      concentration in early EN are well preserved without any significant difference.

      Glutamine is the most abundant free amino acid in the body. When a nutritional deficiency
      arises in critical illness including SAP, glutamine, readily synthesized under most
      situations, tends to be conditionally depleted. The low concentration of plasma glutamine was
      found to be an independent predictive factor for a poor outcome in critical illness.
      Glutamine is used as a major fuel and nucleotide substrate for rapidly dividing cells such as
      intestinal mucosal cells and the gut-associated immunocytes. Glutamine can prevent atrophy of
      the intestinal epithelial cells through HSP 70 generation and improve the intestinal immune
      barrier. A meta-analysis by Novak et al revealed that glutamine could reduce the infectious
      morbidity (RR 0.84, 95% CI: 0.68-1.03) and mortality (RR 0.76, 95% CI: 0.56-0.98) in critical
      illness.

      Standard TPN does not contain glutamine. Parenteral nutrition supplemented with glutamine
      showed a beneficial effect on preservation of the intestinal integrity, improving lymphocyte
      function and improving antioxidant capacity compared to a standard TPN; and glutamine
      administration was related to a clinically significant decrease in morbidity and mortality.

      We hypothesize that enteral glutamine supplementation in patients with severe and predicted
      severe acute pancreatitis helps in their early recovery and prevention of adverse outcomes.

      In this study, we aim to evaluate the therapeutic effect of enteral glutamine on clinical
      outcomes, gut permeability, systemic inflammation, oxidative stress and plasma glutamine
      levels.
    
  