
    
      Observational prospective cohort: The primary objective of the study is to determine if
      variation of YKL-40 concentration (in blood or sputum) over 24 months will correlate with the
      biological or clinical condition of the patients. For this study, only patients (FEV1 > 30%)
      positive for Pseudomonas in the past year will be included, while B Cepacia positive patients
      will be excluded. There are presently 200 patients meeting these inclusion criteria. The
      investigators choose to limit the study population to patients with Pseudomonas since they
      are more likely to have FEV1 changes or clinical evolution during the observation period. The
      investigators expect a high participation rate since the only obligation for the patients is
      to provide samples at each visit. A blood (for serum and DNA) and sputum samples will be
      taken at each regular clinic visit (3-4/year-no evidence of exacerbation in the past two
      weeks) as well as at the beginning and at the end of an exacerbation treated with IV
      antibiotics. This will also allow the investigators to determine if there is a change in
      YKL-40 during an exacerbation. The patients will be followed for a period of 24 months. In
      parallel to the measurement of YKL-40 in blood and airway secretions, other biological
      parameters will be monitored (see list below) as well as the BMI, lung function (FEV1/FVC),
      oxygen saturation and heart rate. The investigators will also monitor the glucose metabolism
      status of the patient (IGT, CFRD) and the number of exacerbations per year as well as any
      significant changes in the microbiology status of the patients. A pulmonary exacerbation will
      be defined as an acute exacerbation of pulmonary symptoms that in the opinion of the CF
      physician is severe enough to require intravenous antibiotics. The proposed sample size, was
      shown by power calculation, to be sufficient to demonstrate a meaningful changes in YKL-40
      (initial-final) given plausible values of the standard deviation of this difference between
      patients.
    
  