
    
      This clinical trial is performed at Ramathibodi hospital, Mahidol university inBangkok,
      Thailand. The protocol has been approved by institutional ethical committee (ref. ID
      03-61-43) with informed consent required for all patients.

      The difference of 24 hour post-op troponin level between the del Nido cardioplegia and the
      blood cardioplegia group from previous randomized study were 2.3 (SD 2.1) and 7.0 (SD 14.7)
      ng/mL, respectively (p = 0.053). Our previous observational study also exhibited comparable
      results between modified del Nido cardioplegia and blood cardioplegia. The author estimated
      the sample size of 160 randomized patients to give 80% power at the 5% significant level
      (alpha 0.05, beta 0.2). Giving allowance for attrition, a sample size of 100 was chosen in
      each group.

      Patients aged 18 years or older undergoing elective cardiac surgery for acquired heart
      disease (including isolated coronary artery bypass grafting(CABG), isolated valve surgery,
      combined valve surgery, or concomitant CABG and valve surgery) are randomized 1:1 into
      lactated Ringer's solution (study group) and PlasmaLyte-A (control group).

      For patients randomized to lactated Ringer's solution (study group), lactated Ringer's
      solution is used as a base solution for del Nido cardioplegia.

      For patients randomized to PlasmaLyte-A (control group), PlasmaLyte-A (Baxter Healthcare
      Corporation, Deerfield, IL, USA) is used as a base solution for del Nido cardioplegia.

      Del Nido cardioplegia is delivered 1:4 with 1 part of oxygenated pump blood to 4 parts of
      cardioplegia solution. Del Nido cardioplegia can be delivered antegrade through aortic root
      catheter, directly through the coronary ostia or retrograde via the coronary sinus depending
      on the type of operation and degree of aortic valve insufficiency. Our protocol is to
      administer a single dose 20 mL/kg with maximum dose of 1000 mL for patients larger than 50
      kg. After 90 minutes of aortic cross clamp time, the surgeon decides how much subsequent
      doses needs to be administered. If coronary bypass grafting is required, 5-10 mL of del Nido
      cardioplegia is administered via the saphenous vein graft or the radial artery graft to test
      the distal anastomosis. In our circuit, del Nido cardioplegia passes through a
      non-recirculating cardioplegia set with a coil heat exchanger and a delivery temperature of
      4°C. It is generally administered over 1-2 minutes with system pressure 100-200 mmHg.

      Primary outcomes comprised assessments of myocardial injury, including troponin-T level at
      immediate post-op, 12 hour post-op, and 24 hour post-op.

      Secondary outcomes comprised assessments of additional measures of myocardial protection
      (including incidence of ventricular fibrillation after aortic cross-clamp removal; post-op
      left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) change; duration of inotrope/vasopressor
      requirement; and requirement for intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) support), intraoperative
      outcomes (including total volume of cardioplegia; number of doses; total cardiopulmonary
      bypass (CPB) time; and aortic cross-clamp time), and clinical outcomes (including intensive
      care unit ICU) stay; hospital stay; incidence of postoperative atrial fibrillation or
      flutter; mortality; postoperative complications; and red cell transfusion).

      Patient characteristics and postoperative outcomes were as defined by the Society of Thoracic
      Surgeons (STS) Adult Cardiac Surgical Database. LVEF was assessed by transesophageal
      echocardiography before surgery and at the end of operation.
    
  