
    
      Despite aggressive early intervention and current secondary prevention strategies, many
      patients who survive hospitalization for an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) experience
      subsequent unfavorable outcomes, including recurrent ischemic events and unfavorable cardiac
      remodeling associated with progressive left ventricular dysfunction and congestive heart
      failure. Vascular and myocardial inflammation are significantly increased in ACS patients,
      are closely correlated with LDL-C levels, and are associated with these adverse consequences.
      Serum proprotein convertase subtilisin/kerin type 9 (PCSK9) levels are also increased in
      patients with ACS, may raise LDL-C, and the investigators' pre-clinical studies indicate that
      PCSK9 is also a potent inducer of vascular inflammation. The addition of evolocumab to
      current medical therapies may therefore be of particular benefit in these patients, by
      markedly reducing LDL-C, stabilizing vulnerable plaque, and limiting inflammation-associated
      myocardial cell loss and resultant dysfunction.

      In this study, the investigators propose to test the effects of PCSK9 inhibition with
      evolocumab on LDL-C reduction, vascular and myocardial inflammation, cardiac function, and
      clinical outcomes in an ACS patient cohort.

      The investigators propose a double-blind randomized study of 100 patients presenting with an
      ACS (ST-Elevation- and Non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction). One hundred ACS patients will
      be randomized to evolocumab, 420 mg or to placebo (50 in each group) during early
      hospitalization and will also receive current guideline-directed ACS therapy. Lipid profiles,
      including LDL-cholesterol levels, and traditional and novel serum markers of inflammation and
      endothelial function will be measured at presentation, during the index hospitalization, and
      at 30-day and six-month follow-up. Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scans to measure
      myocardial and vascular inflammation and echocardiograms will be performed during the early
      post-infarction period and at thirty days (PET and echocardiogram) and six-month
      (echocardiogram) following randomization. Clinical outcomes, such as angina class, will also
      be collected at the six-month follow-up visit.

      The protocol and the primary and secondary lipid and inflammatory outcomes in this study are
      identical to those in NCT03515304 and therefore the data in the two studies may be analyzed
      together.
    
  