
    
      Globally, transgender ('trans') women experience extreme social and economic marginalization
      due to intersectional stigma, defined as the confluence of stigma that results from the
      intersection of social identities and positions among those who are multiply oppressed. Among
      trans women, gender-based stigma intersects with social positions such as engagement in sex
      work and substance use, generating a social context of vulnerability and increased risk of
      HIV acquisition. In Brazil, trans women are the 'most-at-risk' group for HIV, with 55 times
      higher estimated odds of HIV infection than the general population; further, uptake of HIV
      testing and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) among trans women is significantly lower than
      other at-risk groups, despite availability in the public sector and documented interest in
      the community. Through extensive formative work, the investigators have developed a suite of
      evidence-informed interventions and HIV prevention strategies, all of which have demonstrated
      feasibility and acceptability by trans women in Brazil, to address intersectional stigma and
      increase engagement of trans women in the HIV prevention continuum. We propose to test a
      multi-level intervention, 'Guerreiras' ('warrior women', as named by trans women participants
      in Brazil), comprised of two intervention components designed to address intersectional
      stigma: 1) a group-level, peer-led intervention and 2) an individual-level peer navigation
      program to increase uptake of HIV testing and PrEP. Guerreiras is informed by a
      trans-specific conceptual model, gender affirmation theory, that describes intersectional
      stigma faced by trans women and frames investigations of how intersectional stigma results in
      health disparities, providing a framework for the development and testing of interventions to
      address intersectional stigma among trans women. The study team will recruit trans women
      (N=400) from clinical sites, outreach events, and an ongoing observational cohort in São
      Paulo, Brazil. Guerreiras will be evaluated using a randomized wait-list controlled trial to
      compare uptake of HIV testing (self-testing and clinic-based) (Aim 1), PrEP initiation and
      persistence (Aim 2), and other prevention services (e.g. harm reduction) among trans women in
      the intervention arm compared to those in the control arm with data collection scheduled
      every three-months. Investigators will assess changes in intersectional stigma (Aim 3),
      including reductions in internalized stigma and increased resilience to anticipated and
      enacted stigma, among those assigned to intervention compared to those assigned to the
      control arm, and assess how changes in stigma result in prevention uptake. Outcomes will be
      monitored through the national medications dispensing system (PrEP initiation and
      persistence), through clinical records and self-report (HIV testing), and through
      comprehensive surveys (intersectional stigma). The proposed research leverages a productive
      multi-disciplinary HIV research partnership with extensive experience working with trans
      women in Brazil, multi-level intervention components, and a context where PrEP and HIVST are
      available publicly, providing an opportunity to evaluate and scale-up an HIV prevention
      initiative in a key health disparity population, while contributing to nascent research in
      intersectional stigma.
    
  