
    
      All patients will be recruited from the urology practice of the study's investigators,
      Urology department of Urology and Nephrology Center (UNC), Mansoura university, Egypt.
      Patients will be asked to participate after the patient and physician have made a decision
      that ileal conduit urinary diversion of choice. Those patients meeting all inclusion criteria
      will be asked to participate in this study with informed consent then obtained. No monetary
      income will be offered for participation in the study.

      Those patients will be evaluated clinically and radiologically according to the specified
      protocol.

      After enrollment in the study, the stoma site will be marked on the skin the day prior to
      surgery by the stoma therapist. All patients will be operated by high volume surgeon
      experienced in IC urinary diversion. The procedure started by radical cystectomy and
      bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy. After sparing the distal 15 cm of the terminal ileum, a 15
      cm ileal segment will be isolated and the bowel continuity will be restored and the
      mesenteric defect will be closed. The distal end of the isolated bowel segment will be
      mobilized and exteriorized at the predetermined site on the abdominal wall followed by stoma
      eversion. A preferred rectal muscle splitting approach is preferred for IC exteriorization.
      In case of MSRT, dissection of subcutaneous fat off the rectus sheath will be accomplished to
      create a potential space for mesh placement. Then, 5 x 5 cm polypropylene mesh will be placed
      and incised at the center to create an orifice to allow IC exteriorization. The mesh is then
      fixed to underlying rectus sheath with 1-0 non-absorbable proline sutures. The IC is
      exteriorized through the central orifice and then fixed to the peritoneum and to the
      cut-edges of the rectus muscle using 3-0 polyglactin sutures. A 12 CH subcutaneous tube drain
      will be fixed and the subcutaneous tissue is closed to collapse the dissected space around
      the mesh. The stoma is then everted and fixed to the skin. Sham group patients will undergo
      the same technique without mesh placement. The ureters will be mobilized and anastomosed to
      the proximal end of the conduit using direct ureteroileal anastomosis.

      All patients will undergo the routine protocol at the investigators' center including
      enrollment in fast track restoration of bowel habits, ileal conduit catheter to be removed on
      the 5th day and the ureteral stents on the 7th and 8th days. Any deviation from normal
      postoperative course will be recorded using the modified Clavien-Dindo system.

      At followup, patients will be asked to attend the outpatient clinic at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months
      after discharge clinically and radiologically to assess the intended outcomes of the study.
    
  