
    
      Sweating is a common and bothersome adverse effect of treatment with antidepressants.
      Tricyclics and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have both been clearly shown
      to cause sweating. Increased sweating has been reported with venlafaxine (Pierre and Guze,
      2000) and bupropion (Feighner et al. 1984) as well. It is unclear to what extent tolerance
      develops to antidepressant-induced sweating. It may continue to be a problem even after 6 or
      more months on the antidepressant (e.g., Mavissakalian et al., 2002).

      The prevalence of sweating with SSRIs is estimated to be between 7% and 19% depending on the
      drug (Ashton & Weinstein 2002). According to the Physician's Desk Reference, excessive
      sweating occurs in 3-11% patients in clinical trials of SSRIs. Considering the fairly high
      prevalence of excessive sweating during antidepressant use and its consequences of patient
      distress and treatment noncompliance, it is important that more intensive efforts be made to
      understand the phenomenon and to systematically study potential treatments for it.

      The mechanism of antidepressant-induced sweating has not been clearly elucidated and there is
      no generally accepted treatment for it. Initially, a reduction in the dose may be attempted
      to resolve antidepressant-induced sweating. However, a reduction of dose may not always be
      helpful (Leeman, 1990; Ashton & Weinstein 2002) as it has been noted that the presence of
      sweating is not a clear dose-related symptom. As well, reducing the dose of the
      antidepressant may lead to a worsening of depression and therefore be an unrealistic
      alternative.

      Antiadrenergic drugs like clonidine and terazosin (Feder, 1995; Mago and Monti, 2007; Mago et
      al., 2009) may be effective for the treatment of antidepressant-induced excessive sweating
      because the nervous system control of sweating is initially mediated by adrenergic receptors.
      However, antiadrenergic treatment may be associated with a decrease in blood pressure in some
      patients, which may lead to dizziness, especially on standing up. Also, the improvement in
      excessive sweating may not be complete.

      Therefore, additional approaches are needed. Sweat glands are innervated by nerve fibers that
      release acetylcholine. Anticholinergic medications could be used as a potential treatment for
      the excessive sweating. In case reports, the anticholinergic drug benztropine has been
      successfully used to treat antidepressant-induced excessive sweating (Garber and Gregory,
      1997; Feder and Guze, 2000). However, this has not been confirmed in a clinical trial. Also,
      benztropine readily crosses the blood-brain barrier; therefore, in addition to its desired
      effect peripherally on the sweat glands, it tends to cause cognitive side effects through its
      central effects.

      Glycopyrrolate is an anticholinergic medication that is preferred for a variety of clinical
      uses because it does not cross the blood-brain barrier to a great extent. It has been used
      for many years by anesthesiologists to dry secretions during surgical procedures. In a case
      series based on chart review (Tran et al., 2009), it was found to be effective for
      antidepressant-induced excessive sweating.
    
  