
    
      The objective of this clinical investigation is to assess the safety and efficacy of the
      Luminor-14 DCB for the treatment of infrapopliteal lesions patients with critical limb
      ischemia.

      The patients will be selected based on the investigator's assessment, evaluation of the
      underlying disease and the eligibility criteria. The patient's medical condition should be
      stable, with no underlying medical condition which would prevent them from performing the
      required testing or from completing the study. Patients should be geographically stable,
      willing and able to cooperate in this clinical study, and remain available for long term
      follow-up. The patient is considered enrolled in the study after obtaining the patients
      informed consent, if there is full compliance with the study eligibility criteria and after
      successful guidewire passage through the study target lesion.

      Prior to the index procedure the following will be collected: an informed consent for data
      collection, demographics, medical history, medication record, physical examination, clinical
      category of acute limb ischemia (Rutherford category), the resting ankle-brachial index
      (ABI), life quality and if applicable a wound assessment.

      During the procedure the guidewire will cross the entire study lesion after which the lesion
      will be assessed through angiography. A pre-dilatation with a standard non-drug-coated
      balloon will be performed followed by a dilatation of the lesion with a Luminor-14 balloon
      (iVascular). If dilatation was not successful (>30% stenosis, perforation, occlusive or flow
      limiting dissection) prolonged inflation should be attempted after which bail-out stenting
      with a non-drug-coated dedicated BTK stent is allowed in case of inadequate results.

      The regular follow-up is necessary to monitor the condition of the patient and the results of
      the procedure. Patients will be invited on weekly follow-up, with special attention to wound
      healing status at each visit until the wound is completely healed. The other required
      follow-up visits are 1,6 and 12 months follow-ups. During these visit the following data will
      be collected: medication record, physical exam, wound assessment and healing status, quality
      of life, duplex ultrasound of target vessel and possible adverse events.
    
  