
    
      Background:

        -  Multiple myeloma (MM) is a nearly always incurable malignancy of plasma cells.

        -  T cells can be genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that
           target malignancy-associated antigens.

        -  SLAMF7 is highly and uniformly expressed on MM cells but is absent on normal tissues
           except for some leukocytes, including a subset of CD8+ T cells, natural killer (NK)
           cells, B cells, plasma cells and monocytes.

        -  We have constructed a novel anti-SLAMF7 CAR that can specifically recognize SLAMF7-
           expressing target cells and eradicate SLAMF7-expressing tumors in mice.

        -  This protocol will test genetic modification of autologous T cells with genes encoding
           an inducible caspase 9 (IC9) cell-suicide system plus the anti-SLAMF7 CAR.

        -  Administration of the dimerizer drug Rimiducid (AP1903) is necessary to activate the IC9
           suicide gene and eliminate CAR T cells.

        -  In this protocol, the suicide gene system will be used to eliminate CAR-expressing T
           cells in case of severe toxicities caused by the CAR T cells.

        -  Possible toxicities include cytokine-associated toxicities such as hypotension, and
           neurological toxicities. Elimination of NK cells and normal plasma cells could make
           patients more susceptible to infections. Unknown toxicities are also possible.

      Objectives:

      Primary

      - Determine the safety, feasibility of administering T cells expressing an anti-SLAMF7 CAR
      plus IC9 cell-suicide system to patients with MM.

      Eligibility:

        -  Greater than or equal to 18 years of age and less than or equal to age 73.

        -  Patients must have measurable MM defined as a serum M-protein >=0.6 g/dL or a urine
           M-protein >=200 mg/24 hours or an involved serum free light chain (FLC) level >=10 mg/dL
           (provided FLC ratio is abnormal) or a biopsy-proven plasmacytoma of 1.5 cm or more in
           largest dimension, or greater than or equal to 30% bone marrow plasma cells.

        -  Patients must have previously received at least 3 different treatment regimens for MM.

        -  Patients must have prior exposure to an immunomodulatory drug (IMiD) such as
           lenalidomide, and a proteasome inhibitor

        -  Patients must have a creatinine level of less than or eual to 1.5 mg/dL

        -  Patients must have a cardiac ejection fraction >= 50%.

        -  An ECOG performance status of 0-2 is required.

        -  Patients on any anticoagulant medications except aspirin are not eligible.

        -  No active infections are allowed.

        -  Absolute neutrophil count >= 1000/microL, platelet count >= 55,000/microL, hemoglobin >=
           8g/dL

        -  ALT and AST less thanor equal to 2.5-fold higher than the upper limit of normal.

        -  At least 14 days must elapse between the time of any prior systemic treatment (including
           corticosteroids) and the required leukapheresis.

        -  At least 14 days must elapse between the time of any prior systemic treatment and
           initiation of protocol treatment. Systemic therapy includes corticosteroids at a dose
           equivalent to more than 5 mg of prednisone.

        -  Bone marrow plasma cells must make up less than or equal to 50% of total bone marrow
           cells less than or equal to 24 days prior to the start of protocol treatment.

        -  The patient s MM will need to be assessed for SLAMF7 expression by flow cytometry or
           immunohistochemistry performed at the NIH. The myeloma must express SLAMF7. If
           unstained, paraffin-embedded bone marrow or plasmacytoma sections are available from
           prior biopsies, these can be used to determine SLAMF7 expression by
           immunohistochemistry; otherwise patients will need to come to the NIH for a bone marrow
           biopsy or other biopsy of a plasmacytoma to determine SLAMF7 expression. The sample for
           SLAMF7 expression can come from a biopsy obtained at any time before enrollment.

      Design:

        -  This is a phase I dose-escalation trial

        -  Patients will undergo leukapheresis, and T cells will be modified to express the
           IC9-anti-SLAMF7 CAR construct.

        -  The chemotherapy conditioning regimen is cyclophosphamide 300 mg/m^2 daily for 3 days
           and fludarabine 30 mg/m^2 daily for 3 days. The intent of chemotherapy is to enhance CAR
           T-cell activity.

        -  After the chemotherapy ends, the patients will have two days with no treatments and then
           receive an infusion of CAR T cells.

        -  The initial dose level will be 0.66x10^6 Anti-SLAMF7-CAR + T cells/kg of recipient
           bodyweight.

        -  The cell dose administered will be escalated for up to 4 doses until a maximum tolerated
           dose is determined.

        -  Following the T-cell infusion, there will be a mandatory 9-day minimum inpatient
           hospitalization to monitor for toxicity.

        -  Outpatient follow-up is planned for 2 weeks, and 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, and 12 months after
           the CAR T-cell infusion. Afterwards, follow-up will be every six months up to at least 3
           years after infusion.
    
  