
    
      Breast conservation therapy for early stage breast cancer has been an important achievement
      of oncology practice in the last half century and breast radiotherapy (RT) has been essential
      in its development. Several seminal randomized clinical trials conducted in the 1980's era
      demonstrated that breast radiotherapy following lumpectomy yielded overall survival outcomes
      equivalent to mastectomy for treatment of early stage invasive breast cancer leading to the
      National Institute of Health (NIH) Consensus Conference statement in 1991 supporting breast
      conservation treatment.This established lumpectomy with RT as an alternative to mastectomy
      and subsequently the rate of breast conservation for eligible breast cancer patients rose
      steadily. Shortly thereafter, investigators recognized that the toxicity, patient burden, and
      geographic barriers associated with the protracted treatment course for breast RT was a
      potential barrier to breast conservation utilization. Numerous phase III clinical trials were
      conducted randomizing women post lumpectomy to RT vs. observation aimed at identifying which
      cases did not derive a significant RT benefit. No such subsets of breast cancer patients were
      consistently identified, thereby solidifying the standard that breast conservation required
      both lumpectomy and RT. Two meta-analyses by the Early Breast Cancer Trialists Collaborative
      Group (EBCTCG) in 2005 and 2011 further reinforced the value of breast RT post lumpectomy by
      examining the relationship of local recurrence and breast cancer mortality relative to the
      use of breast RT post lumpectomy. In each analysis, it found for axillary node negative
      breast cancer patients undergoing breast conservation a small but consistent increase in
      breast cancer mortality when breast radiotherapy was omitted. As a result, breast RT after
      lumpectomy has become an established paradigm for breast conservation for early stage breast
      cancer and is recommended by the NCCN 2018 guidelines (as it has for nearly two decades) that
      are commonly used today by clinicians and health systems alike. The landscape of early stage
      breast cancer has changed dramatically over the past three decades since the establishment of
      breast conservation. Widespread screening with mammography has led to the diagnosis of
      smaller and earlier stage disease. All breast cancers are now routinely characterized by
      their hormone sensitivity based on the presence of estrogen and progesterone receptors on
      tumor cells within the biopsy or surgical specimen and presence of HER2 (human epidermal
      growth factor receptor 2) which has provided an additional means of stratifying breast cancer
      into distinct prognostic groups. Small, node negative invasive breast cancer that is hormone
      sensitive (HS) and HER2-negative has a lower overall recurrence rate (local, regional, and
      distant) than breast cancers characterized by more adverse clinical pathologic features.
      However, other than in a smaller subset of women greater than 70 years old, clinical trials
      in this HS population still demonstrated unacceptable local recurrence risks long term after
      lumpectomy alone emphasizing that clinical and pathologic features are insufficient for
      consistently identifying when RT can safely be omitted.
    
  