
    
      In China, 10% of adults have diabetes and 30% of people have prediabetes. In Hong Kong, 2 in
      100 adults develop pre-diabetes every year and in 2014, 9% of adults have prediabetes. People
      with prediabetes have increased risk of cardiovascular disease and development of diabetes.
      Once developed, diabetes is associated with loss of 4-10 years of life depending on age of
      onset and 2-3 fold increased risk of cardiovascular, kidney and cancer events.

      Early detection and intervention of pre-diabetes will prevent progression from pre-diabetes
      to diabetes and reduce the risk of complications of diabetes. This focus on prevention
      concords with the concept of 'Zhi-Wei-Bing' in Chinese Medicine (CM). This is not only an
      important philosophy of CM but also a unique feature of Chinese culture. The 'Zhi-Wei-Bing'
      philosophy includes disease prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation.

      Insulin is secreted by the beta-cells of the pancreas which is the only hormone that can
      reduce blood glucose. People with diabetes have fewer pancreatic beta-cells than those
      without diabetes. Chinese Medicine contains multiple herbs which have been used in China for
      thousands of years. These herbal mixtures may alter the expression of these proteins which
      can lead to many biological effects including the possible benefits in reducing the risk of
      diabetes in high risk subjects.

      JinQi JiangTang Fang (JQJT) contains extracts from three herbs including Coptidis Rhizoma,
      Astragali Radix and Lonicerae Japonicae Flos and is one of the most popular formulae used by
      CMP for prevention of diabetes. The sustained blood glucose lowering effects of JQJT in male
      Zucker diabetic fatty rats. On multiomic analysis, the investigators observed concerted
      expression changes in a gene-gene network involving mRNA, miRNA and proteins implicated in
      fat metabolism and cell cycles.

      In this study, the investigators have combined the ingredients of JQJT and Ophiopogonis Radix
      (Maidong) to make up a novel CM formula, Jin Mai Fang (JM). According to TCM theory, Maidong
      nourishes the yin, promotes body fluid production, moistens the lung, eases the mind and
      clears away heart fire. The polysaccharide-rich extract of Maidong (0.06-240 mg/ml) has been
      shown to inhibit glucose absorption into the intestinal brush border membrane vesicles,
      reduce the activity of α-glucosidase and improve the activity of NIT-1 cells damaged by
      streptozotocin. These combined effects of inhibition of carbohydrate digestion and absorption
      and protection of the pancreatic islet cells provide a strong rationale for its use to
      prevent diabetes. The subjects will take a 12-week course of formula and they will be
      followed up for another 12 weeks after the treatment to evaluate the improvement in glucose
      tolerance of the formula.
    
  