
    
      1. Inclusion criteria

             -  Patients diagnosed as acute upper respiratory infection.

             -  Patients with acute upper respiratory infection diagnosed as Traditional Chinese
                Medicine(TCM) syndrome wind-heat attacking the Lung (type of heat pathogen invading
                the defensive Qi of the lung).

             -  Acute upper respiratory infection onset time is less than 36 hours.

             -  Patients aged 18 to 70 years old.

             -  Patients agreed to participate this study and sign the informed consent.

        2. Effectiveness evaluation

             -  TCM symptoms: fever, sore throat, cough with or without expectoration, headache,
                thirst, change of tongue body, tongue coating and pulse.

             -  Signs: swollen tonsils, pharyngeal hyperemia.

             -  Body temperature

        3. Safety evaluation

             -  Clinical symptoms and signs of adverse event reaction

             -  Signs: blood pressure, respiration, heart rate, body temperature;

             -  Routine blood test and urine routine;

             -  Liver function and renal function: Alanine transaminase (ALT)、glutamic-oxalacetic
                transaminease(AST)、serum creatinine(SCr)、urea nitrogen(BUN) ;

             -  Incidence of electrocardiogram(ECG) abnormalities.

        4. Cost-effectiveness evaluation cost calculation

             -  The direct medical costs include: the registration expenses, examination expenses,
                laboratory test expenses, Treatment costs, Chinese medicine expenses, Chinese
                herbal medicine expenses, western medicine expenses; Indirect medical costs:
                transportation costs, lost income patients; Adverse drug reactions cost: the cost
                of treatment due to adverse drug reactions.

             -  Effect Evaluation:Symptoms and signs score, physical examination, the incidence of
                complications.

        5. Number of participants 600 participants will be divided into two groups, the
           experimental group (n=300)and the control group (n=300).Each group will be stratified
           into three layers according to fever, sore throat, fever and sore throats. 100 patients
           will be included in each level.

        6. Dose regimen

             -  treatment group: Jinyebaidu granule, blunt, 10g/time, three times a day; Compound
                Shuanghua granules placebo, blunt, 6g /time, 4 times a day.

             -  Control group: Compound double flowers particles, blunt, 6g/time, 4 times a day;
                Jinyebaidu Granule placebo, blunt, 10g/time, three times a day.

        7. Course of treatment：5 days
    
  