
    
      Aim / Primary objective:

      To elucidate the relationship of chewing miswak sticks on the H. Pylori infection in the oral
      cavity.

      Specific Objectives To find the prevalence of oral H.Pylori among the Kuwaiti Population To
      compare the reduction in count of oral H. Pylori among tooth brush users and miswak users
      Secondary Objectives 1) To elucidate the count and type of microbiota present in the tooth
      brush and miswak after use.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS

      Study Area: The study would be conducted at the Faculty of Dentistry, Kuwait University

      Study Subjects:

      The study sample would be selected from the regular dental patients visiting the Faculty of
      Dentistry, Kuwait University.

      The inclusion criteria would be:

      - subjects aged >18yrs, having >24 teeth and physically/mentally healthy. Oral plaque samples
      would be obtained from those patients who are willing to participate. As a part of the
      initial screening the plaque samples would be collected and sent for screening of oral
      microbiota to the Microbiology Department of Faculty of Dentistry, Kuwait University. Here,
      the basic microbial culturing (rapid urease test) would be performed for detecting the
      presence of oral H.Pylori. Volunteers who are tested positive for H. Pylori infection through
      the rapid urease test would be invited to participate in the study.

      Study Design: This is a single blinded randomized clinical trial.

      Data Collection methods, instruments used, measurements:

      The subjects would be interviewed and information would be collected on their socio
      demographic characteristics (Age, gender, socio-economic status, education, occupation),
      diet, related past medical and dental history.

      The main outcome variable would be the change over time of the microbiologic data within both
      groups. Thus, the change in the number H.Pylori would be compared between the two groups at
      regular predetermined intervals (end of 1st week, 2nd week, 1st month and 3rd month).

      The patients would be recalled regularly and their plaque samples would be collected and sent
      for 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Gene sequencing has been known to provide more accurate
      information on the species of Helicobacter when compared to other methods.

      Sample collection procedure and Purification of Microbes

      The plaque would be sampled from the deepest pocket and removed with a sterile universal
      curette. If subgingival and supragingival plaques were present, then both would be sampled.

      The sampling area would be isolated from saliva and gently dried by air. The point would be
      then immersed in 0.5 ml sterile distilled water in Eppendorf tubes (epTIPS Standard,
      Eppendorf AG, Hamburg, Germany).

      This will be serially diluted to isolate microbes using spread and pour plating methods.
      Different morphotypes will be purified and maintained. Culturing would be done using Lactose
      Broth (LB) or Nutrient Agar (NA) plates. This will provide the baseline count of H.Pylori,
      which will be helpful to compare with the future counts.

      Rapid Unease Test

      Initial samples taken for screening of H. pylori would be sent for rapid unease test
      (Campylobacter-like organism or CLO test).

      Plaque sample would be placed into an reconstituted vial and observed for the color change
      from yellow to red (in case of positive samples) which usually takes less than 60 minutes.

      Characterization of pure cultures based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis

      In order to identify the bacterial species to the nearest taxa, gene sequencing would be
      performed.

      The 16S rRNA gene would be amplified from genomic DNA, purified and sequenced as described
      earlier by Shivaji et al. (2000). DNA isolated from pure cultures will be amplified
      individually using a set of primers complementary to the conserved regions of both 5' and 3'
      ends of 16S rRNA gene (Lane 1991). The forward and reverse primers that would be used are:
      5'- GAGTTTGATCCTGGCTCAG-3' and 5'-ACGGCTACCT-TGTTACGACTT- 3', respectively.

      The PCR would be was performed in 50 μL reaction mixture containing 2.5 units Taq DNA
      polymerase (Takara Bio, Kyoto, Japan), 1 X PCR buffer with 1.5 mmol/L MgCl2, 200 μmol/L each
      deoxynucleotide, 0.2 μmol/L each primer, and 10 μL template DNA. PCR would be performed in
      Mastercycler ep Eppendorf thermo cycler (Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany) with the following
      conditions: initial denaturation for 1 min at 95°C was followed by 25 cycles of 94°C for 1
      min, 52°C for 30 s, 72°C for 1 min with a possible extension of 7 min at 72°C.The reaction
      products viewed under ultraviolet light. After screening in gel the PCR product would be
      sequenced using the two primers given above and also the following set of five forward and
      two reverse primers.

      The forward primers: TAACACATGCAAGTCGAACG (50-70); CTACGGGAGGC-AGCAGTGGG (341-361);
      CAGCAGCCGCGGTAATAC (518-536); AAACTCAAAG-GAATTGACGG (908-928) and CATGGCTGTCGTCAGCTCGT
      (1053-1073) and the reverse primers GTATTACCGCGGCTGCTG (536-518) and ACGAGCTGACGACA-GCCATG
      (1073-1053) were selected to amplify total 1.5 KB 16S rRNA gene. All the will be sequenced on
      an ABI 3730xl DNA Analyzer (Applied Biosystems, CA). The numbers given in parentheses refer
      to the nucleotide positions of the primers corresponding to those in the 16S rDNA of
      Escherichia coli (Hwang, Kim et al. 2011), The 16S rRNA gene sequences obtained will be
      subjected to BLAST sequence similarity search to identify the nearest taxa.

      Data management and analysis plan

      The data would be analyzed with SPSS for Windows 17.0 (IBM SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL, USA).

      After the completion of data entry, data would be checked for errors. The chi-square test
      would be used to analyze the demographic differences in the two groups. ANOVA would be
      applied to assess the differences in the various variables. The Tukey-Kramer Multiple
      Comparisons test would be used for continuous data, whereas Fisher's exact test would be used
      for comparing the frequencies of categorical variables.
    
  