
    
      Rationale

      Pancreatic resection is a major abdominal operation with 50% chance of postoperative
      complications. A feared complication is severe pancreatic fistula, in which there is leakage
      of enzyme rich fluid into the abdominal cavity. Adequate complication management appears to
      be the most important factor in improving outcomes of patients undergoing pancreatic
      resection.

      Objective

      To investigate whether implementation of a best practice algorithm for postoperative care
      focusing on early detection and step-up management of postoperative pancreatic fistula
      results in a lower rate of major complications and death after pancreatic resection as
      compared to current practice

      Study design

      A nationwide stepped-wedge, cluster randomized, superiority trial. In this design all
      participating centers cross over from current practice to best practice according to the
      algorithm, but are randomized to determine the exact order. At the end of the trial, all
      centers will have implemented the best practice algorithm.

      Study population

      All centers performing pancreatic surgery in the Netherlands (i.e. the Dutch Pancreatic
      Cancer Group).

      Intervention

      Cluster level education on postoperative care according to a best practice algorithm,
      focusing on early detection and step-up management of postoperative pancreatic fistula. This
      algorithm is based on findings in Dutch observational cohort studies, systematic literature
      analyses, an inventory in current protocols on postoperative care and expert opinion. The
      proposed algorithm is validated in a multicenter cohort and consensus upon this algorithm is
      reached with pancreatic surgeons from all centers of the Dutch Pancreatic Cancer Group. The
      final algorithm was reviewed critically by the advisory committee of internationally
      respected experts in the field of pancreatology before implementation in this trial.

      Comparison

      Postoperative care according to current practice.

      Endpoints

      The primary outcome was measured in all patients undergoing pancreatic resection and is a
      composite of major complications (i.e. postpancreatectomy bleeding, new-onset organ failure
      and death). Secondary endpoints include the individual components of the primary endpoint and
      other clinical outcomes, number of patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy, healthcare
      resource utilization and costs analysis. Follow-up will be 90 days after pancreatic
      resection.
    
  