
    
      1. Subjects will be patients with Heart Failure (HF).

        2. All subjects will be consented.

        3. All subjects will give permission for the investigators to review their medical records.

        4. After consenting to participate, subjects will be instructed to refrain from spitting or
           the use of an antibacterial mouthwash, antacids, proton pump inhibitors, or chewing gum
           during the morning of each clinic visit.

        5. Subjects will have a physical examination.

        6. Subjects will undergo transthoracic echocardiographic imaging at rest (unless they had
           this performed within the past 6 months).

        7. Subjects will be asked to undergo a mouth swab for bacterial DNA analyses.

        8. Subjects will be asked to answer questionnaires regarding their medical health (basic
           health questionnaire, Minnesota living with heart failure questionnaire, a combined
           fatigue questionnaire.

        9. Dose visit 1: Subjects will receive 2 capsules containing either 10 or 20 mmol of
           potassium nitrate (KNO3).

       10. Before and at 3 hourly time points after receiving the KNO3, subjects will undergo
           phlebotomy for plasma nitrate and nitrite levels, will have their blood pressure
           measured, and will blow into a small machine to assess the amount of nitric oxide in
           their breath.

       11. Exercise Test 1: Subjects will complete measurements of leg muscle power by doing knee
           extension exercises on a dynamometer (a device that measures voluntary muscle force
           production while controlling the speed of movement).

       12. Exercise Test 2: Subjects complete a measurement of peak aerobic capacity (VO2peak)
           while walking on a treadmill and breathing into a mouthpiece. Blood pressure, heart rate
           and heart rhythm will be monitored during this test.

       13. Subjects will undergo a 7 d washout period.

       14. Dose visit 2: Subjects will receive 2 capsules containing either 10 or 20 mmol of KNO3
           (whichever dose they did not receive at dose visit 1). They will repeat the same
           assessments listed above in 10, 11, and 12.
    
  