
    
      Uncontrolled type 2 Diabetes patients with HbA1c between 7 and 10% Patients must have
      received the maximum tolerated dose of metformin for at least 3 months before randomization.
      Patients will be randomised to receive linagliptin or standard therapy.

      A total of seven study visits will be scheduled: at screening, at weeks -4, -2, 0, 4, 6, 12
      and 24 week follow-up. During each visit, an endocrinologist will make the physical and
      metabolic assessment. Safety and tolerability data will be collected at screening and
      throughout the study, and includes incidence of serious and non serious adverse events (AEs)
      in linagliptin arms and standard arms. Clinical laboratory data, vital signs, and 12-lead
      electrocardiogram parameters at each visit, will be collected. The causal relationships
      between study drugs and AEs will be evaluated by the investigators at site. All drug-related
      AEs occurring during the study will be followed up until relieved or judged to be no longer
      clinically significant. Changes in body weight from baseline until week 12 will also be
      assessed. Hypoglycaemic event intensity will be defined as symptoms of hypoglycemia
      accompanied by a fingerstick glucose value of ≤ 50 mg/dl.

      The investigators will study the patients in three different moments defined as: Time 0 (2
      weeks before LT or ST), Time 1 (4 weeks after LT or ST), Time 2 (12 weeks after LT or ST). T1
      show the direct effect (independent of metabolic changes) and T2 show indirect effect (depend
      of metabolic changes).

      In each phase, following an overnight fast, an intravenous catheter will be inserted into a
      superficial vein in each forearm for blood sampling. After an overnight fast, subjects were
      admitted in the research unit for a 24-h period and received un isocaloric (900 kcal), mixed
      meals (75 g carbohydrates, 50 g fat (60% saturated), 35 g protein), at time points 7.00 a.m.
      (breakfast). Blood samples will drawn before and 2, 4, 6, 8, after the meal. The area under
      curve (AUC) and incremental AUC (IAUC) for postprandial variables will calculate in each
      phase.

      In the morning after each phase study: basal (T0) and incretin conditions (T1 and T2),
      subjects will undergo hyperglycaemic clamp and hyperinsulinaemic clamp, successively. The
      insulin secretion rate and insulin sensitivity index will be measured during the last 30
      minutes of the clamp, respectively in two arms of the study.
    
  