
    
      Fabry disease is a rare genetic disease with deficient activity of enzyme alpha-galactosidase
      A. Deficient activity of this enzyme leads to the accumulation of lipid-derived inclusions in
      different organs including kidney, heart and vessels. These inclusions can be found in the
      kidney even before birth. The earliest known clinical manifestation of Fabry kidney disease
      is the appearance of excess protein in the urine, which usually occurs in the second decade
      of life. However, our studies, as well as those of other investigators show evidence that
      kidney injury starts much earlier. Once excess protein is found in the urine, kidney function
      deterioration becomes progressive, and most Fabry patients require kidney transplantation or
      hemodialysis in the third to fifth decade of life. The lesion or composite of lesions
      responsible for functional deterioration of the kidney in Fabry disease are not well known.
      Their delineation using quantitative, unbiased, morphometric methods will help to understand
      this disease, and to develop surrogate structural outcomes for early intervention trials.
      Enzyme replacement therapy may stabilize kidney function. However, its long-term effect on
      kidney survival is not known. Moreover, there is no early known predictor of kidney
      dysfunction to adjust and evaluate effectiveness of enzyme replacement therapy. Our studies
      of renal GL-3 clearance comparing pre-and post-ERT renal biopsies using the above methods
      will allow us to determine whether age at institution of treatment and ERT dose affect ERT
      induced GL-3 cellular clearance, especially from those cells where ERT is less effective,
      i.e., podocytes, vascular smooth muscle cells and distal tubular cells. Finally, it is our
      hypothesis that mosaicism in Fabry disease females is such that cells such as podocytes are
      either affected or normal and that ERT clearance in the affected podocytes in females will,
      as in males, be dependant on age of institution of treatment and ERT dose.
    
  