
    
      BRAIN IMAGING:

      OBJECTIVE:

      The central cannabinoid receptor, CB(1) is one of the most abundant neuromodulatory receptors
      in the brain. It is found on glutamatergic, dopaminergic and GABA-ergic synaptic terminals
      and belongs to the G-protein coupled receptor family. The CB(1) is a target for drug therapy,
      including the use of an antagonist as an appetite suppressant. The central cannabinoid
      receptor CB(1) has never been visualized in humans. In collaboration with Eli Lilly, we
      developed a promising PET ligand for the CB(1) receptor: [(11)C]MePPEP. This study is known
      by Eli Lilly as H6O-MC-GCEB.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      In the current protocol, we wish to evaluate [(11)C]MePPEP in approximately 15 healthy
      subjects.

      DESIGN:

      Brain imaging studies will consist of subject evaluation followed by PET and MRI scans.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      We intend to determine the kinetics of brain uptake and washout, clearance in the plasma, and
      the distribution volume of [(11)C]MePPEP calculated with compartmental modeling. Distribution
      volume is proportional to the density of receptors and is equal to the ratio at equilibrium
      of uptake in brain to the concentration of parent radiotracer in plasma.

      WHOLE BODY DOSIMETRY:

      OBJECTIVE:

      Should the brain imaging studies prove to be successful, we will continue with whole body
      dosimetry studies. Preliminary dosimetry studies with [(11)C]MePPEP have been performed in
      nonhuman primates; however, these need to be continued in humans before further investigation
      of this novel tracer can continue. This study is known by Eli Lilly as H6O-MC-GCEC.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      In the current protocol, we wish to evaluate [(11)C]MePPEP in approximately 10 additional
      healthy subjects.

      DESIGN:

      The whole body dosimetry studies will consist of subject evaluation followed by a PET scan.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      We intend to determine the whole body distribution of activity and thereby calculate
      radiation exposure to organs of the body.
    
  