
    
      Consecutive infertile women attending the subfertility clinic at Shang Hai Ji Ai Genetics
      &IVF Institute for IVF treatment will be approached. Those fulfilling the selection criteria
      stated below would be recruited and a written consent will be obtained after detailed
      explanation and counseling.

      Poor ovarian responders are defined according to the Bologna criteria fulfilling 2 out of 3
      of the following:

      (i) Advanced maternal age (>/= 40) or any other genetic or acquired risk factor for poor
      ovarian response(POR); (ii) Previous poor ovarian response (POR) (</= 3 oocytes with a
      conventional stimulation protocol using at least 150 international units (IU) gonadotrophins
      per day) (iii) Abnormal ovarian reserve test [i.e. antral follicle count (AFC) < 5-7 or
      antimüllerian hormone (AMH) < 0.5 - 1.1ng/ml]

      Alternatively, two episodes of POR after maximal stimulation are sufficient to define a
      patient as poor responder in the absence of advanced maternal age or abnormal ovarian reserve
      test(ORT).

      Baseline assessment will be performed at early follicular phase (Day 2 or 3) at recruitment.
      Patient characteristics including age, Body Mass Index (BMI), and smoking status would be
      recorded and blood test including follicular stimulating hormone (FSH), estradiol (E2),
      testosterone, DHEA-S, full blood count, renal and liver function test would be checked.
      Pelvic scan will be performed to assess the total AFC and total ovarian volume.

      Subjects will be randomized divided into two groups:

        1. Standard dose group: Subjects will take DHEA (Lab Hercules™) 25mg three times a day for
           12 weeks prior to the start of IVF treatment till the day of egg collection.

        2. High dose group: Subjects will taking DHEA (Lab Hercules™) 50mg three times a day for 12
           weeks prior to the start of IVF treatment till the day of egg collection.

      Hormonal profile, ultrasound assessment, full blood count, renal and liver function test will
      be repeated in follicular phase (D2 or 3) of every month or cycle followed by a IVF treatment
      using antagonist protocol based on our standard departmental regimen. The human menopausal
      gonadotropin (hMG) injections were started at 300 international units (IU) for 2 days
      followed by 300 international units (IU) daily. Improvement of ovarian reserve markers would
      be assessed by the change in serum AMH between the time of recruitment and that after 6 and
      12 weeks of DHEA. Cycle characteristics including the dose of gonadotrophins use, duration of
      stimulation, number of oocytes obtained, number of fertilized embryos and good quality
      embryos will be recorded and follicular fluid will be saved for hormonal profiles.

      Statistics

        1. Statistical tests

           Statistical comparisons will be performed according to the intention to treat principle
           by Student t test or Fisher's exact tests for normally distributed data and Mann-Whitney
           test for skewed data. Chi-square test would be used for binary variables. Statistical
           analyses will be performed using the Statistical Package for (the) Social Sciences
           (SPSS) software and a P-value of 0.05 would be considered statistically significant.
           Linear regression analysis / logistic regression analysis curve would be used to
           evaluate the age, BMI, smoking, FSH, E2, AMH, testosterone, DHEA-S, AFC, ovarian volume
           and duration of DHEA use for the prediction of improved ovarian reserve after DHEA
           supplementation.

        2. Sample size estimation

      The number of oocytes retrieved will be used as the primary outcome of the study. Based on
      our own database for patients undergoing IVF treatment, the mean oocytes obtained was 2.7
      with a standard deviation (SD) of 1.4. Assuming an increase of oocytes obtained by 1.0 to be
      clinically significant, 18 subjects in each arm would be required to achieve a test of
      significance of 0.05 and a power of 0.8. Considering possible dropouts, we aim at recruiting
      18 patients in each arm, i.e. 36 patients.

      In order to compare one of the secondary outcome -- AMH (which has more relevance on the
      effect of ovarian response) with adequate power, based on our own database for patients
      undergoing IVF treatment, the mean AMH of the group with poor ovarian reserve is 0.8 with a
      SD of 0.6. Assuming an increase of number of oocyte retrieved by 0.5 to be clinically
      significant, 25 subjects in each arm would be required to achieve a test of significance of
      0.01 and a power of 0.9. Totally 50 patients.
    
  