
    
      All patients fulfilling the SSc classification criteria of American College of Rheumatology
      during the study period will be screened for presence of PAH. Diagnosed cases of PAH based on
      CD echo with PAP >35mmHg based on echocardiography will be enrolled in study.Baseline NYHA
      functional class and 6 min walk distance in meters will be assessed. Heamogram and LFT will
      be measured Patients will be assessed at two weeks for side effects/safety issues. 6MWT and
      NYHA functional class will be reassessed at 3 months and 6 months.2D echo will be done at 6
      months to measure mPAP RandomizationAll eligible patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio
      in blocks of ten between the two arms. Randomization will be stratified based on severity of
      PAH. The drugs will be labelled as A and B randomly by another staff member, who will not be
      involved in deciding the treatment of the study subjects. The randomization sequence will be
      generated using computer random number generator.

      Blinding will be ensured by matching placebo for ERA in one group and will labelled one
      treatment arm as 'A' and other treatment arm as 'B'. Allocation concealment will be ensured
      by means of enclosing the randomization sequence in sealed opaque envelopes. Sealed opaque
      envelopes will contain Code 'A' or Code 'B'.

      Intervention-The study consists of two treatment arms. The study drugs mainly Bosentan and
      Placebo will be packed into matching tablets at the dosage 62.5 mg. One treatment arm will
      contain Sildenafil and Placebo while other treatment arm will contain Sildenafil and
      Bosentan. Treatment will be initiated as 20 mg twice a day for Sildena-fil in combination
      with placebo once a day in one treatment arm and with Bosentan 62.5 mg once a day in other
      treatment arm .Dose of Sildenafil will be increased to 20 mg thrice a day at four weeks and
      that of Bosentan to 62.5 mg twice a day. Placebo will be also be provided twice a day.This
      will be continued till end of study period.. Dose adjustments in case of adverse events will
      be made depending on the severity of adverse events.

      Statistical analysis- Intention to treat analysis will be carried for the primary and
      secondary outcomes. For continuous outcomes, unpaired t-test and for dichotomous outcomes
      chi-squares test with Yate's correction will be used. P<0.05 will be considered significant
    
  