
    
      You will be asked to complete several questionnaires during a visit to the Thoracic Clinic.
      These questionnaires measure physical and emotional symptoms, and quality of life. Completing
      the questionnaires takes about 30-45 minutes. The research nurse will also teach you how to
      use the telephone system for reporting symptoms. You will tell the research nurse when the
      most convenient times for the telephone calls and the telephone system will be set up to call
      at those times.

      It is not clear at this time whether the telephone symptom evaluation is better than the
      usual plan that doctors and nurses follow for asking about symptoms. For this reason, you
      will be randomly picked (as in the toss of a coin) to be in one of two groups. The chance of
      being in either one of the two programs is about equal.

      Half of the patients will be assigned to the "telephone assessment system plus triage" group.
      If you are assigned to this group, you will report symptoms to the telephone system and the
      doctor or nurse at M.D. Anderson will be notified when a symptom is severe. You will also be
      encouraged to report all symptoms to their doctor and nurse at M.D. Anderson.

      Half of the patients will be assigned to the "telephone assessment only" group. If you are
      assigned to this group, your symptom information will only be given through the telephone
      system. You will also be encouraged to report all symptoms directly to your doctor and nurse
      at M.D. Anderson. Your physician may request information from the telephone system.

      If you are assigned to this "telephone assessment only" group, the telephone system will call
      you twice a week during 2 cycles of chemotherapy. It is programmed to ask you to rate your
      symptoms and how much the symptoms interfere in your life. Rating symptoms using the
      telephone system takes less than five minutes for each call.

      After each chemotherapy cycle, you and patients in both groups will be asked to fill out
      questionnaires during a clinic visit. The questionnaires are used to measure emotional
      symptoms and quality of life. Completing the questionnaires takes about 15-30 minutes. Your
      medical charts will also be reviewed and information collected about medical history.

      If you have agreed to participate in the companion caregiver study, the study staff will use
      your demographic and clinical data to study the influence of your symptoms on your
      caregiver's physical and mental health.

      This is an investigational study. About 100 will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.
      A total of 136 patients will take part in this multicenter study.
    
  