
    
      Introduction Chronic pain affects more than half of elderly individuals. Past studies have
      shown that pain can interfere with motor learning and rehabilitation. This phenomenon,
      potentially attributable to the deleterious effect that nociceptive inputs have on the motor
      system, suggests that relieving pain before physical therapy sessions might be an interesting
      strategy to potentiate the rehabilitation of older patients suffering from pain.

      Objective The objective of this study is to determine if the analgesic effect induced by
      transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) can be used to maximize the rehabilitation
      of elderly patients suffering from chronic pain. More specifically, this study aims to: 1)
      compare functional outcomes of patients from the Day Hospital receiving rehabilitation with
      active TENS treatments with patients receiving rehabilitation with simulated TENS treatments,
      and 2) determine if there is an association between the analgesic effect of TENS and the
      clinical evolution of patients following their rehabilitation.

      Methods This study is a randomized clinical trial with two parallel arms. Patients will be
      assigned randomly to either the: 1) experimental group receiving active TENS treatments or 2)
      the control group receiving simulated TENS treatments (double blind study). Thirty-six
      patients will be recruited according to the following criteria: 1) will receive physiotherapy
      rehabilitation at the Day Hospital of the Pavillon d'Youville of the CSSS-IUGS, 2) be at
      least 65 years of age, 3) suffering from chronic pain (pain lasting for more than 6 months),
      4) presenting pain during the rehabilitation at the Day hospital. For security reasons,
      patients with a cardiac simulator will be excluded from the present study (TENS
      contraindications). Patients with cognitive alterations (score of < 24/30 at the Folstein
      test) will also be excluded. In order to have a better characterisation of the sample,
      information will be retrieved from medical records by the research assistant, including: 1)
      age, gender, pain localisation, medical diagnosis and medication. Moreover, various
      questionnaires will be administered at baseline (T1), after half of the rehabilitation period
      (i.e. 4 to 6 weeks) (T2), and after the 8- to 12- week rehabilitation period (T3) to measure:
      1) the qualitative aspects of pain (McGill-Melzack pain questionnaire), 2) mood (Beck
      Depression Inventory), and 3) physical function (Brief Pain Inventory). Functional outcomes
      will also be collected directly from the medical record at baseline at each assessment times
      (T1, T2, T3). The measures include: 1) exercise tolerance (6-minute walk test [6MWT]), 2)
      balance (Berg Balance Scale [BBS]), 3) mobility and balance (Time up and go [TUG]), and 4)
      functional ability (Functional autonomy measurement system [SMAF]).

      Anticipated results We believe that: 1) use of active TENS during rehabilitation sessions
      will potentiate rehabilitation of patients suffering from chronic pain at the CSSS-IUGS Day
      Hospital, and 2) there is a relationship between the analgesic effect induced by TENS and the
      clinical evolution of patients.
    
  