
    
      Study aims

        -  To examine the relationship between parental stress and child health.

        -  To evaluate the stress of parents as indicated by their subjective perception of mental
           health, quality of life and allostatic load on the body.

        -  To evaluate the health of children as indicated by their well-being, behaviors, body
           mass index (BMI) z-score and telomere length.

        -  To examine the correlation between changes in parental stress and changes in child
           health over time.

        -  To identify the moderators and mediators of the relationship between parental stress and
           child health.

      Eligible participants in the main cohort study will be approached by call or during
      face-to-face sessions. Parents who express interest in participation will be provided with an
      information sheet about the research and asked to sign the consent form for themselves and
      for their children. After providing consent, the parent of each parent-child pair will
      complete a set of structured questionnaires on parental mental health and HRQOL, parenting
      style, neighborhood cohesion, and their children's well-being and behaviors. Physical
      examination including blood pressure, heart rate, weight, height, and waist-to-hip ratio will
      also be carried out on both parents and children. A swab of buccal cells will be taken from
      each child. Venous blood will be sampled from each parent.

      This study will have four assessment waves: Baseline, T2 follow up (6 months), T3 follow up
      (12 months), and T4 follow up (24 months). Physical health data and biological samples will
      be collected by research nurses and research assistants during health assessment session held
      in community centers. Questionnaire data will be collected by trained interviewers during
      telephone survey. To minimize attrition, a package of questionnaires and a sheet of
      instructions and equipment (i.e. brushes) for swab-taking at home may also be sent to parents
      upon request.
    
  