
    
      The system for the improvement of reading and writing skills ("Tachidino" software) is based
      on two principles of proven effectiveness:

        1. The selective stimulation of a cerebral hemisphere and specific reading strategies.
           Taking up some of the principles already set out in the Balance Model of Dyslexia, the
           aim is to retrace the different stages of reading acquisition by focusing on those
           stages and processes which have proved more problematic or less efficiently activated.
           Such stages may require greater involvement of the right hemisphere, carrying out an
           accurate visual analysis of the material to be read, or of the left hemisphere,
           anticipating the words to be read by exploiting linguistic skills (knowledge of words,
           relationships between meanings, relationships between sounds, grammatical agreement and
           syntactic rules, etc.);

        2. the training of selective visuospatial attention, as well as the perception of rapid
           movement and the analysis of the visual characteristics of words. A further mechanism
           involved in the training is the so-called visual crowding, an automatic effect of our
           perceptual system producing a sort of "blurring" of the visual areas surrounding the
           object to be analyzed, to make its vision clearer. A malfunction of this mechanism and
           an insufficient ability to concentrate visual attention in a restricted area of the
           visual field, or to move it quickly and precisely from one point to another would be
           among the causes of reading disorders, as suggested by the Magnocellular theory of
           dyslexia.

      Studies carried out by researchers at IRCCS Medea have shown excellent results for the two
      types of treatment (Hemisphere-specific stimulation according to the Balance Model, and
      Visual-attentional training with Action Video- Games or Wii games, but above all they showed
      how these effects are strongly enhanced by the association in a single intervention.

      Clinical and assessment procedures

      As per current clinical practice, intervention in "e-health" mode is divided into one or more
      rehabilitation modules through the use of the Tachidino platform, with systematic monitoring
      and motivational reinforcement by professionals with experience in e-health approaches. In
      order to be included in the training, the child must have already obtained a diagnosis of
      dyslexia, according to the current diagnostic standards.

      The structure of the intervention modules, as currently implemented, is as follows:

        -  1 initial meeting to get to know the child, pre-test assessment - reading and writing
           tests of words, non-words and sentences, metaphonological tests (phonemic elision and
           synthesis) and text reading tests (reading accuracy and speed) in order to define
           dyslexia subtypes; intervention planning - demonstration of Tachidino use and
           programming of first activities

        -  telephone support to monitor and motivate correct use of the software, during active
           intervention

        -  1 final assessment meeting (with repetition of the tests used at pre-test and
           compilation of satisfaction questionnaires).

        -  1 follow-up meeting 6 months after discharge with repetition of reading tests (this
           meeting is relevant in order to assess stabilization of obtained improvements)

      Participants' characteristics: Children aged between 7 and 14 years with a diagnosis of
      Specific Reading Disorder or Specific Spelling Disorder, not treated before.

      The improvements obtained in one month treatment will be compared with those obtained with
      outpatient intervention programmes of the same duration and intensity, combining treatment
      based on the two component parts: Visual Hemisphere-Specific Stimulation (V-HSS) and
      Visual-Attentional Training with Action Video Games.
    
  