
    
      To evaluate the merits of Microperc and RIRS for the treatment for lower pole renal stone
      between 10-20 mm. Investigators will do a multi-centers randomized controlled trial(RCT). A
      total of 200 (three hundred) patients, aging between 18 and 60 years are being planned to be
      enrolled into the study; By simple random sampling technique, patients will be prospectively
      randomized into group A and group B with a 1:1 ratio. Group A will receive the microperc
      surgery and group B will undergo FURS.

      All the patients will be diagnosed definitely before operations with non-contrast CT+IVP or
      CTU, lower pole Infundibular length, Infundibular width and Lower pole infundibulopelvic
      angle were recorded. A double J stent will be inserted in two the relevant ureter two weeks
      before surgery to guarantee the successful of operations. Patience will receive either
      microperic or FURS respectively, The operation time , hemoglobin change, renal function,
      post-operation pain, complications and hospital stay will be recorded. Patience will have
      follow-up visits at one month and three months, CT and KUB will be taken to evaluate the
      clearance of renal stone.

      Surgical technique Microperc surgery: After the satisfaction of anesthesia, Patient is turned
      into prone position and the desired calyx is punctured by 4.8F microperc under fluoroscopic
      or sonographic guidance. No tract dilation is needed. A 200um holmium laser fiber will be
      used to break stone into less than 2mm. Pull out microperc without drainage tube left; RIRS:
      After the satisfaction of anesthesia, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, pull
      out the pre-inserted double J stent, and place guidewire into the renal pelvis. A 12/14 Fr
      ureteral access sheath (UAS) is advanced into the proximal ureter over the guidewire, and
      flexible ureteroscope is passed through the UAS. The stones are fragmented smeller than 2mm
      using a 200um holmium laser fiber. Fragments are removed using a stone basket for stone
      analysis if necessary, a double J stent is placed at the conclusion of the procedure and
      removed post-operative 2 weeks.

      Data collection Data for the 2 groups-demographic characteristics, hemoglobin(HB) decrease,
      white blood cell(WBC) increase, postoperative pain, duration of postoperative hospital stay,
      complications (modified Clavien system), stone clearance (SFR) and the need for auxiliary
      treatment are compared.

      Mean study endpoint: Final SFR (3 months after procedure) Secondary endpoint: Complications,
      duration of postoperative hospital stay. re-microperc, ureteroscopy and SWL are considered as
      auxiliary treatments.

      The stone size is defined as the maximum diameter as determined by CT scans. Degree of
      hydronephrosis are assigned as follow: none (no calyx or pelvic dilation), mild (pelvic
      dilatation alone), moderate (mild calyx dilation), or severe (severe calyx dilation or calyx
      dilation accompanied by renal parenchyma atrophy).

      Definition of operation time:

      For microperc: recorded from the time of the first percutaneous renal puncture to pulling out
      the microperc.

      For RIRS: recorded from insertion of an endoscope into the urethra to the completion of stent
      placement.

      Hospital stay are rounded to the nearest whole day and calculated from the day of surgery to
      the day of discharge.

      Postoperative pain (visual analogue scale(VAS), use of analgesics) will be recorded.

      The rate of hemoglobin decrease is assessed by comparing the preoperative Hb level with
      24-hour postoperative Hb level.

      Non-contrast CT and KUB is obtained for all patients at 3 month after the operation to
      evaluate the final SFR, allowing time for the spontaneous passage of stone fragments.

      Stone-free status are defined as either the absence of any residual stone fragments or the
      presence of clinically insignificant residual stone fragments in the kidney which were
      defined as ≤4mm, asymptomatic, non-obstructive and non-infectious stone particles.

      Complications of all patients are recorded according to modified Clavien classification
      system.
    
  