
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) is responsible for more deaths worldwide than any infectious disease. Key
      research priorities include the development of an effective vaccine.

      Currently, the only licensed vaccine against TB is the BCG (Bacille Calmette-Guérin). This
      works well against TB in childhood but is often ineffective in adults. Developing a new TB
      vaccine is difficult, as it is hard to determine which will be effective. In other diseases,
      e.g. influenza or malaria, it is possible to experimentally-infect volunteers with the
      disease to see if the proposed vaccine is effective. This is called a "controlled human
      challenge or infection model" and is possible in easily treatable or self-limiting diseases.
      This is not possible with TB, where treatments may be harmful and complex. Using a related
      but less infectious bacterium is a feasible alternative.

      The BCG is a live attenuated (weakened) strain of the bacteria that causes TB in cattle. The
      BCG bacteria do not cause disease in healthy individuals. As the BCG and TB bacteria are
      similar, a challenge model using the BCG as an infectious agent to mimic TB infection is
      being developed.

      Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacterium that causes TB, infects people by inhalation into
      the lungs. Therefore, inhaled BCG more closely imitates TB infection than an injection. A
      previous (TB041) and current study (TB043) in this group use aerosol inhaled BCG in
      volunteers who have not received the standard BCG vaccination before.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the human clinical response to BCG challenge in
      historically BCG-vaccinated healthy adult volunteers. It will involve 12 participants in a
      controlled dose escalation. Bronchoscopies will be performed 14 days post-challenge to
      measure BCG recovered from bronchial samples. Blood tests will be taken to look at potential
      immunological markers of immunity.
    
  