
    
      People with advanced multiple sclerosis (MS) often experience impairments in strength and
      endurance in the muscles of respiration. This can cause increased difficulty with breathing
      which may lead to increased respiratory infection. People with weak respiratory muscles may
      need to use more effort for breathing and this can be tiring and limiting a person's ability
      to participate in activities. Complications from breathing problems, such as pneumonia, are
      the most frequent reason for critical illness and intensive care in people with MS,
      particularly as the disease progresses.

      Exercises of the respiratory muscles have the potential to improve breathing in people with
      MS. The goal of this study is to examine the effects of a 10-week respiratory muscle exercise
      program on respiratory muscle strength, fatigue, activity level, and respiratory infection
      rates in people with advanced MS. The study will assess whether the participants improve
      after the training, and whether the effects can be maintained after the training ends.

      The study will invite 40 people with advanced MS to participate in a 10-week exercise program
      to strengthen respiratory muscles. Participants will use a device that is easy to use and
      provides a resistance while inhaling. Participants will perform the exercises after they
      receive the instruction from researchers. The progression of exercises will be tailored to
      each individual's tolerance to the exercise. The study will measure participants' respiratory
      muscle strength, perceived fatigue, participation in daily recreational activities such as
      coffee time, and respiratory infection rates to evaluate the effects of the program. The
      measurements will be done upon enrollment into the study at the baseline, after 10-week no
      training baseline period before the intervention, mid-point during the 10-week training, at
      the completion of the 10-week training, at 4 weeks and at 8 weeks after the training ends.
      The study will evaluate if participants improve after the training, and if the improvements
      can be maintained for up to 8 weeks after the training.

      Outcomes from this research will help to better understand effective treatments for breathing
      problems in people with advanced MS. The study will be able to inform clinicians and
      researchers about effective protocols for respiratory muscle training in advanced MS. These
      results will contribute to long-term research goals, including reducing complications from
      respiratory problems, delaying disability associated with MS, and improving function and
      quality of life in people with advanced MS.
    
  