
    
      Men who have sex with men (MSM) are the risk population most heavily impacted by HIV in the
      United States by any measure; in 2009, at least 61% of new HIV infections were estimated to
      have occurred in MSM. MSM are experiencing an increase in HIV transmission that has been
      occurring since at least 1990, and accelerated in multiple North American and European
      countries from 2000-2005. The expansion of the HIV epidemic has been proposed to be
      attributable, in part, to the extent to which the internet has facilitated sexual
      connectivity among MSM.

      Researchers have attempted to reach MSM for HIV prevention research and intervention on the
      internet. In the past 10 years, there has been a proliferation of internet surveys and HIV
      research studies among men who have sex with men that utilize the internet for data
      collection and, in some cases, the delivery of HIV prevention content. The development of
      internet-based interventions has been recently identified as especially promising because of
      its potential for scalability. However, there are also important limitations to
      internet-based data collections and prevention studies. The most important of these relate to
      representativeness and opportunities to introduce bias to data collections and differences in
      access to and use of internet among different subgroups of MSM. Equally important, although
      less discussed, are the unique ethical and human research protections challenges posed by
      online sexual health prevention studies.

      The investigators will conduct an experiment to improve knowledge of how to conduct
      internet-based HIV prevention research with MSM in ways that decrease biases in data
      collections. The design will consist of a randomized controlled trials of MSM recruited
      online. A total of 1000 MSM will be enrolled to determine how to best improve retention in
      online surveys.
    
  