
    
      Justification of the study:

      One of the latest therapeutic innovations is sequential therapy, introduced in Italy by Zullo
      et al. The drug delivery strategy involves a 5-day induction phase with dual therapy (a PPI
      every 12 hours and amoxicillin 1g every 12 hours), followed immediately by triple therapy for
      5 days with a PPI every 12 hours, metronidazole 500 mg every 12 hours and clarithromycin 500
      mg every 12 hours. Sequential therapy has proved more effectiveness than standard triple
      therapy for seven and ten days. In order to assess the efficacy of this new treatment in our
      area, over the past year we conducted a multicentre observational pilot study in routine
      clinical practice conditions in patients infected with H. pylori and with indications for
      eradication. 139 patients from 6 different centres were included. Excellent treatment
      compliance and minimal side effects, similar to those described with triple therapy, were
      shown. The results confirm similar efficacy to that obtained in previous studies and an
      eradication rate significantly higher than that obtained with classic triple therapy in our
      area.

      Several previous studies have shown excellent efficacy of quadruple therapy with a PPI,
      amoxicillin, clarithromycin and metronidazole, administering "concomitantly" the same drugs
      as those of sequential therapy, but only for 5-7 days. Several studies have found a higher
      eradication rate of this "concomitant" therapy as compared with classic triple therapy. The
      results of a randomized study in which sequential and concomitant therapy were compared have
      recently been reported in the American Congress of Gastroenterology. Eradication and adverse
      events rates were similar with both treatments. This data suggest that the
      "sequentially"administration of these drugs probably complicated unnecessarily the treatment.

      Therefore it is necessary to make a controlled clinical trial to directly compare
      "sequential" versus "concomitant" therapy. The results of this study will conclude which
      should be the first line treatment for H. pylori eradication.
    
  