
    
      Diabetes is now a global epidemic; it is the fourth or fifth leading cause of death in most
      developed and newly industrialized countries. People with diabetes mean a long-term condition
      that deserves effective and efficient care throughout their lives. Complications caused by
      diabetes, such as coronary artery and peripheral vascular diseases, stroke, diabetic
      neuropathy, amputations, renal failure and blindness are resulting in increasing disability,
      reduced life expectancy and, even more apprehensive, enormous healthcare related expense for
      virtually every society ( 1, 2 ). Diabetes is certainly one of the most challenging health
      issues in the 21st century.

      The most recent epidemiological data suggested that the diabetes population in Taiwan has
      reached one million ( 3 ). People with diabetes using the healthcare insurance regularly for
      their diabetes care, however, were only 60 % of total diabetes population. Nevertheless, this
      60 % of Taiwan diabetes population had already consumed more than 12 % of total national
      annual healthcare expenditure in taking care of them. In fact, this diabetes population was
      merely one- forties of Taiwan population as a whole. Even the worst thing was that more than
      60 % of the whole yearly healthcare budget for taking care of diabetes had gone into the
      treatment of diabetes-related complications ( 4,5 ). We have recently learned from some of
      the prevention trials, such as the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial ( DCCT ) in type
      1 diabetes and the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study ( UKPDS ) in type 2 diabetes,
      that effective and adequate performance of metabolic and blood pressure control in patients
      with diabetes would be able to delay or even prevent the diabetes-related complications ( 6-8
      ). These interventions, if broadly implemented, would help to improve the living quality of
      diabetes patients, and as well as to consequently make the biggest gain out of healthcare
      expenditure ( 9 ). In order to assess more completely the levels of diabetes care delivered
      in Taiwan, we now have nationally standardized performance measures that can evaluate quality
      of diabetes care accurately and reliably. These performance measures were seriously reviewed
      and discussed in the aspects of their practicability, feasibility and compliancy, through a
      series of nation-wide consensus meetings by a number of multidisciplinary professionals of
      Taiwan Diabetes Care Teams ( TDCTs ), before delivering into the clinical settings ( 10 ).

      Conceptually, these measures will enhance uptake of research into practice and may ultimately
      improve diabetes care and clinical outcomes. Along with the serial developments mentioned
      above, the BNHI ( the sole healthcare insurance organization in Taiwan ) has been fully
      involved, from the very beginning, in the formation and development of these performance
      measures which have totally been included in the development of the Diabetes Case Management
      Program ( DCMP ) 2001 later on. The DCMP 2001 is a unique program that has been delivered
      into the nation-wide clinical practices since Dec. 2001 in Taiwan. It has linked the quality
      of diabetes care to the monthly income ( reimbursed from BNHI ) of the registered clinical
      diabetes educators ( i.e., physicians, nurses and dietitians ) for enhancing and assuring the
      complete implementation of these performance measures in diabetes care. It has been
      recognized that a consensus on measures at national level could provide a method for
      assessing care within and across healthcare settings while providing a meaningful mechanism
      for quality improvement. In this proposal, we are going to develop the Diabetes Quality
      Improvement Program ( DQIP ) based on the DCMP 2001 in Taiwan.

      Initially, we are going to establish the continuous diabetes quality monitoring system and
      then to evaluate the (1) the lifestyles and eating habits and dietary compositions in type 2
      diabetes mellitus (2)The relationships between lifestyles and eating habits and dietary
      compositions in diabesity.
    
  