
    
      Primary Objective:

      To assess the feasibility of performing a prospective cardiopulmonary and physical function
      assessment in patients with advanced pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) who are expected
      to develop cachexia.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To measure the changes in maximal expiratory pressure (MEP) and maximal inspiratory
           pressure (MIP) in patients with progressive PDAC and/or cancer associated cachexia

        2. To measure changes in strain echocardiography in patients with progressive PDAC and/or
           cancer associated cachexia

        3. To assess functional changes in patients with progressive PDAC and/or cancer associated
           cachexia

        4. To assess body composition changes associated with cachexia or disease progression

        5. To measure the levels of cytokines from peripheral blood in patients with cachexia

      Procedures:

      All study procedures will be done at two time points (T1=baseline or study entry, T2=at
      disease progression or development of cachexia). Patients will undergo echocardiography with
      strain evaluation at Indiana University Health Echocardiography Laboratory and pulmonary
      function tests as per institutional guidelines at IUH PFT laboratory at University Hospital.
      Patients will also have 20mL (2 red top tubes) of blood drawn for the studies outlined in
      Section 7.5. Standard of care labs will be taken from the patient's medical records. Patients
      also will be evaluated using three standardized functional assessment tools commonly utilized
      in physical rehabilitation: 1) 5 Times Sit-to-Stand Test; 2) 6 Minute Walk Test; and 3) grip
      dynamometry. Standard of care CT scan obtained at the time of tumor assessment will enable
      the investigators to assess body muscle mass as described in Section 7.4. In addition, the
      investigators will administer three standardized survey tools to assess quality of life and
      prior level of function: 1) The Short Form 36 (SF-36); 2) Lower Extremity Functional Scale
      (LEFS); and 3) Scored Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment (PG-SGA).

      Sample Size:

      Due to the risk of clinical deterioration or drop out of the study and inability to undergo
      T2 evaluation, the investigators will plan on enrolling 133% of desired number of subjects,
      accounting for 33% missing T2 data. This is likely a high number; however, this will enable
      data collection from 12-15 patients at both time points and all proposed tests.
    
  