
    
      For head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), radiation therapy is one of the mainstays
      of therapy either as definitive therapy alone or in combination with systemic therapy or
      following surgical resection as postoperative treatment. Nowadays there's great attention for
      personalized medicine which aims at offering a patient the treatment that best suits the
      individual patient and its tumor characteristics. To apply personalized therapy, we need
      accurate outcome prediction models for disease control, treatment related toxicity and
      quality of life.

      The main factors used for predictive/prognostic nomograms are clinical factors, like
      patient-, tumor- and treatment related factors (1). Standard examples of these include age,
      gender, co-morbidity, smoking history, hemoglobin levels, tumor site, TNM stage, tumor
      volume, HPV-status, and others. For larynx cancer the nomogram was made publicly available on
      www.predictcancer.org.

      However, we anticipate that other factors will contribute to the (improvement of) prediction
      models. These factors may include genomic analysis of tumor specimens, quantitative image
      analysis (radiomics), blood biomarkers, and/or tumor-tissue markers (2).

      In addition, treatment-related parameters also need to be considered and these not only
      include factors like overall treatment time, use of systemic therapy, prescribed radiation
      dose and fraction dose. With new techniques using EPID dosimetry, it is now possible to
      measure the delivered radiation dose and compare this to the prescribed dose (3,4). This
      offers the potential to apply Dose Guide RadioTherapy (DGRT), which especially in HNSCC may
      have a large impact, because anatomical changes during fractionated therapy are known to
      occur and lead to dose changes to targets and organs at risk (5,6).

      The final objective of this study is to integrate all potential prognostic factors and
      develop reliable nomograms both for tumor control as well as complications.
    
  