
    
      This project will be implemented as a cluster-randomised controlled trial (RCT) in preschools
      in 2 urban study areas. The unit of randomisation will be the preschool.

      The intervention is a preschool-based capacity-building and support intervention addressing
      family violence and alcohol and drug misuse.

      The study intervention will be delivered to preschool teachers, local government Community
      Development Department staff, other key government service providers, and selected mothers
      and fathers of children attending each preschool. Participants in data collection will be all
      teachers and parents of children in participating preschools.

      Half the preschools in the study areas, selected at random, will receive the intervention
      initially. Those that do not will act as time-concurrent controls. If the intervention is
      demonstrated as being effective at the end of the study, these control preschools will
      subsequently receive the intervention.

      This research will address important gaps in literature documented by other researchers by
      using multiple sources of data to assess the effectiveness of the intervention. Preschool
      communities have not previously been target populations when addressing domestic violence in
      Sri Lanka. Results will add to the evidence base for future interventions in Sri Lanka and
      have potential to contribute to national policy.

      Study activities are listed in brief below, and will be subsequently expounded upon in the
      following sections.

        1. A baseline survey at project outset will include mothers and fathers of children
           utilising these preschools, and will be conducted at the beginning of semester 1 of the
           project. This survey will include a series of self-report questionnaires, measuring:
           prevalence of family violence, prevalence of alcohol and drug misuse, depression, child
           psychological wellbeing, and gender attitudes to establish any baseline differences in
           prevalence of these factors between intervention and control groups.

        2. Selected mothers and fathers from half of the preschools (the intervention group), along
           with preschool teachers, community development officers, and other government service
           providers, will receive training associated with the intervention before the end of
           semester 1.

        3. Post intervention surveys with parents will be conducted near the end of the school year
           (at least 6 months post intervention) in all preschools in both study areas (both
           intervention and non-intervention groups).

        4. Qualitative interviews will also be carried out with key informants associated with the
           project who received the intervention including teachers, community members, community
           development staff and other government sector service providers to determine their
           satisfaction with the intervention, and any challenges or barriers to its
           implementation.

        5. If the intervention is deemed to have been effective, the non-intervention preschools
           will then receive the training intervention in 2019.
    
  