
    
      Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common cutaneous malignancy. In the United States
      alone, the incidence of these tumors approaches or exceeds one million cases each year, and
      continues to increase. Actinic damage is the primary causal factor, and 85% of all lesions
      are located in cosmetically-sensitive areas such as the face, head, and neck. Although these
      tumors do not usually metastasize, their high prevalence and morbidity have established them
      as a significant public health problem. In addition a small percentage can cause significant
      morbidity or mortality.

      Treatment goals for BCC focus on complete tumor removal and minimization of cosmetic and
      functional defects. Among the multiple therapeutic options available, including both
      excisional and ablative approaches, MMS is the most definitive treatment modality. MMS
      involves excision of the clinically apparent neoplastic lesion, processing and staining of
      horizontal frozen sections, stepwise microscopic analysis, meticulous mapping, and
      re-excision of residual neoplasm until tumor-free margins are obtained. Unlike all other
      excisional techniques, MMS allows visualization of the entire surgical margin, thus ensuring
      complete removal of the lesion while maximally preserving the surrounding normal skin.

      Unfortunately, because many tumors show significant sub clinical extension, the resulting
      surgical defect after completion of MMS can be significantly larger than the presenting
      lesion, often necessitating complex, costly, and time-consuming repairs, and compromising the
      final cosmetic appearance or function. In addition, tumors in low-risk locations, which
      typically undergo simple excisions, nonetheless can require significant circumferential
      margins of normal tissue to ensure complete removal, again impacting cosmesis, function and
      or cost. Likewise, aggressive tumors such as sclerosing/morpheaform or recurrent BCC's can
      result in significant post surgical defects and associated morbidity and decreased function.

      Presently, the treatment of BCC, whether by excisional or ablative means, incurs an estimated
      annual cost in excess of $600 million. An effective oral agent for the treatment of BCC could
      serve as an adjunct modality in the removal of primary or recurrent lesions and may be
      expected to significantly decrease cosmetic disfigurement as well as reduce
      treatment-associated costs. In fact, studies such as this one may ultimately show that oral
      treatment results in complete elimination of selected neoplastic lesions, thereby eliminating
      altogether the need for surgery in some lesions.

      Vismodegib, (GDC-0449) is an orally delivered small molecule hedgehog pathway inhibitor. In
      tumor growth Hedgehog binding to PCTH1 (Patched) stops PCTH1 from inhibiting SMO (smoothened)
      signaling. In the absence of PCTH1 (e.g. loss of PCTH1 mutations) SMO signaling occurs
      constitutively, stimulating GLI1 (Glioma-Associated Oncogene-1) thus promoting tumor growth.
      Vismodegib inhibits SMO signaling through direct interaction with SMO thus preventing the
      activation of GLI1 and thus inhibiting tumor growth in Basal Cell Carcinomas. The
      investigators anticipate our study to demonstrate the feasibility, efficacy, and safety of
      Vismodegib in the oral treatment of BCC.

      The safety, preliminary efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of Vismodegib was assessed in an
      open-label, multicenter, two-stage Phase I trial1. Patients had solid tumors refractory to
      therapy. An expansion cohort was included for patients with locally advanced or metastatic
      BCC (n=33). Patients received continuous administration of Vismodegib at 150 mg/day (n=17),
      270 mg/day (n=15), or 540 mg/day (n=1) beginning on Day 1. Patients were treated until
      disease progression, intolerable toxicities, or withdrawal from the study. Response
      assessments for radiologically measurable disease, RECIST version 1.0 was used. CR or PR
      determined on 2 consecutive occasions ≥4 weeks apart. Locally advanced tumors assessed on
      Dermatological Examination. CR defined as disappearance of a palpable or visible tumor; PR
      defined as a reduction of >50% in tumor diameter. Results from this pilot study demonstrated
      that oral vismodegib could clear or reduce the tumor burden of BCCs with a CR in 2, PR in 16,
      SD in 11 and PD in 4 in patients followed over a 20 month period. No dose-limiting toxic
      events or grade 5 events were observed with a single grade 4 adverse event (asymptomatic
      hyponatremia) reported. The more significant and frequent adverse events were GI related with
      dysgeusia and muscle spasm reported.

      Recently, one Phase II single-arm, non-randomized trial of single-agent vismodegib at 150
      mg/day to progression or intolerance with 104 patients enrolled: (33 mBCC, 71 LA BCC) using
      the primary endpoint: Independent Review Facility (IRF) assessed overall response rate (ORR)
      and the secondary endpoints: Investigator-assessed ORR, progression-free survival (PFS),
      overall survival (OS), duration of response, and safety was also recently completed and it
      was announced that the study met its primary endpoint (ORR) and showed shrinkage of tumors in
      a pre-defined percentage of patients2. A preliminary safety assessment showed the most common
      adverse events were consistent with previous experience with vismodegib. The most common
      adverse events were muscle spasms, hair loss, altered taste sensation, weight loss, fatigue,
      nausea, decreased appetite and diarrhea. A detailed safety assessment is ongoing.

      Since these are slow-growing tumors which are expected to respond favorably to treatment, and
      since all lesions will be surgically excised by MMS within 6 months of initial consultation,
      this study will not affect the current standard of care in the management of BCC.

      After target tumor site is identified guided by either the plastic template or tattoo
      performed pre treatment the original lesion will be delineated using the template and
      concentric circles of two millimeters drawn around the central target area. A punch biopsy of
      the center of the lesion will then be performed and thereafter the lesion will be excised
      using standard Mohs procedures, with the excised tissue evaluated histologically to confirm
      the presence or absence of tumor. If there is residual tumor found histologically or there is
      scarring or there is significant inflammation present histologically additional layers will
      be performed using the 2mm concentric circles as a guide until all tumor is deemed to have
      been removed. The final wound size at the completion of Mohs surgery (i.e., upon reaching
      tumor-free tissue margins) will then be determined using the pre-treatment concentric
      margins, and compared to the lesion size at the initiation of treatment both for treatment
      and placebo areas. In addition, the histological extent of the lesion will be compared to the
      expected sub clinical extension as documented by Wolf and Zitelli as previously noted. Any
      subject who discontinued treatment prematurely should be encouraged to return to the clinic
      for the excision. Only subjects who have no histological evidence of BCC will be considered
      complete responders. Note that post excision antibiotics and analgesics administered to the
      subject prophylactically for infection and pain at the excision site must be recorded on the
      concomitant medication page of the CRF.
    
  