
    
      Breast cancer ( BC) is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in women worldwide. The incidence
      and mortality rates for female breast cancer far exceeded those for other cancers . Although
      the incidence rate of breast cancer has risen, the mortality rates have steadily fallen due
      to early diagnosis and better treatments . Early detection of breast cancer often leads to
      better outcomes. According to Cancer Australia's National Cancer Control Indicators, the
      relative survival for females diagnosed with early-stage breast cancers at diagnosis was much
      higher than that for those with advanced breast diagnosis.

      Despite the improvement in diagnosis and treatment,approximately 20% of BC patients will
      develop metastasis.This setting is considered an incurable disease that often occurs due to
      either resistance to therapy or diagnosis at advanced stages . In this scenario, although 44%
      of the patients are diagnosed at stage I (AJCC cancer staging) with 5-year survival rates of
      100%, 5% of patients are diagnosed at stage IV with 5-year survival rates of approximately
      26% .

      The small percentage of women diagnosed at advanced stage of the disease gives evidence that
      mammography represents the best available screening option for breast cancer .

      However, more accurate and meaningful early-diagnosis methods together with image techniques
      would improve BC survival rates.

      MicroRNAs (MiRNAs) are short endogenous noncoding RNA molecules of 19-25 nt that have
      important gene regulatory roles at post-transcriptional level [8, 9]. They pair with
      messenger RNAs (mRNAs) of protein-coding genes and depending on complementarity, leading to
      mRNa translational repression or degradation . They regulate 30% of transcripts and contain
      3% of the human genome .

      In the past few years, miRNAs were established as relevant molecular components of cells in
      normal or malignant processes.. Particularly, miRNAs have been demonstrated to have an
      important role in cancer biology through post transcriptional editing of target messenger
      RNAs expression involved in tumor growth, invasion, metastasis or immune escape .

      In addition, several tumor-associated miRNA profiles have been proposed and investigated as
      biomarkers for diagnosis, survival, response to treatment or tumor subclassification.

      The development of early diagnostic tools is of most interest to the clinics since early
      diagnosis is associated with better prognosis.

      In this context, miRNAs have been demonstrated to be good early diagnostic biomarkers in
      several types of cancer including BC, among others.

      One of the main advantages of circulating miRNAs is their high stability in body fluids ,
      which is the main reason for them to be used in cancer diagnosis or prognosis.

      Moreover, the assessment of circulating miRNAs can be carried out with simple, lowcost and
      quick assays.

      These characteristics highlight the value of miRNAs as non-invasive biomarkers. Indeed,
      several miRNAs have been found to be differentially expressed in blood, plasma or serum from
      healthy donors compared with BC patients, supporting their use as noninvasive, early-stage
      diagnosis biomarkers.

      Growing evidences revealed that imaging techniques are associated with some limitations such
      as expensive. Hence, it seems that utilization of improvement imaging techniques and
      biochemistry biomarkers could overcome the limitations associated with imaging techniques.
      Beside utilization of imaging techniques, identification of new biomarkers in patients with
      breast cancer has provided an interesting landscape .

      So studies have identified different circulating miRNAs as new biomarkers for BC detection;
      Moreover, they have not been assessed in conjunction with diagnostic imaging, which is used
      for quantifying the extent of the disease and provides information related to tumour
      aggressiveness representing an obligatory step for treatment planning. The use of diagnostic
      imaging to extract quantitative parameters related to the morphology, metabolism and
      functionality of tumours, as well as to correlate specific imaging parameters with molecular
      biomarkers, is an emerging research topic
    
  