
    
      Sleep disorders and, in particular, insomnia, are quite common conditions in over 55
      population, especially among women. Insomnia becomes a chronic pathology when the difficulty
      in initiating or maintaining sleep occurs more times a week for several months and is
      associated to a constant feeling of fatigue, concentration problems, mood disorders and
      social and family troubles severely impairing the quality of life. In according to the sleep
      hygiene guidelines, the therapeutic treatments for insomnia include drugs (benzodiazepines,
      non-benzodiazepines, antidepressants) with often not fully satisfactory results for the
      patient and entailing a series of side effects, such as daytime sleepiness, lack of attention
      and energy in addition to mental confusion. Recently, some researches in neurological field
      have shown that disorders affecting central nervous system, as well as sleep and circadian
      rhythm disruption, can be associated to specific alteration of the gut microbiota. The
      enteric nervous system has been referred to as a "second brain" able to interact with the
      central nervous system impinging upon higher cognitive functions through a bidirectional
      communication system known as gut-brain axis. The gut microflora plays a crucial role in
      gut-brain axis, modulating stress response through the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal axis
      and thus influencing memory, mood, cognition and sleep architecture. Therefore, a
      non-pharmacological intervention aimed to improve gut microbiota and the inflammatory bowel
      conditions could be an effective strategy to counteract insomnia. In the framework of Pros.IT
      project, the Granarolo S.p.A. in collaboration with the University of Bologna has developed a
      milk enriched with different micronutrients (vitamins, ω-3 fatty acids, prebiotics, curcumin)
      and "infant-type" probiotics isolated from human milk and endowed with immunomodulating
      activity. This supplementation should improve the overall health status, and in particular
      the plant extracts, prebiotics and probiotics with anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory
      activities should ameliorate significantly sleep quality and stress perception through the
      modulation of gut microbiota and gut-brain axis.

      The main goal of this study is to evaluate the effect of the administration of a functional
      milk reinforced with probiotics (250ml/die), vitamins and other micronutrients on sleep of
      patients suffering from chronic insomnia. An objective assessment it requires a value at
      least higher than 3% of increase of the sleep efficiency, since the 3% is the percentage of
      improvement recognized to the common drugs against insomnia. The study is randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
    
  