
    
      Fourty participants will be tested in approximately 2 groups of 20 each. After individual
      first lab visits, participants in each cohort will be randomized into two groups: two
      experimental groups. The experimental group will subsequently attend a group-based relaxation
      treatment based on mindfulness meditation principles. After this intervention, one of the
      experimental groups will use the biofeedback device in the next two weeks, whereas the other
      experimental group will not. Both the biofeedback and No-Biofeedback group will receive texts
      on a daily basis.

      During the lab session, participants will sign informed consent and fill out questionnaires.
      Questionnaires used will be:

        -  Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale

        -  State-Trait Anxiety Inventory

        -  Perceived Stress Scale

        -  Patient Health Questionnaire

        -  Sleep Scale from the Medical Outcomes Study

        -  and a constructed questionnaire about social support ( family & friends)

      After that, participants are being hooked up to the ECG and Psychophysiological measures for
      a Stroop task (identify color of the word). The design will utilize a 1 min congruent task,
      followed by a 2 minute relaxation period, then a 1 min in-congruent task, followed up a 2 min
      relaxation period, then another 1 min congruent task, followed by a final 2 minute relaxation
      period. After that, participants will be deceived to think they will have to give a speech
      task in front of 5 evaluators. We will, however, inform participants of technical
      difficulties, resulting in our inability to follow through with the task, then again give the
      2 minutes to regulate their physiology. Lab sessions, including set-up, should take about 45
      minutes. After the testing section, all physiological measures will be removed and RAs will
      review meditation/ relaxation strategies with the participant. This relaxation training
      session will take about thirty minutes. After that, the biofeedback group will be given the
      biofeedback device as well as instruction on how to pair the device with their phone. After
      that, participants are free to leave.

      The same lab procedures are being followed for the second lab visit after, approximately, two
      weeks without the relaxation session.
    
  