
    
      Non-AIDS-Defining Cancers (NADCs) are an important cause of morbidity and mortality in the
      population living with the human immunodeficiency virus (PLHIV), being currently one of the
      most frequent causes of death. Due to several reasons, the incidence of this type of tumors
      in PLHIV has increased 2-3 times with respect to the general population (GP). In a recent
      systematic review, with more than 600,000 PLHIV and 10,891 new cases of cancer, it is
      demonstrated how the incidence of NADCs has progressively increased since the introduction of
      combined antiretroviral therapy (ART), probably reflecting better viral-immune control and
      aging associated with the increase in overall survival of patients living with the virus. The
      most frequent cancers are lung cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, anal carcinoma and cervical
      carcinoma, although some studies have suggested that there could also be a higher incidence
      and / or severity of other malignant tumors, such as breast cancer, prostate, colorectal or
      skin, including melanomas. In the era of ART, lung cancer has become the most frequent and
      deadliest cause of non-AIDS-associated cancer in PLHIV, and greater lethality has been
      documented in PLHIV than in GP.

      The causes of this increased incidence of NADCs are not well known and there are several
      factors that could influence, including the oncogenic effects of the virus,
      immunosuppression, chronic inflammation and immune activation, ART exposure, higher rates of
      coinfection with other oncogenic viruses and traditional cancer risk factors such as smoking.
      It is estimated that at least 1 in 3 PLHIV will die due to malignant neoplasms in the coming
      years. There is currently no consensus on the best screening strategies in this population,
      strategies that seem increasingly necessary considering the progressive aging of the infected
      population and the increase in the incidence of these neoplasms.

      In some of the clinical practice guidelines in PLHIV, such as the Spanish Gesida or other
      European ones, the screening strategies for neoplasms recommended in GP have been
      incorporated, in which they have shown benefit in terms of mortality or greater probabilities
      of therapeutic success. However, these benefits have not been confirmed in PLHIV, in which
      this type of strategy could be insufficient.

      Moreover, there are currently no established recommendations for GP screening on two of the
      main neoplasms of PLHIV, such as lung and anal. For this reason, it is necessary to generate
      scientific evidence that determines which is the most convenient strategy to reduce the
      morbidity and mortality associated with NADCs in PLHIV. Then, the evaluation of an enhanced
      program of screening by conducting a clinical trial, in which patients are randomized to one
      of the two strategies (enhanced screening versus standard of care practice), is the ideal
      design to generate scientific evidence. This knowledge could be useful to determine if the
      benefits of the enhanced screening outweighs the harms and if it is cost-effective for the
      National Health Service.

      Objectives:

      General objectives: To evaluate the efficacy, safety and efficiency of an expanded screening
      program for the early diagnosis of cancer in patients with HIV compared to usual practice,
      within the framework of the Spanish AIDS Research Network (RIS).

      Specific objectives: 1) To compare the incidence of early diagnosed cancer with extended
      screening versus usual practice; 2) To estimate the incidence of early diagnosed cancer and
      its overall incidence in the CoRIS cohort; 3) To analyze safety of the program: adverse
      events and unnecessary interventions; 4) To compare the incidence data described above
      stratifying by gender and 5) To analyze the cost-utility of the extended screening.

      Early detection of cancer would entail clinical benefits, both in terms of survival and
      quality of life, for the population with HIV. The evaluation of the cost-utility of the
      program is also a main objective, since the benefits of therapy for cancer in the earliest
      stages should compensate for the use of the additional resources of the National Health
      System.

      Methodology: Research project that includes randomization by patient, stratified according to
      sex, to one of the following groups:

        1. Enhanced intervention group: expanded screening for early detection of lung, liver,
           anal, cervical, breast, prostate, colorectal and skin cancer.

        2. Conventional intervention group: standard screening in the participating centers,
           adjusted to the recommendations of the European AIDS Society (EACS).

      Work plan and timeline

      This project is based on a collaborative methodology in which all groups work in a
      coordinated manner, under the direction of the Principal Investigator, Dr. Félix Gutiérrez.
      The tasks that make up this project are broken down below:

        1. Recruitment of patients and randomization according to the sex of each patient to a
           conventional intervention or an extended intervention. This phase is already started in
           some of the centers that make up the consortium, but it must continue to reach the
           desired sample size. Depending on whether the patients are assigned to the conventional
           screening group or the extended screening group, their inclusion in the following tasks
           will be different.

        2. Completion of the questionnaires (annual) on sociodemographic and toxic data in each of
           the participating centers.

        3. Blood samples withdrawal and storage of plasma for ulterior determination of biomarkers
           annually.

        4. The digital examination and anal (semi-annual) cytology, cervical cytology (semi-annual)
           will be performed in the HIV Units of the participating centers.

        5. The General Inspection in search of skin lesions suggestive of malignancy on an annual
           basis will be carried out in the HIV Units of the participating centers that will be
           previously trained for it. In case of suspicion, it will be referred to the specialist
           of each center.

        6. The semi-annual monitoring of the clinical trial will be carried out by the CRO
           contracted for that purpose.

        7. At 30 months, the telematic session for closing the trial will be held.

        8. Statistical analysis of the data. The analysis of the data will be carried out
           transversely after the first year, after the second and after the third year, where the
           final conclusions of the study can be established.

        9. Dissemination of the results during the last 3 months: communications to congresses and
           writing of articles. Proposal for inclusion in Clinical Guidelines.
    
  