
    
      Persons living with HIV-infection are at greatly increased risk for anal carcinoma and anal
      intraepithelial neoplasia (AIN). Despite the overall improvement in HIV outcomes, the
      incidence of anal carcinoma has not decreased with the advent of highly active antiretroviral
      ther-apy. Further, there is substantial morbidity and mortality associated with anal
      carcinoma in HIV-infected individuals. For these reasons, it is critically important to
      develop effective screening and treatment strategies in this population. Anal carcinoma is
      similar to cervical carcinoma in that they are both associated with infection with human
      papillomavirus (HPV) and share similar cytologic features of dysplasia. Anal cytology
      screening is ultimately expected to reduce the incidence of anal carcinoma similar to that
      seen with cervical cancer after the introduction of cervical Pap screening. Given the high
      frequency of abnormal cytology in patients with HIV and the need to confirm results by
      high-resolution anoscopy, however, the implementation of screening programs requires a
      substantial commitment of clinical resources. The workload and costs involved in following up
      on abnormal cytology reduce the cost-effectiveness of screening and pose a significant
      barrier to its widespread integration into routine HIV care. A model for predicting which
      patients are at greatest risk for progressive of anal dysplasia is needed in order to
      decrease the need for excessive confirmatory procedures in this population. Without such a
      model, anal carcinoma screening may remain cost prohibitive for many HIV clinics.

      The objective of this study is to develop a predictive model to identify patients who are at
      greatest risk for progression of anal intraepithelial neoplastic changes. The central
      hypotheses are: 1) that progression of early HPV-related anal dysplasia is associated with
      environmental, virological, and host molecular factors and 2) that it is possible to develop
      a predictive statistical model with a high sensitivity and specificity for predicting disease
      progression. These hypotheses have been formulated on the basis of strong evidence from
      studies of HPV-related cervical dysplasia that smoking, HPV E2 expression, HPV E6/E7 protein
      expression, high-risk HPV type, HPV viral load, p16 expression, p53 expression and Ki67
      expression are associated with progressive cervical dysplasia. The rationale for the proposed
      research is that development of a predictive model will allow clinicians to design more
      cost-effective screening and follow-up strategies which focus resources on intensively
      testing only those patients with a significant risk for progression. Further, the models
      developed will allow clinicians to identify a population of patients who may benefit from
      early treatment interventions. Finally, information learned from this research may provide
      information applicable to other HPV-related cancers.
    
  