
    
      Additional information to the brief summary:

      Outcome(s): Hindfoot alignment measurement on standard radiographs and biplanar radiographs.
      The hindfoot angle is measured between the tibial axis and the calcaneal axis in degrees.
      Measurement results on plain films and based on 3D reconstructions will be compared.

      Inclusion/Exclusion criteria:

        -  Inclusion: All patients referred for hindfoot alignment radiographs. These are all
           adults having suffered severe trauma or suffering from osteoarthrosis of the ankle
           joint. No inclusion of vulnerable participants.

        -  Exclusion criteria: Prior surgery, prior fracture, children and adolescents younger than
           the age of 20 years, known pregnancy.

      Measurements and Procedures: Measurement of hindfoot alignment based on conventional
      radiographs and based on biplanar radiographs by two independent radiologists. Comparison of
      measurement results (paired-t-test, Wilcoxon signed-rank test) and calculation of interreader
      agreement (Intraclass correlation coefficient).

      Study Product / Intervention: EOS low-dose biplanar x-ray scanner, EOS imaging, Paris, France
      One scan of the ankle joint to obtain an antero-posterior and lateral view.

      Control Intervention: Conventional x-rays of the ankle joint (a.p., lateral, long axial or
      hindfoot alignment view) as referred from the clinician for treatment planning.

      Number of Participants: 50 adults Based on a power analysis we think that this number of
      patients will enable reliable results. Because we do not know how big the differences between
      the measurements on standard radiographs and measurements on biplanar radiographs will be it
      is very difficult to perform a reasonable power analysis. In prior studies comparing torsion
      measurements on biplanar radiographs with CT measurements we were able to produce reliable
      results with the same number of patients.

      Study Schedule:

      First-Participant-In: June 2014 Last-Participant-Out: May 2015
    
  