
    
      Compartment syndrome (CS) is a serious complication of soft-tissue injuries in patients with
      fractures of the musculoskeletal apparatus. CS is defined as a condition, during which an
      increased tissue pressure inside an enclosed compartment damages the microcirculation and
      neuromuscular function of the tissue, and results in ischemization, with a damage of
      nerve-muscle structures, which lead either to extensive flexion contractures, or myonecroses,
      with the need to perform an early amputation of the affected limb. In traumatology,
      compartment syndrome is most frequently observed in patients with crural fractures, closed as
      well as open fractures, or in cases of crus laceration. Diagnostics of the compartment
      syndrome is very difficult, even today, when numerous emergency osteosyntheses are performed,
      as it depends not only on the clinical examination of the injured patient but also upon
      subjective symptoms, which may not be always clearly apparent and objectively quantifiable in
      a disoriented patient with concussion, or in an unconscious patient. At present,
      intracompartmental pressure is measured with invasive techniques only (with the insertion of
      the measurement needle into the compartment space, and administration of saline), or
      invasively, using piezoelectric probes, similarly to a measurement of pressure in vessels.
      Both these techniques are invasive, and as such may be associated with complications
      (infection at the puncture site, increase of intracompartmental pressure with administration
      of the measuring liquid, or formation of haematoma and bleeding at the probe site).

      Physiological values of intracompartmental pressure vary between 5 and 10 mmHg, in case an
      increase over 20 mmHg is observed, emergency dermatofasciotomy is indicated.

      The presented project is aimed at comparing the invasive and non-invasive techniques of
      compartment syndrome measurement.

      The aim of the project is to develop a new non-invasive examination technique of
      intracompartmental pressure measurement in soft tissues of the injured extremity, with the
      possibility of its observation and continuous monitoring of the measured values.

      Partial aims

        1. Invasive measurement of limb intracompartmental pressure.

        2. Development of a new examination technique for non-invasive measurement of the
           compartment syndrome, in cooperation with researchers from the Technical University
           Ostrava

        3. Measurement of compartment syndrome using the new non-invasive examination technique and
           monitoring of data

      Methods First of all, compartmental pressures in the limbs will be performed using the
      invasive technique. The measurement will be performed also in cases when a fasciotomy was
      indicated and performed, and the authors will monitor the decrease of compartmental pressure
      in the course of treatment. Individual measurements will be recorded and statistically
      analyzed. In the course of measurement, the researchers will work upon the development of a
      new non-invasive examination technique, which will be intended for non-invasive measurement
      of compartmental pressure. The research team will also compare both these techniques, and
      assess the advantages and disadvantages of each of the techniques used.

      Statistical data processing Results of measurements of compartmental pressure using
      individual techniques will be statistically evaluated, depending on the clinical findings at
      the injured extremity.
    
  