
    
      The investigator will be responsible for analyzing the study data. This study is designed as
      an open-label fashion, and thus, no blindness will be maintained during the study. The
      database will not be locked until medical/scientific review has been completed, protocol
      violators have been identified, and data has been declared complete.

      Statistical Methods For the primary endpoint, mean and standard deviation (SD) on the number
      of oocytes will be presented. The between-group difference and corresponding 95% confidence
      interval (CI) (Day-5 fixed protocol - flexible protocol) will be calculated by using a
      two-sample t-test under the assumption that the sample data are normally distributed. A test
      for normality will be performed prior to the analysis on primary endpoint and possible
      nonparametric adjustment will be made for skewed data in terms of primary analyses. The
      non-inferiority will be established if the lower bound of the 95%CI in the treatment
      difference between two groups (Day-5 fixed protocol - flexible protocol) does not exceed
      -3.0. The superiority may be claimed for the Day-5 fixed protocol if the lower bound of 95%CI
      for the treatment difference is above 0.0.

      For the secondary endpoints on categorical variables, the number and percentage of the event
      will be calculated and displayed. Clinical and ongoing pregnancy rates will be separately
      calculated and presented. Between-group comparisons will be made by Chi-square test and the
      corresponding 95%CI will be presented by using Miettinen-Nurminen method if the number of the
      observed events is at least 4. Mean and SD will be summarized for continuous variables in
      terms of secondary outcome measures. A treatment difference between study groups will be made
      by using two-sample t-test or nonparametric test whenever appropriate.

      The number of subjects who have reported adverse experiences (AE) and the incidence of
      individual AEs will be counted and presented. Fisher's exact test will be performed to
      compare between treatment groups.

      Demographics and the subject's relevant medical history will be summarized by descriptive
      statistics.

      All statistical analyses will be two-sided and at a significant level of a p value less than
      0.05, unless otherwise specified.

      Sample Size:

      A sample size of 200 (1:1 allocation) achieves 80% power to detect non-inferiority of the
      Day-5 fixed-dose regimen as compared with the flexible protocol by a margin at -3 oocytes
      retrieved (3 oocytes fewer than the controlled group), using a one-sided, two-sample t-test
      with Mann-Whitney test adjustment at the significance level at 0.025. The true difference
      between the means is assumed to be 0.0 and the standard deviation of both intervention arms
      to be 6.8. The pre-mature discontinuation rate is set at approximately 15% for this study.
    
  