
    
      To develop adequate self-care strategies, patients with lung cancer and their families are in
      need of emotional, informational and behavioural supportive care. Supportive care in cancer
      can reduce symptom burden and improve patients and their families self-management skills. As
      lung cancer incidence continues to rise, and increased attention is given to early diagnosis,
      research on early involvement of lung cancer nurse (LCN) in care, the feasibility and impact
      on patient outcomes is needed.

      Primary aim is to assess the feasibility of a LCN intervention and feasibility to collect
      longitudinal (Baseline, Time1, Time2) patient self-assessment questionnaires at the Thoracic
      Cancer Centre of the University Hospital of Lausanne.

      Secondary aims are: i) to describe self-reported changes in self-efficacy, symptoms and unmet
      supportive care needs across three time points during the first line therapy and ii) to
      explore professional acceptability of the new LCN model evaluating the perceptions of
      barriers and facilitators of the model by the LCN and the other multidisciplinary members of
      the comprehensive lung cancer care team.

      An exact single-stage (no interim analysis) design will be applied to determine feasibility
      for further studies to be undertaken. Lung cancer patients with planned systemic therapy with
      or without radiotherapy will be recruited at the thoracic cancer center in a Swiss University
      Hospital. The LCN model of care consists of two face-to-face consultations alternating with
      two telephone consultations during systemic therapy. LCN consultations will comprise focused
      assessment of physical and psychological symptoms, information (printed and oral) about
      disease and its treatment, therapeutic education concerning strategies to manage physical and
      psychosocial symptoms and review of available support resources. Participants will be invited
      to complete the validated patient reported Lung Cancer Symptom Scale, Supportive Care Needs
      Screening Tool 9 and Self-Efficacy Scale for Lung Cancer. Study data will be collected at
      baseline (day 1 of systemic therapy), time 1 (week 3 of systemic therapy) and time 2 (week 11
      of systemic therapy). Participants will be categorized as adherent if they complete all their
      scheduled LCN consultations and questionnaires. For a 5% probability of accepting a poor
      feasibility (alpha) and a 20% probability of rejecting an acceptable feasibility (beta) we
      then need to enroll 71 patients. Feasibility will be considered as acceptable for further
      studies if at least 36 patients will be compliant. Secondary outcomes will be analyzed
      descriptively for each variable (self-efficacy, symptoms and supportive care needs) across
      each time point. At the end of quantitative data collection, a focus group will be conducted
      to explore acceptability of the new role among health professionals working with the LCN in
      order to identify perceived barriers and facilitators for collaborative work with the new
      role.
    
  