
    
      Plasmodium falciparum malaria is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in tropical and
      sub-tropical areas worldwide. Repeated P. falciparum infections in endemic areas induce
      protective immunity, thus providing optimism that an effective malaria vaccine can be
      developed. Key to the development of such a vaccine is an understanding of the immune
      mechanisms underlying protection and the longevity of these responses in the absence of
      continuous P. falciparum exposure. Anecdotal evidence suggests clinical immunity to malaria
      wanes within months to years after an immune individual leaves an endemic area. A detailed,
      systematic description of the quality and longevity of the P. falciparum-specific humoral and
      cellular immune responses in such individuals over time in the absence of ongoing exposure is
      lacking.

      This protocol will attempt to fill this knowledge gap through comprehensive longitudinal
      immunological analyses of two populations of healthy adult volunteers: 1) naive travelers
      returning from malaria endemic areas recently treated (within 2 weeks) for acute P.
      falciparum malaria and referred from hospitals in the metropolitan Washington DC area; and 2)
      immigrants from malaria endemic areas living in the metropolitan Washington DC area with
      serologic evidence of past P. falciparum exposure. In both groups, venipuncture and possibly
      apheresis will be performed for the isolation of plasma, RNA and peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells (PBMCs) which will be analysed to understand the components of innate and adaptive
      immunity to malaria. Na(SqrRoot) ve travelers returning from malaria endemic areas recently
      treated for acute malaria will undergo venipuncture at enrollment, then once every 2 weeks
      for 2 months, then every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.
      Immigrants will be seen every three months for one year and then every six months for up to 5
      years. All subjects who return to the U.S. from a malaria endemic area will be evaluated
      within two weeks of return for repeat venipuncture and will restart the same sequence of
      blood draws as naive travelers. Optional apheresis will be performed on both na(SqrRoot) ve
      travelers and immigrants at enrollment, at 1, 6, and 12 months, then yearly therafter.

      The primary objective is to estimate the quality and longevity of P. falciparum-specific
      humoral and cellular immune responses in the absence of ongoing P. falciparum exposure in
      both returned na(SqrRoot) ve travelers and immigrants. The secondary objective is to compare
      the P. falciparum-specific humoral and cellular immune response in na(SqrRoot) ve travelers
      and immigrants to individuals in malaria-endemic areas enrolled in ongoing LIG protocols in
      Mali.
    
  