
    
      The Danish Polyposis Register is sited at Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre. From this
      registry consecutive FAP patients referred for esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) will
      prospectively be enrolled in this single-center study. Both patients referred for endoscopic
      surveillance and interventional endoscopy are eligible.

      All patients will be evaluated with both standard HD gastroscope and side-viewing
      duodenoscope; the latter to ensure proper visualization of the major papilla. Movie sequences
      will be saved for post-procedural evaluation. Any sedation or buscopan administered will be
      registered. A biopsy protocol according to the attached CRF will be followed carefully and
      furthermore, if any interventional procedures are carried out, they will be registered as
      well as the presence of any gastric adenomas. In general, the approach is considered standard
      care and the study does not differ from the treatment algorithm and the national guidelines.

      Post-procedural, the movies will be evaluated by three expert endoscopists all having
      long-term experience with FAP patients. In order to assess the inter-observer agreement of
      the Spigelman score, the endoscopic sub-scores by the three experts will be combined with the
      histopathological data. Furthermore, the inter-observer agreement of the endoscopic
      sub-scores will be analyzed separately. To assess the intra-observer agreement, after a
      minimum of one week one of the expert endoscopists will undertake a second evaluation of the
      movies after they have been randomized. The precise same methodology will be carried out for
      three novices. All clinical details will be erased from the movies before evaluation.

      Design: A blinded single-center prospective observation and methodology study with subsequent
      calculation of intra-and inter-observer variability.

      Statistical method: Intra-and inter-observer agreements between 3 operators at for the
      Spigelman score are calculated by weighted kappa statistics (inter class correlation).

      Patients: A complete sample-size calculation has been made for the inter-observer study of
      the 3 observers for the Spigelman Score. To estimate an expected ICC of 0.9 being
      significantly higher than a threshold at 0.8 with power of 0.8 and a one-sided significance
      level of 0.05, 33 patients need to be enrolled in the study per protocol.
    
  