
    
      Formation of a prospective and retrospective infant, adolescent and adult HLH patients
      cohort.

      Collection of clinical and biological, therapeutics, informations, in a register, The
      collection of information is:

        -  To identify clinical and biological criteria specific to HLHa

        -  Classify patients into homogeneous groups, based on clinical biological scalability in
           particular, with regards to their response to treatment

        -  Identify and analyze the behavioral therapy Creation of a bank of biological samples for
           use in the study of the pathophysiology of HLHa.

      Background:

      The hemophagocytic syndrome in infant, adolescent and adults (HLH) is a serious and often
      lethal condition. The study of literature series HLHa shows that these syndromes frequently
      develop in immunocompromised patients (renal transplant, HIV, collagen in Processing
      immunosuppressants) in the course of a viral infection. HLH syndrome has also been described
      as a clinical form of lymphoma or connective disease (lupus). These clinical forms are rare,
      severe and recurrent suggesting the possibility that immune deficiency could be involved. The
      study of pediatric forms has definitely established a link between HLH syndrome and the
      presence of immune deficiency by identifying the nature of the latter. Four genetically
      determined diseases are manifested by HLH syndrome. These conditions are Family
      lymphohistiocytosis (LHF) syndrome, Chediak-Higashi CHS syndrome, Griscelli (GS) type 2
      syndromes and X-linked lymphoproliferative (XLP 1 and 2). The mutated genes are respectively
      perforin Unc 13.4 and syntaxin in the LHF2, 3, 4 (10q locus genetic for LHF 1), CHS1/LYST
      (Lysosomal Trafficking regulator) in the CHS, in the Rab27a GS type 2, and XIAP and SH2D1A in
      the XLP. It is now well established that proteins encoded by these genes are necessary for
      the cytotoxic function of CD8 + and in the absence of these proteins is the cytotoxocity CD8
      + deficient. Also, closed clinical and biological characteristics shared by pediatric genetic
      and adult forms suggest the existence of immune defects responsible for some or all HLH adult
      patients.
    
  