
    
      The incidence of gastrointestinal allergy is on the rise and can be manifest in a number of
      different clinical presentations. The goal of this study is to evaluate the measurement of
      CD23, a protein that can be identified stool, urine, and blood, as a non-invasive marker for
      use in the diagnosis and interval assessment of patients with known or suspected
      gastrointerstianl allergy.

      Eosinophilic esophagitis (EE) is a disorder typically found in school-age and adolescent
      children, and is more prevalent in male patients. Patients with EE typically present with
      symptoms of heartburn or difficulties swallowing. Blood and x-ray studies may be normal or
      display non-specific findings. The diagnosis of EE rests on a combination of clinical
      symptoms, and the results of endoscopic and histologic studies. The endoscopic appearance of
      esophageal mucosa in these patients is often pale and displays a poor vascular pattern. The
      mucosa can be thickened in appearance. Esophagitis in patients with acid/peptic disease is
      typically more pronounced at the bottom of the esophagus, in the region of the
      gastroesophageal junction. In contrast, the mucosal disease observed in patients with EE is
      often more pronouced in the proximal esophagus. Treatment may include topial steroids
      (delivered systemically or via metered-dose inhaler) and formal allergy evaluation to detect
      potential dietary triggers. Anti-allergic therapies, including monteleukostat, benedryl,
      antihistimines, and cromolyn sodium have also been proposed as treatments for EE. Treatment
      efficacy is determined by a combination of clinical report and serial endoscopic study. There
      is currently no biochemical marker that can be used to monitor disease course in these
      patients.

      Cow milk protein intolerance (CMPI) is an allergic process affecting the distal
      gastrointestinal tract in infants. As such, it often presents as diarrhea without or without
      the presence of gross rectal bleeding in infants ranging in age from birth to 6 months of
      age. Children display symptoms of abdominal disress including cramping, colic, or feeding
      difficulties. Emesis after feeds may also be present. Affected children display loose and
      more frequent bowel movements. Stools in these patients may contain mucus as well as
      microscopic or visible blood. In most patients, the diagnosis is based on an appropriate
      clinical history and supporting physical exam (typically normal). Treatment involves removal
      of the offending dietary antigens which include cow or soy milk protein. A small percentage
      of patients (< 5%) require formal endoscopic study. The mucosa in these patients appears
      erythematous, friable, and can display a patchy distribution of inflammation. Histologic exam
      reveals varying degrees of eosinophic infiltration of the intestinal tissue. Eosinophilic
      crypt abscesses, or collections of eosinophils within the intestine can also be seen.
      Patients responding to therapy will display normalization of stool frequency, decreased
      symptoms of abdominal discomfort, and an absence of gross or microscopic intestinal bleeding.

      CD23 is a protein that can be found on allergy-type white blood cells (eosinophils), as well
      as on the cells that line the gastrointestinal tract. Previous studies have reported
      increased levels of CD23 in infants with cow's milk allergy. CD23 is also elevated in infants
      and children with allergic disease, when compared to to children without apparent atopic
      disease. Moreover, the level of CD23 appears to fall in conjunction with therapy.

      The development of non-invasive markers of intestinal allergy would facilitate diagnosis as
      well as provide clinicians with a tool to assess patients compliance and response to therapy.
      The relationship between levels of serum, urinary, and fecal CD23 levels has not been
      previously studied in patients with known or suspected intestinal allergy.

      Subjects in this study will be asked to provide a blood, urine, and stool sample when they
      present with symptoms or either cow milk protein intolerance or eosinophilic esophagitis.
      Blood will only be obtained if clinical samples are requested, and no extra blood drawing
      will be required for participation in this study. Similar blood, urine, and stool specimens
      will be obtained after the patient has been placed on anti-atopic therapy and is experiencing
      clinical remission.
    
  