
    
      Research to understand the sources of health disparities has acknowledged that in addition to
      biomedical risk factors, culture plays an important role in differential health outcomes.
      Consequently, understanding cultural differences that may influence health behavior is key in
      working towards reducing these disparities. Causal attributions are a key component of
      individuals illness perceptions and thus impact health behaviors, which may present as health
      disparities at a population level. While research has explored non-Hispanic White women s
      causal attributions of breast cancer, less is known about Latina s beliefs about the causes
      of breast cancer, and little is known about causal attributions of colon cancer in any
      population. Understanding Latina s causal attributions of breast and colon cancer may provide
      insight into the determinants of cancer disparities in this population. Because a subset of
      both breast and colon cancers result from single gene mutations, which confer an increased
      risk of developing such cancers, understanding causal attributions in Latina populations is
      relevant to the field of genetics. This is especially true since Latinas have historically
      underutilized cancer genetic risk assessment counseling and testing services. As these
      services become a standard part of general healthcare provision, it will become increasingly
      important to understand ways in which different cultural groups interact with genetic
      information. One way this can be done is through investigating culturally informed mental
      models of disease risk and inheritance. This study seeks to describe causal attributions of
      breast and colon cancer and to explore mental models of disease inheritance among Latina
      immigrants. A qualitative exploratory design including interviews comprised of free-listing,
      ranking, and open-ended questions will be used. Participants will be recruited through the
      NIH Clinical Research Volunteer Program as well as using other resources within the Office of
      Participant Recruitment. First, we will describe Latina s causal attributions for these
      cancers. Next, we will use cultural consensus theory (CCT) to identify and describe common
      cultural models of causes of these cancers. Finally, we will explore Latina s mental models
      of disease inheritance using both free-listing and openended questions.

      2. Objectives and specific aims.

      The objective of this study is to describe the cultural models of Latina immigrants regarding
      causal attributions of breast and colon cancer as well as to explore this group s mental
      models of disease inheritance.

      Aim #1: To identify the main causal attributions of breast and colon cancers among Latina
      immigrants.

      Aim #2: To use cultural consensus analysis to identify the presence or absence of shared
      cultural models of causal attributions for breast and colon cancers among participants.

      Aim #3: To describe the mental models of disease inheritance held by members of the Latina
      immigrant population.

      3. Brief Rationale and Background:

      Latinos in the United States

      Hispanic or Latino is currently the largest minority group in the United States, constituting
      17% of the population as of 2013 according to the U.S. Census Bureau. In Maryland
      specifically, the 2010 census found 8.3% of the population to be Hispanic or Latino, and as
      of July 2014, the U.S. Census Bureau estimates that 9.2% of the Maryland population is
      Hispanic or Latino. Notably, the absolute number of Hispanics or Latinos in Maryland doubled
      during the period 2000-2010, indicating the high level of growth in this segment of the
      population (http://quickfacts.census.gov/qfd/states/24000lk.html). The U.S. Office of
      Management and Budget (OMB) defines Hispanic or Latino as a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto
      Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin regardless of race
      (http://www.census.gov/topics/population/hispanic-origin/about.html). For the purposes of
      this proposal, the terms Latino/a will refer to people of Spanish-speaking countries of the
      Western hemisphere, and Latino/a immigrants will refer to persons born in one of these
      countries who have since immigrated to the United States. Notably, this working definition
      excludes people of Spanish or Brazilian nationality or descent, mainly due to the cultural
      focus of this investigation.
    
  