
    
      A medical or surgical emergency is a stressful life event. An emergency department is also a
      noisy and sometimes chaotic environment, contributing in itself to increase the anxiety
      related to the primary cause of the emergency consultation. Some common medical procedures,
      such as placing an intravenous catheter, may not only induce pain, but may exacerbate
      patients' anxiety or pre-existing pain. The well-being of patients, especially during
      invasive medical procedures, can however be improved by various communication techniques.
      However, the medical literature and clinical observation have shown that negative words are
      traditionally used to warn patients of an impending painful stimulus. However, contrary to
      common beliefs and practices, this type of warning can increase pain and anxiety. Using words
      with negative emotional content has an even greater impact than the positive impact of using
      words with positive emotional content. However, studies that have explored the impact of such
      messages suffer from two limitations: first, they were not conducted in the context of
      emergency department, and second, the effect attributable to healthcare providers themselves
      was not studied. However, healthcare providers who deliver a message with a positive or
      negative content in the context of a study are not blinded to message, therefore are aware of
      the arm of the intervention. This lack of double-blinding may introduces a bias, namely that
      the benefit of a positive message can be linked to healthcare providers and their global
      interaction with patients, and not just to verbal content. of the message. It is indeed
      possible that the caregivers, in a more or less conscious way, add in their communication
      elements congruent with the message studied, whether in the field of verbal or nonverbal
      communication (tone of voice, warmth, empathy , etc.).

      The purpose of this study is therefore to investigate whether the modulation of information
      relating to the setting up of a CIP in emergencies has an impact on patients' pain and their
      level of anxiety. It also seeks to determine if this effect is comparable, whether the
      message is delivered by a standardized audio recording or by caregivers. Finally, it aims to
      explore whether there are differences in the assessment of pain and anxiety made by patients
      and that made by caregivers.

      Statistical analysis will be realized using the Stata software, version 14 (StataCorp, Tx,
      USA). Descriptive data will be presented by mean and standard deviation, median and
      interquartile space or proportions regarding continuous gaussian, non-gaussian and
      categorical variables. Comparison between randomized groups will be done by using non paired
      Student t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test regarding continuous variables, and by Chi2 test or
      Fisher exact regarding categorical variables, according to what is appropriate.

      This study aims to demonstrate the superiority of an informative message with positive
      content over pain perception during intravenous cannulation. Statistical power is set at 80%
      to prove a difference, with alpha threshold at 0.05. Mean pain intensity is estimated at 34
      mm on a Visual Analog Scale (possible intensity from 0 to 100 mm), with an estimated standard
      deviation at 24 mm. To detect the smallest clinically significative decrease in pain
      intensity (13 mm) caused by the intervention, a sample of 110 patients, that is 55 patients
      per group, is needed. Taking missing data or post-randomization patient withdrawal (estimated
      at 10%) into account, 60 patients will be randomized per group. A minimum of 240 patients in
      total for the two phases (that is the four arms of the study) will be needed to be enrolled.
    
  