
    
      Hemangioblastomas of the cerebellum, brainstem and spinal cord are frequent tumors in
      patients with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease. Rarely, these lesions also affect the
      cerebrum. Patients often have multiple lesions, many of which are associated with cysts or
      syrinx. The current treatment for symptomatic lesions is surgical resection. Focused
      radiation is also being used in selected cases in an attempt to provide tumor control. The
      natural history of central nervous system (CNS) lesions in patients with VHL has not been
      addressed in a prospective study. It is not clear at which point these lesions will begin to
      grow, or develop cysts in the cerebellum or syrinx in the spinal cord, and systemic factors
      that influence tumor growth have not been identified. By identifying factors that predict or
      influence tumor progression or cyst development, we can more accurately recommend surgical or
      medical intervention at appropriate times and avoid unnecessary treatment for stable lesions.
      This study will collect prospective radiological and clinical data on growth of the central
      nervous system (CNS) hemangioblastomas and associated cysts. We will also prospectively
      collect information on systemic processes that may influence tumor progression, such as
      puberty, menopause, pregnancy, effects of hormone therapy, tumor load, serum erythropoeitin
      level and hemoglobin/hematocrit levels.

      This natural history study has resulted in significant improvement in our understanding of
      the pathophysiology of VHL disease. Data from this study have resulted in a better
      understanding of the origin and growth patterns of hemangioblastomas, and endolymphatic sac
      tumors in patients with VHL disease. New therapies targeting hemangioblastomas in VHL disease
      are being devised based on information gathered from this study. We expect this natural
      history disease to continue to inspire new hypothesis driven studies while improving the
      understanding and management of hemangioblastomas in VHL disease.
    
  