
    
      The primary aim of this study is to test the effectiveness of a peer mentor-led,
      quality-improvement model of service delivery of integrated HIV-TB treatment on mortality in
      HIV-TB co-infected patients treated in rural primary health care clinics in KwaZulu-Natal,
      South Africa

      Specific Objectives (i) To determine the impact of a QI-mediated HIV-TB service integration
      on patient mortality. All patients that access services in intervention and control clinics,
      via either the TB entry point or via the HIV entry point will be tracked during clinic
      follow-up visits or, through a community care giver, and will have their vital status
      ascertained 12 months after clinic randomization.

      (ii) To determine the effectiveness of peer-led Quality Improvement (QI) to integrate HIV-TB
      services. The effect, on HIV-TB integrated processes of care, of the deployment of a QI
      approach (systems view, data driven decision making, culture of continuous improvement,
      trained peer mentors) to ensure uniform implementation of an essential package of evidence
      based HIV-TB interventions that support HIV-TB integration. The impact on clinical outcomes
      of using QI methods to implement integrated HIV and TB management will be assessed using the
      following indicators: Time to ART initiation among HIV infected TB suspects and cases; HIV
      testing rates in TB patients; Number of HIV-TB co-infected patients receiving co-treatment
      for TB and HIV at the same facility; Number of patients infected with HIV or TB that are
      retained in care at 12 months; Indicators of treatment adherence such as - number of HIV
      patients that are virologically suppressed at 12 months and TB treatment outcomes;
      Hospitalisation rates among patients receiving co-treatment for TB and HIV.

      (iii) To identify clinic-level factors that impact on integrated HIV-TB services.
      Understanding the context (environmental, social and political factors) in which we are
      working is essential to identifying factors that promote or inhibit the implementation of the
      intervention. We will use the COACH tool (Context Assessment for Community Health) [8] to
      collect data and assess the organizational context and the influence of factors such as
      organizational culture, leadership, resources and HCWs remuneration etc. on the intervention

      (iv) To determine the cost-effectiveness of implementing HIV-TB services using Quality
      Improvement methodology (Intervention Clinics) versus the base-case of implementing HIV-TB
      services independently, through a within-trial approach using both health service (e.g.
      training, remuneration) and patient costs (e.g. travel, opportunity costs) as inputs. We will
      also calculate total intervention costs to assess its affordability and explore
      cost-effectiveness under various scenarios (e.g. different TB-HIV co-infection rates) using
      decision analytical modeling.

      (v) To identify a set of interventions, change ideas, tools and approaches that can be used
      to scale up adoption, implementation and sustainability of integrated HIV-TB services across
      South Africa and in other resource constrained settings.

      (vi) To strengthen the capacity of CAPRISA to independently perform implementation research
      in PRDs, including community-randomized trials and health economic analysis, through expert
      mentoring and supervision of PhD programmes.
    
  