
    
      Inhalational anesthetic agents have been used since the mid 1800s to help alleviate pain
      associated with labor. James Simpson and John Snow initially utilized ether and chloroform
      respectively in 1847 and 1853. Stanislav Klikovich followed in his predecessors footsteps and
      successfully administered nitrous oxide for labor analgesia in 1881. Although many
      inhalational agents have been considered for labor analgesia since that time, the
      administration of nitrous oxide has been refined over the last century and remains a common
      practice for obstetrical anesthesia today. Since that time, nitrous oxide has been found to
      be an effective labor analgesia for many women, although providing less pain relief compared
      then a labor epidural, it has been found to be safe for the mother, baby, and health care
      providers.

      Nitrous oxide is currently used by 60% of laboring women in the United Kingdom, 50% of women
      who deliver in Australia and nearly 50% of all parturients in Canada and Finland. This
      compares to a recent article which reported that only two United States hospitals routinely
      offer nitrous oxide for labor analgesia as the majority of laboring women request an
      epidural. The epidural rate in the Unites States averages nearly 90% compared to only 14-38%
      in other parts of the world.

      Nitrous oxide is an easy to administer non-flammable, odorless inhalational agent that
      produces both analgesia and anxiolysis. It is believed the mechanism of action of nitrous
      oxide is through the release of endogenous opioid peptides into the periaqueductal gray area
      of the midbrain which stimulates descending noradrenergic pathways resulting in analgesia.
      These pathways modulate pain in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord through alpha-2
      adrenoreceptors. Anxiolytic effects are thought to be caused by inhibition of
      N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. In a Swedish study involving 1,997 parturients
      utilizing inhaled nitrous oxide as the sole anesthetic for labor analgesia, 37.6% of
      participants reported effective pain relief.

      Currently, the rate of labor epidural analgesia at Magee Womens Hospital is approximately
      90%. There are many advantages to the use of nitrous oxide for labor analgesia compared to an
      epidural. Complications associated with labor epidural analgesia can include infection,
      bleeding, headache, and wet-tap. These complications can result in a prolonged hospital stay
      that is not associated with the use of nitrous oxide for labor analgesia.

      One of the biggest advantages of the use of nitrous oxide for labor analgesia is the
      significantly lower cost to administer compared to an epidural. In a recent article in the
      Birth journal, it was noted that the use of nitrous oxide is far less expensive and much
      simpler than epidural analgesia and does not result in complications requiring additional
      treatments and prolonged hospital stays. The use of nitrous could have major financial
      benefits for both Medicaid and private insurance companies. In 2004, the largest cost for
      these insurance entities was the cost to care for pregnant and laboring women which was
      reported to cost $41 billion. The most significant cost savings would be the reduction in
      anesthesia services. Currently average cost per patient for anesthesia staff coverage is 728
      dollars. Average re-imbursement for a labor epidural placement is 385 dollars. Nitrous oxide
      does not require anesthesia staff to implement, saving health care dollars. After the initial
      investment of the nitrous oxide machine, the only additional cost would be the tubing and
      mask for the patient and the nitrous oxide and oxygen E-cylinders for delivery.

      With Nitrous oxide having many qualities that make it an attractive choice for labor
      analgesia, many anesthesia providers are questioning its limited use in the United States. It
      is speculated that it may be cultural issue and that women make decisions regarding labor
      analgesia based on learned experiences of family and friends, many of whom have not heard of
      or used nitrous oxide to cope with labor pains. Another reason may be that some authors argue
      that nitrous oxide is an orphan drug with no pizzazz for professional groups or companies to
      profit from its use as it causes environmental and occupational hazards which limit its use.
      No definitive opinion exists to answer this question. Finally, some authors suggest its use
      is limited due to the disadvantages of nitrous oxide, which include the possibility to cause
      mood alterations, euphoria, impaired mentation, dysphoria, inappropriate behaviors and nausea
      and vomiting. These side effects are limited through a number of fail-safe mechanisms built
      into the nitrous oxide machine which includes the delivery of at least 30% oxygen and 3
      liters of fresh gas flow. In addition the proper use includes self administration under
      direct supervision of a trained provider while the nitrous oxide is in use.
    
  