
    
      Purpose and Design

      The aim of the PROFILE study is to investigate the role of targeted prostate cancer screening
      in men with a family history of the disease and with the role of specific genetic profiles
      and biomarkers (both biological samples and DWMRI). This study has been designed using an
      observational approach to look at the correlation of cancer incidence (on biopsy) with
      genetic profile. The aim is to evaluate targeted screening for prostate cancer in men with a
      family history of the disease, to estimate the incidence of prostate cancer and the
      sensitivity and specificity of PSA screening in these populations and correlate this with
      single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) profiles and biological endpoints.

      Two cohorts will be recruited:

        1. Men with family history of prostate cancer.

        2. Men of AfroCaribbean descent.

      Men with no prior screening will be offered immediate biopsy and genetic profiling. This will
      provide data on genetic profiling and correlation with biopsy irrespective of PSA in men who
      have not had any previous screening.

      A PSA screening algorithm was considered as an alternative to biopsy but there is great
      controversy over the PSA threshold that should be used as a cut-off. Recent data have shown
      that a considerable percentage of men with a PSA within normal range have cancer at biopsy.
      Therefore it has been decided by the Steering Committee that all participants should be
      offered a biopsy within this study. This will tell us the acceptability of this approach.

      Some men may opt not to have biopsy. These men will be followed up six monthly PSA and biopsy
      performed if PSA is above or equal to 1.0ng/ml if the man is aged under 50 years, or where
      PSA is above or equal to 2.0ng/ml if the man is aged fifty years or over.

      Eligibility and Recruitment

      Men with either:

        1. A positive family history of PrCa defined as:

             -  Men with a first degree relative (or second degree if through female line) with
                histologically or death certificate proven PrCa diagnosed at <70 years

             -  Men with two relatives on the same side of the family with histologically or death
                certificate proven PrCa where at least one is diagnosed at <70 years

             -  Men with three relatives on the same side of the family with histologically or
                death certificate proven PrCa diagnosed at any age

        2. Of African or Caribbean ancestry defined as:

      Both parents and all 4 grandparents from that origin

        -  Age 40- 69 years

        -  WHO performance status 02 (see Appendix A)

        -  Absence of any psychological, familial, sociological or geographical situation
           potentially hampering compliance with the study protocol and follow up schedule.

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Previous cancer with a life expectancy of less than five years.

        -  Previous PrCa

        -  Negative biopsy within one year before recruitment

        -  Comorbidities making prostate biopsy risk unacceptable (Warfarin or Clopidogrel).

        -  Contraindications to having an MRI (pacemakers, aneurysm clips, claustrophobia)

      Subject Withdrawal

      o Subjects may withdraw from the study at any time if they so wish without giving a reason.
      No further data will be collected about that individual, and any unused samples will be
      destroyed. Data collected up to that point will be retained for audit purposes.

      Cancer cases Men who are found to have prostate cancer at biopsy will be referred to their
      local urologist for treatment according to local policy. Men will be followed up for 10 years
      in order to evaluate the different treatment regimens.

      Genetic Profiling All men will have genetic profiling to correlate with disease status and
      men will be given the results of this test. It will be emphasised that these are research
      results and written information will be provided as a reference guide.

      Informed Consent All subjects will be informed of the aims of the study, the possible adverse
      events, the procedures and possible hazards to which he will be exposed, and the mechanism of
      treatment allocation if prostate cancer was to be diagnosed. He will be informed as to the
      strict confidentiality of his patient data, but that his medical records may be reviewed for
      trial purposes by authorised individuals other than their treating physician.

      It will be emphasised that the participation is voluntary and that the subject is allowed to
      refuse further participation in the protocol whenever he wants. This will not prejudice the
      subject's subsequent care. Documented informed consent will be obtained, according to the
      principals of good clinical practice (GCP), for all subjects included in the study before
      they are registered onto the study.

      Risks, burdens, benefits There is a risk of complications from having a prostate biopsy, and
      these complications are detailed in the patient information sheet, together with likelihood
      of incidence. Complications are rare and standard procedures will be followed at all sites to
      minimise their occurrence. The benefit of taking part may be that prostate cancer may be
      diagnosed in men previously unaware that they had the disease. While there is the potential
      for overdiagnosis of indolent disease, there is also the potential for detecting and treating
      clinically significant disease.

      Provision of results from the genetic profiling One further consideration is the occurrence
      of anxiety as a result of taking part in the study, particularly in receiving research
      genetic test results. There is considerable uncertainty about how genetic profile relates to
      predicted risk of prostate cancer. For this reason individualised written information will be
      provided to each participant putting the research results in the context of the current
      population risks. It will be stressed that these are research results only and that the
      investigators do not fully understand the meaning of the results.

      A psychosocial study is being run concurrently and will explore these issues in more depth
      and the participant's experience of receiving these results will be an important component of
      the evaluation of this study.

      Confidentiality All information which is collected will be accessible only to the immediate
      study team. Any data that is shared will be de-identified and any published data will be
      anonymised so that no participant is recognisable from the results.

      Medical records and the data collected for the study may be looked at by authorised persons
      from the Institute of Cancer Research, by regulatory authorities and by authorised people to
      check that the study is being carried out correctly. All will have a duty of confidentiality
      to participants.

      End of Study Follow-up After the participant has completed the study they will be advised
      about any ongoing screening or follow-up that is required. This will be organised through the
      participants general practitioner (GP).

      Use of samples in future research The informed consent process will explain that samples are
      donated as a "gift". If any of the samples collected are to be considered for use in future
      research projects this would have to be approved by the Ethics Committee first.
    
  