
    
      Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has been used as a minimally invasive option to eradicate
      tumors and preserve liver function in patients with impaired function or with a postoperative
      tumor recurrence. RFA can be curative with small localized HCCs up to 5 cm in diameter.
      However, the long-term prognosis for HCC patients treated with RFA is not satisfactory due to
      the high incidence of recurrence including local tumor recurrence and multicentric
      carcinogenesis.

      Multimodality treatments are needed to prevent recurrences. Although there is a potential
      benefit with this strategy, it is only useful with locoregional disease. Sorafenib is an oral
      multi-kinase inhibitor and the only systemic drug associated with improved overall survival
      (OS) in patients with advanced HCC.

      Retrospective and randomized studies have suggested that the combined use of Sorafenib, TACE,
      and RFA may be useful in patients with unresectable HCC. Based on these information and the
      multiple actions of Sorafenib, we hypothesized that Sorafenib plus RFA may be useful in
      patients with early HCC or recurrent HCC. Although no supportive data from clinical trials is
      available, this hypothesis is supported by recent animal studies. Inadequate RFA has been
      shown to promote rapid progression of residual tumors. Adjuvant Sorafenib postponed time to
      recurrence by inhibition of hypoxia inducible factor-1and vascular endothelial growth factor
      A (VEGFA). In a multifocal tumor model of HCC, RFA and Sorafenib alone resulted in a
      significant volume reduction of non-RFA-targeted tumors, but this effect was enhanced when
      both modalities were combined. This phenomenon was also demonstrated by more recent study on
      human subject.

      Besides the advantages, Sorafenib initially promoted necrosis, delayed tissue repair after
      RFA and adversely affected normal liver parenchyma, which could result in increased RFA
      toxicity and limit its use in patients with HCC who have undergone RFA. Thus, the overall
      advantages of RFA plus Sorafenib need to be weighed against its adverse effects. In this
      investigation, we evaluated the safety and efficacy of a combination Sorafenib and RFA
      therapy in patients with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) Stage 0 -B1 HCC in a
      multicenter prospective cohort study.

      Outcome measures: Post-RFA tumor recurrence
    
  