
    
      Nutrition and mindful movement program activities will take place during the school day.
      Children will be given the opportunity understand the value of quality nutrition in the
      prevention com-morbidities of treatment and poor lifestyle choices. The intervention will
      consist of ten sessions. This includes pre- and post-assessments (weeks 1 and 10) and eight
      weekly 1-hour interactive culinary medicine education sessions. Children will be asked
      questions about their diet, feelings, physical activity. Height, weight, waist circumference,
      and grip strength will also be measured. This will take about one hour prior to beginning the
      education portion of our program. Each week, \a nutrition lecture, a cooking demo and fitness
      activities will be completed over two-45 minutes sessions during PE class. These hands-on
      applied nutrition sessions include fundamental of nutrition, cooking skills, cooking skills,
      and activities. Experiential or hands-on applied learning, including culturally appropriate
      meal preparation and personalized nutrition and mindful movements, represents a potential
      tool to increase adolescent health literacy as well as empower adolescent to engage their
      families. Cooking as medicine helps people make the healthy behavior changes they are seeking
      because it allows hands-on teaching and learning in a fun interactive environment, without
      stigma. This strategy encompasses combination of thinking and doing skills that are applied
      during home food preparation, as well as conceptual and perceptual abilities on food
      handling, safety and storage, and other factors related to nutrition. The delivery of cooking
      as medicine programs serves as a way to improve and promote confidence, well-being, and
      enhance meal quality and preparation practices and offer a valuable platform to engage
      children and families via inclusive social activities, whilst positively impacting their
      dietary profiles and health outcomes.
    
  