
    
      This is a pilot study in which we intend to determine the moment in which biomarkers begin to
      be detected in non-viable pregnancies, in order to subsequently be able to develop specific
      studies focused on that moment. The following visits will be required:

      SCREENING VISIT: To be performed before β-hCG test. After recruitment and signing informed
      consent, patients will be assigned with a three-letter code identifying the clinic and three
      numbers indicating the order in which the patient is recruited by each clinic.

      β-hCG VISIT: To be performed the day of the β-hCG test (week 4):

      - Peripheral blood samples will be collected for Progesterone (P4), Kisspeptin 54 and
      miR-324-3p analysis.

      In case of negative result, patient will be out of the study. In case of positive result,
      β-hCG test > 10 UI/L, patient will continue with the following visits.

      SUBSEQUENT BLOOD EXTRACTION VISITS: To be performed on Mondays and Thursdays or Tuesdays and
      Fridays of each week from β-hCG test until non-viable pregnancy is confirmed or between weeks
      6 and 8 when viable pregnancy is confirmed (a maximum of 10 blood sample extractions):

        -  Peripheral blood samples will be collected Progesterone (P4), Kisspeptin 54 and
           miR-324-3p will be analysed in these samples. Blood collection will be performed each
           day in a different arm, allowing a period between extractions in each arm of one week.

        -  In addition, an optional transvaginal ultrasound scan will be performed before each
           blood sample if patient wishes.

      In case of pregnancy of unknown location (PUL), protocol will continue until VP or NVP is
      confirmed.

      If NVP is confirmed before clinical pregnancy visit, patient will undergo an end of study
      visit.

      CLINICAL PREGNANCY VISIT: To be performed between weeks 5+2 and 5+6, the same day that one of
      the subsequent blood extractions:

      - A transvaginal ultrasound scan will be performed before the blood sample extraction.

      In case of non-viable pregnancy, patient will perform the end of study visit. In case of
      clinical pregnancy, patient will continue with the following visits.

      ONGOING PREGNANCY VISIT: To be performed between weeks 6 and 8, the same day that one of the
      subsequent blood extractions:

      - A transvaginal ultrasound scan will be performed before the blood sample extraction. VP
      will be confirmed with this ultrasound scan.

      In case of non-viable pregnancy, patient will undergo the end of study visit. In case of
      viable pregnancy, patient will undergo the end of study visit in week 10 of pregnancy.

      END OF STUDY VISIT: To be performed after an ultrasound scan when NVP is confirmed or in week
      10 of pregnancy. The following samples will be collected:

      In case of ectopic pregnancy:

      - Peripheral blood samples for Progesterone (P4), Kisspeptin 54 and miR-324-3p analysis.

      In case of clinical miscarriage:

      - Peripheral blood samples for Progesterone (P4), Kisspeptin 54 and miR-324-3p analysis.

      In case of Biochemical pregnancy:

        -  Peripheral blood samples for Progesterone (P4), Kisspeptin 54 and miR-324-3p analysis.

        -  Blood sample for KIR typing.

        -  Blood samples of patient and partner for HLA-C typing. If partner does not attend to
           this visit, his sample may be collected in the following 3 weeks.

        -  Blood samples for detection of miRNAs related with insulin resistance, miR-424-5p and
           miR-15b.

        -  Oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), including blood sample analysis before 75 g of
           glucose consumption and after 1h and 2 h.

        -  Uterine biopsy in the month in which the biochemical pregnancy is confirmed or in the
           following month (in P + 5) for detection of miRNAs related with insulin resistance,
           miR-424-5p and miR-15b.

      In case of viable pregnancy in week 10 of gestation:

        -  Peripheral blood samples for Progesterone (P4), Kisspeptin 54 and miR-324-3p analysis.

        -  Blood sample for KIR typing.

        -  Blood samples of patient and partner for HLA-C typing. If partner does not attend to
           this visit, his sample may be collected in the following 3 weeks.

        -  Blood samples for detection of miRNAs related with insulin resistance, miR-424-5p and
           miR-15b.

        -  Data of an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) that patients perform routinely in the
           first trimester of pregnancy will be required.
    
  