
    
      To be included in the study, these subjects with unilateral non-traumatic, non-chronic neck
      pain (operationally defined as neck pain with mobility deficits lasting less than 3 months)
      shall have numeric pain rating scale (NPRS) of between 0 and 5 out of 10 as the most painful
      neck movement even with passive scapular elevation, neck disability index (NDI) of between 16
      and 50 out of 100%, resting systolic and diastolic blood pressure between 90/60 and 138/88,
      and resting heart rate between 60 and 90. Subjects are excluded if they are current smoker,
      over 50 years of age, has a history of fainting spells or loss of consciousness, is on blood
      thinners, is taking medications for or have a history of diabetes mellitus, neurologic or
      cardiovascular disease, has a history of spinal surgeries, and has neck pain classified or
      associated with headache, radiating pain, and movement coordination impairments. A
      convenience sample of subjects will be randomly allocated to 1 of 2 groups. Both Group 1: AP
      and Group 2: LAT will receive posterior pressures and lateral glides respectively to one
      hypomobile segment. Baseline NPRS, and NDI will be collected at the initial visit. Systolic
      blood pressure (SBP) and heart rate (HR) will be measured with a OMRON automatic monitor
      recording time points: (1) 5 minutes, and (2) 7 minutes after lying supine; (3) during the
      1st set, (4) 5th set of one of the glides, (5) 2 minutes after time point #4, and (6) 4
      minutes after time point #4. After time point #6, a global rating of change (GROC) will
      immediately be collected based on the most painful neck movement. A finger pulse oximeter
      will be placed on the subjects' index finger to constantly monitor their pulse rate for
      slowing heart rate or asystole. The primary author will perform one of the techniques on all
      subjects. After one visit, a follow-up NPRS, and NDI will be collected again.
    
  