
    
      Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that can develop after
      experiencing a terrifying event or ordeal in which grave physical harm occurred or was
      threatened. People with PTSD have persistent frightening thoughts and memories about the
      traumatic event and may experience sleep problems, feel detached or numb, or be easily
      startled. Studies have shown that PTSD occurs at high rates among people with serious mental
      illnesses (SMI), such as bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and major depression. Research has
      also proven that cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is an effective PTSD treatment for
      caucasians living in rural areas when it is administered by a PhD-level clinician. It is not
      clear, however, how successful this treatment will be when it is delivered to a minority
      population by frontline mental health clinicians in an urban setting. This study will
      evaluate the effectiveness of tailored CBT in treating PTSD in people with additional mental
      illnesses who live in urban areas of New Jersey.

      Participants in this 4- to 5-month open-label study will be randomly assigned to receive
      either brief PTSD treatment or CBT. Participants assigned to brief PTSD treatment will have
      three meetings with a therapist per week. Participants will learn about PTSD, how symptoms
      may be affecting their lives, and a technique for reducing anxiety associated with PTSD.
      Participants assigned to CBT will attend 12 to 16 counseling sessions per week or every other
      week. Participants will learn about PTSD and ways to decrease anxiety associated with PTSD by
      completing homework assignments and practicing skills learned in counseling sessions.
      Outcomes will be assessed for all participants through interviews that will occur immediately
      post-treatment, 6 months post-treatment, and 1 year post-treatment.

      For information on a related study, please follow this link:

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00053690
    
  