
    
      In the past, prostate cancer has been regarded a relatively benign disease, which elderly men
      were expected to die with rather than from, however, prostate cancer has become the second
      most common non-skin cancer in Danish men and the second most common cause of male cancer
      death. Two out of three patients with clinically significant prostate cancer die from and not
      with their cancer disease, and the misery of this population is evident. Regular treatments
      with opiates or equivalent drugs as well are required in nearly one third of the patients.

      Patients with advanced hormone insensitive (refractory) prostate cancer have a median
      survival rate of about one year and during this time they often suffer from anemia due to
      reasons like blood loss, tumor infiltration of the bone marrow and even treatment with
      androgen deprivation. Compared to patients with other cancer types patients with prostate
      cancer have a significantly lower mean haemoglobin level. However, patients with hormone
      refractory prostate cancer have not previously been given much attention and the treatment of
      the frequent condition of chronic anemia in this group of patients seems casual. Therefore,
      Best Standard of Care (BSC) is defined as RBC transfusion if the hemoglobin is < 5,0 mmol/L
      (8,0 g/dl), and if there are signs or symptoms of anemia and supplemental iron if se-ferritin
      < 200 mcg/L.

      Very little is known about erythropoietin treatment and quality of life in hormone refractory
      prostate cancer patients. A randomized Swedish study did investigate the influence of two
      different doses of epoetin beta on quality of life, hemoglobin level, need for red blood cell
      transfusion and safety, in the treatment of anemia in 180 patients suffering from advanced
      hormone-refractory prostate cancer. This study found the treatment to be safe and effective
      for the treatment in many of these patients. In many of these critically ill patients, the
      treatment improved quality of life and relieved fatigue symptoms.

      Darbepoetin alpha (Aranesp®) is produced by gene-technology in Chinese Hamster Cells
      (CHO-K1). It has a biological effect and toxicity profile comparable to r-HuEPO; with the
      exception of a longer half-life which means that it can be administered less frequently
      without loosing clinical efficiency. Aranesp® has been well tolerated in studies conducted to
      this date. In this setting Aranesp® appears to be safe and well tolerated. Adverse events
      reported to date have generally been mild to moderate in severity and consistent with events
      and symptoms in cancer patients with chronic disease receiving chemotherapy (i.e. fatigue and
      gastrointestinal symptoms). Clinical studies have shown a higher frequency of thromboembolic
      reactions including deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in cancer patients receiving
      Aranesp therapy compared to patients receiving placebo. The clinical experience so far with
      Aranesp® has been published (15,16,17). Aranesp® is registered for clinical use in Europe and
      US.

      Based on this the present study will evaluate the effect of Aranesp® on the haematopoietic
      response in patients with advanced hormone independent prostate cancer and anemia. Moreover,
      the effect of Aranesp® on quality of life, hemoglobin, necessity for RBC transfusion and
      hospital admissions, will be evaluated. The study will be performed as an open randomized
      trial. The use of r-HuEPO in cancer patients has been established and registered in other
      settings (as supportive treatment), and it has been shown that the preparation can be given
      without significant side effects. On the contrary, it is likely that patients may benefit
      from additional improvement in wellbeing.
    
  