
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the 12-week progression-free survival rate and the objective response rate,
      as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, in patients
      with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck treated with
      dasatinib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define metabolic response rate by positron emission tomography (PET) scan at 0, 8, and
      12 weeks.

      II. To define overall survival distribution from initiation of dasatinib. III. To define
      duration of response. IV. To determine if there is a correlation between clinical benefit
      from dasatinib (defined as disease response or stabilization) and pharmacokinetics,
      pharmacodynamics (phosphorylated Src [pSrc] expression in platelets), or changes in serum
      levels of cytokines, growth factors, and growth factor receptors relevant to the Src
      signaling pathway.

      V. To examine the relationship between clinical benefit and mammary tumor and squamous cell
      carcinoma-associated protein (EMS1) gene amplification and cortactin expression levels in
      tumor tissue prior to therapy and the modulation of cortactin levels by treatment.

      VI. To compare the effects of dasatinib on apoptosis by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase
      dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay in tumor tissues comparing pre- and post-treatment
      biopsies.

      VII. To assess the tolerability of dasatinib in this patient population. VIII. To describe
      the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile and relative bioavailability of dasatinib suspension in
      patients receiving the drug through percutaneous gastrostomy tube.

      IX. To descriptively assess safety, toxicity, and efficacy of dasatinib crushed and
      administered by feeding tube.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive dasatinib orally (PO) or via percutaneous gastrostomy (PEG) tube twice daily
      (BID). Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at least 4 weeks.
    
  