
    
      1. Treatment protocol

             -  Patients with limited-stage (stage I/II) are treated with CHOP/CHOP-like
                chemotherapy [cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2 i.v. on D1, vincristine 1.4 mg/m2 i.v. on
                D1, doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 i.v. on D1, and prednisolone 60 mg/m2 p.o. on D1-5] in
                standard doses every three weeks and three to four cycles of CHOP/CHOP-like
                chemotherapy followed by involved field radiation therapy (IFRT, 30 Gy). Patients
                with advanced-stage (stage III/IV) are treated with eight cycles of primary
                chemotherapy and patients greater than 65 years and/or those with a frail general
                condition were treated with only six cycles of primary chemotherapy if they
                achieved a complete response (CR) for the interim response.

        2. Response evaluation based on three parameters of visual, standard uptake
           value(SUV)-based and metabolic tumor volume (MTV)-based assessments

             -  We firstly classify patients with five-point scale (5-PS) by the interim PET/CT
                analysis based on the Deauville criteria12: 1, No uptake; 2, uptake ≤ mediastinum;
                3, uptake > mediastinum but ≤ liver; 4, uptake moderately increased compared to the
                liver uptake at any site; 5, markedly increased uptake compared to the liver at any
                site and new sites or/and new sites of disease. Interim PET/CT image are graded as
                negative or positive by comparison of initial PET/CT and grade 1-3 considered as
                negative and grade 4-5 considered for positive.19 This grading process is
                independent of the size of the residual tumor.

           Secondly, we classify the patients with the quantitative analysis of 18F-FDG uptake
           changes based on the percentage of SUVmax reduction between initial and interim PET/CT.
           On axial, coronal, or sagittal coregistered PET/CT slices, simple circular regions of
           interest (ROIs) were placed so as to cover the lesion or background. SUV measurements
           are corrected for body weight according to the following standard formula: Mean ROI
           activity (MBq/ml)

             -  [Injected dose (MBq)/Body weight (kg)].20 For each PET dataset, the maximum SUV
                (SUVmax) is defined as the highest SUV among all hypermetabolic tumor foci. SUVmax
                reduction rate (ΔSUVmax) is calculated as following:

           ΔSUVmax (%) = 100 x [SUVmax (initial) - SUVmax (interim)]/SUVmax (initial)

           If all lesions had disappeared on interim PET, ROI were drawn in the same area on
           interim PET as on baseline PET.

           We finally classify the patients with the quantitative analysis of metabolic volume
           changes based on the percentage of MTV reduction (ΔMTV) between initial and interim
           PET/CT. To define the exact tumor margins around the target lesions, SUV2.5 is used as
           following previous reports, which means that the tumor volume area in PET/CT is
           delineated by a circle encompassing regions with SUV cutoff value of 2.5.16,21 The
           MTV2.5 is measured using AW Volume ShareTM workstation (GE Healthcare) on the fused
           PET/CT images.17 AW Volume ShareTM allows automatic registration and fusion between two
           volumetric acquisitions, which come from different acquisition modalities. The active
           MTV2.5 are measured in a 3-D manner by selecting volume of interest (VOI) on the axial
           image, and the size of VOI is manually regulated on the corresponding coronal and
           sagittal images to include entire active tumors in the VOI. The SUVmax and the sum of
           the tumor volumes in all hypermetabolic tumor foci were computed automatically by the
           program. The MTV2.5 reduction rate (ΔMTV2.5) is calculated as same formula as SUVmax
           reduction rate.

        3. The response assessments of interim PET/CT scans

             -  will be assessed based on the combination with three parameters of the Deauville
                five-point scale (5-PS), the reduction rate of maximal standardized uptake value
                (ΔSUVmax), and the reduction rate of metabolic tumor volume (ΔMTV2.5) in PTCLs
    
  