
    
      It has been discovered that SARS-CoV-2 viruses (Covid-19) can directly invade the nervous
      system of patients, instead of injuring the nervous system through the immune response.
      Neurotropism is one common feature of Covid-19. Such neuro-invasive propensity of Covid-19
      has been documented almost for all the Beta-coronaviruses including SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV.

      Increasing evidence suggests that infection with Sars-CoV-2 causes neurological deficits in a
      substantial proportion of affected patients. It was observed that patients surviving COVID-19
      are at high risk for subsequent development of neurological disease and in particular
      Alzheimer's disease.

      NA-831 is a new neuroprotective and neurogenesis drug that has been demonstrated its
      promising safety and efficacy in Phase 2A for the treatment of early onset of Alzheimer's
      disease. NA-831 in oral formulation is well tolerated NA-831 with no adverse effects. NA-831
      in oral formulation exhibits predictable pharmacokinetics including dose-dependent exposure
      linearity and low variability.

      Based on animal studies, NA-831 can provide effective interventions during the severe acute
      respiratory syndrome, and provide appropriate rehabilitation measures afterwards.

      Remdesivir (GS-5734) intravenous formulation has been approved by the FDA under the emergency
      use authorization for potential treatment of severe cases of Covid-19.

      It was found the upper respiratory tract is the most prevalent site of SARS-CoV-2 infection
      early in disease. Delivering drugs directly to the primary site of infection with a
      nebulizer, inhaled nanoparticle formulation may enable more targeted and accessible
      administration in non-hospitalized patients and potentially lower systemic exposure to the
      drug.

      The study is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of a new
      nanoparticle formulation of Remdesivir (GS-5734) and combination therapy with NA-831 in
      healthy volunteers.
    
  