
    
      The objective of this study is to examine the relationship between hemorrhoids, a common
      complaint, and the use of smartphones, also a common feature of modern life, in the lavatory.

      As is known, hemorrhoidal disease is a frequently observed disease of the lower rectum and
      anal region that seriously impairs the patient's quality of life. The underlying
      pathophysiological event is vascular enlargement of the lower rectum. Hemorrhoids are
      classified as internal or external, and it is assumed that the same pathological mechanisms
      operate in both types. Accepted pathological mechanisms and predisposing factors of
      hemorrhoids include reduced venous drainage, straining while defecating, constipation,
      pregnancy, portal hypertension and anorectal varices, and other risk factors.

      Given the pathophysiological and accelerating factors described above, an increase in
      hemorrhoidal disease in modern society is to be expected. People today prefer a more
      sedentary lifestyle and partake of a low-fiber diet richer in high calorie/high fat foods
      compared with previous generations. In addition, smartphones have invaded nearly every aspect
      of daily life. Based on clinical observations, the investigators have found that the use of
      mobile phones in the lavatory has become a habit for some people. The investigators surmise
      that this habit, which increases the time spent on the toilet, also leads to an increase in
      pressure on the anal region and straining during defecation. There is a gap in the literature
      investigating the relationship between these two situations (smartphone use in the lavatory
      and the development of hemorrhoids), and researching this relationship could reveal important
      information. The basic research question of the present study is thus designed to determine
      to what extent the use of smartphones increases time spent in the lavatory and whether there
      is an association between this increase in time and hemorrhoidal disease.

      This clinical study will be conducted with a cross-sectional design based on retrospective
      observation. Apart from the target population there will be a control group. In retrospective
      studies the selection of the control group is of the utmost importance. Other than the risk
      factor that is being investigated (the use of smartphones), factors that affect the
      development of hemorrhoid disease are similar for the study group and the control group, thus
      minimizing confounding factors. The control group, as will be noted, will thus have a social
      environment resembling that of the study group. It should also be noted that members of the
      control group will be completely healthy, with no health problems (e.g., hearing or visual
      disturbances) that could affect their use of the risk factor (smartphones).

      The study population consists of patients with complaints of hemorrhoids referred to the
      General Surgery Polyclinic. The control group is comprised of healthy volunteers with no
      complaints of hemorrhoids. Both the study group and the control group will include persons of
      both genders between 16 and 65 years of age. Informed consent will be obtained from patients
      and volunteers, following which a Likert-type survey will be given to each participant to
      complete. A pilot study will be conducted for the factor analysis of the questions to be
      asked in the questionnaire. In the pilot study, the target will be to survey 100 patients.
      After the factor analysis is performed on 100 patients, the questionnaire that is developed
      will be used in the main study.

      As no prevalence study was previously performed for the sample size, it will be calculated
      based on the prevalence (frequency of smartphone use in the lavatory in the study group and
      the control group) determined after the pilot study, by accepting a type I error of 0.05 and
      a type II error of 0.20 (80% test power).

      The doctor who performs the examinations will be blinded to the questionnaire results. After
      completion of the questionnaire, the patient's anal region and rectum will be examined by a
      general surgeon and the presence or absence of hemorrhoids will be noted. Subsequently, if
      hemorrhoids are present, they will be recorded as either external or internal. Internal
      hemorrhoids will then be staged as first-degree, second-degree, third-degree, or
      fourth-degree, according to the standard textbook definitions.
    
  