
    
      I. Objectives

      The purpose of this study is to develop an administrative data-based risk prediction model
      for identifying potentially avoidable 30-day readmissions of patients hospitalized with
      community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). The focus is on potentially avoidable readmissions
      because not all hospital readmissions can be influenced by interventions designed to decrease
      them.

      The specific aims of this project are:

        1. to assess the accuracy of International Classification of Disease, Tenth Revision
           (ICD-10) discharge diagnosis codes for CAP using a structured retrospective chart review
           as the reference method.

        2. to estimate the rate of all-cause readmissions in the same hospital within 30 days and
           one year of discharge for patients hospitalized with CAP.

        3. to estimate the percentages of CAP patients who die within 30 days and one year of
           discharge without hospital readmission.

        4. to estimate the percentage of unplanned readmissions for patients hospitalized with CAP
           using a structured retrospective chart review.

        5. to describe pneumonia-related and -unrelated reasons for readmission for patients
           hospitalized with CAP using a structured retrospective chart review.

        6. to quantify the probability that an unplanned readmission is avoidable using latent
           class analysis based on the independent classifications by four reviewers.

        7. to investigate the distribution of potentially avoidable readmission and the time since
           discharge from index hospital admission.

        8. to identify the characteristics derived from administrative claims data that are
           independently associated with potentially avoidable readmission.

        9. to derive and internally validate an administrative claims data-based risk prediction
           model for identifying potentially avoidable 30-day readmission of patients hospitalized
           with CAP.

       10. to identify the characteristics abstracted from medical record that are independently
           associated with potentially avoidable readmission.

       11. to derive and internally validate a medical record data-based risk prediction model for
           identifying potentially avoidable 30-day readmission of patients hospitalized with CAP.

       12. to compare the overall accuracy, discrimination, and calibration for the administrative
           claims data-based versus medical record data-based risk prediction model for identifying
           potentially avoidable 30-day readmission of patients hospitalized with CAP.

       13. to externally validate published risk prediction models for potentially avoidable 30-day
           readmission.

      II. Study design

      R3P is a retrospective observational cohort study of consecutive adult patients discharged
      from two hospitals with a diagnosis code of CAP. Data sources include routinely collected
      hospital discharge data and retrospective chart reviews.

      III. Participating study centers and setting

      The study will be conducted in a university-affiliated and a general hospitals in Northern
      Alps, France. With a capacity of 1,362 acute care beds, Grenoble university hospital serves a
      predominantly urban population of 675,000 inhabitants and reported 135,999 stays in 2014.
      Annecy general hospital has a capacity of 896 acute care beds and reported 70,651 stays in
      2014.

      IV. Data collection

      Two clinical research assistants will perform structured retrospective chart review using a
      computerized data collection instrument. The following variables will be recorded for index
      hospitalizations:

        -  patient and hospital stay identifiers;

        -  baseline patient characteristics, including demographics, preexisting comorbid
           condition, pneumonia severity index (PSI) risk class, physical examination and
           laboratory findings on admission, X-ray or CT-scan findings within 48 hours of
           admission, initial microbiological work-up;

        -  inhospital antibiotic therapy and associated treatments;

        -  index hospital admission course (ICU admission, pneumonia-related and -unrelated
           complications);

        -  physical examination and laboratory findings at discharge;

        -  discharge plan and treatments;

      The following variables will be recorded for the first readmission within one year of
      discharge:

        -  patient and hospital stay identifiers;

        -  physical examination and laboratory findings on readmission, X-ray or CT-scan findings
           within 48 hours of readmission;

        -  ICU admission;

        -  pneumonia-related and -unrelated complications;

        -  primary and secondary reasons for readmissions.

      As part of the French diagnosis-related group (DRG)-based prospective payment system,
      computerized hospital discharge data include patient and hospital stay identifiers, admission
      and discharge dates, age, gender, length of stay, discharge location, primary and secondary
      ICD-10 discharge diagnosis codes (up to 99) for both index hospitalization and readmission.
      ICD-10 coding complies with national guidelines and is done by trained technicians or
      physicians, depending on the hospital. Coders usually abstract diagnoses from physician
      notes, although admission notes, daily progress notes, consultation reports, diagnostic
      imaging, and treatments are routinely recorded in the medical chart. Discharge data are
      externally audited by reabstracting a random sample of hospital stays every year.

      V. Data management

      To ensure optimal quality, all data collected retrospectively by chart review will be entered
      electronically by clinical research assistants using a personal identification code and
      password-protected web-based data collection system. The clinical research assistants will
      receive formal training in the methods of data abstraction and recording. An operation manual
      that includes definitions and acceptable data sources for all variables will be distributed.
      Reliability of data abstraction will be assessed by randomly selecting cases for independent
      collection by a practicing physician.

      VI. Statistical analysis

        1. Overview

           The administrative hospital discharge datasets will be linked to medical
           record-abstracted cases using patient and hospital stay identifiers. If a patient is
           admitted more than once during the study period, only the first hospitalization will be
           included as the index admission.

        2. Accuracy of ICD-10 discharge diagnosis codes for CAP

           The accuracy of ICD-10 discharge diagnosis codes will be assessed using three reference
           methods:

             1. Medical record and/or discharge letter notation of CAP diagnosis.

             2. Medical record notation of ≥ 1 respiratory symptom (cough, sputum production,
                dyspnea, tachypnea, or pleuritic pain), and ≥ 1 auscultation finding (rales or
                crepitations), and ≥ 1 sign of infection (temperature > 38°C, shivering, or white
                blood cell count >10,000/µL or <4,000/µL), and a new infiltrate on chest
                radiography or CT-scan performed within 48 hours of admission.

             3. A composite of #a and/or #b

           Positive predictive value point estimates along with 95% confidence intervals (CI) will
           be reported for the three reference methods, separately.

        3. Assignment of reasons for readmission

           Four physicians, who are members of a clinical review panel, will independently review
           medical records for both index hospitalization and readmission. The members of the panel
           are general internists, infectious or respiratory disease specialists with clinical
           experience in managing CAP patients. Consistent with Jasti et al. (CID 2008;46:550-6),
           each physician reviewer will use predefined criteria to categorize the reason for
           rehospitalization as:

             1. pneumonia-related worsening of signs or symptoms;

             2. new or worsening comorbid condition(s) independent of pneumonia;

             3. any combination of pneumonia-related and comorbidity-related reasons.

           The reviewers will independently assign the primary reason for readmission, using the
           mutually exclusive categories published by Halfon et al. (J Clin Epidemiol
           2002;55:573-87).

           Inter-rater agreement for the reason for rehospitalization will be quantified using
           Cohen's Kappa.

        4. Identifying potentially avoidable readmissions

           Consistent with van Walraven et al. (CMAJ 2011;183:e1067-72), four physician reviewers
           will use a 6-point ordinal scale to rate whether the readmission is an adverse event and
           whether the adverse event could be avoided. A readmission with a rating above three in
           both domains will be classified as potentially avoidable by this reviewer. The
           probability that a readmission is avoidable will be quantified using latent class
           analysis based on the independent classification by four reviewers.

        5. Development of a medical record data-based risk prediction model

           We will derive a multivariable logistic regression model for quantifying the likelihood
           that 30-day readmission is avoidable. The development sample will include all cause 30
           days readmissions for adult patients hospitalized with CAP. The outcome of interest is a
           potentially avoidable readmission within 30 days of discharge. We will use medical
           record-abstracted data for both the index hospitalization and readmission. Candidate
           predictors will be identified by combining the findings from a systematic literature
           review with the opinions of field experts.

        6. Development of an administrative claims data-based risk prediction model

           In a separate analysis, we will derive a multivariable logistic regression model for
           quantifying the likelihood that 30-day readmission is avoidable. The development sample
           will include all cause 30 days readmissions for adult patients hospitalized with CAP.
           The outcome of interest is a potentially avoidable readmission within 30 days of
           discharge. We will use only administrative data and the model will be based on
           combinations of diagnostic codes between the index hospitalization and the readmission.
           Candidate predictors will be identified by reviewing published models in combination
           with the opinions of field experts.

        7. Internal validation of risk-prediction models

      We will use bootstrapping for quantifying the optimism in the apparent performance of
      clinical prediction models. Discrimination will be quantified by the concordance (c)
      statistic. Calibration will be investigated graphically and formally assessed by the
      calibration slope test.

      VII. Harms and safety

      In this retrospective observational study, severe adverse events will be collected through a
      structured chart review, including inhospital mortality, complications due to CAP or CAP
      management, new or worsening comorbidity, ICU admission, and out-of-hospital mortality.

      VIII. Auditing

      Monitoring of study processes and documents will be conducted by personnel designated by the
      Direction de la Recherche Clinique et de l'Innovation (DRCI) at Grenoble university hospital.
    
  