
    
      From the beginning of the pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2, most events with massive
      participants have been canceled due to being considered high-risk events for the SARS-CoV-2
      transmission. It has been detected that asymptomatic people infected by SARS-CoV-2, are
      playing an important role in the contagious in these kinds of events. The economic losses
      arising from the closure of these activities, mainly those related to culture and musical
      performances are around 2.5 billion euros a Catalonia, and a considerable loss of jobs in
      this sector.

      Developing strategies of cribrate of infected people by SARS-CoV-2 asymptomatic or not
      diagnosticated and with a potential transmission of the virus is the key to perform cultural,
      sport, etc. massive events with all the security. The objective is to exclude infected people
      with a a high potential of transmission.

      It is needed to use versatile tests for this objective, so the test must have a high
      sensibility to detect infected people, the test has to be easy to manipulate without
      requiring a high technology of the laboratory hospitals, neither prolongated to obtain a
      result and that has a low cost. The rapid SARS-CoV-2 antigen screening tests are best suited
      for this purpose. These tests have shown a sensitivity close to 99% to detect infectious
      people who have a high viral load of SARS-CoV-2. No viral isolation has been demonstrated in
      any culture of samples of patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 with a Ct threshold (cycle
      threshold) in the test RT-PCR greater than 30, which is considered to delimit the
      transmitting potential of the infected

      On 27th March, a musical concert will be performed at Palau St Jordi (Barcelona) with 5000
      attendees and with all the SARS-COV-2 safety measures by the Secretaria General de Salut de
      la Generalitat de Catalunya (mandatory wearing a mask during the event, restricted outdoor
      areas of bar and smoking enhanced ventilation of the whole indoor area and avoiding queues.).
      This study wants to assess the incidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection reported to the health
      system among the attendees of this commercial concert during the 14 days following the event,
      also it will be evaluated the clinical evolution of the possible infections during the
      concert.
    
  