
    
      The aim of PARTAGE study (Predictive values of blood pressure and arterial stiffness in
      institutionalized very aged population) is to determine the predictive value of blood
      pressure (BP) and arterial stiffness estimated by pulse wave velocity (PWV) on overall
      mortality, major CV events and cognitive decline in a large population of subjects living in
      nursing homes aged 80 and over.

      Method:

      Participants are included if they are aged 80 year old and over, are institutionalized and if
      they have signed the informed consent.

      Persons are excluded if they have severe dementia (Mini Mental Status Examination: MMSE<12),
      a low level of autonomy (Activity of daily living: ADL≤2) and they are under guardianship or
      "a measure of legal protection".

      All geriatric assessment instruments and arterial measures are applied by several trained
      medical research teams (geriatricians, cardiologists, psychologists) present at each
      university hospitals centre. All medical teams received the same standard operating
      procedures. All the assessments are performed in the nursing homes.

      Clinical data collection During the first visit in the nursing home, the medical research
      team collect a large amount of information during a face-to-face interview and from patient's
      medical records. Following information are recorded for each participant in a case report
      form (CRF): sociodemographic characteristics, educational level, medical history, chronic
      diseases (cardio vascular, central nervous system, respiratory), depressive symptoms, history
      of falls, co morbidity and medication use.

      Additionally, a clinical examination of functional status, cognitive function, blood pressure
      and arterial stiffness are realized by medical research teams.

        -  Comorbidities are quantified using the Charlson combined comorbidity index.

        -  Functional status is evaluated by the Katz Index of independence in ability in
           activities of daily living (ADL) (bathing, dressing, going to the toilet, transferring
           from bed to chair, continence and feeding).

        -  Cognitive status was assessed using the Mini-Mental-Status-Examination (MMSE), which is
           a global measurement of cognitive function evaluating various dimensions of cognition
           (memory, calculation, orientation in space and time, language, and word recognition).

      Peripheral blood pressure measurements:

      Peripheral BP and heart rate (HR) are performed at brachial artery level using the validated
      automated oscillometric device Colson DM-H20 (Dupont Médical, Frouard, France). Both clinical
      and self-measurement of blood pressure are performed in this study.

        -  Clinical BP measurements are performed in the morning (from 8 am to noon), by doctors or
           nurses, in the patient's room or in the infirmary of the institute, after 10 minutes
           rest. All measurements are repeated three times, with intervals of 3 min on the left arm
           in a sitting position without replacing the cuff between the three measurements,
           according to the specific recommendations of the European Society of Hypertension.

        -  Self-measurements of BP are performed following the rule of 3 (3 measurements morning
           and evening during 3 consecutive days) according to the protocol proposed by the French
           society of hypertension. Self-measurements are performed by the subject her/himself in
           the room where he/she lives habitually. In case of difficulty, measurement are realized
           with the assistance of the nurse of the medical research team or of the institution.

      Central blood pressure measurement Central BP values and aortic pressure waveform are
      obtained from the common carotid waveform using applanation tonometry. The PulsePen device
      (DiaTecne srl, Milan, Italy), a validated, easy to use, high-fidelity tonometer is used.

      Pulse wave velocity PulsePen device is also used to measuring carotid-radial pulse wave
      velocity (PWV) which reflects upper limb arterial stiffness and carotid-femoral PWV
      corresponding to the aortic stiffness.

      Follow-up data:

      Medical research teams record every 3 months during a follow-up of 2 years deaths and
      following cardiovascular events: stroke, transient ischemic attack, myocardial infarction,
      unstable angina, acute pulmonary oedema, aortic aneurysm rupture, peripheral arterial
      thromboembolism, venous thrombosis and other major cardiovascular event. Moreover, a new
      assessment of autonomy, by ADL, and cognitive functions, by MMSE, are achieved in the cohort
      by the research teams one year and two year after the first visit.
    
  