
    
      The overarching goal is to design and evaluate a novel front of pack label for OTC drugs that
      will reduce the prevalence of Adverse Drug Reactions (ADRs) in older adults. To do so the
      researchers will survey pharmacists to ascertain which label information is most important to
      the reduction of ADRs, and then will design novel OTC labels which highlight this
      information. To evaluate the effectiveness of these designs, the investigators propose five
      experiments where older adults will make judgments about OTC appropriateness.

      Study 1 - Survey of Pharmacists - Overseen by University of Wisconsin - Online Survey of
      pharmacists to evaluate which aspects in a drug facts labels are most critical to the
      reduction of adverse drug events.

      Experiment 2 - Change Detection- Computer screen flashes between a label and the same label
      which has been modify slightly. Participant is instructed to locate the change as quickly as
      possible. Change should be detected more quickly for labels that engage users in bottom-up
      processing.

      Experiment 3A- Absolute Judgement- Participant is asked a yes/no question about whether a
      product being displayed on a computer monitor is appropriate given a scenario. Half the
      scenarios involve active ingredient and half warning information. Time accuracy will indicate
      which labels are most effective.

      Experiment 3B-Cross Product Comparison-Participant is given a scenario (that requires active
      ingredient or warning information) and is asked to select the appropriate OTC from a set of
      options(both products presented in identical labeling format within a trial). Again, speed an
      accuracy will be used to evaluate the most effective label designs.

      Experiment 4- Judging Product Appropriateness- Participants judge whether a drug is
      appropriate for them based on their health and current medications. Information content
      varies across trials to determine how much information is required to make an informed
      decision. Response accuracy (relative to expert pharmacists from the University of
      Wisconsin's evaluation) as a function of the information presented will be used to determine
      information that is critical to make a correct decision and how well do the participants get
      that information from the standard principle display panel (PDP- the front panel) and the
      Drug Facts Label.

      Experiment 5 - Eye tracking during appropriateness judgments - Participants evaluate whether
      an OTC medication is appropriate for their use, given their current health status and
      medication intake. Label formats will include current standards and an optimized label
      (derived from earlier experiments). Appropriateness judgments will be evaluated by
      pharmacists at University of Wisconsin, and the participant's eye movements will be monitored
      as they inspect the drugs. Comparisons across drug label formats will allow the primary
      investigators at Michigan State University to evaluate whether the optimized format more
      effectively garners attention and improves decision making.

      Experiment 6 - Will be a replication of Experiment 5's methods but will use commercial brands
      rather than the mock brands in Experiment 5. This will allow the primary investigators at
      Michigan State University to evaluate the extent to which the effects found in Experiment 5
      generalize to commercial brands about which participants may have prior familiarity and which
      contain branding information.
    
  