
    
      Background

        -  Although the survival of gliomas has improved, most high grade gliomas will recur in
           field or adjacent to the treatment field within months to years of the original
           treatment. In newly diagnosed GBM, the concurrent use of radiation and temozolomide is
           standard of care.

        -  Surgical resection upon recurrence is possible in less than 50% of patients. For a
           significant proportion of recurrent glioma patients in whom reresection is not
           favourable and for whom systemic options have been exhausted, re-irradiation has emerged
           as a possible treatment option.

        -  Using modern precision RT techniques (stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), stereotactic
           radiotherapy (SRT) or intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), Rapid Arc
           techniques), re-irradiation has proven a feasible option with possible benefit in
           outcome as these techniques are often able to minimize dose to previously treated organs
           at risk in the field (OAR) and treat the recurrence safely.

        -  Data from multiple retrospective studies has indicated that not only is re-irradiation
           feasible, but it may actually improve survival in the appropriately selected patient.

      Objective

      The primary objective of this phase I study is to determine maximum tolerated re-irradiation
      dose (MTD).

      Eligibility

        -  Recurrent glioblastoma or gliosarcoma

        -  Prior standard radiation therapy to a dose ranging from 50 to 60 Gy at 1.8 to 2 Gy per
           fraction.

        -  Prior irradiation > 12 months from enrollment on protocol.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18.

        -  KPS greater than or equal to 70

      Design

        -  Radiation therapy will be administered daily Monday-Friday at Radiation Oncology Branch
           (ROB), NCI. All the protocol related follow-up appointments will occur at NCI ROB.
           Radiation therapy dose will be administered on consecutive treatment days, 5 fractions
           per week via a linear accelerator using 6 MV photons or greater. Using a 3 plus 3 design
           , and three dose escalation levels, with 6 patients per dose level with 9 total patients
           at the MTD (provided no DLT), a maximum of 21 evaluable patients will be enrolled.

        -  Time to progression will be determined by the interval from initiation of treatment on
           protocol to progression as per RANO criteria.

        -  Neurologic decline without radiographic evidence of tumor will be designated as
           treatment related toxicity. Survival duration will be determined by the interval from
           initiation of treatment on protocol to date of death.
    
  