
    
      The study design is a phase II design. Eligible patients will undergo staging work up and
      start treatment. Every 28-day period (4 weeks) will count as a cycle. Medical evaluations
      will be performed every 4 weeks and staging work up will be repeated every 12 weeks.

      The primary objective of the study is to assess progression free survival (PFS) of treatment
      with exemestane and sunitinib in post¬menopausal subjects with hormone receptor positive
      (ER-positive and/or PR-positive) unresectable locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer
      subjects who have progressed on prior hormonal treatment.

      In addition we want to:

        1. Obtain assessments of overall response rate (ORR), clinical benefit rate (CBR), and
           overall survival (OS).

        2. Determine the safety and tolerability of the combination regimen.

        3. Study molecular changes in tissue biopsies, circulating tumor cells (CTCs), and
           circulating endothelial cells (CECs), and explore associations with treatment response
           and resistance.

      1. Blood samples will be drawn for enumeration and profiling of circulating tumor cells and
      circulating endothelial cells at study entry (prior to starting study medications), four
      weeks after starting study medications, twelve weeks after starting study medications and at
      disease progression. These samples will be strongly encouraged but the patients may decline
      any or all of them without impacting their eligibility or continuation on the study.

      2. If the patient participating on the study has an easily accessible breast mass or
      metastatic lesion (e.g. lymphadenopathy, skin metastasis, chest wall metastasis), a core
      needle or punch biopsy will be obtained at study entry (prior to starting study medications),
      four weeks after starting study medications, and at disease progression. These biopsies will
      be strongly encouraged but the patients may decline any or all of them without impacting
      their eligibility or continuation on the study.
    
  