
    
      A rupture of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is a severe injury of the knee. The current
      gold Standard treatment for young and active patients with instability, is a surgical ACL
      reconstruction. However, there still is no consensus on which graft is best suited for this.

      Paradigms on the different types of auto grafts and their weaknesses and benefits originate
      mostly from the eighties and nineties, when the patella tendon was being replaced by the
      hamstring graft as the 'new' gold standerd. Nowadays, the philosophy of isometrie tunnel
      placement has been abandoned, and has been replaced by the philosophy of anatomie
      reconstructions. The question then arises: Are the results of the comparative studies, and
      the current paradigms, still applicable, now that the philosophy has transitioned from
      isometric to anatomic tunnel placement? Irrespective of the disadvantages compared to the
      patellatendon autograft, such as a higher re-rupture and revision percentage when used in
      patients under 25 years old, the hamstring autograft is currently the most used graft for ACL
      reconstruction worldwide. The question then arises: is it justified that the hamstringgraft
      is the most used graft worldwide? Rehabilitation protocols are often not, or poorly,
      described, despite it's significant effect on the outcome and co morbidity of an ACL
      reconstruction. Especially anterior knee pain, which is often mentioned as a disadvantage of
      the patellagraft, is significantly influenced by rehabilitation protocols. The introduction
      and implementation of a nation-wide evidence-based rehabilitation protocol in The Netherlands
      created uniformity of rehabilitation treatment, and the possibility to generalize scientific
      conclusions. The question then arises: Due to new insights in rehabilitation and
      implementation of new protocols, is the anterior knee pain, the often mentioned disadvantage
      ofthe patelia tendon graft, stiil a relevant disadvantage? The quadriceps tendon autograft is
      a less often used graft. Nevertheless, research has shown that it seems like a good
      alternative for the patella tendon and hamstring autograft. Functional outcome is similar,
      while less donorsite morbidity is reported compared to the patellatendon and hamstring
      autograft. The question then arises: Is it fair that the quadriceps tendon is rarely used as
      an autograft for ACL reconstruction? Increasing knowledge of the anatomy of the ACL results
      in new insights in the methods to achieve true anatomie ACL reconstruction. New arguments
      support the use of the patella tendon - and even the quadriceps tendon - over the use of the
      hamstringgraft, because their anatomic similarities to the anterior cruciate ligament might
      be better suited to restore knee kinematics. The question then arises: are the flat-shaped
      patella tendon autograft and quadriceps tendon autograft better suited to restore the anatomy
      of the ruptured ACL than the round hamstring graft? Hypothesis Tlie hypothesis is that
      anatomic reconstruction ofthe ruptured anterior cruciate ligament with a (flat) quadriceps
      tendon autograft is at least as effective as reconstruction of the ruptured anterior cruciate
      ligament with a patella tendon autograft or a hamstring tendon autograft, in terms of
      failure, measured 2 years postoperatively. Failure is defined as pathological laxity,
      complaints of knee instability in the absence of any pathological laxity and/or discontinuïty
      of the graft on MRl or arthroscopy.

      Objective of the study:

      Primary objective:

      To investigate the hypothesis that an anatomic single bundle anterior cruciate ligament
      reconstruction with a (flat) quadriceps tendon autograft is at least as effective as
      reconstruction of the ruptured anterior cruciate ligament with a patella tendon autograft or
      a hamstring tendon autograft, in terms of failure, measured 2 years postoperatively. Failure
      is defined gedefinieerd as pathologicai laxity, complaints of knee instability in the absence
      of any pathological laxity and/or discontinuïty of the graft on MRl or arthroscopy.

      Secondary objectives:

      patiënt reported outcome measures (PROMs), clinimetrics, radiological assessment, duration of
      rehabilitation necessary for return to sports and daily activities and the level of sport
      activities to which the patiënt returned, in patients treated with an anterior cruciate
      ligament reconstruction using a patellatendon autograft, hamstringtendon autograft of
      quadricepstendon autograft, as measured in the short-term (6 weeks, 6,9,12 months
      postoperatively), mid-term (2 years postoperatively) and long-term (5 and 10 years
      postoperatively).

      Study design:

      Multicenter blocked stratified randomised controlled trial with varying block sizes (n=3, 6,
      9, 12). Patients with an anterior cruciate ligament rupture, confirmed by an orthopaedie
      surgeon (as evident from anamnesis, physical examination and radiographic imaging) who meet
      the inclusion criteria and do not have any of the exclusion criteria, will be asked to
      partieipate in this study.

      Baseline measurements will be performed, after informed consent is obtained. Allocation of
      treatment of the included patients will be performed in the operating room (OR), where
      patients will be randomised (blocked and stratified) per clinic, to have ACL reconstruction
      with a patella tendon autograft, hamstring tendon autograft or quadriceps tendon autograft.
      Stratification will be based on age (18-25 and >25), level of sport activities (Tegner
      Activity Level Scale 5-7 and 8-10) and surgeon.

      Follow-up identical to the follow-up of standard care, with standard checkups after 6 weeks,
      6, 9, months and 1 and 2 years. Two extra follow-up moments (after 5 and 10 years) will be
      planned.
    
  