
    
      For a growing number of patients suffering from various conditions as, e.g., haematological
      malignancies or diverse genetic disorders, haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) or
      bone marrow transplantation offer the only possible curative options. However, HSCT is
      associated with three major risks: graft rejection, graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) and
      opportunistic, mostly viral, infections or reactivations resulting from delayed immune
      reconstitution. Delayed immune reconstitution, however, often is the direct result of the
      severe pre-transplantation conditioning treatment and T-cell depletion of the transplant
      necessary to fight the risks of graft rejection and GvHD. Therefore, the risk for
      life-threatening opportunistic, mostly viral, infections is increased in post-transplantation
      patients. The most common infections after HSCT are Cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus
      (EBV) and Adenovirus (AdV).

      The standard treatment approach for viral infections/reactivations is chemotherapy which
      shows limited efficacy and does not restore immunity. Therefore, effective new treatment
      options are required for this condition.

      Previous investigations have shown that sufficient T-cell immunity is essential for the
      control and prevention of viral reactivations and newly occurring infections after HSCT. The
      infusion of T-cells is therefore a promising new approach to treat immune-comprised patients.
      However, infusion with unselected T cells is associated with an increased risk for GvHD due
      to the high content of alloreactive T cells. A very promising approach to minimize this
      problem is to remove alloreactive T cells and enrich, isolate and purify virus-specific T
      cells.

      This approach has been studied for nearly two decades and the data published up to date
      indicate that virus-specific T-cell responses after adoptive T-cell transfer protect against
      virus-related complications post HSCT and restore T-cell immunity, in particular for AdV-,
      CMV- and EBV-infections. Despite these promising results, virus-specific T-cell transfer is
      not yet translated into daily clinical practice due to the lack of prospective clinical
      trials confirming the efficacy of this treatment approach.

      The overall goal of this phase III, double-blind placebo-controlled study is to confirm
      efficacy of multivirus-specific T cells to bring this treatment method in clinical routine.
      Multivirus-specific T cells generated in this study will be directed against all three most
      common post-HSCT viral infections: AdV, CMV and EBV. Thus, T-cell immunity will be restored
      to fight and prevent new viral infections.

      After an initial screening visit, patients eligible to participate in the study will be
      treated within 28 days after screening. Patients will be randomized in a 2:1 (treatment:
      placebo) ratio and receive a single infusion with either multivirus-specific T cells or
      placebo. Patients will be followed up on the day of treatment, 1 day after and 1, 2, 4, 8 and
      15 weeks after treatment. Treatment success will be measured by assessing different
      parameters including symptoms, quality of life, viral load and T-cell immunity in blood
      samples.

      Patients eligible to participate in this study are adult and paediatric patients who have
      received allogeneic stem cell transplantation and suffer from new or reactivated EBV, AdV or
      CMV infection refractory to standard antiviral treatment for two weeks. Patients from the six
      European countries Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, UK, France and Italy will be enrolled. In
      total 130 patients plus 19 screening failures are expected to participate in the study.
    
  