
    
      Background: Breast cancer is a common disease for which over 80% of women treated will still
      be in remission five years after diagnostic. They are a population that can benefit from
      support to reduce the risks associated with tobacco and alcohol consumptions. Moreover, it is
      well documented that health behaviors are part of a relational context. Thus, intervene on an
      individual level cannot suffice to apprehend health behaviors from a systemic perspective.
      Screening Brief Intervention and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) program are evaluated for many
      years and are the reference model in health setting. However, despite national and
      international recommendations, SBIRT implementation in clinical routine is still very limited
      in oncology setting. Furthermore, intervene on multiple risk behaviors (contributing to many
      cancers, increasing the risk of second cancer, treatment morbidity and the risk of developing
      other chronic diseases) is recommended by several recent empirical studies. Involving the
      partner in the prevention process could help to develop healthy living environments. A SBIRT
      program, specifically dedicated to the oncological context and involving the partner may help
      to reduce tobacco and alcohol risk consumption. Methods/design: The study is a two-arm
      randomized trial including smoking couples. The intervention is a couple brief motivational
      intervention (CBMI) on tobacco/alcohol risk reduction, delivered in a single session and a
      booster session one month later. This intervention will be compared with an individual brief
      motivational intervention (IBMI) consisting a single brief motivational intervention and a
      booster session one month later, only delivered to the breast cancer patient; and the partner
      receive e-mail or postal brief advices. Measures are repeated at 6 weeks, 3 and 6 months
      post-intervention. The primary outcome is tobacco 7-day point prevalence abstinence (PPA) at
      6 months.
    
  