
    
      Posttraumatic Stress Disorder constitutes a substantial proportion of the burden of illness
      among Veterans. However, current PTSD treatments are not effective for all, and a significant
      number remain symptomatic despite pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy. As a result, there has
      been increased interest within the military and VA in Complementary and Alternative Medicine
      approaches, such as yoga, to improve symptoms without requiring direct verbal processing of
      the trauma. Yoga provides an innovative approach to calming hyperarousal, reducing
      numbness/avoidance, and improving self-regulation of emotions, while cultivating physical and
      emotional well-being. Because of this unique approach to the biological, psychological, and
      social dimensions of PTSD, we believe that yoga interventions are poised to meet the demand
      for more effective PTSD treatment options for Veterans. Recent research indicates that yoga
      interventions can be delivered successfully to individuals who have PTSD and have the
      potential to reduce clinician rated and self-reported overall PTSD symptoms, depression and
      anxiety. However, few studies exist that have evaluated yoga for PTSD and they have involved
      small sample sizes and are either uncontrolled or waitlist/usual care controlled. Also, there
      is much variation among studies in the style and components of yoga interventions. Thus, a
      randomized controlled trial of a standardized, traditional, holistic yoga intervention is
      urgently needed to inform VA policy makers and clinicians of the potential benefits of yoga
      as an adjunct to currently available PTSD treatments.

      OBJECTIVE: The overall goal of this project is to compare the effects of a 16-week Holistic
      Yoga Program (HYP) with a 16-week Wellness Lifestyle Program (WLP) on PTSD and related
      symptoms and outcomes. This project has three specific aims: 1) to compare the effects of the
      interventions (HYP vs. WLP) on overall PTSD symptom severity; 2) compare the interventions'
      effects on PTSD-specific symptoms (anger, sleep), PTSD-related symptoms (depression, anxiety,
      pain) and related outcomes (well-being/quality of life); 3) to manualize the Holistic Yoga
      Program and training process for experienced yoga teachers to deliver HYP to individuals who
      have PTSD in order to facilitate future study and dissemination efforts.

      METHODS: This study sample will include 212 outpatients with a clinician-confirmed diagnosis
      of PTSD, recruited from the Roudebush VA Medical Center as well as metropolitan area mental
      health clinicians and military/Veterans' organizations, who will be randomly assigned to
      receive the Holistic Yoga Program (HYP) or the Wellness Lifestyle Program (WLP). The HYP will
      involve a standardized 16-week intervention consisting of: 1) in-person group yoga class
      taught by a yoga therapist (Yoga Alliance minimum 200 hour level) with trained
      assistants.Classes will include (1) yoga postures, breathing practices, deep muscle
      contraction practices, relaxation practices, and integration of scientific rational and yoga
      philosophy within the instruction; (2) video and audio recordings for home practice; and 4) a
      Participant Handbook to reinforce concepts taught during in-person sessions. The WLP is an
      attention control comprised of low intensity walking and didactics about wellness topics that
      will also encourage home practice and provide a Participant Handbook to reinforce concepts
      taught during in-person sessions.
    
  