
    
      The co-EC study aims to to enhance HCV care and treatment among HIV-infected individuals
      through a predominantly nurse-led model of care in primary care as well as hospital settings.
      It involves:

        1. A nurse-led model of care in primary health care to increase access to PBS HCV treatment
           with interferon-free HCV antiviral treatment; and

        2. An integrated HCV/HIV surveillance system and database to deliver and monitor the impact
           of the program at the local and statewide level.

      The study is based in Victoria, Australia where the highest prevalence of HIV/HCV
      co-infection is in gay and bisexual men (GBM). HCV infection is a significant health issue
      among individuals with HIV infection and has been associated with more rapid progression to
      HCV-related liver disease and increased risk for cirrhosis and liver cancer. Hepatitis C is a
      major cause of hospital admissions and is a leading cause of death among HIV-infected
      persons.

      The advent of directly acting antiviral (DAA) treatment provides us with a unique opportunity
      to increase the number of people accessing hepatitis C treatment. Importantly it is likely
      that the treatment could be administered in the primary health care setting improving
      treatment capacity and accessibility, whilst potentially reducing treatment costs.

      The primary objectives of co-EC Study are:

        1. Achieve HCV sustained virological response (SVR12) to treatment among HIV co-infected
           participants in a real-world primary care or hospital clinic setting; and

        2. Measure the impact of treating HCV in HIV infected individuals on primary HCV and
           reinfection incidence and HCV prevalence in gay and bisexual men in Victoria.

      The study design involves an open label, non-randomised clinical trial of hepatitis C
      treatment for people with HIV coinfection. Treatment will involve any combination of
      hepatitis C antiviral therapy approved for use in Australia appropriate for the participants'
      hepatitis C genotype and selected at the decision of their treating clinicians.
    
  