
    
      POPULATION OF INTEREST

      Participants will be recruited from electronic dance music (EDM) festivals in Calgary and
      Edmonton, Alberta. This population was chosen because festival participants often present to
      event medical staff with a complaint of nausea, in a setting where the availability of
      medical resources such as oral and intravenous anti-nauseants are more limited than an
      emergency department. Although the effectiveness of isopropyl alcohol pads as anti-nauseant
      therapy has been demonstrated in hospital emergency rooms, no prior studies, to the
      investigators' knowledge, have assessed outcomes in festival populations. This study will be
      conducted by adapting protocols from prior studies that examined the effects of inhaled
      isopropyl alcohol on patient-reported nausea and will add to the current state of knowledge
      by investigating a novel population.

      The specific EDM events included in this study (Northern Lights Edmonton, Soundwave Edmonton,
      BOMFest Edmonton, Frequency Edmonton, Chasing Summer Music Festival Calgary, Monster Massive
      Calgary) were selected, because the investigators have long-standing experience working at
      these festivals as part of the main medical team, responsible for providing medical care to
      all festival participants. Odyssey Medical, the organization that oversees all medical staff
      at these EDM events, has granted the investigators permission to integrate the proposed
      research study into patient care at these festivals. This organization recruits
      multi-disciplinary volunteers (physicians, nurses, respiratory therapists, pharmacists,
      lifeguards, paramedics, and first aiders) to manage the medical needs of festival attendees.

      PARTICIPANT SCREENING

      Participants will verbally respond to screening questions, with responses recorded
      electronically by Research Personnel #1 (aka "the assessor") on a secure Google Form (printed
      copies will be available as back-up). Individuals who satisfy all inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will continue in the study, while those who do not meet criteria will receive
      standard medical care as needed (e.g. oral or intravenous anti-nauseant).

      Consent to participate in the study will be obtained with a signature, after review of a
      written consent form. For the consent process, the investigators will have a witness from the
      medical team. For all individuals with a complaint of nausea, the assessor will outline the
      purpose of the study, clarify risks/benefits, and highlight that participation is voluntary
      and can be withdrawn, before seeking consent. Given some festival participants will be
      intoxicated, the assessor will verify their comprehension by asking them to explain what they
      understood. Only patients who demonstrate comprehension by relaying back the information will
      be included in the study, as they will need to qualify their nausea levels pre- and
      post-intervention. The investigators also assume that attendees may not have capacity to
      consent if they are too intoxicated to understand and coherently explain the study.

      If consent is granted, the following information about the participant will be collected
      throughout the study:

        -  Numerical identification number (will be assigned based on the order of recruitment,
           e.g. participant 001, participant 002)

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Self-reported alcohol consumed

        -  Self-reported recreational drugs ingested

        -  Self-reported other suspected contributors of nausea (e.g. migraine, head injury,
           pregnancy, infection)

        -  Pre-treatment nausea level (0-11)

        -  Absence/presence of emesis prior to treatment

        -  10-minute post-treatment nausea level (0-11)

        -  Absence/presence of emesis post-treatment

        -  Any side effects or additional symptoms post-treatment

      No uniquely identifying information such as name, birth date, or Alberta Health Care number
      will be recorded at any point of the study to preserve anonymity. Age and sex will be
      recorded alongside screening criteria and will be linked with each individual's data for
      future subgroup analyses, but this broad information is not expected to interfere with
      anonymity.

      PARTICIPANT RANDOMIZATION

      Included participants will be assigned to one of two study arms through randomization,
      facilitated by an electronic random number generator operated by Research Personnel #2 (i.e.
      "the intervention provider"), who will not be present for the baseline screening assessment.

      INTERVENTION DELIVERY

      Research Personnel #2 will then deliver the intervention according to the assigned study arm.
      Participants in Arm 1 will nasally inhale an isopropyl alcohol pad with 10 inhalations
      (intervention). Participants in Arm 2 will nasally inhale a sterile saline pad of similar
      appearance with 10 inhalations (placebo). Research Personnel #2 will remove the packaging out
      of participants' sight, in order to ensure participants are blinded to the identity of the
      inhaled substance. The isopropyl alcohol pad, or sterile saline pad, will be held within 2cm
      of participants' nares to ensure delivery during inhalations, as a 2018 study demonstrated
      success using isopropyl alcohol aromatherapy as an anti-nauseant when inhaled from 1-2cm from
      the nares.

      According to a 2002 study, isopropyl alcohol pad inhalation, dosed at 3 inhalations every 5
      minutes for 3 doses, was not significantly different than standard anti-nauseant treatment
      for relief of nausea. 10 inhalations exceeds the 9-dose total reported in the paper, and a
      one time bolus dose of 10 inhalations, for this population and festival context, is more
      feasible in terms of patient compliance and patient flow in the main medical area. Two other
      studies' protocols involved inhaling isopropyl alcohol, as many times as participants
      desired, within a few minutes. With all protocols taken into consideration, the investigators
      have determined that 10 inhalations is an appropriate threshold for potential anti-nauseant
      effect.

      OUTCOME ASSESSMENT

      After Research Personnel #2 (aka "the intervention provider") has ensured that the
      intervention/placebo has been inhaled, they will leave the participant's bedside to prevent
      them from biasing any subsequent outcome assessment, given their knowledge of the study arm.
      The intervention provider will not disclose the identity of the inhaled substance to the
      participant nor to the assessor.

      10 minutes post-inhalation, Research Personnel #1 (aka "the assessor"), will return and
      assess the participant's nausea using the same 11-point numerical scale prior to treatment.
      Participants will also be asked to report any new symptoms in order to aid the identification
      of possible adverse outcomes. Presence or absence of vomiting pre- and post-intervention will
      also be recorded.

      After the data collection is complete, both the intervention and control arms will be offered
      further treatment by medical staff if their nausea has not subsided. These "rescue"
      (additional) therapies may include oral and/or intravenous anti-nauseants. The need for
      rescue medications will be recorded.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      For primary and secondary outcomes, data will be analyzed with a one-tailed repeated-measures
      t-test to see if there are any differences in self-reported nausea pre-intervention and
      10-minutes post-intervention, between the means of the treatment arms.

      Subgroup analyses will be performed, via repeated-measures t-test to see if there are any
      differences between the means of the treatment arms, by male sex, female sex, age (18-25,
      25-34, 35+), alcohol ingested, any recreational substance ingested, alcohol plus other any
      recreational substance ingested, and self-reported other suspected contributors of nausea.

      SAMPLE SIZE

      Sample size for each group was calculated with the assumption that the outcome data fits a
      ratio scale (nausea is rated on a continuum, ranging from 0 to 10).

      A sample size, for adequate study power, was performed with the following parameters:

        -  Study group design: two independent study groups

        -  Primary endpoint: continuous (means)

        -  Anticipated mean for isopropyl alcohol swab group: 3 +/- 3

        -  Anticipated mean for placebo group: 5

        -  Alpha: 0.05

        -  Power: 0.8

      Previous work in 2016 found the median nausea score for the isopropyl alcohol pad group was 3
      and for the placebo group, 6, in the emergency department. The investigators lowered the
      placebo group by 1 point, to 5, to be conservative in calculations. A 2018 study found that
      the standard deviation was up to 30, on scale of 0 to 100, for all treatment groups (when
      comparing inhaled isopropyl alcohol + oral ondansetron, inhaled isopropyl alcohol + oral
      placebo, and inhaled placebo + oral ondansetron); therefore, the investigators assume a
      standard deviation of up to 3, in their scale from 0 to 10.

      The investigators calculated a minimum sample size of 70 to power the study. Given that the
      sample size is large enough, the central limit theorem supports the normality assumption;
      therefore, a parametric test was selected (repeated-measures t-test) for statistical
      analyses.
    
  