
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the survival and progression-free survival of patients with hormone-refractory
           stage IV prostate cancer and bone metastases treated with docetaxel and prednisone
           combined with either atrasentan vs placebo.

      Secondary

        -  Compare pain progression of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the qualitative and quantitative toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life, in terms of palliation of metastatic bone pain and
           improvement in functional status, of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rates in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare objective response in patients with measurable disease treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine whether a 30% reduction in PSA and the slope of PSA from baseline to 3 months
           is a surrogate marker for survival in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate PSA progression with clinical progression and death in patients treated with
           these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to disease progression (measurable or non-measurable disease
      progression vs prostate-specific antigen progression only), use of bisphosphonates at study
      entry (yes vs no), worst pain, measured by the Brief Pain Inventory "pain" scale (< grade 4
      vs ≥ grade 4), and extraskeletal metastases (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Patients also receive oral
           atrasentan and oral prednisone once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days
           for up to 12 courses. Patients with stable or responding disease after course 12 may
           register for continued oral atrasentan treatment for up to 52 weeks in the absence of
           disease progression* or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive docetaxel and prednisone as in arm I. Patients also receive
           oral placebo once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeat every 21 days for up to 12
           courses. Patients with stable or responding disease after course 12 may register for
           continued oral placebo treatment for up to 52 weeks in the absence of disease
           progression* or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Patients with PSA progression alone will be allowed to continue treatment

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, before courses 4, 7, and 10, and then after
      completion of study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then
      every 6 months for up to 3 years from study entry.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 930 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  