
    
      Introduction Coronary heart disease (CHD) remains the leading cause of mortality in the
      western world. In Europe, CHD accounts for one fifth of all deaths annually. Acute myocardial
      infarction (AMI) is caused primarily by plaque rupture and it has been demonstrated that the
      pathogenesis of AMI involves interplay of the endothelium, the inflammatory cells and the
      thrombogenicity of the blood. Following an acute myocardial infarction (AMI), profound
      structural changes can be encountered, resulting in left ventricular (LV) remodeling and
      development of depressed cardiac function.

      Heart failure (HF) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide with an
      estimated prevalence of 1% to 2% in the western world and AMI remains the predominant cause.

      Statins were first developed to improve the lipid profile and reduce the development of CVD.
      Several large randomized controlled trials have shown that statin therapy is beneficial in
      both primary and secondary prevention of atherothrombosis. Results from two large, acute
      coronary syndrome trials suggested further clinical benefit of statins in addition to their
      lipid lowering effect. This stemmed from the observation of a cardiovascular event-rate
      reduction in patients with AMI only weeks after initiation of statin treatment. Several
      experimental studies have demonstrated that statins, apart from their LDL lowering effect,
      exert beneficial pleiotropic effects on inflammation, endothelial function, thrombosis,
      plaque stability and ischaemic-reperfusion injury.Other experimental studies in animals have
      reported beneficial effects of statins on LV function after AMI. In clinical settings statins
      have been shown to prevent periprocedural myocardial damage in patients treated with
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and the ARMYDA-ACS trial demonstrated a protective
      effect of statin loading on the myocardium before PCI in patients with ACS. Only a few
      clinical studies have directly investigated the acute effect of statins on LV function in
      patients with AMI and the results are inconclusive.

      All previous studies have concentrated on patients with STEMI and disregarded those with
      NSTEMI; moreover, no studies have investigated the effect of an early statin loading dose in
      patients with AMI. The investigators hypothesized that early and intensive statin treatment
      was associated with improved left ventricular (LV) function and with a stabilization of the
      coronary atherosclerotic plaques in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) Thus, the
      primary aim of the Intensify trial was to examine the effect of early intensive statin
      treatment on LV function with strain echocardiography in patients with AMI after 30 days.

      Methods Study population This study was a prospective randomized controlled (RCT) trial with
      a blinded endpoint design. The trial was approved by the Regional Scientific Ethics Committee
      for Southern Denmark and the Danish Data Protection Agency. Patients with AMI defined by
      current guidelines were consecutively collected from a single coronary care unit from April
      2010-august 2012. Inclusion criteria were all patients with NSTEMI and STEMI, and the
      exclusion criteria were prior intensive statin treatment, contraindication to intensive
      statin therapy and a time limit above 24 hours from hospital admission.

      Patients were randomized to either intensive statin treatment with rosuvastatin 40 mg or
      usual care with simvastatin 40 mg. The intensive care group was given a loading dose of
      rosuvastatin 80 mg as soon as possible followed by 40 mg daily. The usual care group was
      treated with simvastatin 40 mg daily. Apart from the different statin treatment, all patients
      were treated the same according to current national guidelines.

      Patients were followed for 12 month and examined immediately after randomization, after 1
      month and after 12 month.

      Coronary angiography and Culprit vessel Culprit vessel and infarct location was identified
      from the coronary angiography. In patients with single vessel disease (lumen stenosis < 50%)
      the diseased vessel was identified as culprit. In patients with multi-vessel disease, the
      culprit vessel was identified by a combination of angiographic and electrocardiographic
      criteria. In patients with normal CAG we used electrocardiographic and multi-slice computer
      tomography to identify the culprit lesion. If the culprit lesion could not be found, the
      patient was excluded from the study. The investigators used the AHA scientific statement of
      myocardial segmentation and nomenclature for tomographic imaging from 2002 to define the
      coronary arteries supply area of the myocardium.

      Echocardiography Echocardiography was performed at randomization and after 30 days using the
      GE Vivid 7 ultrasound system (GE Medical System Inc., Horten, Norway) with a standard 3.5 MHz
      ultrasound probe. A standardized protocol was followed at each examination and all
      examinations were performed by one operator. Consecutive heartbeats were recorded at a sweep
      speed of 25 mm/s and digitally stored, blinded to patient identity. Examinations were
      analyzed off-line by one experienced observer using EchoPAC version 1.12.0 (GE, Vingmed). All
      analysis was done with a sweep speed of 67 mm/s and recordings were measured and averaged
      from 3 consecutive heartbeats. Examinations with poor image quality and patients with atrial
      fibrillation were excluded from the analyses. Left ventricular- and atrial volumes were
      estimated using the Simpsons biplane method of discs in the 4- and 2 chamber views and
      ejection fraction was calculated. Mitral inflow pattern was estimated in the apical four
      chamber view and pattern of peak early (E) and peak atrial (A) velocities were measured. E/A
      ratio was calculated by dividing E by A. Mitral annular velocities were estimated in the
      apical 4- and 2 chamber view using pulsed wave tissue Doppler imaging. A pulsed wave Doppler
      sample volume was placed at the level of the mitral annulus first in the lateral wall, then
      in the septum and finally in the anterior- and posterior wall. Using tissue Doppler imaging
      peak early (E´), peak systolic (S´) mitral annular velocities were estimated. E/E´ ratio was
      obtained by dividing E by E´.

      Strain analyses Longitudinal systolic strain was measured by speckle tracking
      echocardiography. This was obtained from 2D gray scale images of the apical 4-chamber,
      2-chamber and long-axis view with optimized focus on the left ventricle and frame rate ≥ 69
      frames/sec. Duration of systole was defined in the 5-chamber apical view by marking aorta
      valve opening and closure from the continuous wave Doppler curve.

      Strain analyses were done in EchoPAC version 1.12.0 (GE, Vingmed) with the Q-analysis
      software. The left ventricular borderline was manually traced in each apical plane and
      tracking of motion was automatically done by the software. Peak systolic strain was
      determined in all 18 segments from the three apical views. Global strain for the left
      ventricle was provided by the software as the average value of the peak systolic longitudinal
      strain of the three apical views. Strain of the infarct zone was calculated as the mean value
      of the segments supplied by the culprit vessel

      Time to intensive statin bolus:

      Patients randomized to the intensive care group were given a loading bolus of rosuvastatin 80
      mg as soon as possible after admission and continued intensive treatment with 40 mg daily.
      Patients randomized to the usual care group were treated after current guidelines with
      simvastatin 40 mg daily and started statin therapy before discharge from the hospital.
      Patients treated intensively were divided in two groups. A very early statin group receiving
      statin treatment before 12 hours after admission and an early statin group receiving statin
      after 12 hours but before 24 hours from admission to the hospital.

      MSCT:

      The investigators performed a contrast enhanced Cardiac CT (MSCT) at randomization and after
      12 month. The investigators used a standardized protocol at every examination and detailed
      method description can be seen elsewhere.

      Biochemistry:

      Blood was drawn at baseline before randomization and after 30 days. The investigators
      measured lipid-profile HBA1C, Creatinin, ALAT and CK.

      Statistical analyses Continuous outcome variables are presented as mean ± standard deviation
      (SD). Changes in outcome variables from baseline to follow-up are presented as Delta (∆)
      values (follow-up values - baseline values) Differences between groups are analyzed with an
      unpaired Students t-test with unequal variance. The investigators used multiple linear
      regressions in order to adjust for potential confounders. The investigators defined the
      confounders to be: Baseline left ventricular output variable, diabetes, hypertension,
      hypercholesterolemia, prior statin treatment, history of ACS, type of infarction, type of
      invasive treatment, culprit vessel, beta-blockers, ACE/ARB-inhibitors and time from symptoms
      to invasive treatment.

      Continuous exposure variables are presented as median and lower and upper quartiles and
      categorical data as frequencies and percentages. Difference in exposure variables were tested
      with Krushal-Wallis test for continuous variables and for categorical variables with
      Fischer's exact test. Statistical tests were two-sided, and a P-value < 0.05 was considered
      to be statistically significant. All statistical analyses were performed using STATA version
      12 (StataCorp LP, Collage Station, TX, USA)
    
  