
    
      Project background: In Denmark more than 1,000 people each year die of a fall, which is more
      than five times as many dying in traffic accidents. Fall accidents are also the leading cause
      of traumatic brain injury and is a relatively unnoticed problem, although this type of
      accidents causes more hospital bed days than all other accidents combined.

      Annually, almost half of the 375,000 elderly Danes over 75 years of age and relatively three
      times as many of the approximately 40,000 elderly people in nursing homes fall every year,
      causing over 40,000 hospital contacts annually. Ten percent of all elderly people
      hospitalized each year because of a fall, mostly with fractures, for which the risk increases
      fivefold after a fall. In Denmark there are now now around 1 million people over 65 years of
      age. Over the next 25 years we will experience a 50% growth to 1.5 million people over 65
      years of age.

      Injury, disability and death caused by falls is therefore a widespread and growing human and
      societal problem. Many will never recover completely and will therefore need help to cope
      with everyday life. After the first fall risk increase for repeated falls. Especially for
      older people living in their own homes permanent or temporary disabilities results in a
      severe deterioration of the quality of life. Treatment of falls is also a significant
      financial burden on health and social care.

      The main reason for the decline is muscle weakness. Muscle weakness leads to greatly
      increased risk of falling, decreased quality of life and functional capacity. Musclemass and
      -power decrease about 40 percent from age 20 to 80 years old.

      Recent studies have shown that even 90-year-old persons can double their muscle strength by
      intensive training just three times per week. The level of the male sex hormone testosterone
      decreases with age and leads to impaired muscle mass. Twenty percent of men over 60 and 50
      percent over 80 years, a low level of testosterone in total equivalent to more than 100,000
      Danes. From the human and socio-economic perspective, it is important to find treatments that
      can enhance function in the elderly.
    
  