
    
      Prior stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) experiences for treatment of locally advanced
      pancreatic cancer entailed either single-fraction or multi-fraction approaches delivering 33
      Gray (Gy) in 5 fractions. Excellent tolerance and tumor control has been demonstrated, but
      median survival remained approximately 14 months. This highlights the strengths and
      limitations of SBRT to current radiation doses for pancreatic cancer. A prior Washington
      University institutional study and retrospective review has shown the safety of delivering
      67.5 Gy in 15 fractions for inoperable pancreatic cancer using a strict 'isotoxicity'
      approach of limiting the gastrointestinal (GI) organs at risk (stomach, duodenum, small bowel
      and large bowel) to 45 Gy to 0.5 cm3 or less. This regimen resulted in no grade 3 or higher
      GI toxicities, and only one death in the 19 patients with a median follow-up of 15 months.
      This is significantly improved from prior experiences, where approximately 15 months
      represents the median survival for most studies of inoperable pancreatic cancer.

      A recent retrospective analysis of 42 locally advanced pancreatic cancer patients treated by
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) guided radiation therapy at four institutions (University of
      California, Los Angeles, University of Wisconsin, Vrije Universiteit Medical Center (VUmc),
      Amsterdam, and Washington University, St. Louis) demonstrated that high-dose stereotactic
      body radiotherapy (SBRT) or hypofractionated radiation therapy delivered using daily ADAPTIVE
      dose planning on an MRI-guided radiotherapy system (MRIdian, ViewRay Inc.) has the potential
      to further improve overall survival. A control group of 19 patients treated to more
      conventional radiation doses without frequent dose adaptation showed a median survival of
      14.8 months, while patients treated to high radiation doses (n=23, maximum biologically
      equivalent dose at alpha/beta = 10 Gy, or BED10 of > 90 Gy) under daily or almost daily
      adaptive re-planning had an estimated median survival of 27.8 months (p=0.005).
      Interestingly, increased radiation dose delivery using daily dose adaptation was correlated
      with less grade 3 toxicity (0% in the high dose group vs 15.8% in patients treated to lower
      radiation doses without dose adaptation).

      The compelling data of this retrospective study prompted the development of this current
      prospective clinical trial designed to assess the primary objective of grade 3 or greater GI
      toxicity at 90 days for patients with borderline resectable or inoperable locally advanced
      pancreatic cancer treated with MRI-guided on-table adaptive radiation therapy and soft tissue
      tracking with radiation beam gating to 50 Gy in 5 fractions. Secondary objectives include
      assessment of (1) overall survival at 2 years, (2) distant progression free survival at 6
      months, and (3) changes in patient-reported quality of life (QOL) from pre-treatment to 3 and
      12 months post-treatment.
    
  