
    
      This is a monocentric, randomized, single-blind and controlled study with a parallel design
      (2 arms). The research hypothesis is that the diet high in Slow Digestible Starch (SDS)
      content (H-SDS) will lower the daylong glycemic response and improve the glycemic control
      just as metabolic, inflammatory, cardiovascular and oxidative stress parameters in patients
      with type 2 diabetes (T2D) compared to the diet low in SDS content (L-SDS). The hypothesis is
      that these differences in glycemic response and in metabolic, inflammatory, cardiovascular
      and oxidative stress parameters response can be observed after 3 months of diet.

      80 patients with type 2 diabetes will be recruited.

      Subjects will have 11 visits:

      V0 = selection visit: check whether the patients fulfill inclusion and exclusion criteria for
      the study.

      Visit V1 = CGMS insertion on usual lifestyle without any changes in his/her diet. This is the
      Run-in period.

      Visit V2 (6 days +/- 1 day) = CGMS removal and randomization according to sex, HbA1c and
      MAGE.

      Visit V3 = first metabolic day: medical check-up, dietary interview, indirect calorimetry,
      impedancemetry measurements and FlexMeal challenge test with 5h follow up (blood samples).
      CGMS insertion with detailed dietetic instructions according to their allocated group
      (adapted food provisions).

      Visit V4 (6 days +/- 1 day) = CGMS removal. Arterial Endothelial Function (AEF) measurement.
      Adapted food provisions.

      Visit V5 = Adapted food provisions.

      Visit V6 = medical check-up, dietary interview, CGMS insertion and baseline blood
      measurements. Adapted food provisions.

      Visit V7 (6 days +/- 1 day) = CGMS removal. Arterial Endothelial Function (AEF) measurement.
      Adapted food provisions.

      Visit V8 = Adapted food provisions.

      Visit V9 = CGMS insertion. Arterial Endothelial Function (AEF) measurement. Adapted food
      provisions.

      Visit V10 (6 days +/- 1 day) = second metabolic day: medical check-up, dietary interview,
      indirect calorimetry, impedancemetry measurements and FlexMeal challenge test with 5h follow
      up (blood samples). CGMS removal. Feedback questionnaire.
    
  