
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum-tolerated doses (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities of two
      different regimens of ABT-888 (veliparib) when administered with carboplatin and PLD (Doxil,
      Lipodox) (pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride) in recurrent, platinum-sensitive
      epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.

      II. To assess the toxicity of these regimens using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program
      (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
      version 4.0.

      III. To examine the tolerability of these treatment regimens in combination with bevacizumab
      at the MTD.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the objective response rate (complete and partial) in patients with measurable
      disease.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the relationships between platinum-free interval, activity of ABT-888
      (objective response rate) and measures of breast cancer susceptibility gene 1/2 (BRCA1/2)
      status including mutations, alterations, rearrangements, promoter methylation, and
      immunohistochemical expression).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of veliparib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

      REGIMEN I: Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7, and
      pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and carboplatin
      IV over 30 minutes on day 1.

      REGIMEN II: Patients receive veliparib PO BID on days 1-28, and pegylated liposomal
      doxorubicin hydrochloride and carboplatin as in Regimen I.

      BEVACIZUMAB: Once the MTD for veliparib has been determined, patients also receive
      bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 10 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up quarterly for 1 year.
    
  