
    
      Background

      The application of external fixation is a commonly performed emergency procedure in
      orthopaedics for temporary stabilization as well as definitive treatment of fractures.
      External fixation requires that metal pins be placed into the bone on either side of the
      fracture. The pins are then connected to an external frame, thus stabilizing the fracture.
      There is debate over the optimal technique for the insertion of these pins in regards to the
      need to pre-drill a pilot hole prior to pin insertion.

      The technology behind external fixation has evolved greatly over the past thirty years. The
      original external fixation pins, "Shanz pins," were essentially metal rods with threads and a
      trocar point. A pilot hole was needed because these pins did not have the capability to
      create their own hole or path in the bone. Recent advances have lead to the creation of
      self-drilling/self-tapping pins, which have decreased the number of steps necessary to place
      the pins and thereby decreased operative time. The external fixators are usually placed as a
      temporary measure to allow for improvement of soft tissue condition before definitive open
      reduction and internal fixation. Since many external fixation devices are placed in patients
      who are critically ill, decreasing operative time is very important.

      While saving operative time is essential it is also important that the device serves its
      purpose without leading to complications in the short term. The major complications related
      to external fixation are pin site infection and pin loosening. The literature is clear that
      high temperatures created during pin insertion leads to bone necrosis surrounding the pin,
      increased infection, and increased rates of loosening. It is unclear if the new generation
      self-drilling pins create the same amount of necrosis as the older generation of pins. Lab
      studies have shown increased temperatures with direct drilling with these pins as compared to
      pin insertion after drilling pilot holes with dedicated drill bits. It is unclear if this
      increased temperature results in increased rate of loosening or pin site infection in
      clinical practice.

      A thorough literature search has revealed no randomized controlled studies to support the use
      of these pins without drilling pilot holes before insertion. The current standard of care is
      undefined and left to surgeon preference. Our study aims to provide guidelines for schanz pin
      insertion for external fixator application, which may help to reduce the number of pin tract
      infections suffered by patients and improve outcomes.

      Study Design and Treatment Plan

      This will be a prospective, randomized, within-subject, single-blind trial to be conducted at
      Temple University Hospital. Patients who are determined to require an external fixation
      procedure of the lower extremities due to fracture or dislocation will be considered for
      enrollment according to the above inclusion criteria. Standard of care for treatment of their
      fractures will be provided. Once patients have provided informed consent for enrollment in
      the study, their pins will be randomized in a paired design according to a computer generated
      randomization schedule. There will be two types of pins, pre-drilled and non pre-drilled. A
      standard external fixation device requires two pins on each side of the fracture. Each pair
      of pins will have one each of pre-drilled and not pre-drilled pins, according to the
      randomization schedule. Therefore, each patient will have two pre-drilled pins and two pins
      inserted without pre-drilling. Some surgeons may prefer three pins on each side of the
      fracture/dislocation that is to be immobilized. We will have a randomization protocol for
      these situations as well.

      The computer generated randomization algorithm will be placed in a secure location in sealed
      opaque envelopes. The operating surgeon will open the envelope prior to pin insertion and
      follow the randomization schedule as prescribed in the envelope.

      A standard technique will be followed. IV antibiotics will be administered within 60 minutes
      of the starting skin incision. Pin insertion will be done by standard techniques. This
      involves a 1 cm incision, and blunt dissection. 4.0 mm (calcaneal or metatarsal), 5.0 mm
      (tibia) or 6.0 mm (femur) pins will be inserted by one of two techniques: (1) self drilling
      pins are inserted with a power drill directly into the bone; (2) a standard twist drill bit
      is utilized with a power drill to create a pilot hole, followed by insertion of the
      self-drilling pin by power drill.

      Soft tissue relaxation incisions are made according to standard technique after external
      fixation assembly, as needed. The pin care protocol will consist of daily pin site cleaning
      using dilute hydrogen peroxide and dry dressings. Patients with suspected pin site infection
      will be treated with Keflex 500mg po q 6hr. Patients with an allergy to Keflex will receive
      Clindamycin 300mg po q 6hr.
    
  