
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if admixture of IL-12 (recombinant interleukin-12) with vaccine emulsion will
      increase the frequency of vaccine-induced cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ T cells in the
      blood.

      II. To determine if administration of daclizumab will deplete CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells
      from the peripheral and potentiate specific immune responses induced by vaccination.

      III. To determine if vaccination +/- daclizumab will be safe in this patient population.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if vaccination +/- daclizumab will have clinical activity in patients with
      advanced melanoma.

      II. To determine if clinical response may be associated with particular gene expression
      profiles in the tumor microenvironment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive multipeptide vaccination comprising recombinant MAGE-3.1 antigen,
      MART-1 antigen, gp100 antigen, and NA17-A2 peptide emulsified with Montanide ISA-51
      intradermically (ID) or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 22, and 50.

      ARM II: Patients receive vaccination as in arm I with an admixture of recombinant
      interleukin-12 (IL-12) on days 1, 22, and 50.

      In both arms, patients are evaluated for immune response. Patients with partial response or
      stable disease may be immunized for up to a maximum of 1 year. Patients with complete
      response may be treated with 1 additional course of 3 vaccinations.

      EXPANDED COHORT: Additional patients are accrued to the arm with higher immune response and
      receive daclizumab IV over 15 minutes on day -7. Patients then receive vaccination as in arm
      I or arm II on days 1, 22, and 50 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 8 weeks until disease
      progression and then at least every 3 months thereafter.
    
  