
    
      A key component of lung defense is the efficiency of mucociliary clearance (MCC).

      Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is a human genetic disorder with defective MCC. This ongoing
      project is designed to identify additional disease-causing mutations in PCD, and correlate
      the molecular etiologies with the ciliary phenotype (ultrastructure, wave form and beat
      frequency). We have recently shown that the normal human cilium has a distinctive waveform,
      i.e. beats in-plane with defined curvatures and amplitudes for the effective (forward) and
      recovery stroke. We hypothesize that discrete sets of genes contribute to the structure and
      function of the ciliary outer dynein arm (ODA), inner dynein arm (IDA), and central pair (CP)
      and radial spoke (RS) complex (CP/RS), and that we can identify novel genetic mutations in
      different structural components of the cilium that will have different effects on ciliary
      ultrastructure, wave form, and beat frequency. Importantly, we are now able to identify
      patients with PCD who do not have hallmark diagnostic ultrastructural defects, based on
      distinctive clinical phenotypes (including situs inversus), low or borderline nasal NO
      production, and abnormal ciliary motility. Identification of PCD patients with normal ciliary
      ultrastructure (~16% of PCD patients at UNC) offers the opportunity to discover mutations in
      genes that cause functional, but not ultrastructural, defects (such as DNAH11), and to
      correlate those mutations with ciliary waveform abnormalities. Over the past 4 years, we have
      made great progress in identifying mutations in 2 genes (DNAI1 and DNAH5) that cause ~60% of
      ODA defects in PCD, and ~35% of PCD overall. We will extend our search for disease causing
      mutations in PCD, using several different approaches, including studies of additional
      candidate genes, (guided by ultrastructure), plus insights from ciliary proteomics, and
      family-based studies. Taken together, these studies will provide new insights regarding the
      relationship of mutations in specific genes to ciliary ultrastructural and functional
      defects. These studies will not only greatly enhance our ability to diagnose PCD, but will
      also lead to discovery of "milder" genetic mutations associated with normal ciliary
      ultrastructure, and likely some residual ciliary function. Ultimately, this will allow future
      studies of the role of partial loss of ciliary function in the predisposition to more common
      airways diseases, such as chronic bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
    
  