
    
      This is an uncontrolled, non-randomized trial to evaluate safety, immunogenicity and
      feasibility of a new vaccine, consisting of autologous monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DC)
      transfected with autologous tumor-derived DNA. Briefly, the plan is to use a two-stage trial
      design and to initially enroll 17 patients with primary advanced carcinoma of the oral cavity
      or oropharynx over a period of 2 years. The patients will undergo surgery, and a portion of
      the primary tumor specimen not necessary for the pathologic diagnosis will be obtained to
      serve as a source of tumor DNA. Each DC-based vaccine will contain DNA-transfected DC. It
      will be administered intranodally under ultrasound guidance. Only those patients who have
      normal delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses to recall antigens will be eligible to
      receive the vaccine. Immunologic response to the vaccine will be evaluated. If there is no
      evidence of toxicity, and >3 patients show immunologic response, the second stage of the
      study will be opened for accrual of 22 patients. All patients will be monitored by
      interferon- gamma (IFN-) secretion in enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assays prior to and
      after vaccination for the frequency of T-cells responsive to autologous tumor and to the
      vaccine. The patients will also be evaluated before and after vaccination for the capability
      of their T cells to respond to activating signals delivered via the T cell receptor (TcR).

      Primary Objective: To determine the safety and feasibility of immunization of patients with
      carcinoma of the oral cavity or oropharynx with autologous monocyte-derived dendritic cells
      (DC) transfected with DNA obtained from the patient's own cancer cells.

      Secondary Objective: To evaluate the ability of the DNA-based DC vaccine to induce immune
      responses to the vaccine as well as to autologous tumor.
    
  