
    
      Intervention Design: This intervention will be a randomized cluster trial design:
      interventions will be implemented in 6 health wards/communities (4 rural/peri-urban and 2
      urban) while 6 health wards/communities with similar socio-demographic characteristics will
      serve as controls (where the intervention is not implemented). Including some urban or
      peri-urban clusters enables one to capture both rural and urban data about attitudes toward
      PMC maternal care (Phase 1), and the efficacy of the intervention to increase PMC use (Phase
      2). It also enables one to see if attitudes (Phase 1 data) and the intervention (Phase 2) are
      different in rural vs. urban settings. This would be described as being a secondary analysis
      of the main data derived during Phase 1 and Phase 2.

      The Intervention: The actual intervention activities to be applied will be finalized after
      the intervention workshop, following Phase 1. However, based on current knowledge, the
      intervention will need to be multi-faceted, and will possibly consist of 1) provision of
      incentives to encourage women to attend primary health care and use family planning,
      antenatal, delivery and postnatal services; 2) conditional cash transfers to promote uptake
      of services; 3) targeted community health education and advocacy activities; 4) community
      maternal audit/accountability activities, with community-led activities aimed at promoting
      utilization of services; 5) outreach services by PHCs; 6) PHC strengthening including
      training of health providers; and 7) training and kitting of community health rangers who
      will be trained to follow up women at home to ensure that they do not default but that they
      continue to use PHC services until delivery.

      Control Group: The control group will comprise women who are eligible and give birth
      (including cases of fetal or infant death) in the intervention period in comparative health
      wards, who will not receive the interventions and who will continue to receive their usual
      pattern of utilization of maternity care. To ensure comparability of social, economic and
      cultural factors between the intervention and control groups, the health wards that will
      serve as controls will have been selected from the same States as the intervention health
      wards. Hence, the study will have paired intervention-control groups from the same States,
      but distanced enough from one another (in separate LGAs) to reduce the potential effects of
      study contamination (i.e., the intervention is known or adopted in a control region).
      However, should the intervention prove to be effective, the investigators will be
      recommending the use of the same intervention activities in the control sites, as well as
      throughout the country.
    
  