
    
      LTLD is a heat-activated formulation of liposomal doxorubicin that releases the drug when
      exposed to hyperthermic conditions (40-45°C). This novel agent has been well tolerated in
      adults with similar toxicity profile to doxorubicin. MR-HIFU offers a non-invasive and
      non-ionizing ability to selectively heat large tissue volumes. Thus, MR-HIFU is a promising
      technology for triggering doxorubicin release from LTLD. LTLD has been evaluated with
      ultrasound-guided high intensity focused ultrasound and found to be safe and feasible. In
      this population, patients had a real-time thermometry device implanted intra-tumorally,
      allowing for only a limited spatial sample of temperature at the target. Without more
      complete knowledge of temperature distribution in and around the targeted area, the use of
      ultrasound-guided HIFU for LTLD drug delivery does not provide spatial control over drug
      release. This may result in areas of over or under treatment within the target, and
      potentially even off-target drug delivery or overheating. In contrast, our MR-HIFU device
      provides real-time MR thermometry without additional devices. Building upon recent
      mathematical as well as pre-clinical work we will use an approach that capitalizes on MR-HIFU
      features to optimize drug delivery to the targeted tumor. Similar to many original
      pre-clinical studies and clinical trials with LTLD, our approach involves continuous
      maintenance of the target at mild hyperthermia with MR-HIFU following LTLD infusion.
      Following hyperthermia, we will deliver ablation therapy (>55°C) to targeted areas of tumor
      where feasible and safe. Addition of this ablation therapy after mild-hyperthermia-triggered
      drug delivery with LTLD has the potential to significantly potentiate chemotherapy with
      minimal additional adverse effects to improve local control and drug delivery without
      increasing toxicity, as demonstrated by mathematical modeling as well as pre-clinical
      studies.
    
  