
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The rationale for prevention derives from the mass nature of adult cardiovascular diseases in
      affluent societies, the insidious development of the underlying processes, particularly
      hypertension and atherosclerosis, the high immediate out-of hospital mortality of coronary
      disease and stroke, and the long-term excessive risk after survival of an initial episode.

      The potential for a preventive approach in cardiovascular diseases was based on the large
      differences in disease rates found between populations and the strong associations between
      individual risk factor levels and disease rates within high risk cultures. The congruence of
      these population observations with clinical evidence and with plausible mechanisms of cause,
      strengthened inference of their causal importance. Further, the safety and feasibility were
      well established of modifying individuals' cardiovascular risk characteristics and changing
      personal health behavior through medical and educational strategies. Finally, the dynamic
      nature of the changes in vital statistics on deaths reported from hypertension, stroke, and
      coronary heart disease (CHD) in many nations, at the rate of one to two percent a year and
      greater, both upward and downward, indicated their preventability, though none of these
      trends was adequately explained when the study began in 1980.

      The rationale for a population or community-wide strategy, as in the Minnesota Heart Health
      Program, contrasted to a high-risk individual, medical approach, was based on all the above
      considerations, plus the demonstration that entire populations were at excess risk relative
      to others. Focusing solely on the portion of higher risk people among high risk cultures
      appeared to be a necessary medical part of a community-wide prevention approach, but it was
      insufficient and inefficient as a sole or major public health strategy. This was mainly
      because the bulk of attributable (excess) cases of cardiovascular disease came from the large
      central part of the population distribution of risk, not the tail. The socially learned
      behaviors which lead to the precursors of cardiovascular disease were also mass phenomena,
      requiring a population strategy of prevention and health promotion. Finally, concentration of
      preventive effort only among the high risk or only on adults tended to ignore the mass
      emergence of youth into early adulthood bearing the physical characteristics of excess risk
      and already having well-developed unhealthy behaviors. Therefore, a rational and effective
      public health strategy would appear to be one directed toward all ages and segments of the
      community, over a sustained period, with the ultimate objective to prevent elevated risk and
      risky behaviors in the first place.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Three pairs of communities were selected, each pair with one education and one control
      community. Communities were matched on size and distance from Minneapolis-St. Paul and pairs
      were similar in median income, education, health care, and media resources. The first pair,
      Mankato and Winona, were small agricultural communities of approximately 40,000 in population
      in 1980. The second pair, Fargo, North Dakota and Moorhead, Minnesota paired with Sioux
      Falls, South Dakota, were medium-sized urban centers of approximately 100,000 in population.
      Bloomington and Roseville, Minnesota were suburban centers in the Twin Cities metropolitan
      area with a population of approximately 80,000.

      The education program began in Mankato in 1981 after two baseline surveys, in Fargo-Moorhead
      in 1982 after three baseline surveys, and in Bloomington in 1983 after four baseline surveys.
      Education activities continued in the three communities for five years concluding in the
      staged manner in which they began. Targeted risk factors included blood pressure, exercise
      habits, smoking, and blood cholesterol levels. Health messages were communicated by
      involvement of community leaders and organizations, media education, population-based risk
      factor screening and education, adult education classes, youth and parent education
      disseminated in schools, health professional's educa0tion, and community-wide risk factor
      education campaigns.

      The effectiveness of the program was evaluated by annual population survey samples of
      cross-sections or cohorts and by morbidity and mortality surveillance. The annual risk factor
      survey measured community and individual change in risk factors and related behaviors in
      25-74 year old persons living in each of the six sites. Annual surveys included between
      300-500 persons and were population-based, random, neighborhood cluster samples of each town.
      Selected households were invited to participate. A home interview was conducted to collect
      data on health beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors, medical history, health message exposure,
      and demographic characterization. After the home interview, participants had additional risk
      factor measurements at a survey center. Data were collected on height, weight, blood
      pressure, serum total and HDL cholesterol, and serum thiocyanate. In each community, a 50
      percent sample of subjects was assessed for dietary habits and the other 50 percent for
      physical activity.

      Morbidity and mortality data on myocardial infarction and stroke were collected and analyzed
      for the Minnesota Heart Health Program areas and mortality data for all of Minnesota, North
      Dakota, and South Dakota. Computer classification algorithms were developed jointly with the
      Pawtucket Heart Health Program and the Stanford Five-City Multifactor Risk Reduction Program
      to allow pooling of data of the three studies. All hospitalized cases of myocardial
      infarction and stroke were investigated and cause of death was validated for cardiovascular
      disease deaths occurring out-of-hospital. Deaths occurring throughout Minnesota, North and
      South Dakota were catalogued. Hospital disease surveillance was carried out with the
      cooperation of 34 area hospitals. Mortality was ascertained by death certificate counts and
      from tapes supplied by the three State Health Departments. Morbidity and mortality data were
      compared between pooled education versus pooled comparison communities and mortality data
      were compared between these and the remaining areas of the three states.
    
  