
    
      In 2015, the prevalence of hypertension in Chinese adults was 25.2%, which can be translated
      into 25 million people with hypertension in Guangdong Province. Hypertension is also related
      to narrowing and occlusion of the cardiovascular vessels. In China, coronary heart disease
      and stroke are the main causes of death in many provinces, and the early prevention of
      cardiovascular disease risk in patients with hypertension has become a research direction
      dedicated to the whole population. Magnesium is the second most abundant intracellular ion in
      the body, which can regulate vascular tone, and together with calcium leads to changes in
      vascular smooth muscle tone and contractility. Magnesium deficiency is associated with
      oxidative stress, inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, platelet aggregation, insulin
      resistance, and hyperglycemia; in the long run, dietary magnesium deficiency also increases
      the risk of developing metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and
      cancer. However, the impact of nutrients on health is affected by different dietary factors.
      Calcium and magnesium share different ion receptors or channels, including Calcium-sensing
      receptor (modulates parathyroid hormone levels, thereby increasing the production of vitamin
      D), as well as TRPM6 and TRPM7 (modulates the absorption of calcium and magnesium ions). In a
      large meta-analysis, there is also evidence that calcium supplements may reduce blood
      pressure in healthy people.

      In addition, in epidemiological studies, we can see the interactive relationship between
      calcium and magnesium. In the American population, when the ratio of calcium to magnesium is
      <2.8, dietary intake of calcium and magnesium can reduce the risk of colorectal adenoma.
      However, when the ratio of calcium to magnesium is too low (<2.0), it may also cause adverse
      effects. According to data from more than 130,000 people in the Shanghai Women's Health Study
      and the Shanghai Men's Health Study, the median calcium-magnesium ratio (1.7) in the Chinese
      population is much lower than the calcium-magnesium ratio (3.0) in the US population. When
      the calcium-magnesium ratio is > 1.7, calcium and magnesium intake can reduce the mortality
      of cardiovascular disease; but when the calcium-magnesium ratio is <1.7, magnesium intake
      increases the risk of cardiovascular death in women. Although the interaction between
      magnesium and calcium can influence cardiovascular risk in epidemiological studies, the
      current clinical evidence have not fully verified the relationship, especially among
      hypertensive patients . To substantiate the research findings, it is necessary to explore how
      calcium-magnesium intervention can improve the cardiovascular risk factors of hypertensive
      patients. In addition, personalized nutrition intervention is also a research direction to be
      explored. Unlike the unified dosage in the past, it may be more important to formulate
      supplements according to individual dietary habits. In 2018, Vanderbilt University's team
      conducted a clinical trial among 180 healthy adults with personalized magnesium supplements
      and examined on the effects of blood vitamin D. They adjusted the dose of supplements
      according to the calcium-magnesium ratio in the diet at baseline to achieve a
      calcium-magnesium ratio of 2.3, and tested changes in various types of vitamin D in the
      blood. They found that the effect of magnesium supplements on vitamin D levels varied
      according to the baseline 25(OH)D concentration. When 25(OH)D levels are higher, magnesium
      supplements reduced the levels of 25(OH)D3 and 24,25(OH)2D3. But when 25(OH)D is low,
      magnesium supplements increased the level of 25(OH)D3. This is the first study to use
      baseline dietary intakes for personalized nutrition interventions, but they have not explored
      whether interventions can affect cardiovascular risk factors in hypertensive patients. More
      randomized trials are needed to verify the efficacy of intervention, especially in high-risk
      populations.

      To answer the above questions, this study is a randomized trial to ensure that the highest
      level of evidence is obtained and will recruit hypertensive patients in Guangdong Provincial
      People's Hospital. The intervention and control group have the same number of people.
    
  