
    
      The aim of this registry is to record the use of CytoSorb® under real life conditions in as
      many cases as possible (preferably all or, at least, in a representative sample). All
      CytoSorb® applications in different clinical settings and in all patients who are treated
      with this technology in Germany, Austria and Switzerland (target population) are planned to
      be included.

      The objectives of the registry are collection of real-life data on a broad scale, their
      centralized, structured and comprehensive documentation, and a controlled data exchange. The
      gathered information will be used to augment the knowledge on the clinical efficacy of the
      technology, to optimize the quality of its therapeutic application, and to identify and
      promptly handle possible complications related to the use of CytoSorb®. The registry will
      record all relevant information in the course of product use, e.g. diagnosis, comorbidities,
      course of the condition, treatment, concomitant medication and clinical laboratory
      parameters.

      The registry will inform physicians of different medical specialties about the range of
      possible applications of CytoSorb® and invite them to contribute their own experiences to the
      registry. This is done by giving them access to their own data and to the results of periodic
      analyses (for contributing participants), and via publications of the results (for
      participants and external interested parties)

      The CytoSorb® registry will provide the data base for justified and optimized decisions. An
      active form of data collection where data is prospectively collected by qualified staff is
      particularly suited for this purpose.

      Registry data might help closing knowledge gaps and open practical issues. Due to the patient
      group's heterogeneity, the registry can identify sub-groups, assess their
      risk-benefit-profile and examine their safety profile. Registry data are absolutely essential
      for assessing a therapy's significance within the healthcare landscape.

      Institutions that contribute data to the registry benefit in several ways: They will obtain a
      continuous retrospective feedback of their own results, their data will be periodically
      compared with data from other participating sites, and they will get access to regularly
      published analyses of the results of all participants. On the basis of these data, they can
      establish a quality monitoring and optimize their use of CytoSorb®.

      The planned endpoints allow for a comprehensive description of CytoSorb® efficacy in terms of
      several indication-relevant aspects. Together with the monitoring of application safety,
      these data build the basis for establishing benchmarks that promote a higher treatment
      quality.
    
  