
    
      The present study is a longitudinal, single blind, randomized controlled pilot trial. The
      participants will be recruited at the Center of Metabolism Diseases and Clinical Dietetics of
      Sant'Orsola Hospital in Bologna, directed by Prof. Giulio Marchesini Reggiani, after approval
      of the Ethics Committee of Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria of Bologna.

      Patients attending the Center of Metabolism Diseases and Clinical Dietetics during the
      enrollment period will be screened for inclusion and exclusion criteria by care coordinators
      or clinicians. Eligible patients will be required to sign the informed consent form and the
      consent form for personal data processing. The researchers will be in charge of explaining
      the project to make sure that it is fully understood by the patients.

      During the first 3 months, all the participants will undergo a behavioral program focusing on
      lifestyle modification. The participants who accomplish the program for life-style
      modification will be randomly assigned to either the control group or the experimental group.
      Generalized block randomization will be carried out by a computer program (the Random
      Allocation Software 2.0), with an allocation ratio of 1:1.

      Participants in the experimental group will receive a four-session intervention on
      psychological well-being. Each session will last one hour and will be offered weekly, based
      on the principles of Well-Being Therapy. Patients in the control group will only receive a
      treatment as usual (TAU), according to the instructions given by their clinicians. Data will
      be collected for each participant through questionnaires and interviews at baseline, at the
      end of the life-style intervention, at the end of the well-being intervention, and at 6
      months of follow-up after the intervention. Given the nature of this study, it will not be
      possible for participants and treatment delivers to be blinded. Trained researchers, masked
      to the experimental allocation of patients, will perform measurements and analyses of the
      data to minimize potential bias.
    
  