
    
      This study will characterize the neurochemical abnormalities in important brain circuits
      underlying obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) symptoms and the effects of
      cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT). Identification of such metabolite biomarkers will provide
      an important foundation for translational clinical studies to maximize the ability of CBT to
      reduce symptoms and to design medications that target core features of the disease, which is
      particularly important for those who do not respond to, or have access to, CBT.

      OCD is an often disabling and chronic psychiatric condition that affects approximately 2% of
      the world's population. Most patients respond only incompletely to current treatments and
      many do not respond at all. CBT, a form of psychotherapy, is one of the most effective
      treatments for OCD, yet its mechanism of action is not fully understood. The objective of
      this study is to use neuroimaging to understand how neurometabolite abnormalities in neural
      circuits relate to OCD symptoms, and how these are affected by CBT. In OCD, dysfunction is
      suspected in several subregions of the cingulate gyrus, a brain region involved in relevant
      neural circuits. This study will use magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) to
      measure concentrations of brain metabolites, including glutamate (Glu), in the cingulate. Glu
      is an important excitatory neurotransmitter that is suspected to be disturbed in OCD. In this
      study, MRSI scans will be performed on 25 adult OCD patients before and after 4 weeks of
      daily CBT. They will be compared to 25 untreated healthy controls scanned 4 weeks apart. A
      third group of 25 OCD patients will be scanned before and after 4 weeks while on the
      waitlist, will then receive 4 weeks of CBT, and will be scanned a third time at its
      completion. The specific aims of this study are: 1) Determine if levels of the Glu in the
      "emotional" and "cognitive" subregions of the cingulate differ between OCD patients and
      controls; 2) Determine if Glu changes after CBT or waitlist in the OCD patients and if they
      change in the controls after simple passage of time; 3) Determine if there are relationships
      between Glu and clinical and neurocognitive symptoms of OCD before and after CBT.
    
  