
    
      Over 18 years old men and women were enrolled in the study who arrived to 2 of the most
      acknowledged Hungarian cardiac centres due to acute myocardial infarction and fulfilled all
      inclusion and exclusion criteria as per protocol. Patients in the order of their arrival were
      assigned either to control or post conditioned groups by turns. After closing patient
      enrolment, further subgrouping will be performed in case sufficient group size has been
      achieved as follows: (1) normal, control, (2) normal, post conditioned, (3)
      hypercholesterolemic, not treated with statins, control, (4) hypercholesterolemic, not
      treated with statins, post conditioned, (5) statin treated, control, (6) statin treated, post
      conditioned.

      Characterisation of postconditioning is performed by the following parameters:

        1. Blood tests 5 minutes before as well as 8, 60 minutes, 24 hours, and 3 months after PCI
           to measure nitrotyrosine, a biomarker of peroxynitrite formation (nitrosative stress) by
           ELISA; B-type natriuretic peptide, a biomarker of heart failure by ELISA; matrix
           metalloproteinase activities (MMP-2 and MMP-9) putative biomarkers of cardiac
           remodelling by zymography; microRNA expression pattern by sequencing and its validation
           by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR).

        2. Routine laboratory tests 6, 12 and 48 hours after PCI including creatine kinase (CKMB)
           and cardiac troponin T (cTnT).

        3. ECG immediately after recanalization and intervention after 60 and 90 minutes, then 12,
           24, 36 and 48 hours later 12-lead ECG is registered.

        4. Echocardiography: 48 hours after intervention, standard view to judge left ventricle
           segments movement disorders

        5. Angiography: Blush, Syntax score, and ischemic risk zone (area at risk, AAR) are
           determined

        6. cardiac late enhancement magnetic resonance (MR) imaging to determine infarct size

      At 3-month follow-up visit the following parameters were measured: echocardiography for
      restitution assessment, cardiac late enhancement MR imaging to determine infarct size and
      cardiac function, blood sampling for above mentioned biochemical laboratory tests
    
  