
    
      Patients with an APACHE-2 score> 25 (Expected mortality rate> 50%) during the first 24 hours
      of hospitalization in the Intensive Care Unit will be included in the study. A person who
      comes to the most frequent visit from relatives of patients will be included in the study.
      Demographic data of the relative of the patient after the informed volunteer consent form has
      been approved (age, proximity, educational background, patient co-existence, ethnicity,
      marital status, number of children, history of psychological treatment and the presence of an
      intensive care treatment history of any family member before) will be registered. After the
      3rd, 10th, and 30th days of patient admission, and once a month, the patient satisfaction
      survey will be filled face to face during informing the patient's relative. In this patient
      group with an expected mortality of> 50%, if death occurs, the information will be made to
      the visitor of the patient who frequently visits the patient and agrees to participate in the
      study. The emotional reaction of the relative of the patient participating in the study
      during the declaration of death will be recorded in the case report form.

      Grief reaction is unique, and it will differ from one individual to another. Possible
      reactions of relatives of patients during the death notification (Emotional Reactions)

        1. Regular response; In this case, the relatives of the patients often describe the event
           as expected or my patient is now free from suffering.

        2. Initial shock reaction; It may be complete desperation and a state of closure,

        3. Denial- This is an initial defense mechanism after the unexpected, devastating news, and
           it should be recognized and tolerated. Acceptance may be possible by encouraging the
           relatives to view the body of the deceased, especially to those relatives who were not
           present at the time of death

        4. Anger- This is a common reaction after the sudden death of a beloved relative. The
           expression of this anger can vary from mild irritation to violent behavior. This can be
           expressed on self, hospital staff, or any other person. Anger will gradually diminish
           once expressed

        5. Guilt- This is nothing but the inward expression of anger and self-blame. Consoling
           words of the health care team will help to do away with this emotion.
    
  