
    
      Controlled ovarian stimulation (COS) for FIV increases progesterone (P) and estradiol (E2)
      serum levels in supraphysiologic concentrations at the end of follicular phase. Elevated
      serum P levels leads to an accelerated endometrial maturation which interferes with the
      dialogue between embryo and endometrium. It has been reported that serum progesterone levels
      ≥ 1.5 ng/ml on the last day of COS are related to a significant decrease in the ongoing
      pregnancy rate following IVF cycles. Also, it has been reported a significant alteration in
      the endometrial gene expression profile related to P elevated levels.

      Glycodelin-A is an immunomodulatory glycoprotein synthesized by luteal-phase endometrial
      epithelium and its expression seems to be related to the action of P. Because glycodelin-A
      has immunosuppressive activity, it may facilitate the process of implantation and the
      maintenance of pregnancy.

      Objective: to evaluate the endometrial effect of Progesterone through Glycodelin-A expression
      pattern on women exposed or not to ulipristal acetate in GnRH Antagonist cycles using two
      different doses of FSH for ovarian controlled stimulation.

      Methods: prospective controlled randomized study. It will be enrolling 16 oocytes donors from
      Oocyte Donation Program of PROAR (a Reproductive Center of Rosario, Argentina). On day 3 of
      menstrual cycle FSH serum levels and antral follicular count (AFC) will be measure. If those
      results fulfill with inclusions criteria, patients will be randomize for FSH 225UI or 300UI
      GnRH-Antagonist/ urinary FSH protocol. P serum levels will be measure every 48 hours since at
      least 1 follicle ≥14 mm will be achieve until at least 1 follicle reach 19mm of diameter. The
      next day of hCG administration a new P circulating will be measure and then the patient will
      be randomize trough opaque envelopes for receive 30mg of ulipristal acetate or placebo. An
      endometrial biopsy with Cornier´s Pipelle will be performing 3 and 5 days after hCG injection
      (hCG+3 and hCG+5 days) to evaluate endometrial dating and Glycodelin-A expression pattern.

      Statistical analysis: nominal variables will be analyzing using t-Student test and the effect
      of ulipristal with ANOVA.
    
  