
    
      The introduction of antiretroviral therapy (ART) for the treatment of HIV has dramatically
      improved morbidity and mortality for HIV infected people in the developed world. However,
      research data on the efficacy of ART regimens in developing countries, such as South Africa,
      are limited. There are an estimated 4.7 million HIV infected individuals in the South African
      population of about 40 million inhabitants. The greatest social impact may be achieved by
      treating an entire household affected by HIV to ensure maximum adherence to prescribed ART
      regimens and to minimize the sharing of antiretroviral drugs. This study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of ART given by an HIV-trained doctor compared to ART given by an HIV-trained
      primary health care nurse. Participants failing first-line therapy will receive a second-line
      regimen based on what medications are available at the clinic, with approval by the clinical
      safety team. Participants in this study will be recruited from resource-poor communities
      outside Johannesburg and Cape Town, South Africa.

      This study will last 5 years. HIV infected people and other HIV infected members of their
      household 16 years of age and older will be enrolled. Study participants will receive
      first-line ART consisting of efavirenz (EFV) once daily, lamivudine (3TC) twice daily, and
      stavudine (d4T) twice daily. Women of childbearing potential who are unwilling to use
      acceptable forms of contraception and who have CD4 counts less than 250 cells/mm3 will
      receive 3TC twice daily; nevirapine (NVP) daily for 2 weeks, then twice daily; and d4T twice
      daily. Women who are pregnant at baseline, who become pregnant on study treatment, or who are
      unwilling to use acceptable methods of contraception and have CD4 counts of 250 cells/mm3 or
      more, or children who were previously exposed to NVP will receive 3TC twice daily,
      lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) twice daily, and d4T twice daily. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to one of two arms. Arm 1 will receive ART under the monitoring care of an
      HIV-trained medical doctor, while Arm 2 will receive ART under the monitoring care of an
      HIV-trained primary health care nurse with training in HIV diagnosis and treatment.
      Participants who fail their first-line regimen will receive a second-line regimen but will
      remain in their treatment arms.

      Study visits will occur at study entry; Weeks 2, 4, 8, and 12; and every 12 weeks thereafter.
      A physical exam, measurement of height and weight, tuberculosis (TB) and hepatitis B
      infection screening, blood collection, pill counts, and compliance/adherence and resource
      utilization counseling will occur at most visits. Participants will also be asked to complete
      quality of life and household cost questionnaires at selected visits. Study visits for
      participants who fail first-line treatment will occur at treatment failure, between Days 15
      and 30, Week 4 post-treatment failure, every 4 weeks until Week 48 post-treatment failure,
      and every 12 weeks thereafter. A targeted physical exam, measurement of height and weight, TB
      infection screening, blood collection, pill counts, and compliance/adherence and resource
      utilization counseling will occur at most visits. Participants will also be asked to complete
      quality of life and household cost questionnaires at selected visits.
    
  