
    
      Background

      Patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC) are increasingly treated
      with primary chemoradiotherapy. The incorporation of novel targeted therapies to
      chemoradiotherapy is of major interest since it may potentially improve efficacy without
      significantly increasing toxicity. Radiation and cetuximab, a chimeric anti-epidermal growth
      factor receptor monoclonal antibody, has emerged as a standard non-surgical therapy for stage
      III/IV HNSCC. Bevacizumab, an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor antibody is currently
      being investigated in HNSCC with promising results. A phase II study investigating the
      combination of pemetrexed and bevacizumab in recurrent or metastatic HNSCC is currently
      ongoing at our institution with encouraging results (UPCI# 05-002). In addition, we are
      completing a phase I trial of radiation, cetuximab plus pemetrexed (UPCI #05-005). Pemetrexed
      was dose escalated in successive cohorts of patients on 3 dose levels: starting dose level
      (0) 350 mg/m2, dose level (-1) 200 mg/m2, dose level (+1) 500 mg/m2. Currently three patients
      have been treated at dose level +1 (pemetrexed 500 mg/m2) which will be the pemetrexed dose
      in this study. No dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) have been observed at this dose level,
      which was the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for the combination regimen in previously
      non-irradiated patients.

      Specific aims

      To evaluate the progression-free survival at 2 years (primary endpoint), locoregional and
      distant disease-free survival, overall survival, toxicities and quality of life with the
      combination of radiation, cetuximab and pemetrexed with or without bevacizumab in patients
      with locally advanced HNSCC. Also, we plan to collect tumor tissue from previous diagnostic
      procedures and baseline blood specimens for future correlative studies.

      Subject population

      We will enroll patients with previously untreated stage III/IV squamous cell carcinoma or
      undifferentiated carcinoma of the head and neck (except nasopharynx and unknown primary).
      Patients should not have active bleeding due to HNSCC or history of persistent bleeding due
      to HNSCC that required major intervention (surgery or embolization) to be controlled. Please
      see section 3 for detailed eligibility criteria.

      Treatment plan

      Patients will be randomized in two arms. In arm A, patients will be treated with radiation
      2Gy/day for 7 weeks to a total of 70 Gy, cetuximab 250mg/m2 weekly during radiation, after a
      loading dose of 400mg/m2 one week prior starting radiation, and pemetrexed 500mg/m2 every 21
      days for 3 cycles. In arm B, patients will be treated with the same regimen with the addition
      of bevacizumab 15mg/kg every 21 days for 3 cycles (see section 5 for detailed treatment plan
      and dose modifications).

      Statistical design and sample size

      Phase II, randomized, multi-center study with progression-free survival at 2 years as the
      primary endpoint. The historical control is a 2-year progression-free survival of 46% with
      radiation plus cetuximab alone. We assume a 2 year progression free survival of 64% (40%
      relative improvement in progression-free survival over historical control) as worthy of
      further testing. We will require 40 evaluable patients per arm for a total of 80 patients.
      Alpha = 0.1, beta = 0.1; all tests one-tailed.
    
  