
    
      Membranous Nephropathy (MN) is an auto-immune kidney disease and a common cause of nephrotic
      syndrome. About 30% of MN patients progress to end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) while 30%
      undergo spontaneous remission. The phospholipase A2 receptor (PLA2R1) is the major
      auto-antigen in idiopathic MN. Anti-PLA2R1 autoantibodies are found during the active phase
      of MN [2,3]. Predictors of disease progression include high titers of anti-PLA2R1
      autoantibodies and serum creatinine levels at presentation, as well as decline in renal
      function during the first six months of follow-up. Investigators identified new prognostic
      factors in a cohort of 41 idiopathic MN patients with nephrotic syndrome and anti-PLA2R1
      autoantibodies at the time of presentation. During a follow-up of at least 36 months, 21
      patients had a persistent nephrotic syndrome (group A) and 20 showed partial or total
      remission (group R). We first measured the cross-reactivity of their sera at the time of
      presentation to human, rabbit and mouse recombinant PLA2R1 by western blot. All patients
      exhibited reactivity against human and rabbit PLA2R1, but only some of them did against mouse
      PLA2R1. These results suggest the presence of distinct epitopes that are differentially
      conserved among PLA2R1 orthologs. We then set-up three parallel ELISAs using human, rabbit
      and mouse recombinant PLA2R1. All 41 MN patients showed activity in human and rabbit ELISAs
      at presentation but only 32 of them (78%) in mouse ELISA.

      Investigators finally analyzed the association between anti-PLA2R1 titers at presentation in
      the different ELISAs and the subsequent clinical outcome. The mean anti-PLA2R1 activity was
      significantly different between group A and R in mouse ELISA in both univariate and
      multivariate analyses (p =0.006 and p =0.02, respectively) but not in human and rabbit
      ELISAs. An analysis of the mouse ELISA titers defines a threshold of 605 RU/ml above which
      100% of patients had a poor prognosis, but no such threshold could be defined in rabbit and
      human ELISA. Patients with anti-mouse PLA2R1 activity over 605 RU/ml showed a significantly
      lower survival without doubling of serum creatinine or ESKD (p=0.002 using the log-rank
      test), but patients in the highest tertile of anti-PLA2R1 activity in rabbit and human ELISAs
      did not show a significant increased risk of renal failure progression. The results suggest
      that the specific detection of particular anti-PLA2R1 autoantibodies using the novel
      anti-mouse PLA2R1 ELISA can identify MN patients at risk for ESKD. The aim is to confirm
      these result on a prospective cohort.We propose to measure on a prospective cohort at the
      time of MN diagnosis if high titer of anti-mPLA2R1 Ab (anti-mouse phospholipase A2 receptor1
      antibodies) is associated with nephrotic proteinuria (over 3.5 g/g) or increased of
      creatininemia over 30% at month 6, 12 and 18. An ancillary study will try to characterised
      the nephrogenic epitope conserved between human, rabbit and mouse.

      Each patient with nephrotic syndrome should benefit of a kidney biopsy. For each patient we
      will conserved 2 dry tubes frozen at the time of biopsy. If we confirm the diagnosis of MN
      with anti-PLA2R1 Ab, we propose to the patient to be included in this study. He will have a
      visit every months for the first three months and every three months after, with collection
      of the following: blood pressure, weight, creatinine, albumin, blood electrolytes,
      proteinuria / creatinine in sample 1 assay Ac anti-PLA2R1 on 3 ELISA (human, rabbit and
      mouse) In case of persistent refractory nephrotic syndrome after 6 months, or the appearance
      of a 30% increase in serum creatinine, treatment with rituximab (2 × 1 g IV 15 days) will be
      proposed. Clinical and biological monitoring will be continued every 3 months for 18 months.
    
  