
    
      Main objective and evaluation criteria:

      To evaluate the potential therapeutic efficacy of repetitive tDCS during 10 days on
      language/semantic impairment in SD via a double-blind sham-controlled study design. The
      evaluation criteria will be a significant improvement of language/semantic performances two
      weeks after tDCS as compared to base-line (before tDCS), contrasting subgroups receiving
      left-excitatory or right-inhibitory tDCS vs. sham tDCS

      Secondary objectives and evaluation criteria:

        1. Assess the time course of potential language/semantic improvement through the
           application of four follow-up time-points: base-line (max one week before tDCS), three
           days, two weeks and four months after tDCS. The evaluation criteria will be significant
           improvement/modulation of language/semantic performances, comparing performances at the
           four time-points.

        2. Assess brain markers which could reflect stimulation-induced neuroplasticity. Evaluation
           criteria will be significant modulation of cortical metabolism (FDG-PET) and functional
           connectivity (fMRI resting-state) comparing base-line and the 'two-week' time-point.

        3. Compare left-excitatory and right-inhibitory tDCS to reveal the most efficient
           stimulation modality. Evaluation criteria will be a detection of a potential outcome
           difference between left-excitatory and right-inhibitory tDCS on the performance within
           the different language/semantic tasks.

        4. Improve the understanding of the semantic roles of the left and right temporal pole, and
           their potential anatomical connectivity, by comparing left and right temporal pole
           stimulation and using MRI-based fiber tracking. 4) Improve the understanding of the
           semantic roles of the left and right temporal pole, and their potential anatomical
           connectivity, by comparing left and right temporal pole stimulation and using MRI-based
           fiber tracking.

      Experimental design :

      10 days of stimulation (20min, 2mA). Four language/semantic evaluations: base-line; 3 days; 2
      weeks; 4 months post-tDCS. Two MRI/PET acquisitions: pre-stimulation (base-line); 2 weeks
      post-tDCS

      Population :

      Patients with semantic dementia (SD). Healthy controls for normative measures (no tDCS for
      controls)

      Testing treatment :

      tDCS (specific device) : NE STARSTIM-ENOBIO 8 channels.

      Practical procedure :

      The duration of the study will be 41 months; 36 months being dedicated to patient inclusion.
      Participation duration of a patient will be of 4 months and 1 week to 4 months and 3 weeks
      maximum. First, patients will undergo a series of standardized neuropsychological and
      language tests that are included in routine care and inclusion criteria will be checked.
      After inclusion, the base-line visit will comprehend 1) MRI/PET in the Nuclear Medicine
      Service (CHU Pitié Salpêtrière), and 2) language/semantic tasks at the Department of
      Neurology (CHU Pitié Salpêtrière). Subsequently the ten stimulation sessions will be
      scheduled. They will take place in the Institute of Memory and Alzheimer's disease
      (Department of Neurology, CHU Pitié Salpêtrière) during two consecutive weeks (20 minutes of
      tDCS). The tDCS sessions will be followed by three time-point visits: 3 days (time-point 2)
      and two weeks (time-point 3) after the last stimulation session patients will undergo the
      language/semantic tasks. At time point 3 the second MRI/PET acquisition will take place.
      Finally, the visit of time-point 4 will be at four months after the last tDCS session,
      dedicated to a last application of language/semantic tasks.

      Selected number of subjects:

      80 SD patients selected in order to have 60 randomized into three arms (20 patients/arm).Two
      arms receiving active tDCS versus one receiving sham tDCS.

      20 healthy volunteers will be included (participants will provide normative language/semantic
      scores and MRI/PET measures; they will not undergotDCS).

      Number of centers: 3 centers in France (Paris)

      Research duration:

      Inclusion period: 36 months Participation period (Selection/inclusion, tDCS sessions and
      evaluation at 4 time-points): 4 months and 1 week to 4 months and 3 weeks Total duration: 41
      months

      Funding source: AP-HP (Assistance Publique des Hôpitaux de Paris).
    
  