
    
      Background: Children with severe cerebral palsy (CP) are at high risk for progressive hip
      displacement, associated with pain and contractures interfering with many aspects of care,
      comfort and quality of life. These children undergo many types of interventions, the optimal
      timing and effectiveness of which, remain unclear. In 2014, CIHR funded the CP Hip Outcomes
      Project (CHOP), an international multi-centre prospective longitudinal cohort study of
      children with severe (non-ambulant) CP with evidence of hip displacement defined as a
      Reimer's migration percentage (MP) of at least 30%. The study was designed to evaluate the
      comparative effectiveness of different treatment strategies to prevent or relieve symptoms
      associated with hip instability, using the validated Caregiver Priorities and Child Health
      Index of Life with Disabilities (CPCHILD ) questionnaire as the primary outcome measure of
      health-related quality of life © (HRQL) for this population. 650 patients enrolled from 28
      sites in 11 countries, are actively being followed and will reach at least 2 years of
      follow-up at the end of 2019. This project, unique in scale and design, will study the impact
      of hip instability and its management in children with severe CP using a meaningful outcome
      measure that was developed specifically for this purpose. Although CHOP will define outcomes
      at 24 months, the outcomes are not expected to remain stable while the child is still
      growing. The inception cohort will need follow-up until skeletal maturity to track their
      long-term outcome trajectories. The international network of investigators/sites and the
      infrastructure established for CHOP will facilitate the long-term follow-up of the
      participants in this study. In addition, the results of CHOP will inform the design of nested
      trials to evaluate the effectiveness of future interventions aimed at improving the quality
      of life of children with severe disabilities.

      Study Aims Aim 1: Measure the post 24-month effectiveness of different treatment strategies
      for hip displacement in children with severe CP using the CPCHILD as the primary outcome
      measure.

      Aim 2: Compare the rates of recurrence, relapse of symptoms, additional interventions and
      other longer term complications associated with each of the treatment cohorts.

      Methods

      Study Design: Multi-centre longitudinal cohort study of children with severe (non-ambulant)
      CP, ages 3 to 18 years with hip MP ≥ 30% enrolled in one of 5 cohorts:

      A. "Natural" History or watchful waiting B. Serial botulinum toxin injections C. Adductor
      (+/- psoas) muscle releases alone D. Hip reconstructive surgery E. Salvage hip surgery Data
      collected include demographics, prognostic factors, including co-morbid conditions, parental
      reports of HRQL as measured by the CPCHILD, and radiographic measures of MP and acetabular
      index (AI). The primary outcome measure CPCHILD, as well as the MP & AI will be assessed
      every 12 months after the 24 month follow-up since inception in CHOP. The cohort of 650
      children enrolled in Groups B, C, D, & E will be compared with each other as well as with
      their respective propensity matched counterparts of untreated children (Group A), using
      repeated measures ANOCOVA at 3yrs, and annually thereafter until at least 5 years of
      follow-up or skeletal maturity.

      Significance: CHOP I & II will establish the superiority of either prophylactic or reactive
      intervention strategies for hip displacement in severe CP and provide justification for hip
      surveillance.
    
  