
    
      The CentrAl Vein Sign in MS (CAVS-MS) study seeks to answer whether the central vein sign
      (CVS) can be used as a sensitive and specific diagnostic marker for a diagnosis of MS. The
      study will investigate the CVS in a mixed population of participants with typical and
      atypical clinical presentations including radiological presentations without neurological
      symptoms.

      The CVS is proposed as a diagnostic biomarker with improved sensitivity for a diagnosis of
      MS, while retaining diagnostic specificity - all in an-easy-to use diagnostic test that can
      be applied in patients with both typical and atypical disease presentation. There is
      extensive research demonstrating the ability of the CVS criteria to discriminate MS lesions
      from common mimickers, such as vascular disease and migraine. However, the CVS has mainly
      been applied in cross- sectional studies. In addition, the majority of these studies have
      focused analysis primarily on patients presenting with typical clinical events of
      demyelination (i.e. a classic Clinically Isolated Syndrome (CIS)). This study will evaluate
      CVS criteria prospectively in individuals with typical and atypical MS presentations. Aim 1
      will examine sensitivity and specificity of CVS criteria in conjunction with, and separate
      from, the McDonald Criteria. Aim 2 will examine CVS in a population where McDonald criteria
      explicitly cannot be applied. Because the likelihood of MS is lower in this group, the focus
      will be on specificity, which is where the unmet need exists.

      Although current MS diagnostic criteria are sensitive in most typical cases, the use of the
      CVS may hasten diagnosis in patients with low lesion numbers and those without dissemination
      in time. In the past, studies that informed revision of the diagnostic criteria used
      "clinically definite MS" (defined as two separate clinical events) as the definitive
      determination of a diagnosis. In the current treatment era, however, clinically definite MS
      is less relevant, since most patients will be diagnosed after a first clinical event
      (relapse) and will go on to start treatment prior to even having a second relapse. For this
      reason, the 2017 McDonald Criteria is being used as the "gold standard" for the proposed
      study.

      Importantly, in the current study the CVS will be applied in a population where the McDonald
      Criteria are not applicable (atypical presentations) and where currently a significant unmet
      clinical need exists. Because the studies that informed the diagnostic criteria did not
      include patients presenting with atypical syndromes, such patients are not covered in the
      McDonald Criteria path, but are frequently given a diagnosis of MS on the basis of MRI
      findings. To address this limitation, the presence of CVS as a predictor of development of
      future clinical events will be examined, within a 24- month period, that would satisfy the
      2017 McDonald Criteria. Thus, the results of this study will have a significant impact on
      both improving sensitivity in those presenting with typical presentations and providing a
      specific test for MS in those with atypical presentations, thereby avoiding unnecessary costs
      associated with misdiagnosis. The investigators will leverage the North American Imaging in
      Multiple Sclerosis Cooperative (NAIMS) to conduct a multicenter study, based on an initial
      cross-sectional pilot study using the CVS criteria as a diagnostic biomarker for MS.

      Patients will be enrolled when presenting to an MS center for diagnostic referral, and they
      will undergo follow-up at prespecified intervals for 24 months. Brain MRI will be performed
      at baseline and 24 months, with scans scored on the basis of CVS criteria. T2-weighted
      fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) imaging will be combined with T2*-weighted
      segmented echo-planar imaging to enable simultaneous identification of white matter lesions
      and venous structures.

      The primary objective is to determine whether use of CVS criteria allows for an earlier
      accurate diagnosis of MS in patients who do not meet the McDonald criteria at baseline. The
      aim is to show that the CVS is a simple and reliable diagnostic biomarker that will show an
      increase in sensitivity while preserving specificity.

      Secondary objectives include the following:

        -  Determining concordance of CVS criteria and the McDonald criteria among patients meeting
           McDonald criteria at baseline.

        -  Determining whether use of CVS criteria improves diagnostic specificity for MS in people
           presenting with atypical symptoms.

        -  Determining whether the CVS predicts development of clinical MS in individuals with
           suggestive radiologic findings but no symptoms.

      The researchers will also begin exploratory studies of optimal methods for integrating CVS
      findings into MS diagnostic criteria, along with any resulting healthcare-related cost
      savings. These initial exploratory analyses will be important to how readily positive
      findings about the utility of CVS criteria can impact clinical practice. The ultimate goal is
      to have the CVS incorporated into the MS diagnostic criteria.
    
  