
    
      Study population The medical records of patients undergoing hip surgery under general
      anaesthesia with neuromuscular blocking agents at Konkuk University Medical Center from
      February 2012 to August 2014 review.

      The patients were divided according to use (S group) or not (C group) of sugammadex for
      recovery from neuromuscular blocking agent.

      exclusion criteria

        1. age < 60 years

        2. preoperative neurologic or psychological problem including dementia, Parkinson's disease
           or delirium

        3. other concurrent surgery.

      Assessment of postoperative delirium Evaluation of postoperative delirium was done in the
      general ward or in the ICU by the responsible surgeon using commonly accepted delirium
      symptoms in addition to the confusion assessment method (CAM) rating for delirium. Delirium
      symptoms were defined as the presence of any of the following: acute onset and fluctuating
      symptoms; inattention; speech disorganization; level of consciousness change; disorientation;
      memory impairment; perceptual disturbance; abnormal psychomotor activity; and altered sleep
      wake cycle. Incidence of postoperative delirium assess by medical records review.

      Postoperative clinical follow-up

      By medical records review, the following clinical data were obtained:

      transfusion amount of packed red blood cell during intraoperative period and up to
      postoperative 24 hours postoperative visual analogue scale (VAS, ranging from 0 [no pain] to
      100 [worst pain imaginable]) up to postoperative day 1; delayed extubation events up to
      postoperative day 7; postoperative pulmonary complication [new onset abnormal findings in
      postoperative chest radiography with pulmonary symptoms such as cough, sputum, dyspnea] up to
      postoperative day 7; postoperative hypoxia [oxygen saturation on pulse oximeter < 95%] up to
      postoperative 24 hours; the event of admission to ICU; duration of ICU stay; duration of
      hospital stay. Perioperative laboratory findings, Haemoglobin (Hb), haematocrit (Hct), and
      serum levels of total protein, albumin, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine
      aminotransferase (ALT), creatinine and high sensitivity C reactive protein (HS-CRP) during
      intraoperative period and up to postoperative 24 hours were assessed by medical records
      review.
    
  