
    
      Simple explanation and rationale:

      Recovery after spine surgery, especially spinal fusion surgery, is usually accompanied by
      severe pain which has traditionally been managed with opioids. While opioids have been proven
      effective, they are associated with undesirable side effects including nausea, vomiting,
      pruritus, sedation, respiratory depression, ileus, and urinary retention leading to increased
      time required in recovery and a decrease in patient satisfaction. For this reason, it is
      common practice to supplement opioid treatment with different classes of analgesics which
      work through alternative pain pathways and receptors in order to achieve an additive or
      synergistic effect while reducing the amount of opioids necessary for pain control.

      Acetaminophen is a centrally-acting cyclooxygenase inhibitor nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
      medication that has minimal, if any, gastrointestinal and platelet-inhibiting side effects,
      and is better tolerated by patients than other cyclooxygenase inhibitors. This medication can
      be a beneficial supplemental analgesic to opioids for postoperative pain relief. Previously
      conducted studies demonstrate a rationale for the use of intravenous/PO acetaminophen in a
      multimodal analgesic regimen to reduce postoperative analgesia.

      Intervention:

      Patients will be randomized to either the treatment with IV acetaminophen (A), PO
      acetaminophen (B), or hydromorphone control group (C). Patients who are randomized to group A
      will receive 1 g of IV acetaminophen during the wound closure and every 4 to 6 hours
      postoperatively for a total of 4 g in 24 hours. Patients who are randomized to group B will
      receive 1 g of PO acetaminophen before surgery and every 4 to 6 hours postoperatively for a
      total of 4 g in 24 hours. Patients who are randomized to control group C will not receive
      acetaminophen. Post-operatively, patients in both groups will also receive IV hydromorphone
      PCA (patient-controlled analgesia) only for 24 hours for pain.

      Objective/Purpose:

      Primary objective is to determine the impact of administering a supplemental non-opioid
      analgesic drug such as IV or PO acetaminophen on total opioid dose administered over the
      postoperative period.

      Secondary objectives include investigating the impact of IV/PO acetaminophen on the level of
      postoperative pain, patient satisfaction, and side effects secondary to opioids such as
      nausea, vomiting, pruritus, sedation, respiratory depression, ileus, and urinary retention,
      and PACU discharge time.

      Study population:

      126 patients will be enrolled in the study (42 for group A, 42 for group B, and 42 for
      control group C).

      Follow-up and Endpoints / Outcomes:

      Postoperative assessments will be done at 0, 30, and 60 minutes, 6 hours, 12 hours and 24
      hours after surgery. Patients will be evaluated for pain (using a numeric rating scale),
      total opioid consumption, and for opioid side effects including drowsiness (using the Ramsey
      sedation scale and the Aldrete score at the time of arrival to and discharge from recovery
      room), respiratory depression, nausea, vomiting, and pruritus. Patient satisfaction will also
      be assessed using a numeric rating scale.

      Statistics:

      All sample size calculations with reference to:

        -  Specific Aim 1 reduction of opioid intake by at least 25% between the Control (Group C)
           and Intervention Groups A and B, and

        -  Specific Aim 2 improvement of Pain Score by at least 25% between the Control (Group C)
           and the Intervention Groups A and B,
    
  