
    
      The aim of this study is to compare the cost-effectiveness of major joint replacement in
      patients with short and non-fixed (control group) waiting time (WT). After being placed on
      the waiting list, patients will be randomized into two groups through regular contact with
      the practice staff:

        1. Patients with non-fixed waiting time (patient undergoes hospital's normal procedure from
           the date (s)he is added to the waiting list to the date of operation), and

        2. patients with short waiting time (operated in maximum three months).

      For ethical reasons, care will be taken to avoid any risk of inequality between the patient
      groups. Such inequality might result if some patients should wait for access to treatment
      longer than normally or if short waiting times would accounted for more than half of the
      hospital's surgical capacity, for instance. The number of patients placed on the waiting list
      varies from one month to another, being specific to each hospital. Therefore no advance
      estimate can be made of the number of patients to be placed on the list. Consequently, the
      following arrangements will be made:

        1. the patients randomised into the short WT group could only be operated on every fourth
           month, and only half of the hospital's one-month surgical capacity could be allocated as
           short WTs, so the number of short WTs will be restricted and determined specifically for
           each hospital;

        2. it will be ensured that all eligible patients placed on the waiting list have a chance
           of getting recruited into the study (including the possibility of short WT) by not
           restricting the size of the non-fixed WT group. In order to avoid selection bias among
           the patients, the groups will be different in size.

        3. Recruitments will be made in periods of three months in order to avoid the waiting time
           for the short WT group exceeding three months.

      Randomization is made by the nurse responsible using consecutively numbered and sealed
      envelopes. Participants complete a self-administered questionnaire at four specific points in
      time:

        1. when placed on the waiting list by the orthopaedic surgeon (baseline),

        2. at hospital admission,

        3. three, and

        4. 12 months after surgery.
    
  