
    
      SUBJECTS Forty Participants, who fufil the entry criteria, will be selected. These
      Participants will be recruited from Cardiomyopathy clinics run at two sites. These are the
      Cardiomyopathy Clinics at the Heart Hospital, University College London, and from the Queen
      Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham.

      CONSENT Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants.

      CLINICAL ASSESSMENT

      A History will be taken and a Clinical Examination will be carried out. A validated Quality
      of life questionaire will be completed ( Minnesota Living with Heart Failure).

      Maximal Cardiopulmonary exercise testing will be performed on a treadmill, with breath by
      breath respiratory gas sampling, using a face mask.

      A 12 lead ECG will be obtained. 48hr Ambulatory Heart Rhythm Monitoring

      CARDIAC ULTRASOUND SCAN ASSESSMENT

      To assess the function of the Heart during its contraction and filling phases, including the
      degree of incoordination of the Heart muscle.

      PACEMAKER IMPLANTATION

      A pacemaker capable of Biventricular pacing will be implanted, using a standard established
      technique at one of three sites ( The Heart Hospital London, St Peters Hospital Chertsey, or
      Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham ).

      24hr POST PACEMAKER IMPLANT. Assessment of mechanical dyssynchrony will be made using
      Ultrasound techniques which will include 2D/ M mode Echocardiography, Doppler studies, and
      Tissue doppler imaging. This assessment will be made with the Pacemaker off, and in Left and
      Right heart pacing mode.

      HAEMODYNAMIC STUDIES

      These will be carried out approximately two weeks following pacemaker implantation.

      The test will involve Nuclear Heart Scans (Gated Equilibrium Radionuclide Ventriculography)
      and Acute Volume Unloading of the right and left heart chambers.

      This will be carried out at the University Of Birmingham, Department of Cardiovascular
      Sciences We shall apply these techniques while the heart is paced in four different modes.

      The nuclear heart scan is a method by which we can measure the volume of the left heart
      chamber. The study will involve the placement of small needle into a vein of the patients
      forearm. Through this we will inject a primer which will make participants red blood cells
      very sticky. After twenty minutes we will take a blood sample from the same needle. This
      sample of blood will be mixed with a radioactive tracer. The tracer will be re-injected
      through the same needle into the participants' vein. This tracer will allow us to measure the
      amount of blood inside the chambers of the participants' heart with a special camera, a gamma
      camera. The pictures will be taken with the participants lying on a bed throughout.

      The bed we will ask participants to lie on is called a Lower Body Negative Pressure Bed. When
      lying on this bed the participants' legs will be inside a see through plastic dome. A belt
      will be placed around the participants' waist in order to create an airtight seal around
      their legs. The bed is attached to a vacuum that allows us to create a low pressure
      environment around participants' legs. This causes blood to pool inside the veins of
      participants' legs. This leads to Acute Volume unloading of the right and left heart
      chambers.

      Once participants have received the injection of the radioactive tracer and are lying
      comfortably in the Lower Body Negative Pressure Bed we will then take measurements of the
      amount of blood in the participants' heart. We shall do this using the special camera.

      We shall take measurements with the pacemaker in its four different pacemaker modes, and then
      repeat these measurements but this time with a low pressure environment produced around
      participants' legs in order to reduce the pressure on your heart. The test is painless apart
      from mild discomfort from placing one needle at the beginning. The whole test will take
      between one and one and half hours.

      The method of administration has been performed safely by our team for a number of years now.

      After a 1 hour break the Participants will do Exercise component of the Nuclear Heart Scan.
      This component of the study will involve no further doses of radiation, and no new needles.

      Participants will be asked to lie, semi-erect, on an exercise bed for up to 90 minutes. The
      exercise will be in the form of a pedal bike. The pacemaker will be programmed into four
      different modes of heart pacing. Whilst in each mode participants will be asked to exercise
      to three different stages of exercise. Each stage will last 4 minutes. The levels of
      difficulty will be worked out from a treadmill exercise test completed by the participants
      prior to the pacemaker implantation. Participants will be allowed to rest between each stage
      of exercise. If participants complete the whole study they will have cycled for a total of 48
      minutes. During each stage 4ml of blood will be taken from the needle that will have been
      placed in a vein during the earlier part of the study.

      During each stage of exercise an image of the heart will be taken with the gamma camera, as
      done earlier in the study.

      From these measurements we will be able to calculate the effect of the different pacing modes
      on the ability of the heart to pump blood on exercise.

      Participants are free to stop the exercise at any time they feel they cannot continue.

      RANDOMISATION AND FOLLOW UP. Following pacemaker implant, pressure studies, and Ultrasound
      assessment, participants will be randomized in a double blind fashion to have their pacemaker
      programmed to either one of the following (1) Pacemaker Off mode, ( 2 ) Left and Right Heart
      chamber pacemaker mode. The Participants will be paced in that specific mode for four months
      before repeat Clinical and Cardiac Ultrasound assessments. The mode of pacing will then be
      changed, and maintained for a further four months, before repeat Clinical and Ultrasound
      assessment. The pacing mode will be randomly selected, but no pacing mode will be repeated in
      any one participant. The participant and the member of the research team performing the
      Clinical and Ultrasound assessment of the participant, shall be blinded to the pacemaker
      mode.
    
  