
    
      Caregiver burden is a well-known issue of primary caregiving for individuals with chronic
      disease, including transplant candidates and recipients. Informal caregiving is associated
      with an estimated $306 billion in unpaid labor costs and an average of $7,000 in
      out-of-pocket expenses related to the caregiving role. In addition to financial burdens,
      caregivers experience psychological distress and adverse health outcomes, including higher
      rates of hypertension and heart disease. These burdens differ by caregiver ethnicity, age,
      and rurality. Ethnic minority caregivers have reported more depression, lower use of support
      services, and worse physical health than Whites. African American caregivers report lower
      levels of depression but worse physical health. Caregiver age also plays a role in physical
      health burden, with older caregiver age shown to be negatively associated with caregiver
      physical functioning, bodily pain, vitality, and general health perception. This association
      is directly relevant to living kidney donation, as the prevalence of donors who are 65 years
      or older has increased from < 1% in 1998 to 5.6% in 2019 (based on OPTN data as of
      3/23/2020). Rural caregivers report greater financial burden than their urban counterparts,
      of particular concern in the Deep South, where nearly two-thirds of all counties are rural.

      When caregivers have their own underlying health issues, such as obesity, burdens may be
      further magnified when the caregiver becomes a patient, simultaneously requiring their own
      care while caring for another (e.g. obese living kidney donors who are the primary caregiver
      for their transplant recipient). Approximately 20% of living kidney donors are parents and
      significant others, individuals who often serve as the recipient's primary caregiver.
      Moreover, obese donors are at higher risk of post-donation disease development, including
      end-stage renal disease, diabetes, and hypertension. As donor selection criteria have
      expanded to include more obese individuals, these burdens impact high volume transplant
      centers in the Deep South that serve largely minority and rural populations. Comorbidity,
      such as obesity, in caregiver donors may increase the need for healthcare utilization,
      further exacerbating financial burdens, interfering with caregiver responsibilities, and
      subsequently impacting the recipient's health outcomes. To date, it is unknown whether the
      burdens of being an obese caregiver living donor are associated with healthcare utilization
      post-donation compared to non-caregivers and whether donor age, race, and rurality modify
      this relationship. This study is ancillary to an NIH-funded retrospective cohort study of
      living kidney donors with obesity (1R01DK113980) and will leverage the infrastructure of this
      R01 to explore the primary exposure of caregiving within this cohort.
    
  