
    
      The design of the study is a single layer multicentre superiority type randomised controlled
      trial of unilateral knee replacement patients. The randomised controlled trial design will
      help reduce and prevent potential bias influencing the evaluation.

      Participants will be randomised to either UKR or TKR. The trial has a combined
      equipoise/expertise approach. It enables surgeons who are not in equipoise to deliver only
      one of the two operations while also allowing surgeons in equipoise to provide both
      operations. A surgeon who is in equipoise ('equipoise surgeon') and has sufficient experience
      to perform both TKR and UKR will deliver the allocated operation (UKR or TKR). The same
      surgeon will perform the operation for both arms of the study.

      Not all surgeons are able to exhibit this equipoise. They may hold a preference for one
      treatment over the other often due to experience/expertise with one type of operation.
      Interestingly, a surgeon may also believe the patient may benefit from one particular
      operation even though they may not be able to perform it themselves.

      Equipoise is difficult to investigate or establish. Self declaration has been used as the
      main approach but in order to sufficiently secure this state the following aspects are
      important:

        -  The equipoise considered must be patient- or individual-based equipoise rather than an
           overall or general category equipoise based on operation type. The surgeon must consider
           their position for each individual patient. Only if they believe that either operation
           will be suitable for an individual patient can the patient then be recruited.

        -  No surgeon will ever knowingly perform what they consider a substandard surgical
           procedure.

      In order to complete the trial by seeking to maximise surgeon participation, an
      'expertise'-based delivery of the intervention will also occur. For this approach there must
      be a surgeon with expertise in TKR and a surgeon with expertise in UKR in the same centre who
      will act together as a 'delivery unit'. Patients recruited to the study who are under the
      care of such a surgeon ('expertise surgeon') will be randomised to one of the two groups and
      treated by the appropriate surgeon. This 'expertise' approach allows for those UKR surgeons
      who work alongside TKR surgeons to team up and participate in the study. Subsequent surgery
      may be carried out by a surgeon different to that at the initial consultation. In such cases
      the patient is internally referred to the other surgeon's operating list. No restriction is
      made upon the number of delivery units within a centre. A surgeon can only be in one delivery
      unit, that is, they are either an 'equipoise surgeon' or an 'expertise surgeon'.
    
  