
    
      The PROM1 gene codes a protein called Prominin 1 (PROM1; also known as CD133 and AC133), most
      known for its original use as a human stem cell-specific marker. In the retina, PROM1 is
      involved in the formation and organization of disks within the outer segment (OS) of the
      photoreceptors. It is within this particular region that most of the electrochemical signals
      in response to light are generated (visual cycle-phototransduction). In STGD4, mutations in
      the PROM1 gene result in a defective isoform of the PROM1 protein that becomes trapped in the
      myoid region of the photoreceptors and cannot migrate to the OS site where disks are formed.
      Ultimately, the absence of PROM1 in the OS affects the growth and organization of the disks,
      which leads to disk malfunction and to vision problems.

      Although many advances in genetic science have helped to recognize this variant of STGD, a
      comprehensive description of the natural history, including the variability in cone and rod
      dysfunction, of this STGD variant is not available. While there is no known treatment for
      STGD at this time, the preparation for future therapeutic approaches and for planning
      clinical trials must include an understanding of the disease itself, its variability, its
      progression and its correlation with visual loss. Moreover, clinical trials that aim to slow
      down the progression and/or to restore vision require validated outcome measures to prove
      treatment efficacy. However, such outcomes have not been established for STGD overall.

      In summary, the characterization of STGD4-specific clinical manifestations, progression and
      prognosis as well as identification of outcome measures for clinical trials are critical to
      develop new clinical trials for STGD4. Hence, ProgStar 4 is developed as a prospective
      longitudinal observational study of patients with mutations in the PROM1 gene and a phenotype
      consistent with STGD.
    
  