
    
      No randomized head-to-head comparison between the individual Non-vitamin K Antagonist Oral
      Anticoagulants (NOAC) exists, but such data are warranted to evaluate if the four NOACs are
      equal in treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) without an additional cost of increased
      bleeding risk. Furthermore, classic randomized trials are highly selective, as elderly and/or
      fragile patients and patients with comorbidity are underrepresented. Therefore, there is a
      need of randomized trials that include a broader population of patients.

      The DANNOAC-VTE study is a nationwide cluster randomized cross-over study comparing efficacy
      and safety of the four NOACs, edoxaban, apixaban, rivaroxaban and dabigatran for oral
      anticoagulation in VTE across Danish hospitals. The aim of the present study is to: 1)
      examine if the four NOACs are equally effective in treatment of VTE without increasing the
      risk of major bleeding requiring hospitalization; 2) conduct a randomized study that includes
      elderly and fragile patients and patients with comorbidity that would otherwise not be
      included in a traditional randomized clinical trial.

      For a variety of reasons, Danish hospitals and clinicians often prefer one particular NOAC.
      This can make work simpler for the busy clinician, although there may also be economic
      advantages on a local or a regional larger scale. For a period of two years, this study will
      replace this individually or hospital preferred selection with a random selection. The
      hospitals and clinics that participate in this study will be randomly selected to primarily
      use one specific NOAC for 6 months at a time during a total period of two years. This only
      applies to patients with VTE that are selected by the physician to be eligible for NOAC
      treatment. VTE refers to deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, or a combination of
      both.

      Endpoints

        -  Primary efficacy outcome: a composite endpoint of new venous thromboembolism or
           all-cause death.

        -  Secondary efficacy outcomes: new venous thromboembolism or all-cause death.

        -  Primary safety outcome: bleeding requiring hospitalization.

        -  Other effect measures:

             1. discontinuation of therapy.

             2. adherence to therapy.

             3. other reasons of admission to hospital than included in the primary and secondary
                endpoint.

        -  Sensitivity analyses:

             1. primary endpoint stratified by gender.

             2. primary endpoint stratified by age (≤65, 65-75, >75 years of age).

             3. primary endpoint stratified by levels of the CHA2DS2VASc score (0-1, 2-3, >3).

             4. primary endpoint with exclusion of clusters with non-compliance greater than 20% of
                cluster randomization.

             5. primary endpoint where the actual treatment is used instead of the allocated
                treatment.

             6. primary safety endpoint stratified by HAS-BLED score.

      Information of endpoints and comorbidity is obtained from the Danish National Patient
      Register based on ICD-10 diagnostic codes and information of vital status and date of death
      will be obtained from the Central Person Register. Drug discontinuation and adherence will be
      examined using information from the Danish Registry of Medicinal Product Statistics. The
      prespecified endpoints will be evaluated after 6 months as intention-to-treat analysis. In
      addition, the prespecified endpoints will be evaluated after 12 months and 5 years.

      A cluster is defined as a hospital or a cardiology clinic. The Clusters will be enrolled in
      the study from 1. of May 2017 to 1. October 2017.
    
  