
    
      OVERALL DESIGN: The overall design consists of a cohort study of 402 participants with
      suspected GCA who will be followed up for 6 months; a cost-effectiveness study comparing
      ultrasound with temporal artery biopsy; a study of observer agreement in evaluating
      ultrasound and temporal artery biopsies; and an expert panel assessing the appropriateness of
      alternative strategies for diagnosing and treating patients with suspected GCA.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy (sensitivity and specificity) of ultrasound as an
           alternative to temporal artery biopsy for the diagnosis of GCA in patients referred for
           biopsy with suspected GCA.

        2. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness (incremental cost per QALY) of ultrasound instead of
           biopsy in the diagnosis of GCA.

           SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        3. To evaluate inter-observer agreement in the assessment of ultrasound and temporal artery
           biopsy.

        4. To elicit expert views on the appropriateness of performing a biopsy following
           ultrasound using clinical vignettes.

        5. To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy (sensitivity and specificity) of the sequential
           diagnostic strategy from 4 as an alternative to temporal artery biopsy alone in the
           diagnosis of GCA.

        6. To evaluate the cost-effectiveness (incremental cost per QALY) of the diagnostic
           strategy from 4 instead of biopsy alone in the diagnosis of GCA.

      DESIGN:

      A prospective cohort study to evaluate the impact of ultrasound or biopsy of temporal
      arteries on diagnosis of GCA and treatment decisions . The cohort study will use a paired
      design, i.e. all participants will have both US and biopsy, with diagnostic performance
      assessed against a composite reference standard diagnosis following final (6 months)
      assessment. To evaluate the impact of US/biopsy results on clinical practice and longer term
      outcomes, we will derive clinical vignettes based on cases recruited to the study, and
      present them to the treating clinician, along with either the ultrasound, or biopsy or both
      results, so that they can indicate diagnosis and proposed treatment. The main
      cost-effectiveness analyses will evaluate incremental cost per quality adjusted life year
      (QALY) on a long term (lifetime) horizon between diagnostic strategies.

      SETTING:

      Outpatient and inpatient rheumatology and ophthalmology departments in 25 National Health
      Service (NHS) trusts in the United Kingdom (UK) (also sites in Europe of required) with
      access to high resolution US.

      TARGET POPULATION: Patients with suspected GCA who would normally require an urgent temporal
      artery biopsy, i.e. referrals from primary care and suspected GCA identified in secondary
      care. Recruitment of participants will be restricted to patients for whom US and biopsy can
      be performed within 7 days of starting high-dose steroids.

      HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES BEING ASSESSED:

      Halo, stenosis, or occlusion assessed by high resolution US; presence of giant cells or
      granulomatous inflammation on temporal artery biopsy.

      MEASUREMENT OF COST AND OUTCOMES:

      Data collection at baseline, 2 weeks and 6 months will include clinical and laboratory
      markers of disease activity, resource use, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) using the
      EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D), and adverse events. Baseline assessment will include retrospective
      assessment of symptoms and erythrocyte sedimentation rate/C-reactive protein (ESR/CRP)
      results before starting steroids. The reference standard diagnosis will be made using a
      composite of American College of Rheumatology classification criteria, GCA-related events,
      and alternative diagnoses using data collected at all assessments. Proposed treatment data
      will be collected from participating clinicians after each test result is released, and
      classified as treatment for GCA (e.g. initiate/continue steroids) or not GCA (e.g.
      withdraw/rapid taper of steroids) to compare changes in proposed treatment and evaluate
      agreement with the reference diagnosis. Unit costs of resources used will be obtained from
      nationally published sources where available. Modelling will estimate the impact of
      diagnostic strategies on clinical outcomes (e.g. GCA complications and steroid related
      adverse events), their costs and impact on HRQoL beyond study follow-up and within study
      follow-up. Probabilities of events, their cost and impact will be obtained from study data, a
      systematic literature review, or in the absence of relevant data, by formal elicitation of
      expert opinion. Costs and benefits will be discounted at 3.5% (National Institute for Health
      and Care Excellence [NICE] guidance) and uncertainty (including modelling assumptions)
      subjected to probabilistic sensitivity analysis and scenario analysis.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      A sample size of 402 patients provides 90% power at a 5% type I error rate to test the joint
      hypothesis that (i) US has greater sensitivity than biopsy (to detect an increase in
      sensitivity from 76% for biopsy (assuming a 0.24 false negative fraction based on 9-44%
      biopsy-negative GCA) to 87% sensitivity for US; and (ii) to detect specificity of US of no
      less than 0.83 based on an expected specificity of 0.96. This sample size will allow
      estimation of a one-sided rectangular confidence region for US false and true positive
      fractions, assuming 80% prevalence of GCA in patients having a biopsy for suspected GCA, with
      the sample size inflated (gamma=0.1) due to uncertainty in the proportion of cases/controls
      in a cohort design. We will actually recruit 430 cases to allow for possible drop-outs from
      the study. In addition we will recruit 270 individuals for training purposes, to allow each
      centre to learn the technique of temporal artery and axillary artery scanning. Each centre
      will collect 10 such individuals (training cases), who will be of similar age and gender as
      the study cohort, but who will not have temporal arteritis. This is very important in order
      to ensure that observers are trained to recognise the appearances seen in normal (non GCA
      arteries) especially patients with atherosclerosis. Further ultrasound training including a
      video exam (to identify images of both normal and abnormal features of GCA) and a 'hot' case
      assessment (scanning a patient with GCA) will be designed into the ultrasound training
      programme. In addition, we will provide adequate training days (e.g. 2 separate training
      days) when all observers will be trained formally by Dr Schmidt and other ultrasound experts
      to ensure adequate observer agreement. The first training day will be held prior to starting
      the recruitment of patients, and will be repeated after the first year.

      PROJECT TIMETABLE:

      Total: 48 months (UPDATED TO 60 MONTHS SEE BELOW) Month 1-6 Study materials/protocols
      prepared; Ethics and research governance approval complete; Centres trained, approved and
      ready to recruit.

      Month 7-12 Recruitment monitoring report; Quality control report. Month 13-18 Recruitment
      monitoring report; Quality control report; Additional centres (if required) trained, approved
      and ready to recruit; Month 19-24 Recruitment monitoring report; Quality control report.
      Month 25-30 Recruitment monitoring report; Quality control report; Web-based US and biopsy
      assessment developed.

      Month 31-36 Recruitment completed; Clinical vignettes (web-based) developed. Month 37-42
      Follow-up completed; Inter-rater assessment of US and biopsy images analysis competed; Expert
      panel review of vignettes completed.

      Month 43-48 Database cleaned and locked; Analysis completed; statistical analysis and
      economic modelling, report drafting and preparation of papers. Final report completed.

      PLEASE NOTE: 12 MONTH EXTENSION WAS GRANTED BY THE FUNDER (NIHR HTA) IN SEPTEMBER 2012 TO
      EXTEND THE RECRUITMENT PERIOD FROM THE END OF DECEMBER 2012 TO END OF DECEMBER 2013 (A
      FURTHER 12 MONTHS).

      TH END OF STUDY WILL NOW BE DECEMBER 2014

      The study will be overseen by a Trial Steering Committee (TSC) and an independent Data
      Monitoring Committee (DMC)at least 1 meeting per year.

      BIOBANK:

      We will develop a biobank of tissue, serum, DNA and ultrasound video imaging of blood vessels
      in GCA. An important benefit of the primary protocol is that we can use the accumulated
      material for a number of related projects.
    
  