
    
      In 2003 Wollensak et al used corneal cross-linking (CXL) in humans to halt the progression of
      keratoconus. During the procedure the top layer of the cornea, the epithelium, is debrided.
      Then the cornea is soaked with riboflavin, a photosensitizer. Hereafter a 9.0 mm diameter
      Ultraviolet-A (UVA) beam radiates the cornea for 30 minutes with a fluence of 3 mW/cm2
      resulting in a total energy of 5,4 J/cm2. This protocol is called the standard cross-linking
      (sCXL) protocol or the Dresden protocol. During the procedure oxygen radicals are formed that
      interact with the surrounding molecules, leading to the formation of new chemical bounds
      between the collagen fibrils (i.e. corneal crosslinks). The final goal of the procedure is to
      cause the cornea to stiffen and achieve flattening of the treated region.

      For any treatment, it is imperative that the unaffected region of the tissue is not
      unnecessarily treated by an intervention or drug application. To minimalize the risk of
      damage to surrounding tissues it would be beneficial that the UVA beam is restricted to the
      affected, keratoconic zone in the patient's cornea. This can be achieved by customizing the
      beam shape and size in a way that only the degenerated zone is treated, i.e. by customized
      cross-linking (cCXL). Recently published studies provide clinical evidence that similar
      clinical outcomes (amount of corneal flattening) can be achieved when only the cone is
      treated instead of the entire cornea.They also show the potential benefits of cCXL, e.g. the
      treatment is patient-specific, a smaller surface of the cornea is irradiated, lower incidence
      of corneal haze, a faster reepithelialisation and a shorter procedure time. However, none of
      these studies are randomized and study results are limited by using small sample sizes.
      Therefore, we feel that there is a great need for a randomized controlled trial with an
      appropriate design and sample size to confirm these findings.

      The aim of this study is to investigate if cCXL is non-inferior to sCXL in terms of
      flattening of the corneal surface and halting the disease progression.
    
  