
    
      The study will use a 3-arm equipoise-stratified randomization design (Lavori et al., 2001;
      Shalev et al., 2011) to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of CPT-C delivered in three
      formats: Face-to-Face In-Office (F2F-O), Face-to-Face In -Home (F2F-H), and Telebehavioral
      Health In -Home (TBH-H). The equipoise stratified design was specifically developed for
      clinical effectiveness trials involving multiple treatments that may not be appropriate for
      all research participants. The design will allow for complete randomization of those
      participants who are interested and eligible for all three treatment arms. It will also allow
      participants to opt out of one treatment arm if they are not interested or eligible for one
      of the arms. Without this provision a large proportion of the potential participants would be
      excluded from the study, seriously compromising external validity. Participants who elect to
      opt out of one arm will be randomized to one of the two remaining treatment arms. For
      example, the F2F-O treatment could be eliminated by those who are severely injured,
      home-bound, or seriously concerned about stigma, and they then would be randomized to receive
      one of the home-based CPT-C formats. The F2F-H treatment could be eliminated for participants
      who are uncomfortable with the idea of a mental health provider coming into their home. The
      telehealth arm could be opted out by veterans who are unable to use a computer, or cannot
      situate it in a private area.

      The equipoise design will be used because a significant confound exists with the use of a
      completely randomized three-arm research design when all participants cannot be randomized to
      all arms. With a completely randomized design, participants must be willing to be randomized
      to all treatment arms or else they must be excluded. All participants willing to be
      randomized to all arms will occupy a universal donor stratum. The universal donor
      participants are randomized as in a completely randomized design, and they are able to
      participate in all statistical analyses. Participants that elect to opt out of one arm will
      enter a stratum comprising the remaining two arms, and they will be assigned at random to one
      of the two remaining arms. These participants may participate (along with those in the
      universal donor stratum) only in statistical analyses that compare arms to which they could
      have been randomized. By making a choice, each participant assigns himself or herself to a
      stratum, which consists of all the options that he or she finds equally acceptable. In this
      design, those who are unable to attend clinic will be randomized to one of the in-home arms.
      Those who are able to attend clinic will be given the option to reject any one of the three
      treatments. The randomization plan defines four strata (i.e., those who accept randomization
      to all three arms and those who reject one of the three treatments). Analyses will be done
      pairwise using only participants who accepted randomization to two or three treatments, and
      it will include stratum and the stratum-by-treatment interaction as design effects. Note that
      this design is the only way to include an in-clinic arm and a sample of participants who are
      unwilling or unable to be randomized to in-clinic treatment.

      Specific Aims. The overall aim of the project is to conduct a 3-group randomized clinical
      trial to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of CPT-C delivered in three formats: (1)
      Face-to-Face In-Home CPT-C; (2) Face-to-Face In-Office CPT-C; and (3) Tele-Behavioral Health
      In-Home CPT-C.

      Objective 1: Conduct a randomized clinical trial to evaluate the effectiveness of CPT-C
      delivered in three formats: (1) Face-to-Face In-Home CPT-C (F2F-H); (2) Face-to-Face
      In-Office CPT-C (F2F-O); and (3) Tele-Behavioral Health In-Home CPT-C (TBH-H) employing
      equipoise-stratified randomization.

      Hypothesis 1: CPT-C delivered in F2F-H format will be more effective for the treatment of
      PTSD (symptom reduction below diagnostic threshold on the CAPS-5) than F2F-O & TBH-H.

      Hypothesis 2: CPT-C delivered in F2F-H format will result in greater improvement in secondary
      outcomes (depression, alcohol consumption, marital and family functioning) than F2F-O &
      TBH-H.

      Objective 2: Determine if standard F2F-O CPT-C can be enhanced and delivered to special
      populations (seriously injured, home-based rehab, rural living, severe avoidance) with
      in-home therapies.

      Hypothesis 3: In-home therapies (F2F-H and TBH-H) will result in lower perceived stigma of
      seeking mental health care and higher treatment adherence (session attendance; out-of-session
      assignment completion; dose of therapy) compared to mental health clinic-based therapy.

      Hypothesis 4: Participants who opt to participate in the in-home therapies (i.e., decline
      F2F-O) will have higher levels of treatment satisfaction than those in the F2F-O treatment
      arm.
    
  