
    
      Esophageal cancer represents the seventh cause of cancer death in American men, and more than
      90% of patients diagnosed with esophageal cancer will ultimately die of their disease. In the
      United States, 13,900 new cases of esophageal cancer and 13,000 deaths from esophageal cancer
      are anticipated in 2003 (Jemal et al, 2003). The lifetime risk of esophageal cancer is 0.8%
      for men and 0.3% for women (Ries et al, 2002). The risk increases with age, with a mean age
      at diagnosis of 67 years (Ries et al, 2002; Daly et al, 2000). Adenocarcinoma of the
      esophagus or gastroesophageal junction, a previously rare disease, is rapidly increasing in
      incidence in the United States and western countries and now accounts for more than half of
      newly diagnosed disease (Devesa et al, 1998).

      Half of patients diagnosed with esophageal cancer present with overt metastatic disease, and
      chemotherapy is the mainstay of palliation in this setting. In patients who present initially
      with locoregional disease, the majority will eventually develop metastatic disease as well,
      with or without local recurrence of disease. Metastatic esophageal carcinoma is an incurable
      disease with median survival duration of 4 to 8 months. Combination chemotherapy, most often
      cisplatin-based, results in partial responses in 25% to 50% of patients with metastatic
      disease and rare complete responses, including a 35% response rate reported for the commonly
      used combination of cisplatin and fluorouracil (Ilson et al, 1996). Recent chemotherapy
      trials indicate an overlap in response rates for metastatic adenocarcinoma and squamous
      carcinoma carcinoma of the esophagus (Ilson et al, 1997). Responses to chemotherapy are
      generally short-lived, and toxicity of cisplatin-based chemotherapy, particularly in the
      palliation of metastatic disease, is often substantial and underscores the need to identify
      new agents in the treatment of esophageal carcinoma.
    
  