
    
      Global rates of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) range from 0.9% to 12%, and within this
      population, approximately 10% of adolescents aged 10-16 will eventually need treatment. The
      most common conservative treatment is bracing, in which AIS patients are prescribed a brace
      for 18 to 23 hours daily until skeletally mature. The objective of bracing is to stop curve
      progression and restore normal alignment of the spine by active pressure from the brace.
      There is strong clinical evidence of a positive correlation between the tightness of daily
      brace application and the ability of the brace to decrease the risk of curve progression to a
      surgical threshold. However, patients suffer physical and functional discomfort resulting
      from pressure points, including pressure ulcers, skin irritation and even asthma attacks,
      which reduces compliance with brace treatment. Clearly, the knowledge of human body responses
      to pressure applied by brace treatment remains lacking.

      This multi-disciplinary collaborative study involves experts in electrical and electronic
      engineering, orthopaedics, materials science and textiles, and biomechanics. A revolutionary
      pressure measurement system that integrates fibre optic sensors with textile yarns will be
      developed in the form of an undergarment. The sensor arrangement in the undergarment will be
      designed according to the body landmarks of scoliotic patients and critical areas where
      active pressure is applied by the brace. The overall pressure distribution and dynamic
      pressure between the body and the scoliosis brace will be measured. The efficacy of the brace
      design will be evaluated, and the maximum compressive stresses that patients can endure on
      different body parts without pressure injury can be computed.

      Academia, clinicians and AIS patients are predicted to benefit from using the pressure
      system, which determines the optimum pressure to be exerted on patients while minimizing
      pressure injuries. The output of the project can be extended to the standardization of
      pressure levels applied by different orthotic devices and will add a new dimension to fibre
      optic applications in biomechanics.
    
  