
    
      This is a prospective, parallel and controlled clinical trial. The population evaluated in
      the study was selected at Science and Technology Institute - São José dos Campos, College of
      Dentistry.

      The selected smokers patients will be randomly allocated by a computer generated list into:

      Group CTG (n=15): patients who will receive only the connective tissue graft procedure to
      treat gingival recession and a simulation of laser therapy application (SHAM).

      Group CTG+ LLLT (n=15): patients who will receive the connective tissue graft procedure to
      treat gingival recession plus 8 applications of low-level-laser therapy (LLLT) to treat
      gingival recession.

      All surgeries will be performed by the same expert periodontist. Before the surgical
      procedure, all patients were enlightened about the causes and consequences of gingival
      recession and prevention techniques. Factors related to the origin of gingival recession,
      such as toothbrush trauma and inflammation caused by biofilm, will be controlled through
      instruction on standardized brushing technique to avoid the influence of other hygiene
      methods capable of promoting trauma on soft tissues. Standardized dental floss and
      toothbrushes were given to patients. The surgical technique adopted in the recession defects
      was the trapezoidal-type of coronally advanced flap (CAF) and the connective tissue graft
      (CTG) will be removed from palate mucosa . Briefly, a first incision on the palate will be
      performed perpendicularly to the long axis of the teeth, 2 to 3 mm apical to the gingival
      margin. The mesial-distal length of the incision will be determined by the length of the
      graft required to cover the recession. Because the selected recessions were in maxillary
      canines and premolars, the lengths of the graft varied minimally (10-12mm). The second
      incision will be made parallel to the first one (1-2 mm apically and parallel to the long
      axis of the teeth) to separate the subepithelium connective tissue from the epithelial layer.
      The incision is carried far enough apically to provide a 7- mm height of connective tissue to
      cover the denuded root surface. Afterward, another incision parallel to the long axis of the
      teeth starting from the first incision will be performed to separate the subepithelium
      connective tissue from the periosteum. Then, the connective tissue graft will be removed from
      the palate as atraumatically as possible. Single sutures will be made on the palate (4-0
      silk) and the graft will be sutured on the receptor site. The irradiation will be performed
      with a Gallium aluminum arsenide laser (GaAlAs) that continuously emitted a wavelength of 660
      nm. Thirty milliwatts will be used for 20 seconds and the total applied energy (fluence) will
      be 15 Joules per cm2 (3 Joules/ per point and an application time of 4 seconds per point).

      Clinical, esthetics, and comfort of patients parameters were assessed at baseline, 3 and 6
      months after the procedure.

      Quantitative data were recorded as mean ± standard deviation (SD), and normality was tested
      using Shapiro-Wilk tests. The probing depth (PD), relative gingival recession (RGR), clinical
      attachment level (CAL), keratinized tissue thickness (KTT), keratinized tissue width (KTW),
      and dentin hypersensitivity (DH) values were examined by two-way repeated measures ANOVA to
      evaluate the differences within and between groups, followed by a Tukey test for multiple
      comparisons when the Shapiro-Wilk p value was ≥ 0.05. Those presenting Shapiro-Wilk p values
      < 0.05 were analyzed using a Friedman test (for intragroup comparisons) and Mann-Whitney
      tests (for intergroup comparisons). Patients' esthetics and discomfort measures using visual
      analog scale (VAS) were analyzed by T-tests. The frequency of complete root coverage was
      compared using χ2 tests. Intergroup root coverage esthetic score (RES) comparisons were
      performed with a T-test. A significance level of 0.05 was adopted.
    
  