
    
      This protocol will guide clinical trials of treatment of naturally occurring human plague
      cases in African countries with a high incidence of human plague. The safety and efficacy of
      gentamicin will be compared to the standard drug regimen that is already used in Madagascar
      (streptomycin/co-trimoxazole) for treatment of plague. Data from this trial will be valuable
      to optimize clinical management of plague in many countries, including Madagascar and the
      United States.

      In collaboration with the governments and health officials of Madagascar, the investigators
      will implement a randomized, controlled, non-blinded drug trial to compare the effectiveness
      and side effect profile of gentamicin to the national standard plague treatment.

      Cases of plague will be identified through clinic-based surveillance in areas with a high
      incidence and/or in areas that have experienced outbreaks in recent years. After giving
      informed consent, patients will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment arms, each arm
      receiving a different antimicrobial. One patient group will be treated with gentamicin; the
      other group ("control group") will receive streptomycin alone or with co-trimoxazole.

      This protocol will follow the national guideline of the Madagascar Ministry of Health, which
      means that patients with bubonic plague in the streptomycin treatment arm will receive
      streptomycin followed by trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. The only adaptation is that enrolled
      patients with renal insufficiency will receive adjusted dosing of streptomycin, whereas the
      national standard treatment does not call for dose adjustment in renal failure.

      The investigators will also evaluate several newly available, rapid "dipstick" tests for the
      diagnosis of plague using serum, bubo aspirate, sputum, and urine specimens that will have
      already been collected from the patients enrolled in the drug trial. These rapid tests have
      been developed by several American companies and the Institut Pasteur in Madagascar, and have
      not been fully evaluated for use with human specimens. These results will be compared to
      standard diagnostic techniques. Such rapid diagnostic tests will be useful for plague
      diagnosis in developing nations and during bioterrorism events.
    
  