
    
      Background:

      Consumption of non-nutritive sweeteners (NNS) has dramatically increased worldwide and is
      more prevalent in women than men. Similarly, obesity rates have continued to rise, most
      notably in minorities. Since NNS consumption has been linked to obesity, we propose studying
      NNS effects specifically in minority women.

      NNS are frequently consumed in combination with prescription medications. This necessitates
      the study of possible NNS-drug interactions. The hypothesis that NNS may affect drug
      absorption and metabolism is based on a rodent study. In 2008, Abou-Donia et al reported that
      sucralose increased the activity of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), a membrane transporter involved in
      absorption and distribution of a wide range of pharmacologic compounds, and CYP3A, a
      cytochrome P-450 enzyme important to the first-pass metabolism of many drugs.

      So far, NNS effects in clinical studies were mostly observed after acute (one time) or short
      term exposure. For example, we and others found increased incretin and insulin concentrations
      in response to sucralose alone or in combination with acesulfame-potassium prior to a glucose
      load. The effects were most pronounced in obese African American women. We also found
      upregulation of inflammatory cytokines in subcutaneous fat biopsies of obese individuals who
      reported consumption of NNS compared to non-consumers. Whether these hormonal and tissue
      responses persist after prolonged exposure needs to be investigated. NNS have also been shown
      to influence the microbial composition of the oral cavity and the gut. However, most data
      were generated in mice and do not exist in humans.

      Aims:

      Primary Aim: To determine the effects of sucralose (4 mg/kg/day) administered to overweight
      and obese minority women for 28 days on drug metabolism using digoxin and midazolam as probes
      for P-glycoprotein and CYP3A, respectively.

      Secondary Aims: To investigate the effects of sucralose on

        1. glucose metabolism and incretin secretion

        2. lipid metabolism

        3. intestinal microflora

      Methods:

      The study consists of 3 periods. In the first period (run-in, 7 days), participants will be
      instructed to avoid all NNS (including NNS in cosmetics or health care products). During the
      second and third periods (14 days each), participants will be randomized to consume either
      sucralose containing capsules (4 mg/kg/day) or placebo. At the end of each period, the
      following measurements will be obtained during an overnight hospitalization:

        1. Serial measurements of plasma concentrations of midazolam and digoxin for 24 hours
           following a single oral dose of each drug

        2. Frequently sampled 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) to measure glucose,
           insulin, C-peptide, GLP-1, and other gut hormones.

      At the end of P1 (run-in, no intervention) and after P3 (sucralose exposure x 4 weeks),
      subcutaneous fat biopsies will be performed. Stool samples will be obtained throughout.
    
  