
    
      Testing Plan: Children will be randomized into one of two groups via a random number
      generation software program

      Group A (education & gaming): Children will participate in 1 initial training session at
      Albany Med where they will be taught by a respiratory therapist (RT) to use autogenic
      drainage: a series of controlled breathing exercises that mobilizes mucous without inducing
      wheezing in patients with reactive airways. Patients will be sent home and prescribed to
      practice the autogenic draining technique 15 minutes three times per week. At week 8 +/- 1
      week patients will return for study visits and will be tested by a software program designed
      to evaluate their ability to perform autogenic drainage sequence (percent accuracy). This
      will be done through a software program installed on the device that uses a series of
      calibration breaths to fit a curve that models the individual patient's idealized autogenic
      drainage sequence, then maps their actual performance to this curve and calculates a percent
      accuracy. At the 8 week visit, the Jamboxx gaming device will be introduced through a
      training session with a RT, which will contain a game to guide them through the proper
      sequence of breathing for the autogenic draining technique. Patients will be sent home with a
      Jamboxx device and requested to do 15 minutes of autogenic drainage training three times a
      week. Patients will return for a research visits at week 16 and again will be tested via
      software program for ability to perform the autogenic drainage technique.

      Group B (gaming only): Children will participate in an initial training session at Albany Med
      where they will be taught by a RT to use Jamboxx respiratory thearpy device to guide them
      through autogenic drainage: a series of controlled breathing exercises that mobilizes mucous
      without inducing wheezing in patients with reactive airways. Patients will be sent home and
      prescribed to use the Jamboxx respiratory therapy device 15 minutes three times per week. At
      week 8 and week 16 +/- 1 week patients will return for study visits and will be tested by a
      software program designed to evaluate their ability to perform autogenic drainage sequence
      (percent accuracy). This will be done through a software program installed on the device that
      uses a series of calibration breaths to fit a curve that models the individual patient's
      idealized autogenic drainage sequence, then maps their actual performance to this curve and
      calculates a percent accuracy.

      This protocol does not replace prescribed chest physiotherapy. There is no alteration of the
      standard of care beyond 15 minutes of autogenic drainage three times per week. Demographic
      data (age, gender, ethnicity) will be collected. Medical records will be evaluated for
      relevant health history, medication use, and hospitalizations including dates.
    
  