
    
      One of the targets in the SDG-3 is to reduce neonatal mortality to less than 12 per 1000 live
      births by 2030. This will require considerable effort in many low-income countries. Perinatal
      mortality contributes to 40% of infant mortality in Uganda. Early neonatal death from birth
      asphyxia (BA) could be as high 60%. New evidence-based strategies are needed to reduce
      mortality from BA in order to achieve SDG-3 by 2030.

      Optimal care of the depressed newborn is crucial to prevent and manage BA. The challenge in
      low-income settings is that highly qualified staff is not readily available to attend to the
      newborn who require their expertise. In most cases, the midwives are the most skilled
      personal attending to deliveries and also responsible for resuscitating newborns. At present
      in low-income settings, FMV is the commonly used method for resuscitating depressed newborn.
      Easy-to-use equipment such as a supraglottic airway could contribute to obtain more effective
      ventilation, and improve the outcome of the infant.

      This trial is based on a previous pilot trial ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02042118.

      Primary objective

      • To assess if the proportion of either early neonatal death or neonatal encephalopathy
      (admission to NICU with a Thompson score of 11 or above in day 1-5 during hospitalisation),
      can be decreased from 40 % in the control arm (using FM) to 30 % or less in the intervention
      arm (using i-gel supraglottic airway), a 25% decrease.

      Secondary objectives

        -  To assess the safety of a supraglottic airway in the hands of lower cadre (non-doctor)
           birth attendants in Africa.

        -  To assess if the proportion of very early and early neonatal deaths is lower in the
           intervention arm compared to the control arm.

        -  To assess if the proportion of neonatal encephalopathy (admission to NICU with maximum
           Thompson score 11 or above), is lower in the intervention arm compared to the control
           arm.

        -  To assess if the proportion of neonatal encephalopathy (admission to Neonatal Intensive
           Care Unit - NICU - with maximum Thompson score 7 or above), is lower in the intervention
           arm compared to the control arm.

        -  To assess if hospital admission rate in the first 7 days of life is lower in the
           intervention arm compared to the control arm.

        -  To assess the need of advanced resuscitation in the intervention arm compared to the
           control arm.

      Study justification and significance

      Training midwives and other birth-attendants can save lives. However, delivering effective
      positive pressure ventilation (PPV) with FM is a delicate task that requires continuous
      (re)training. In a previous phase II trial (NCT02042118), it has been shown that a
      supraglottic airway is safe to use, even in the hands of midwives and with the potential to
      deliver efficient PPV and perhaps even improve outcome of asphyxiated babies. The cuffless
      i-gel is simple to use and could therefore be the ideal device to resuscitate newborn when
      experienced physicians are not available.

      Prior to interventions: training midwives in neonatal resuscitation skills

      Helping Babies Breathe (HBB) is an evidence-based educational program to teach neonatal
      resuscitation techniques in resource-limited areas. It is an initiative of the American
      Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) in collaboration with the World Health Organization (WHO), US
      Agency for International Development (USAID), Saving Newborn Lives, the National Institute of
      Child Health and Development, and a number of other global health organizations.

      The objective of HBB is to train birth attendants in developing countries in the essential
      skills of newborn resuscitation, with the goal of having at least one person who is skilled
      in neonatal resuscitation at the birth of every baby.

      The second edition of HBB is now available and will be used in the training.

      Study procedures

      It is estimated that around 5-10 % of babies born will need ventilation as part of the
      resuscitation. This randomized trial will include all babies eligible for resuscitation. All
      newborns in need of resuscitation will be randomized to receive initial treatment using
      either:

        -  Supraglottic airway (intervention arm) or

        -  Face mask (active comparator arm).

      The midwife will immediately move the babies not responding to stimulation to the
      resuscitation area. Ventilation with supraglottic airway or face mask will be initiated
      immediately. Apgar score and admission to the neonatal ward will be recorded by a research
      assistant. The intervention may be recorded on video to ensure quality assurance and data
      collection.

      If the infant is hospitalised, daily assessment of Thompson score will be made by a skilled
      paediatrician/physician. A follow-up visit on day 7 (or later) will determine the outcome (if
      the infant is alive or not) together with the assessments of Thompson score.
    
  