
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension is more prevalent in Black than white men, and is more prevalent in men than
      women. Furthermore, even controlling for blood pressure, concentric left ventricular
      hypertrophy, an early structural adaptation of hypertension, is more prevalent in Black than
      white men, and more prevalent in men than women. Concentric left ventricular hypertrophy is
      the strongest predictor, other than age, of the cardiovascular morbidity associated with high
      blood pressure.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In a biracial sample, concentric left ventricular hypertrophy and concentric remodelling were
      assessed by echocardiographic measures of left ventricular mass and relative wall thickness.
      Laboratory procedures were used to: (i) assess hemodynamic and neurohumoral responses during
      exposure to a diverse battery of physical and psychological stressors, and; (ii) evaluate
      alpha and beta adrenergic receptor responsiveness, baroreceptor reflex gain and minimal
      forearm vascular resistance. Since blood pressure during a typical workday was an established
      predictor of left ventricular hypertrophy, it was also assessed. A new biobehavioral model
      was tested that implicated the hemodynamic pattern of behaviorally-evoked pressor responses
      in the pathogenesis of concentric left ventricular hypertrophy. One prediction of this model
      was that a predisposition to exhibit increased vascular resistance during stress
      (characteristic of black men) would favor the development of concentric hypertrophy. Thus,
      systemic vascular resistance responses, evaluated in the laboratory, were hypothesized to
      independently predict left ventricular mass and relative wall thickness, even after
      controlling for established risk factors, including workday blood pressure. Sympathetic
      nervous system function was examined to test hypothesized mechanisms responsible for race and
      gender differences in the hemodynamic patterns of blood pressure regulation. The results of
      these studies emphasized the importance of race and gender in prescribing pharmacological
      and/or behavioral treatment for hypertensive heart disease.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  