
    
      Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) is most often caused by erosion or rupture of an
      atherosclerotic plaque associated with inflammation, thrombus formation, vasoconstriction,
      and microembolisation. In unremitting circumstances, thrombosis at the site of plaque rupture
      or erosion leads to complete compromise of coronary blood flow and ultimately myocardial
      infarction (MI). Platelet adhesion, activation and aggregation, therefore, play key roles in
      the transformation of a stable atherosclerotic plaque to an unstable lesion and antiplatelet
      drugs have become a mainstay in the prevention of recurrent cardiovascular events.

      A large multicenter RCT (PLATO) showed a statistically significant decrease in composite CV
      outcomes with the newer ticagrelor compared to clopidogrel. This has prompted both European
      and Canadian guideline writers to endorse ticagrelor/aspirin as the DAPT of choice. However
      residual uncertainties regarding the choice of DAPT are highlighted by the PLATO subgroup
      analysis that showed an increased risk with ticagrelor in North America (NA) patients. This
      led to delayed FDA approval, dissenting FDA reviews and a reluctance in US guidelines to
      recommend the ticagrelor DAPT regime over others.

      The main area of uncertainty, at least from the NA perspective, hinges on the small number of
      NA patients randomized in the PLATO trial and their increased risk with ticagrelor (n=1814,
      HR 1.25; 95% CI 0.93 - 1.67). The risk in NA patients was statistically significantly
      different from the benefit seen in the other subgroups (P=0.04) and the crux of the debate is
      then whether to believe the subgroup analysis or the combined study results (n=18624, HR,
      0.84; 95% CI 0.77 to 0.92). The complete study provides maximal information but perhaps at a
      cost of being less representative of what to expect in NA practice. Conventional statistical
      paradigms would say that given the pre-specified nature of the geographic subgroup analysis
      and given the statistically significant interaction observed, one should concentrate on the
      subgroup results and not the combined results.

      The conventional statistical model used in the PLATO analysis subsumes that every patient,
      regardless of differences in recruitment characteristics or ancillary treatment strategies
      received in the different regions, is completely identical in their response to the studied
      intervention. It seems highly unlikely that patients from the 43 PLATO enrolling countries
      are truly identical in their drug response given recruitment, genetic and background
      treatment variations.

      This project will resolve these uncertainties and address the crucial clinical question of
      which DAPT regime is best after an ACS? This proposal will double the currently available
      evidence with a novel research design using inexpensive, electronic data and will provide a
      feasible answer to this important clinical question.

      More information can be found here:

      https://brophyj.github.io/index.html
    
  