
    
      Background:

      Retained products of conception (RPOC) are a common and treatable complication after delivery
      or termination of pregnancy. The reported incidence in the literature is around 1% of all
      pregnancies. Most often, diagnoses are made on clinical basis and there is only scarce
      information available related to the correlation between the clinical and pathological
      diagnosis of RPOC. The gold standard for diagnosis of RPOC is based on histopathological
      confirmation of chorionic villi in tissue derived from the uterus. Once RPOC is diagnosed on
      a clinical basis, several treatment options are available, including expectant management,
      pharmacological treatment, and surgical interventions. Given the risks associated with
      surgical interventions, accurate diagnosis is vital. Guidelines at Maccabi Health Care
      Organization mandate that hysteroscopic removal of suspected RPOC should be performed only
      after approval by a Gynecological Surgical Preauthorization committee. Based on the activity
      of this committee and starting 2011, Maccabi has developed a database on certain
      gynecologic-surgical procedures including hysteroscopic removal of suspected RPOC.

      Purpose of the study:

      The main purpose is to evaluate the correlation in qualitative and quantitative manner
      between clinical diagnosis of retained placenta and histology.

      Expected results:

      70% correlation between the clinical and pathological diagnosis of RPOC.

      Methods:

      Establishing a dedicated database which includes demographic, clinical and histological data
      of women who have undergone hysteroscopic removal of suspected RPOC and statistical
      assessment of correlations.

      Significance:

      Determination of the correlation between clinical suspicion and histological diagnosis of
      retained placental tissue Finding clinical parameters that may increase the accuracy of this
      diagnosis and will help to prevent unnecessary procedures.
    
  