
    
      Chemotherapy is a common treatment modality among colorectal cancer patients. Despite
      improvements in survival among those receiving chemotherapy, patients often experience side
      effects including pain, nausea, vomiting, changes in appetite and weight, fatigue, depressed
      mood, and reduced quality of life. Colorectal cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy also
      experience acute elevation in psychological distress (e.g., anxiety, stress). Worldwide, as
      many as 40% of cancer patients currently report using complementary and alternative medicine
      (CAM) for the management of their diagnosis and treatment-related side effects. Evidence to
      support the efficacy of various CAM approaches is still in its infancy, and further research
      is warranted.

      Mindfulness-based strategies, a popular CAM approach among cancer patients, may have unique
      benefits for addressing both treatment-related side effects as well as the management of
      acute levels of psychological distress experienced while undergoing chemotherapy. Preliminary
      evidence supports the benefits of meditation, relaxing sounds, and progressive muscle
      relaxation for the reduction of distress and state anxiety as well as the improvement of
      neuroendocrine responses, indicative of improved stress response, among cancer patients
      undergoing chemotherapy. Additionally, meditation has been shown to improve distress,
      cognitive function, mental health, quality of life, and chemotherapy-related neurotoxicity
      symptoms among cancer patients that had undergone chemotherapy treatment. Despite preliminary
      evidence to support mindfulness-based strategies to help cancer patients undergoing
      chemotherapy, further research is needed to determine their efficacy.

      Smartphone applications (apps) are a unique mode of delivering mindfulness-based strategies
      to cancer patients and may help make CAM more accessible to cancer patients reporting
      barriers to participation in in-person interventions (e.g., pain, fatigue, transportation,
      scheduling difficulties, etc.). Additionally, smartphone apps are a way of providing
      mindfulness-based strategies to patients while undergoing chemotherapy without the need of
      specialized personnel to lead mindfulness-based sessions for patients in the clinic.
      Smartphone accessibility is becoming more ubiquitous, with nearly three quarters of cancer
      patients reporting access to a mobile smartphone. To our knowledge there have been no studies
      that have tested the effects of meditation delivered specifically via a smartphone app to
      cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy (one study used an iPad). The investigators have
      previously demonstrated the feasibility and preliminary effects of delivering four weeks of
      smartphone-based meditation (via the Calm app) to hematological cancer patients to improve
      symptom burden. However, these patients were not undergoing chemotherapy. A meditation app
      such as Calm could be used to deliver mindfulness-based strategies to cancer patients
      undergoing chemotherapy while in clinic and outside of clinic for the management of acute
      psychological distress and chemotherapy-related side effects.

      The Calm app has over 2 million paying users and 65 million downloads, and was named Apple's
      "App of the Year" in 2017.9,10 The Calm app was developed based on tenets of mindfulness and
      cognitive behavioral therapy, and provides its users with a range of mindfulness-based
      options to choose from, including meditations, Sleep Stories, and Soundscapes. In the
      proposed study, the investigators will investigate the use of Calm among a small sample of
      colorectal cancer patients (N=30; n=15 per group) who are beginning adjuvant chemotherapy
      within 12-weeks post-surgery as compared to a usual care control group to determine its
      effects on acute psychological distress within a single chemotherapy session as well as
      chemotherapy-related side effects.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Objective 1: Investigate the effects of using a meditation app to reduce psychological
      distress (measured using the Distress Thermometer), across multiple chemotherapy sessions
      (n=15) among colorectal cancer patients as compared to usual control (n=15).

      The primary hypothesis for this objective is that those using a meditation app will
      experience a reduction in psychological distress from beginning to end of each chemotherapy
      session as compared to usual care.

      Objective 2: Investigate the effects of using a meditation app on chemotherapy toxicity and
      tolerability (measured using patient medical records; dose reduction/modification, dose
      delays, # of cycles completed, hospitalization, cytopenias, etc.), fatigue (measured using
      the Brief Fatigue Inventory), and quality of life (measured using the General Version of the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer and the European Organization for Research and Treatment of
      Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire) among colorectal cancer patients during a chemotherapy
      treatment cycle (i.e., two-three week cycle between the sessions) as compared to a usual care
      control group.

      The primary hypothesis for this objective is that those using the meditation app will
      experience less severe chemotherapy toxicity, greater chemotherapy tolerability, less
      fatigue, and greater quality of life as compared to the usual care control group.
    
  