
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a blood-borne virus and its major route of transmission include
      blood transfusion, medical injection and procedure, and injecting drug use. In Egypt, the
      origin of the HCV epidemic has been attributed to a mass treatment of schistosomiasis between
      1960 and 1984, when intravenous injections with antimony salts were given to 3-5 million
      people older than 6 years of age. Insufficient sterilization of needles and syringes was
      considered to be responsible for HCV transmission at that time. In order to control the
      spread of HCV in Egypt, the Egyptian Ministry of Health and Population established the
      National Committee for the Control of Viral Hepatitis. By 2008, this committee developed a
      National Control Strategy for Viral Hepatitis which has recommended prevention and education
      campaigns targeting general population and also healthcare workers (HCW). In their
      occupational environment, HCWs are frequently exposed to multiple blood-borne pathogens,
      including HCV. Several risk factors for HCV acquisition among patients and HCWs within a
      hospital ward have been identified, including a high prevalence of HCV infection in the ward,
      understaffing, workplace characteristic, and human factors such as inexperience or unfamiliar
      with equipment. However, to the investigators' knowledge, the overall risk of HCV acquisition
      associated with hospital stay has never been evaluated in Egypt. Also, control measures to
      reduce the risk of HCV transmission in hospital settings, based on a global assessment of
      healthcare provider logistics and performance, have never been proposed in Egypt.

      In this project, the investigators assume that HCV will be transmitted to both hospital staff
      and patients. Given the slow dynamics of the HCV epidemic, the investigators further
      hypothesize that, in the short term, the prevalence of HCV viremia among patients will be
      constant. Therefore, the investigators are led to conclude that HCV transmission risk may be
      inferred from a detailed description of individual trajectories of patients or staff within
      the hospital.
    
  