
    
      Objectives:

      Primary:

      To evaluate the comparative efficacy of chlorproguanil / dapsone with
      sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine for the treatment of vivax malaria in Pakistan and eastern
      Afghanistan.

      Secondary:

        -  To compare the efficacy of chlorproguanil-dapsone and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine with
           chloroquine

        -  To evaluate the safety profile of chlorproguanil / dapsone in south Asians from this
           region when used for the treatment of vivax malaria.

        -  To evaluate the effect of chlorproguanil / dapsone on gametocyte clearance rates.

        -  To evaluate the effect of chlorproguanil / dapsone on subsequent relapse due to vivax
           malaria.

      Study Population:

      750 P.vivax positive individuals recruited from the Malaria Reference Centre in Jalalabad,
      Afghanistan and at health facilities in Afghan refugee camps in North West Frontier Province
      (NWFP), Pakistan supervised by HealthNet International

      Efficacy Parameters :

      Primary Efficacy Variable:

      • Day 14 slide clearance rate (complete clearance of parasites), assessed by microscopists
      who are blind to treatment allocation. Slides will be double read.

      Secondary Efficacy Variables

        -  Day 28 slide clearance rate defined as the number of treated patients with clearance of
           parasitaemia within 14 days of starting treatment, without subsequent recrudescence up
           to day 28.

        -  Day 14 clinical failure rate (presence of symptoms of malaria in the presence of
           parasitaemia).

        -  Day 28 clinical failure rate.

        -  Adverse events.

        -  Haemoglobin level increased by at least 1g/dl by day 14.

        -  Clearance of gametocytaemia by day 3, 7, and 14.

        -  Number of subsequent malaria episodes in next 6 months. It is assumed that the
           population of each treatment arm is equally likely to be re-infected in this time scale.
           Therefore any measurable difference in number of subsequent episodes between treatment
           arms will be due to a relapse.

        -  In G6PD deficient patients the change in mean haemoglobin.

      Safety Parameters:

      Adverse events and laboratory findings will be monitored in all patients. Regular haemoglobin
      to identify haemolysis.

      Study design:

      Recruitment and administration:

      Recruitment and administration of all treatments will be directly observed by the trial
      coordinator and trial pharmacist, and/or health unit clinician.

      Dosing Schedules:

      Chlorproguanil-dapsone (Lapdap): (target doses 2.0 and 2.5 mg/kg respectively) daily for 3
      days .

      Sulfadoxine - pyrimethamine (SP): (target doses 1.25 and 25.0 mg/kg respectively) once only.

      Chloroquine (CQ): (target dose 25mg/kg ) daily for 3 days.

      Follow up:

      Patients will return to the clinic on days 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28 for supervised
      dosing, thick and thin smears, blood spot filter papers, update of clinical record forms,
      determination of haemoglobin, full blood cell counts, liver function tests, determination of
      adverse events and concomitant medication details, as appropriate.
    
  