
    
      The research was conducted as a single-blind controlled study with simple random sampling. It
      was carried out at a tertiary-level hospital in Turkey in February-August 2019.

      The research population was composed of the mothers who had cesarean delivery at the
      maternity service of a tertiary-level hospital in Turkey. The size of the research sample was
      calculated with power analysis. Considering the likelihood that some participants would later
      be excluded from the research or leave it, a total of 156 mothers who met the inclusion
      criteria for the research were assigned to the experimental group (78) and control group
      (78).

      Both the experimental and control groups each had 78 mothers, and hence, a total of 156
      mothers were included in the study. The postpartum discharge training in which the PechaKucha
      method was applied via the smartphones was offered to the mothers in the experimental group
      whereas the mothers in the control group had solely the routine discharge training. The
      research was completed with the participation of 140 mothers, namely, 70 mothers in the
      experimental group and 70 mothers in the control group. The discharge training which was
      comprised of 20 slides created as per the PechaKucha method was offered to the mothers in the
      experimental group via smartphones. Each slide was displayed for 20 seconds. The presentation
      took 6 minutes 40 seconds in total. The Q&A session was performed after the presentation.
      While care was provided and the follow-up activities were performed in the process following
      the discharge training, feedback about the discharge training topics was received from both
      groups, discharge training topics were reminded to both groups and the questions of the
      mothers in both groups were answered.

      The 'Personal Information Form', the 'Readiness for Hospital Discharge Scale - New Mother
      Form', and the 'State-Trait Anxiety Inventory' were used for gathering the research data.

      In the statistical analysis, the SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Science) 22.0 software
      was utilized. Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation, frequency, percentage) were
      used in the evaluation of the findings. Kolmogorov-Smirnov test was employed for identifying
      whether the research data were normally distributed.
    
  