
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Congestive heart failure (CHF) is increasingly prevalent worldwide and is associated with
      significant morbidity and mortality. Poor exercise capacity is well known as a risk factor
      for poor prognosis. The deconditioning is mainly associated with a decrease in leg muscle
      mass and loss of leg strength as well as loss of muscle endurance. This affects especially
      elderly patients. To improve this condition in CHF electrical muscle stimulation (EMS) is a
      suitable method of training, which hardly affects the heart. However, most EMS existing
      stimulation protocols are uncomfortable and not user-friendly, especially for elderly
      patients. The Russian space medicine has many years' experience in specific EMS stimulation
      protocols, which are well tolerated by cosmonauts for hours even during working activities.
      Therefore, a research project has been established between the Russian Academy of Sciences
      (Laboratory for Biomedical Problems) and the ARTORG Research Center for Biomedical
      Engineering to study the effects of new developed EMS procedures in elderly persons.

      Aims:

      The aim of trial is to evaluate two types of EMS stimulation (low intensity "conventional
      stimulation" vs. high intensity "Russian" stimulation) of legs in comparison with a control
      group without EMS in a cohort of elderly patients with severe deconditioning after CHF
      decompensation.

      METHOTOLOGY:

      This prospective, randomized controlled study will use commercially available electronic
      stimulator devices (Medel GmbH, Hamburg, Germany) for EMS. For the "Russian" stimulation, an
      especial developed stimulator (Amplidin-EST No.5) will be used for frequency modulation of
      the stimulation impulse, which is supposed to make stimulation sensation more comfortable.
      Supervised EMS training will be performed 5 times per week (weekdays) during 30 minutes over
      a period of 6 weeks in elderly deconditioned CHF patients, starting at the Kantonsspital
      Olten during the hospitalisation and continued at home. We will include 20 patients in each
      group (20 in control group, 20 in low intensity "conventional group and 20 in high intensity
      "Russian" group). The control group was preformed to exclude an attention bias in the study
      results. The primary endpoint of the study is the difference in maximum oxygen uptake (peak
      VO2) and in 6 minutes walking distance between baseline and after 6-weeks EMS training in all
      groups (high intensity vs low intensity vs control). The follow-up period is planned for 2
      years.

      POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE:

      Exercise capacity and quality of life in severely deconditioned patients with CHF is poor and
      life expectancy is low. While the possibilities to improve the poor condition and function of
      the heart by pharmaceutical therapies are limited, there is potential to improve the
      condition of the peripheral muscles by exercise training. However, a successful aerobic
      training is rarely feasible in these patients. Therefore, EMS training may prove to be ideal
      tool to improve leg muscle mass and function of elderly patients. Because, CHF patients do
      not tolerate most of the existing EMS stimulation protocols, we have developed a new EMS
      stimulation protocol. The application is virtually painless and therefore well tolerated over
      hours due to a sophisticated stimulation protocol. Therefore, we hope that, this especial for
      elderly CHF patients developed training protocol, may improve their daily activity as well as
      their quality of life.
    
  