
    
      Each day almost all patients in an ophthalmology clinic get their intraocular pressure of
      each eye measured. This measurement is used to make important decisions regarding risk of
      dilation and also is essential in the management of glaucoma patients, as intraocular
      pressure (IOP) remains one of the only modifiable factors in glaucoma. The intraocular
      pressure is also measured in an eye that has undergone an operative procedure where pressures
      can increase to dangerous levels signaling the need for immediate intervention.

      In most ophthalmology clinics the intraocular pressure is measured via Goldmann applanation
      tonometry, which is considered the standard method of measurement. The Goldmann tonometer is
      a device that uses an applanation prism to flatten a small portion of the cornea to measure
      the eye. The pressure within the eye is determined by how much force is needed to flatten the
      cornea. In order to perform the test the subject receives a topical anesthetic and
      fluorescein sodium dye on the surface of the eye. The intraocular pressure is all frequently
      measured in ophthalmology by pneumatonometry and the Tonopen. These two additional methods of
      contact tonometry measure the amount of force needed to displace the cornea and then
      calculate the intraocular pressure1. Both require instillation of topical anesthetic eye
      drops prior to measuring the pressure, cut these latter two methods require no dye. The
      principal anesthetics used in the United States are proparacaine or benoxinate. For Goldmann
      applanation, these anesthetics must be combined with a fluorescein dye.

      Both proparacaine and benoxinate are esters of para-aminobenzoic acid (PABA) that are used
      for topical ophthalmic anesthesia. Both have onset of action in approximately 10-20 seconds
      and both duration of action of 10-20 minutes. They provide sufficient anesthesia to permit
      minor procedures involving the superficial cornea and conjunctiva. Proparacaine is commonly
      used alone, but can be purchased pre-mixed with fluorescein dye, whereas, benoxinate is only
      available in combination with fluorescein dye1. Fluorescein sodium is a yellow acid dye from
      the xanthenes family that absorbs light of the 493 nanometer wavelength (blue) and then emits
      or fluoresces light of 520 nanometer wavelength (yellow-green). This dye is ubiquitous in
      ophthalmologic practices as it is used both intravenously and topically to assist in making
      ophthalmologic diagnoses1.

      For contact tonometry, one of these topical anesthetics is traditionally instilled in each
      eye and the intraocular pressure is then measured. This is typically done by a technician
      first, and if there is any question regarding the measurement it is repeated again by the
      physician seeing the patient. In academic institutions the intraocular pressure may also be
      routinely checked additional times by the resident. For certain patients suspected of having
      glaucoma the intraocular pressure variation throughout the day is monitored in what is called
      a diurnal curve measurement. With this test, the intraocular pressure may be checked upwards
      of ten (10) times in a single day (each measurement with an additional instillation of
      topical anesthetic). All of these examinations are done with minimal danger and with little
      discomfort for the patient.

      Despite this standard protocol for measurement of the intraocular pressure, it has been
      suggested that the very anesthetic agents we use to measure the pressure may actually cause
      some lowering of the intraocular pressure. In rabbits proparacaine has recently been shown to
      reduce episcleral venous pressure, an important component of the intraocular pressure, and
      the intraocular pressure itself (Zamora). Attempts to show the pressure lowering effect of
      these frequently used topical anesthetics in humans using our traditional intraocular
      measurement devices has been difficult as all three methods mentioned above require topical
      anesthetic. Some European studies have used non-contact tonometry to verify these findings.
      For example, Montero et al used non-contact tonometry to determine the effect of the topical
      anesthetics and found that there was a statistically significant decrease in the intraocular
      pressure after application of topical anesthetic3. Baudouin et al also found that, when
      measured via non-contact tonometry, some topical anesthetics lower the intraocular pressure4.
      In their study the topical anesthetics, oxybuprocaine and betoxycaine used more frequently in
      the United States. Both of these studies were done using non-contact tonometry. Traditionally
      with non-contact tonometry, a puff of air is directed towards the corneal surface and the
      displacement of the corneal surface is measured and used to estimate the intraocular
      pressure. However, in the United States most ophthalmology offices rely on contact tonometry
      to evaluate the intraocular pressure rather than non-contact tonometry. Based on our review
      of the literature, no one has yet measured the intraocular pressure lowering effects of these
      topical anesthetics with contact tonometry.

      There is a currently a device on the market which is approved by the Food and Drug
      Administration that is able to measure intraocular pressure via contact tonometry that does
      not require use of topical anesthetic drops. This device is sold as the ICare tonometer. The
      ICare is a tonometer that uses a rebound technology in which a very light-weight probe is
      used to make momentary contact with the cornea. In rebound technology, the motion parameters
      of the probe are recorded during the measurement. An induction based coil system and advanced
      algorithms analyze the probe deceleration, contact time and other parameters as the probe
      touches the cornea. The deceleration and rebound parameters change as a function of the
      intraocular pressure. The tonometer is preprogrammed for six measurements, discarding the
      highest and lowest intraocular pressure readings, and calculating the average pressure value.
      The pressure is recorded in millimeters of mercury (mmHg). No anesthesia is involved because
      the touch of the probe is so gentle that intraocular pressure measurement is barely noticed
      by the subject5. The ICare is currently used on patients in our clinic for whom the
      traditional intraocular pressure measurement devices have not been appropriate like newborns
      and infants. It does not require topical anesthesia and recent data supports that its
      intraocular pressure measurements are reliable6,7. Thus, the ICare tonometer finally provides
      a way to use contact tonometry to verify whether or not the two most commonly used topical
      anesthetics lower intraocular pressure.
    
  