
    
      Anticytokine autoantibodies are an important and emerging cause of disease. Anticytokine
      autoantibody-associated diseases include disseminated nontuberculous mycobacterial infection
      caused by anti-interferon- >= autoantibodies, severe mucocutaneous candidiasis caused by
      anti-interleukin-17 autoantibodies, and pulmonary alveolar proteinosis caused by
      anti-granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor autoantibodies. Many subjects
      undergoing treatments related to these diseases fail to respond or develop toxicity to long
      term therapy. Rituximab, an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody that targets antibody-producing B
      cells, has been used successfully to treat autoimmune diseases (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis),
      as well as syndromes caused by pathogenic anticytokine autoantibodies (e.g., myasthenia
      gravis and pemphigus vulgaris). This is a phase I, single arm, open-label study evaluating
      the safety and clinical response to rituximab treatment in subjects (greater than or equal to
      18 years of age; n=20) with anticytokine autoantibody-associated diseases who are intolerant
      or refractory to conventional treatment. Rituximab will be administered as intravenous
      infusions of 1 gram on days 1 and 15, and subsequently if indicated up to once a month for 5
      months (plus or minue 5 days for each visit) starting on approximately day 42. Follow-up
      visits will occur within 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, and 18 months (plus or minus 2 weeks for each
      visit) after the last infusion. Subjects will be maintained on a background of appropriate
      therapy for their respective diseases. The safety and clinical response to rituximab will be
      assessed by clinical and laboratory parameters while subjects are receiving rituximab, and
      for an additional year and a half after completion of treatment. Patients may be retreated at
      the discretion of the Principal Investigator.
    
  