
    
      Total knee arthroplasty is the gold standard treatment for advanced knee osteoarthritis. In
      spite of the great advance in the prosthesis design, surgical techniques and rehabilitation
      programs, only 85% (75% to 92%) of patients with total knee arthroplasty are satisfied with
      their operations and 30% develops patellofemoral complications.

      Femoral and tibial components malrotation is a crucial cause of postoperative knee pain,
      patellar instability, and may lead to revision. In measured resection technique the surgical
      epicondylar axis (SEA) is the center of rotation of the knee and the femoral component must
      be parallel to this axis. The surgical epicondylar axis is difficult to be determined
      intraoperative by palpation.

      Commonly, surgeons routinely set the femoral posterior condyle resection at three degrees
      fixed from the posterior condylar line (PCL) because the PCL was found to be three degrees
      internally rotated from the (SEA).

      The posterior condylar angle on a three-dimensional structure reconstruction of the CT scans
      in osteoarthritic knees has also been shown as 3.3° ± 1.5°, However, another study documented
      the posterior condylar angle (PCA) in osteoarthritic knees as 1.6° ± 1.9°. Also there is a
      two to three degree difference between the surgical epicondylar axis and the anatomical
      epicondylar axis. Therefore, a routine bone resection of three degrees from the PCL is not
      universal for all cases and may create malrotation of the femur.

      CT scan can provide an adequate template with good but not excellent inter and intra observer
      reliability for exact determination of the surgical epicondylar axis and femoral component
      rotation.

      2. AIM/ OBJECTIVES

        1. What is the mean of distal femoral rotation in Egyptian population?

        2. What is the effect of osteoarthritis on femoral rotation?

        3. How much is the accuracy of CT scan in detecting anatomical landmarks to choose the
           intraoperative femoral component rotation (correlation between radiological and
           intraoperative findings?

        4. Is the relation between the anatomical epicondylar axis (AEA) in comparison to surgical
           epicondylar axis (SEA) a fixed ratio?

        5. What is the relation between thde femoral component malrotation and the coronal
           alignment and flexion gap balance?

        6. Can CT scan add a simple planning tool for accurate placement of femoral component and
           the reproducibility of the preoperative plan in surgery?
    
  