
    
      Background:

        -  Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) are rare malignancies occurring in the gastrointestinal
           tract, islets of the pancreas, lung, adrenal medulla and thyroid C-cells.

        -  Their incidence has increased over the last decade, with an incidence of 6 per 100,000
           persons a year and they represent 0.46% of all malignancies.

        -  Most NETs are sporadic, but they can be part of familial cancer syndromes such as
           multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1), MEN2, and neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) or
           Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) syndrome.

        -  Surgical resection remains the only curative treatment option for patients with NETs but
           80% of patients are diagnosed with advanced (metastatic, locally inoperable, or
           recurrent) disease.

        -  The main prognostic factor in patients with NET is the extent of disease.

        -  The best imaging technique for detecting unknown primary and metastatic NETs has yet to
           be determined.

        -  NET cells express somatostatin receptors that can be targeted with radiolabeled
           68Gallium-DOTATATE (Octreotate) for imaging purposes.

        -  The primary goal of this protocol is to determine the accuracy of a new somatostatin
           receptor targeted imaging technique, using 68Gallium-DOTATATE PET/CT to detect unknown
           primary and metastatic NETs.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the accuracy of 68Gallium-DOTATATE PET/CT scans in detecting unknown primary
      and metastatic gastrointestinal and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with:

             -  suspicion of NET on axial imaging (CT/magnetic resonance imaging
                (MRI)/fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG PET) and/or

             -  biochemical evidence of NET (serum/urinary) based on elevated levels of
                chromogranin A, pancreatic polypeptide, neuron-specific enolase, vasoactive
                intestinal polypeptide, serotonin (urinary 5-HIAA), gastrin, somatostatin,
                catecholamines, metanephrines, calcitonin, fasting insulin, C-peptide (proinsulin),
                glucagon and/or

             -  familial predisposition to NET in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1
                (MEN1) and VHL.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years of age.

        -  Patients must be willing to return to National Institutes of Health (NIH) for follow-up.

      Design:

        -  Prospective study.

        -  A 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT scan will be done in patients with suspicious lesions, unknown
           primary tumor or metastatic gastrointestinal or pancreatic neuroendocrine disease found
           on anatomic imaging (CT/MRI) or in patients having biochemically active disease.

        -  Both functional and non-functional solid tumors will be included in this study.
           Furthermore, asymptomatic and symptomatic, sporadic and familial cases of NETs (such as
           Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL), MEN1) will be included.

        -  Demographic, clinical and pathologic data will be collected from the medical record and
           patient interview for each patient. Data will be stored in a computerized database.

        -  After their initial on-study evaluation, patients will be staged according to findings
           on imaging studies with respect to primary tumor site, size and metastases. Surgical
           resection of NET and/or medical managements will be recommended based on standard
           practice guidelines. In patients who undergo surgical treatment, the samples will be
           immediately stored until molecular analysis.

        -  Follow up will be done yearly for a total duration of 5 years. This includes a yearly
           imaging study and a biochemical and clinical evaluation, to assess tumor growth and
           disease progression.

        -  We estimate that the accrual rate will be 3-10 patients per month; the total accrual
           period for this study will be 10 months to 3 years.
    
  