
    
      This is a one month, prospective, double-blind, randomized, 2-way crossover design in n=20
      non-treatment seeking AUD who come in for a screening day and two separate testing days: on
      one testing day the participants consume a drink with 1.9 kcal/kg of nutritional ketone ester
      (R)-3-hydroxybutyl (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate (KE), and on another testing day a drink with
      isocaloric dextrose (DEXT), after which participants are scanned for 1H-MRS and fMRI (20
      subjects are scanned twice; 40 scans in total) and complete an alcohol consumption paradigm
      each day after scanning (40 in total). Blood labs for ketone bodies, ghrelin and leptin will
      be drawn during the study visists.

      The KE "(R)-3-hydroxybutyl (R)-3-hydroxybutyrate" is a safe, effective, and non-invasive way
      to increases ketone levels within 1 hr to concentrations similar to KD, and does not require
      a study IND. KE-induced ketone levels remain heightened for 4 hrs, and one dose of KE has
      shown to increase athletes' performances, improve mood, and cognitive and daily activity
      performance in Alzheimer's disease, and decrease ghrelin levels and subjective appetite in
      healthy volunteers. The latter finding is relevant to AUD, since ghrelin has been positively
      associated with alcohol craving and alcohol self-administration in AUD patients.

      Before study participation, subjects are screened for psychiatric and medical problems,
      fasting glucose, urine drug screen, pregnancy test if female.

      On each testing day, both before and 30 min after the drink, ketone bodies, leptin and
      ghrelin are measured in blood. After 15 minutes of KE, participants undergo a 1-hour MRI scan
      during which, after standard structural scans, the investigators measure ketone body
      metabolites using 1H-MRS, reactivity to alcohol cues using functional MRI, resting state MRI,
      cerebral blood flow using perfusion and brain iron measurements.

      On each study visit, four blood draws will be analyzed for ketone bodies, ghrelin and leptin
      at KE intake (t0), 15 minutes after when the MRI starts (t15), 10 after the MRI is done and
      after the priming drink (t85), and then at 140, and 200 minutes after (i.e., t140 and t200).

      Directly after MRI scanning, participants perform an alcohol self-administation "bar-lab"
      paradigm. Alcohol craving and alcohol effects will be measured before and during the alcohol
      self-administration. Participants will then be asked what they thought the study was about,
      and whether they thought the experimental drink influenced them in any way. After this,
      participants will be breathalyzed, and receive a meal.
    
  