
    
      This study is a single center, open-label baseline controlled imaging study designed to
      demonstrate safety, biodistribution and dosimetry of the radiopharmaceutical
      Cu[64]-25%CANF-Comb (Cu = copper; CANF = C-type Atrial Natriuretic Factor) in healthy, adult
      volunteers. By definition a "healthy" volunteer is an individual who, by physical exam and
      baseline electrocardiogram, has no evidence of cardiovascular disease and, by history, is not
      under the care of a physician for any active medical conditions.

      Each volunteer will receive a single intravenous bolus injection of 4-8 mCi of the
      investigational radiotracer Cu[64]-25%CANF-Comb followed by whole body static PET-CT imaging
      at 3 of 4 dedicated imaging time points, (1-4 hours, 5-10 hours, and 22-26 hours or 46-50
      hours post injection). For safety assessment, a physical examination will be performed at
      baseline and at the completion of all imaging to assess for interval change. An EKG and vital
      signs will be obtained baseline, at each imaging time point to assess for interval change.
      Blood will be drawn at baseline, and at each imaging time point to assess for interval change
      in serum chemistries and complete blood count. Urine will be collected at baseline and at
      each imaging time point to assess for interval change in urinalysis results.

      The amount of radioactive tracer in the blood and urine will also be assessed on all 8 adult
      normal volunteer subjects. One-mL blood samples will be obtained at baseline, 1, 2, 4, and 24
      hours post Cu[64]-25%CANF-Comb injection and prior to discharge. Urine will be collected as a
      single accumulated collection over 24 hours immediately following injection of
      Cu[64]-25%CANF-Comb and prior to discharge.

      Tracer biodistribution will be evaluated by measuring tracer uptake in various organs in the
      torso on the PET-CT scan. The organs used to describe the biodistribution of the
      radiopharmaceutical will be blood, liver, kidneys, spleen, heart, bone, muscle and other
      organs showing significant uptake. Only organs and tissues containing a visible accumulation
      of activity will be selected for image quantification. Region of Interests (ROIs) will be
      drawn to measure average activity concentration in each organ or tissue. Values in
      three-dimensional region of interest (3D-ROI) traced on the contour of the organs will be
      used. For the large organs such as the liver, a large elliptical ROI encompassing as much of
      the organ as possible will be used to obtain an average pixel value. To estimate bone
      activity, a narrow, irregular ROIs will be drawn to approximate the visible cross section of
      the ilium or large vertebrae, and the average pixel value will be used. For blood activity,
      the average pixel intensity in a large 3D-ROI drawn over the left ventricle will be used,
      thereby avoiding partial volume effects. Muscle activity will be taken as the average value
      in a large elliptical ROI in the region of the buttocks as seen on MR images. Fat activity
      will be taken as the average value in a large elliptical ROI in the region of the
      subcutaneous abdominal fat. All other non-listed organ's activity concentration will be
      measured in a similar fashion.

      Residence times will be calculated by analytical integration of the fitted time taking into
      account the radioactive decay of Cu[64]. Residence times will be expressed in hours and
      normalized to one unit injected activity. Blood activity will be also assigned to the heart,
      lungs and bone marrow, organs for which activity will be not measured directly with an ROI.
      The heart and lungs will be assigned a blood fraction based on their respective blood
      volumes. Activity measured in bone is assigned half to cancellous bone and half to cortical
      bone.

      The percent injected dose values will be calculated by extrapolating the measured activity
      concentration in each organ to the whole organ using standard organ and tissue volumes. These
      standard volumes will be normalized to each patient's weight. Time activity curves will be
      then constructed from these values for all organs for which ROIs were drawn including liver,
      spleen, kidneys, bone, muscle blood pool and remainder of body by combining the data from all
      the patients. The blood content of each organ will be included with the organ where possible
      rather than assigning it uniformly to the remainder of body.
    
  