
    
      Group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus, a common infective agent in children and adults, causes
      the widest range of clinical disease of any bacterium. This study is the fourth of five
      studies in a larger project aimed at evaluating the epidemiology of infections caused by the
      group A streptococcus (GAS) in Fiji. This larger project is called the Fiji Group A
      Streptococcal Project (Fiji GrASP). Fiji GrASP is in turn part of a larger program aimed at
      progression of a novel GAS vaccine - this program is the project entitled "Global GAS Vaccine
      Based on the M-Protein." The three broad aims of the Fiji GrASP epidemiologic studies are:
      (1) to establish the burden of disease of GAS infections in Fiji; (2) to describe the
      molecular epidemiology of GAS isolates in Fiji and; (3) to establish natural immunologic
      correlates of protection of a J8 vaccine if they exist. This is a cross-sectional study of
      550 infants over a 2-month period. Skin will be examined for pyoderma and scabies, and swabs
      will be taken from pyoderma lesions once. All GAS isolates from skin swabs will undergo
      genetic sequencing of the N-terminal and C-repeat regions (for the J8 epitope) of the M
      protein at QIMR. One hundred skin swabs will undergo antimicrobial susceptibility testing
      against penicillin, erythromycin, clindamycin and chloramphenicol. The primary objectives of
      the study are to estimate the point prevalence of GAS pyoderma in 550 infants in the Central
      Division of Fiji and to estimate the point prevalence of scabies in 550 infants in the
      Central Division of Fiji. The secondary objectives of the study are to genotypically
      characterize group A streptococci isolated from skin swabs from pyoderma lesions in infants
      in Fiji and to determine antimicrobial susceptibility to penicillin, clindamycin,
      erythromycin and chloramphenicol in 100 GAS isolates from skin swabs. The primary endpoints
      of the study are to determine the number of cases of pyoderma and the number of cases of
      scabies. The secondary endpoints are: (1) to determine the number of children with pyoderma
      and scabies; (2) to determine the number of GAS isolates from skin swabs that contain the J8
      epitope and the overall emm-type distribution of GAS isolates and; (3) to complete
      antibiograms of GAS isolates from skin to penicillin, clindamycin, erythromycin and
      chloramphenicol.
    
  