
    
      The proposed research will conduct the first ever dose-determination trial of a behavioral
      intervention to improve engagement in HIV care, antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence and
      HIV viral suppression. The trial is designed to inform the implementation of behavioral
      interventions, including several in CDC's Compendium of Evidence-Based Interventions.
      Behavioral counseling has the flexibility and reach to overcome numerous challenges to HIV
      care, including social, emotional, and structural barriers. However, basic questions of how
      to best implement and scale-up interventions remain unanswered, such as "how much
      intervention is needed to achieve HIV suppression in subgroups of patients facing individual
      and social challenges?" There are currently no dose-determination trials in the HIV
      behavioral intervention literature to guide implementation decisions and health service
      policy. In the proposed research the investigators specifically aim to: (a) determine the
      minimum effective dose of an evidence-based HIV treatment engagement and adherence
      intervention, (b) identify subgroups of patients requiring greater and fewer intervention
      resources to achieve and sustain viral suppression, and (c) the costs associated with
      intervention dose-response. Participants who are receiving ART with empirically determined
      low-adherence will be randomized to either: (a) the dose determination condition of weekly
      evidence-based behavioral self-regulation counseling until achieving HIV suppression or (b)
      fixed dose 5-weekly sessions of evidence-based behavioral self-regulation counseling
      sessions. The dose determination condition adjusts to patient needs and determines the dose
      to achieve optimal adherence / HIV suppression, in contrast to the fixed dose condition that
      does not adjust to patient response. The trial is therefore designed to determine the number
      of behavioral counseling intervention sessions needed to achieve and sustain HIV suppression.
      Once meeting criteria for adherence / viral suppressed, counseling in the dose-determination
      condition is suspended. In contrast, the fixed-dose condition is delivered in five prescribed
      sessions as disseminated by the CDC. Follow-up assessments commence for 12-months from
      baseline with the primary endpoint of 12-month blood plasma HIV viral load and secondary
      outcome of ART adherence. Response to counseling is defined by achieving viral suppression
      and non-response is defined by not achieving optimal adherence / viral suppression.
      Participants in both the dose-determination and fixed-session conditions who initially
      respond and rebound to unsuppressed viral load will receive additional counseling with
      redose-response monitored and analyzed. Longitudinal analyses will examine intervention dose
      for key patient subgroups and dose-response cost-effectiveness analyses to guide resource
      allocation and implementation decisions. This research is aimed at informing health policy
      makers and programmatic decisions regarding intervention implementation to increase the
      likelihood of sustained HIV suppression.
    
  