
    
      Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder often with
      life-long consequences that affects young children during critical developmental periods. The
      Centers for Disease Control estimates that ASD affects as many as 17 per 1000 children (1 in
      59) in the United States suggesting that the prevalence is higher than previous
      estimates.Despite the dramatic rise in the detected prevalence of ASD over the past two
      decades, there is no effective medical treatment for core ASD symptoms (social communication
      and repetitive behavior), the closely associated problem of language impairment, or the
      underlying pathophysiology of ASD. Currently, the only accepted treatment for core ASD
      symptoms is behavior therapy, which may entail intensive one-on-one treatment over several
      years.

      The primary aims of this study are to evaluate the effect of a wide-spectrum nutritional
      supplement on mitochondrial function in individuals with ASD. Participants entered into the
      trial will have abnormalities in mitochondrial function that are known to be associated with
      ASD (approximately 50+% of children with ASD) but are not diagnostic of mitochondrial
      disease. The investigators hypothesize that nutritional supplements designed for children
      with ASD have a physiological action of normalizing mitochondrial function and cellular
      physiology throughout the body.

      To test whether the targeted nutritional supplement is superior to placebo, the investigators
      will study 50 children, between the ages of 4 years to 14 years, with confirmed ASD and known
      abnormal variations in mitochondrial at baseline. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive active treatment or placebo for 12-weeks under double-blind conditions and at the end
      of the 12 weeks switch to the opposite condition after a 2-week wash out period.
      Mitochondrial function will be measured at baseline and after each treatment arm in order to
      determine if the supplement positively influences cellular biochemistry. The investigator
      will also evaluate the effectiveness of the supplement on core and associated ASD symptoms
      using several behaviors assessments.
    
  