
    
      The prevalence and high mortality rate associated with lung squamous cell carcinoma and the
      lack of any widely accepted screening and surveillance tools, highlights the need for new
      imaging paradigms that will ultimately lead to a reduction in patient mortality.

      Bronchial carcinoma-in-situ will progress to invasive cancer in over 40% of individuals, and
      although the progression occurs over a long period of time, the majority of carcinomas are
      detected in the later stages of disease development, offering patients only a slim chance of
      cure. Although significant effort in the development of screening paradigms for the detection
      of lung cancer in the central airways have been made, to date there is still no widely
      accepted and validated approach. Optical frequency domain imaging (OFDI) is a recent
      derivative of optical coherence tomography (OCT). OFDI can be used to conduct volumetric
      microscopy of the airways at a resolution comparable with architectural histopathology. The
      long term goal of this study is to use OFDI to screen the airways with the hope of detecting
      squamous cell carcinoma at an early more curable stage.

      Standard of care bronchoscopy preparation and procedures will be followed including moderate
      sedation, pulse oximetry and blood pressure monitoring as per department protocol. A
      combination of currently approved bronchoscopy techniques including standard white light
      bronchoscopy, autofluorescence bronchoscopy, and narrow band imaging will be used to assess
      the airways. Bronchial regions of interest (ROI) suspected to be premalignant or malignant,
      will be imaged using the OFDI system and catheter prior to biopsy acquisition. It is
      anticipated that a minimum of 3 OFDI-biopsy correlated pairs from each study participant will
      be obtained. An additional OFDI and biopsy will be obtained from a normal ROI. It is expected
      that the experimental procedure will add less than 10 minutes to the total length of the
      bronchoscopy procedure, but a stopping rule will be instituted to ensure that the
      experimental procedure does not exceed 20 minutes.
    
  