
    
      Background:Due to the immense humanitarian and economic toll of the COVID-19 pandemic,
      effective therapies are urgently required to reduce the severity, and mortality, of
      SARS-CoV-2 infections. A repurposed drug approach is the best option to rapidly identify a
      therapeutic that is effective at reducing the impact of SARS-CoV-2 and improving the clinical
      outcomes of severe COVID-19 patients. Two of the main complications observed in severe
      patients are the development of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and a
      hyperinflammatory cytokine profile that is often termed a cytokine storm. NF-B (nuclear
      factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells) is a protein complex involved in
      cytokine production, among other biological processes, including control of many genes
      involved in innate and adaptive immune responses, and inflammation. NF-B is known to be a key
      player in inflammatory responses and is a rapid-acting 'first responder' to harmful stimuli,
      such as viral infections. Inhibition of the NF-B signaling pathway has been explored for its
      therapeutic potential in inflammatory diseases, with attenuation of NF-B activation often
      associated with a reduction in cytokine production. Montelukast, an FDA and Health Canada
      approved asthma drug, has been shown to inhibit the signalling of NF-B, such as
      interleukin-6,8,10, TNF-alpha, MCP-1, and other proinflammatory mediators. Montelukast is
      available as a low-cost generic and has an excellent safety profile. The investigators
      hypothesize that repurposing Montelukast to target suppression of NF-B activation in COVID-19
      positive patients will result in a corresponding reduction of proinflammatory mediators,
      thereby attenuating cytokine production, and taming the cytokine storm. Additionally, the
      investigators are proposing that a reduction in proinflammatory mediators by Montelukast will
      result in a mitigation of severe COVID-19 symptoms, and serve as a therapeutic for severe
      acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infections, thereby alleviating severe
      complications/symptoms of the viral infection, such as ARDS and cytokine storm syndrome.

      Research Aims:The overall objective of this proposal is to determine the efficacy of
      Montelukast in reducing the severity of COVID-19 symptoms using a large blinded randomized
      controlled trial. Our primary objective is comparing the efficacy of low-dose Montelukast
      versus placebo in reducing the risk of acute care visits and hospital admissions among
      COVID-19 positive patients in the general population. Our secondary objectives are to compare
      the efficacy of Montelukast versus placebo in reducing: a) All cause mortality, b) Inpatient
      length of stay, c) Time to intensive care unit, d) Time to intubation, e) Time to
      complications (pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS),
      cardiomyopathy/arrhythmia, acute kidney injury, secondary bacterial infections), f) Symptom
      severity (via weekly phone, and/or online, assessments), and g) ER and hospitalization visit
      counts. A tertiary objective of the proposal is the development of a new COVID-19 specific
      symptom severity index.

      Methods and Approaches: The COvid-19 Symptom Montelukast (COSMO) Trial will be a parallel
      assignment, phase III, quadruple blinded (i.e. participant, care provider, investigator,
      outcomes assessor), randomized, placebo-controlled trial of Montelukast for the treatment of
      SARS-CoV-2 infections. Participants will be randomized using a 1:1 allocation ratio to
      receive either treatment (10mg oral Montelukast) or matched placebo once daily, for 60
      consecutive days following positive COVID-19 test. The study will included 600 adults aged
      40+, and balanced by sex and age groups. The RCT is multi-site and will be conducted at the
      Integrated Health and Social Services University Network for West-Central Montreal and the
      Jewish General Hospital, with the utilization of the Segal Cancer Centres clinical trials
      infrastructure.
    
  