
    
      Background:

      Taiwan is one of the area with the highest prevalence of chronic hepatitis B (CHB), and many
      patients die of hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related cirrhosis or liver cancer that have been the
      leading causes of death in Taiwan for many years. For effectively treating CHB, antiviral
      therapy for CHB has been reimbursed by the National Health Insurance in Taiwan since 1998,
      and nucleos(t)ide analogues (NAs) can be used for patients with active hepatitis B and high
      viral load in a maximum duration of three years. However, there is a significant proportion
      of patients suffering from hepatitis B recurrence after discontinuation of NA therapy, and
      hepatitis B recurrence may result in liver cirrhosis and liver cancer. To the best of current
      knowledge, in what conditions that the NA therapy can be successfully discontinued without
      hepatitis recurrence remain largely unclear. Therefore, this study is designed to evaluate
      the clinical and virological changes of CHB patients after stopping NA therapy, and finding
      the prognostic indicators may be an important basis for stopping NA therapy in CHB patients
      in the future.

      Objectives:

        1. To access the clinical and virological changes after stopping NA therapy

        2. To determine important prognostic indicators for stopping NA therapy

      Methods:

      In this prospective cohort study, the investigators plan to recruit CHB patients who are
      indicated for stopping NA therapy in the outpatient clinics according to the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria of this study, and clinical and virological data will be collected during
      routine clinic visits after stopping NA therapy. Prognostic factors will be analyzed
      according the following data:

        1. Patient characteristics: including age, sex, height, weight, waist circumference,
           history of alcohol drinking, antiviral therapy history, hepatitis history, and drug
           history.

        2. Blood tests: During routine clinic visits and blood tests every 12 weeks or at hepatitis
           flare in the first 2 years after stopping NA therapy, liver function and virological
           status tests will be conducted for analysis.

      Importance:

      To clinicians in treating chronic hepatitis B, this study will provide important data
      regarding the clinical courses after stopping NA therapy, and important prognostic indicators
      may be determined. These findings could help clinicians in decision making for
      discontinuation of NA therapy and booking follow-up schedules. To basic scientists, this
      study will provide the virological changes after stopping NA therapy, and these findings may
      help developing further virological researches.
    
  