
    
      Background

      A brain injury is one of the most common causes of disability acquired in adulthood. The full
      extent of the impairment usually only becomes clear during the course of rehabilitation.
      Apart from the emotional effects of dealing with the impairment, it is also invariably a
      matter of adjusting to life with a disability. In this phase of realization and coming to
      terms with their condition, many brain-injured people develop a mental disorder (mainly
      adjustment disorders with depressive and/or anxiety symptoms). Mental disorders related to
      adjustment are a significant and often limiting factor in patient rehabilitation. While there
      is a very extensive body of literature on the diagnosis and treatment of cognitive disorders
      following a brain injury, research on the diagnosis and treatment of clinical disorders
      following a brain injury is scarce. There are many theoretical observations in the available
      literature about ways of dealing with adjustment disorders following a brain injury in order
      to maximize a patient's rehabilitation outcome. Yet current research, based with randomized
      studies, is still in its infancy. The main aim of the current project is to close this
      scientific gap. A key objective of the proposed study is to investigate whether an
      integration of neuropsychological and psychotherapeutic techniques and an additional
      caregivers support program offers benefits to those in the process of coping with the effects
      of a brain injury.

      It is expected that the integrative neuro-psychotherapy is more effective in the treatment of
      emotional distress reactions than the structured solution focused therapy. Moreover, a
      stronger improvement in acceptance, awareness, quality of life and goal attainment is
      anticipated in patients who receive the integrative neuro-psychotherapy treatment. A
      correlation is expected of the extent of improvement and neuropsychological functional level
      in memory and executive functioning. In addition, the extent of improvement might depend on
      personality changes due to the stroke or on the location and volume of the lesion.

      Several measures will be used for patient assessment. Demographic data will be collected, MR
      or CT images will be made, the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) will be
      applied. A comprehensive neuropsychological examination (memory, attention, executive
      functioning and visual functioning) will be performed with each patient before the beginning
      of the treatment. Several questionnaires measuring depressive symptoms, quality of life,
      coping strategies, awareness, personality changes, relationship and goals will be applied by
      patients, caregivers and therapists depending on the questionnaire.

      Objective

      A key objective of the proposed study is to investigate whether an integration of
      neuropsychological and psychotherapeutic techniques and an additional caregivers support
      program offers benefits to those in the process of coping with the effects of a
      non-progressive brain injury.

      Methods

      This is a randomized controlled intervention study with two treatment arms, the structured
      solution focused therapy and the integrative neuro-psychotherapy. 20 face to face sessions
      will be held for each patient. Primary caregivers will be supported by an online coaching
      tool. Assessments will be made at baseline, after 10 sessions (progress), after 20 sessions
      (termination) and at 6 months post treatment (follow-up). The hypothesis of statistically
      significant differences in the two groups will be tested by independent t-tests. Moreover,
      correlation tests will be applied to test post-hoc whether the extent of improvement measured
      by the BDI-II depends on the neuropsychological functional level in the cognitive area memory
      and executive functioning. A lesion analysis and estimation of the lesion volume will be
      carried out post-hoc in order to test whether these factors do predict the effectiveness of
      the integrative neuro-psychotherapy.
    
  