
    
      Intervention and Control Participants:

      A University of Iowa (UIowa) researcher will mail a welcome packet to the intervention and
      control participants, which includes documents described in VII.D.29 and attached in this
      application. A UIowa pharmacy technician will call the intervention and control participants
      to conduct the baseline assessment interview during the scheduled interview time (scheduled
      during the screening call). If the participant is not available during the scheduled time,
      the pharmacy technician will reschedule the baseline assessment interview. The baseline
      assessment interview will take approximately 30 minutes to complete.

      Intervention Participants:

      after the baseline assessment is complete, a study pharmacist will review the baseline
      assessment and will create a medication action plan (MAP) to guide the participant's taper.
      Once drafted, the MAP will be sent to the participant's primary care physician for approval
      over the secure DataShop system. The provider can approve the MAP, approve the MAP with
      modifications, or decline the MAP recommendations. The pharmacist will make needed
      modifications or negotiate modifications with the primary care provider through the Datashop
      system. Once the MAP is approved by the participant's primary care provider, the pharmacist
      will contact the participant to review the approved MAP. This review will take about 30
      minutes. The participant can then approve the MAP, request modifications, or decline the MAP.
      If modifications are needed, a revised MAP will be sent to the primary care physician for
      approval. The UIowa pharmacist, participant and participant's primary care provider must
      agree on the MAP before a MercyOneSM study health coach sets up an initial visit with the
      participant. If at any point the provider refuses to approve the plan or the participant
      refuses to move forward with the medication action plan, the participant will still be asked
      to complete the monthly falls calendars. An example Medication Action Plan is included in
      this application (titled: Medication Action Plan).

      Once a medication action plan is agreed upon, a MercyOneSM study health coach will contact
      the participant and set up an in-person visit at the clinic to which the participant is
      attributed. During this visit the study health coach will complete the initial visit
      worksheet (titled: Initial Visit Worksheet) with the participant and review potential
      withdrawal symptoms and the tapering schedule outlined in the medication action plan. The
      health coach will answer any questions the participant may have during this meeting as well.
      The initial visit will take about one hour. Follow up calls between the participant and the
      study health coach will continue throughout the taper to discuss progress and assess any
      adverse symptoms (titled Follow Up Worksheet). The call schedule for this will depend on
      tapering schedule designated by the UIowa pharmacist based on type of medication, dose and
      withdrawal symptoms. Each follow-up call will take about 5-10 minutes. Note that study health
      coaches are from MercyOneSM. UIowa will need to establish a single IRB with MercyOneSM.

      Intervention and Control Participants:

      Six months after the baseline assessment, both intervention and control participants will be
      recontacted by the pharmacy technician to conduct a follow up interview (titled: Follow Up
      Assessment). If the participant is not interested in completing the follow up interview, they
      can refuse (and the pharmacy technician will ensure the participant understands that
      participation in the study is completely voluntary). The follow up interview will take about
      15-20 minutes to complete.

      Participants will also be asked to complete monthly falls calendars for 2 years following
      completion of the baseline assessment interview. The will be encouraged to complete the
      calendar on a daily basis. Depending on their preferred method, the participant will either
      be emailed a link to a RedCap survey to complete their falls calendars, or will be mailed
      falls calendars with a pre-stamped and pre-addressed return envelope. If the participant does
      not return their falls calendar or if they indicate a fall, a UIowa researcher will call the
      participant to remind them to return their calendar or to confirm that the fall(s) reported
      meet the study's definition of a fall. These calls will take about 5 minutes. Patients can
      end their participation in the study at any time.
    
  