
    
      The study consists of two main parts: a cross-sectional part and a longitudinal part, aimed
      at a) to determine whether functional and/or structural retinal biomarkers or circulating
      biomarkers are able to differentiate people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) within the
      type 2 diabetes (T2D) population (the investigators will be able to do in the cross-sectional
      study, and, thus, use retina and/or blood biomarkers as a potential proxy to events taking
      place in the brain); b)to determine whether functional and/or structural retinal biomarkers
      or circulating biomarkers can be used to determine the speed of cognitive decline in people
      with T2D and MCI and those at higher risk of developing dementia.

      The cross-sectional study will allow characterization of a large group of individuals with
      T2D (720 participants) and establish correlations between the various functional and
      structural retinal endpoints obtained and the presence/absence of mild cognitive impairment
      (MCI) and dementia. The cross-sectional study will allow identification of T2D patients with
      MCI; of these a group of 168 T2D patients with MCI and a group of T2D patients without MCI
      (n=63), which will act as a control group, will be then followed prospectively in the
      longitudinal cohort study to evaluate end points predictive of cognitive decline and
      dementia.

      The primary objective is: to assess whether retinal sensitivity measured by microperimetry is
      able to predict cognitive decline and progression to dementia in MCI T2D patients.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. To assess whether retinal sensitivity, measured by microperimetry, can identify
           individuals with MCI among people with T2D.

        2. To assess whether eye fixation, measured by microperimetry, can identify individuals
           with MCI among people with T2D.

        3. To assess whether eye fixation measured by microperimetry is able to predict rapid
           cognitive decline in T2D patients with MCI.

        4. To define a T2D phenotype at high risk of developing dementia based on retinal imaging
           and functional retinal assessments.

        5. To determine whether retinal imaging and functional retinal assessments may identify
           individuals with MCI among people with T2D.

        6. To define a T2D phenotype at high risk to develop cognitive decline and dementia based
           on retinal imaging plus brain imaging.

        7. To define a T2D phenotype at high risk to develop dementia based on retinal imaging plus
           brain imaging plus circulating biomarkers.

        8. To establish a score to predict cognitive decline or progression from MCI to dementia
           based on the variables included in the study.
    
  