
    
      Gastroparesis is a disorder characterized by delayed gastric emptying leading to symptoms of
      nausea, vomiting, bloating, and abdominal pain. A common cause is diabetes but often it
      occurs in otherwise healthy individuals in whom the disorder is said to be idiopathic. The
      symptoms of gastroparesis can significantly alter a patient's quality of life and may result
      in absenteeism or frequent ER visits and hospitalizations for dehydration caused by
      intractable nausea and vomiting.

      Current treatment for gastroparesis includes dietary and lifestyle modifications, tight
      glycemic control in diabetics, and supportive care for symptoms, like anti-emetics for
      nausea. Prokinetic therapies to enhance gastric emptying such as metoclopramide, domperidone,
      and erythromycin have varying degrees of effect. Unfortunately they are often limited by side
      effects. Metoclopramide, the only pharmacologic agent that is FDA approved for the treatment
      of gastroparesis, in particular crosses the blood brain barrier and may cause CNS side
      effects, reported to be 10-25% of the time. The most rare but most worrisome adverse reaction
      is tardive dyskinesia associated with prolonged use of metoclopramide, prompting the FDA to
      label it with a blackbox warning. Use of erythromycin is limited to acute flares, as
      prolonged use causes tachyphylaxis. Finally, domperidone may have equal efficacy as
      metoclopramide and is available in 58 countries. However, it is not FDA approved in the US
      but can be obtained with an Investigational New Drug Application. Given these constraints,
      novel therapies to improve symptoms are needed.

      Preliminary studies from Asia and the US have shown a potential role for acupuncture in
      improving gastroparetic symptoms and gastric motility in diabetic and non-diabetic patients.
      It is our plan to expand on the available research by using validated instruments to measure
      changes in severity of symptoms and quality of life, incorporating randomization and
      blinding, and correcting for possible placebo effect.

      Our hypothesis is that twice weekly acupuncture treatments can improve symptoms of
      gastroparesis with an effect that lasts beyond the last treatment date without inducing
      side-effects. We also hypothesize that gastric emptying may improve compared to baseline
      values. This is a pilot study of 20 gastroparetic patients who will be randomized to standard
      medical therapy + acupuncture designed to treat gastroparesis vs. standard medical therapy +
      acupuncture designed to treat unrelated musculoskeletal and arthralgia complaints.
    
  