
    
      On the day of surgery, enrolled patients whom have signed consent for participation in the
      study will be randomized to receive thigh high compression stockings with SCDs or SCDs alone.
      The importance of the investigation, proposed methodology, and potential risks of
      participation will be addressed. In the pre-operative holding area, a cerebral oximeter
      (INVOS 5100C, Covidien) will be placed on the skull as directed by the manufacturer. The
      sensors will be placed on the skull bilaterally in order to assess perfusion in both
      hemispheres. Cerebral oximeter is a non-invasive, transcutaneous tool that can be used to
      measure cerebral tissue oxygenation. The tool uses nearinfrared spectroscopy to measure the
      percentage of hemoglobin saturated with oxygen in the microcirculation of tissue within
      approximately 2-3cm below the skin. The technology is approved by the FDA in the anesthesia
      setting to monitor cerebral oxygenation and is commonly used in cardiothoracic surgery and
      its use has been validated in the surgical setting.11 A baseline cerebral tissue oxygen
      saturation (rSO2) will be recorded. All patients will be anesthetized using a standardized
      protocol. Once anesthesia has been induced, thigh high compression stockings will be applied
      to the appropriate group followed by SCDs. All patients in the study will wear sequential
      compression devices on both legs for thrombosis prophylaxis regardless of randomization. The
      patient will then be raised into the beach chair position and secured in the normal fashion
      and the planned surgery will begin. Intraoperative rSO2 data will be continuously recorded
      throughout the case. The system will be set to alarm when the rSO2 decreases greater than 20%
      from baseline. These events will be recorded throughout the case as CDEs. To avoid cerebral
      vascular injury, these events will be treated with a protocol by anesthesia including
      ephedrine, phenylephrine, and the patient may be returned to the supine position if needed.
      When surgery is complete, patients will be recovered in the post-anesthesia care unit. The
      study will be conducted at three facilities within the Loyola system: the Loyola Ambulatory
      Surgery Center at Oakbrook (LASCO), the Ambulatory Surgery Center at Loyola (ASC), and at
      Gottlieb Memorial Hospital (GMH). Personnel will include the attending surgeon, orthopaedic
      surgery residents, and anesthesia staff assigned to each case, all of whom will be fully
      educated on the study and protocols.
    
  