
    
      Chronic disease is defined as a condition that deviates from the normal, results from
      pathological changes and leaves permanent insufficiency, continues for a long time, and
      requires special training, long-term care and treatment for the patient's rehabilitation.
      Epilepsy, one of the chronic diseases, is one of the most common neurological disorders in
      childhood.

      The main goal in the treatment of epilepsy; It is based on the principle of ensuring seizure
      without harming the child's growth and development potential. In other words, controlling the
      seizures is to correctly identify the cause of the seizure and to help the child live a
      normal life.

      According to the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, the role of the
      epilepsy specialist nurse in epilepsy management is not limited to seizure control, but
      requires multi-dimensional care planning. It is an important nursing role to regulate the
      lifestyle and increase the compliance with the treatment to increase the patients'
      non-seizure. At the same time, the key roles of the epilepsy nurse include continuing
      cooperation with other healthcare team members, collaborating with the public and
      epilepsy-related organizations, and providing necessary information and educational support
      to families and children.

      However, the support given to the family and the child is limited to the times that may come
      only with controls or for urgent reasons. Detailed solutions will be found to ensure the
      continuity of this support. Today, with the widespread use of the internet, healthcare
      education is increasing day by day. Web-based training applications prepared by professional
      experts are for information such as guidance, information and encouragement for patients with
      limited time and their parents. Participants phone contains at least one smartphone in almost
      every home in the internet age. there may be mobile applications to install.

      With the use of mobile applications in health care services, it is seen that the quality of
      life of the patients and their relatives and the quality of health care services increase,
      but also contributes economically to health institutions.

      The aim of the research is to develop and evaluate the effectiveness of the mobile epilepsy
      education program for parents with children diagnosed with epilepsy.
    
  