
    
      Traditionally, RA has been treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,
      glucocorticoids and non-biologics-DMARDs. Only non-biologics-DMARDs and, at a lesser extent,
      glucocorticoids have shown to be able to prevent or interrupt the inflammatory and
      destructive disease processes.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are nonhematopoietic stromal cells that are able to
      differentiate into mesenchymal tissues such as bone, cartilage, muscle, ligament, tendon, and
      adipose. MSCs can be easily isolated from bone marrow or adipose tissue and rapidly expanded
      in culture. MSCs have also been shown to have immuno-suppressive and healing capacities,
      improve angiogenesis and prevent fibrosis. These properties could be used for novel
      therapeutic applications in various disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis
      (OA), genetic bone and cartilage disorders and bone metastasis. MSCs can potently modulate
      immune responses, showing antiproliferative and anti-inflammatory capacities.

      This study is a multicenter phase Ib/IIa, escalating dose, single blind clinical trial to
      assess the safety of the intravenous administration of expanded allogeneic adipose-derived
      mesenchymal stem cells (eASCs) to refractory rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients.

      The primary objective of the study is to determine the safety, feasibility and tolerance, and
      to identify, if possible, the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and the dose for future clinical
      trials on efficacy of the intravenous infusion of allogeneic eASCs for patients suffering
      rheumatoid arthritis (RA) under treatment with at least one non-biologic-Disease modifying
      antirheumatoid drug (DMARD) who have previously failed to treatment with at least two
      biologics. The secondary objective is to obtain information on the clinical and functional
      effects of the intravenous infusion of allogeneic eASCs in patients with RA and to explore
      pharmacodynamics parameters.

      53 patients (i.e. patients having received at least one dose of study treatment) in three
      different cohorts are planned to be included in this clinical trial. Expansion will start
      after acute toxicity assessment of the first three patients of each cohort.

      Dose and intervals for the trial consist of the following active groups: a) first cohort: 1
      million cells/kg administered at days 1, 8 and 15; b) second cohort: 2 million cells / kg
      administered at days 1, 8 and 15; c) third cohort: 4 million cells / kg administered at days
      1, 8 and 15.
    
  