
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of different MR perfusion
      methods in differentiating recurrent tumour from radiation-induced brain injury in patients
      with high grade gliomas. The investigators will evaluate perfusion methods which do not use
      an exogenous agent (ASL, IVIM) and methods which use gadolinium as a contrast agent (DSC-MRI,
      DCE-MRI).

      A secondary goal of the study is to compare two new different T1 mapping methods used for
      DCE-MRI. The first T1 mapping method uses a Lock-Locker inversion-recovery acquisition
      (MOLLI) that measures apparent T1 (T1*). The second T1 mapping method uses a single-point,
      saturation-recovery acquisition that measures true T1 SMART1Map.

      This study is a prospective study which will involve 50 patients.

      Patients who have received chemoradiation for high grade gliomas and who subsequently
      developed progressive enhancing lesions on follow-up MR will be asked to participate in this
      study. Informed consent by the patient or a legal guardian or authorized representative of
      the patient will be obtained before enrollment.

      Following enrollment, MR perfusion imaging (ASL, IVIM, DSC and DCE perfusion sequences) will
      be performed in addition to the routine neuronavigational sequence obtained fror
      re-operative/ therapy planning.

      Following this MR examination, the patient may undergo a surgical biopsy or excision as
      determined clinically by the neurosurgeon. The location of the biopsy will be saved
      intraoperatively which will allow colocalization of histopathology with imaging data.
      Histopathological analysis will be performed by the neuropathologist, yielding a visual
      quantitative estimate of percent viable tumour and radiation necrosis within the obtained
      specimen.

      All patients, including those who do not go to surgery, will undergo clinical followup and
      imaging follow-up with perfusion imaging. This will allow for assessment of lesion
      progression over time, yielding valuable diagnostic information in differentiating radiation
      necrosis from tumour recurrence, particularly in those patients who did not undergo surgery.

      Following a routine clinical MR examination, patients with a new lesion or an enlarging
      lesion will be seen by the radiation oncologist or neurosurgeon. They will be recruited by a
      research nurse who will ask if they are willing to participate in the research study. If the
      patient agrees to participate, the investigators will add perfusion sequences in addition to
      the clinical MR exam for treatment planning (stereotactic radiation or reresection). The MR
      exam performed for clinical and research purposes will last less than 45 minutes. Following
      surgery, the investigators will correlate pathological findings with perfusion and diffusion
      parameters. If the patient does not undergo surgery, we will use clinical examination and
      serial MRIs (including perfusion imaging) to determine if the index lesion is more likely to
      represent radiation necrosis or tumor progression. The investigators will follow the patient
      clinically for 2 years after the time of progression to determine overall survival.

      Patients with high grade gliomas are followed routinely with serial MRIs. The patients with
      progressive enlarging lesions will be seen by the treating oncologist or neurosurgeon.

      They will electronically put in a request for another MR exam which is needed clinically for
      surgical planning and/or follow-up with advanced MR imaging as per standard of care.

      When the patient comes to radiology for their exam, they will be asked to participate in the
      study by the radiologist and/or the research nurse (if this breaches patient confidentiality,
      we can put the radiologist as the person getting consent since he is involved in patient
      care). If the patient agrees to participate, the study will be performed according to the
      study MR protocol. If not, a standard MRI as per routine clinical practice will be performed.
      The investigators do not intend to recruit patients who are unable to give consent themselves
      since patients have to have a good Karnofsky score as an inclusion criteria in this study.
    
  