
    
      This is a prospective, single blind, randomized controlled clinical study approved by the
      Endoscopy Center of Changhai Hospital in Shanghai from July, 2020 to September,2020. Approval
      to carry out this study was granted by the Ethics Committee, Changhai Hospital, Naval Medical
      University.

      According to the results of our pilot study, 214 participants(with 20% withdrawal rate) aged
      18-75 will accept standard gastric preparation or gastric preparation with soda water
      randomly (ratio 1:1).All patient will provid written informed consent for this study before
      undergoing baseline MCE.

      Investigators evaluated the feasibility of a novel gastric preparation methods regimens on
      gastric distention,gastric cleansing, feeling of fullness, diagnostic yield, satisfaction
      questionnaire, gastric transit time, small bowel transit time and completion rate. The safety
      were evaluated at two week after procedure for the occurance of adverse events. Investigators
      also plan to explore whether soda water can affect the subsequent examination of the small
      intestine, and the difficulty in intervention under special circumstances.

      All participants underwent a bowel preparation that consisted of a low-residue diet for 24
      hours, fluid intake, and ingestion of 2L polyethylene glycol-based electrolyte solution 12
      hours before the examination. On the examination day, participants arrived at hospital in the
      morning after an over night fast (>8hours). Then they would be randomly assigned to controll
      group or soda group.

      Control group:40 minutes before capsule ingestion, all participants swallowed 100ml clear
      water containing 50mg simethicone. During the period, participants were asked to have a
      proper walk to wash out bubbles. An additional 900ml clear water was drunk to obtain good
      vision before undergoing MCE examination.

      Soda water group：Control group:40 minutes before capsule ingestion, all participants
      swallowed 100ml clear water containing 50mg simethicone. During the period, participants were
      asked to have a proper walk to wash out bubbles. An additional 400ml soda water was drunk to
      obtain good vision before undergoing MCE examination.

      Then, the patient enter the examination room to finish the examination.
    
  