
    
      Statement of the problem :

      Is there any Difference between Pulsed ElectroMagnetic Field and Supervised Treadmill walking
      exercise on improving exercise performance and hemodynamic parameters in patients with
      peripheral arterial disease

      The use of pulsed electromagnetic field (12hz to50hz) in improving microcirculation ,
      microvascular blood perfusion , stimulation of nitric oxide release and stimulating
      angiogensis has introduced a new dimension to the physical therapy field , to the available
      knowledge puplished , there is no literature about analgesic and microcirculatory effect of
      PEMF on circulation improvement in patients with PAD , therefore the proplem of the study
      will be stated in a questionnary form for answering the following aspects : ( Chalidia B.
      etal 2011)

      Significance of the study :

      Treatment of PAD is critically important in order to minimize the risk of long term
      disability and improve quality of life . The need of this study developed from the lack in
      published studies about the effect of pulsed electromagnetic field in management of
      peripheral arterial diseases and also there was no available previous trials comparing the
      effect of PEMF and treadmill exercise on walking parameters , posterior tibial artery
      diameter and ABI on patients with PAD

      the results of this study may provide an easy non pharmacological modality for dealing with
      such cases . Also, the outcome of this study will guide physiotherapists to develop a new
      noninvasive treatment modality that may improve patient symptoms and promotes their social
      participation , this in turn may add to clinical role played by therapists in management of
      intermittent claudication in patients with peripheral arterial diseases. In Addition,
      increased knowledge of the influence of PEMF on microvascular function may have significant
      therapeutic potential and may be valuable for the intervention of diabetes-related lower limb
      vascular occlusion and amputation in the clinic.

        1. Does pulsed electromagnetic field will have an effect on posterior tibial artery
           diameter using Doppler ultrasound in patients with PAD and suffering from intermittent
           claudication ?

        2. Does pulsed electromagnetic field will be effective in improving the claudication pain
           time and distance , maximal walking free time and distance in patients with peripheral
           arterial disease ?

        3. Does pulsed electromagnetic field will be effective in improving the ABI ( ankle
           brachial pressure index in patients with peripheral arterial disease?

        4. Does non invasive pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) will be better than supervised
           treadmill walking exercise in management of intermittent claudication in patients with
           peripheral arterial disease ?

        5. Are there differences between PEMF and supervised treadmill walking exercise in
           improving exercise performance and hemodynamic parameters in patients with peripheral
           arterial diseases ?

      Purpose of the study Purposes of this study will be the following

        1. To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of pulsed electromagnetic field On walking
           parameter (on Maximum walking Free time , Maximum walking Free distance, Claudication
           pain time , Claudication pain distance ) in management of intermittent claudication in
           patients with PAD .

        2. To evaluate the effect of non invasive pulsed electromagnetic field on ABI (ankle
           brachial pressure index) in patients with PAD suffering from intermittent claudication.

        3. To investigate the effect of non invasive PEMF on Posteriot Tibial Artery Diameter in
           patients with PAD suffering from intermittent claudication.

        4. To evaluate the effect of supervised treadmill walking exercise in managemet of
           intermittent claudication in patients with PAD

        5. to compare between the efficacy of non invasive pulsed electromagnetic field versus
           supervised treadmill walking exercise ( on distance and time till reaching maximum
           tolerated pain of intermittent claudication and also the efficacy on ankle brachial
           pressure index , pain intensity level ) in patients with peripheral arterial diseases
           suffering from intermittent claudication

        6. To gain knowledge about Non Invasive Pulsed Electromagnetic Field application and
           implementation in physical therapy field

        7. To share in designing an ideal protocol for the treatment of intermittent claudication
           in patients with PAD
    
  