
    
      During pregnancy a woman may experience symptoms that are specific to being pregnant,
      including nausea, fatigue, shortness of breath, insomnia etc. to much more complicated and
      serious symptoms. While pregnancy is a commonly occurring medical event that poses health
      risks to the pregnant woman and fetus, there is limited research on how to prevent and treat
      symptoms before they become higher risk complications. Utilizing mHealth technology for the
      collection of objective and subjective measurements and the integration of passive data (from
      connected devices) will increase understanding of pregnancy and subsequent complications and
      symptoms as indicative or predictive of particular outcomes.

      In order to mitigate the risks of pregnancy, pregnant women are monitored closely and
      frequently through periodic in-clinic visits with their clinician. However, little is known
      about the progression of symptoms and measurements between clinic visits as continuous data
      is not collected as part of clinical practice.

      Symptom trajectories have been historically characterized by sporadic visible data,
      insufficient to identify transition points. Visible data points are episodic and may (or may
      not) be captured by monthly clinical assessments during pregnancy, but invisible data points
      can be captured and more clearly defined through the use of longitudinal, passive data
      collection by wearing and connecting devices.

      The Study Investigators aim to detect individual symptom transitions and shift trajectories
      of health to those which cannot be confined to the standard office clinical visit. They have
      selected devices which may help track the symptoms including The Oura Ring 2, the Garmin Venu
      Sq and the Bodyport scale. The study will follow women anticipating becoming pregnant and
      those pregnant up to and including 13 weeks.
    
  