
    
      Bulimia nervosa is a psychiatric eating disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of binge
      eating, followed by inappropriate compensatory behaviour. It is associated with a high
      disease burden and high rates of medical and psychiatric comorbidities. Only 50% of patients
      achieve long-term remission, indicating the need for a better understanding of the
      pathophysiology which can guide the development of new treatment options.

      There are strong indications for an involvement of the brain's dopaminergic reward system in
      Bulimia Nervosa, such as the presence of elevated craving for rewarding food and poorer
      impulse control. However, there is no clear evidence on the exact involvement of the reward
      system nor direct evidence of abnormal dopamine responses to food reward. Therefore, the
      current study will assess dopamine release and related brain activity to food reward in
      Bulimia Nervosa patients, by performing simultaneous Positron Emission Tomography (PET) and
      Magnetic Resonance (MR) scanning. Specifically, the investigators will compare dopamine
      release in Bulimia Nervosa patients to healthy controls, and assess the effect of successful
      treatment on the food reward response. To this end, 20 Bulimia Nervosa patients will
      participate in one PET-MR scan before the start of inpatient treatment and in a second PET-MR
      scan at the end of inpatient treatment. Additionally, PET-MR scans will be obtained from a
      group of 20 healthy control participants.

      All scan session will measure dopamine release to a combination of anticipatory (viewing
      high-calorie food images) and consummatory (drinking sips of chocolate milkshake) food reward
      and will be conducted in a fasted state. The scan sessions will consist of four blocks with a
      duration of 45 minutes each and 15 minute breaks in between. The first three blocks represent
      the 'control condition' and the fourth block the 'food reward condition'. During both
      sessions, blood samples will be collected at several time points to assess levels of
      metabolic hormones and their relation to food-induced dopamine release.

      This study aims to improve our understanding of the disease process underlying Bulimia
      Nervosa and to enable the identification of new and specific treatment targets at multiple
      levels of the gut-brain axis, including the dopamine system in the brain but also metabolic
      hormones and the interactions between both. Additionally, the results may have the potential
      to guide the optimisation of behavioural treatment approaches with a stronger focus on
      aberrant reward system responses.
    
  