
    
      Cases are divided into two groups as supervised exercise and home exercise program by closed
      envelope randomization method. All patients are informed about risk factors and risk factor
      management. All patients are trained 3 days in the first week under the supervision of a
      physiotherapist to learn individual exercise programs. Supervised exercise programs including
      warm-up, loading, cooling, and relaxation exercises are shown. The warm-up period is consist
      of light-paced walking, active movements of several large muscle groups. During the loading
      period respiratory control training, breathing exercises (Shrunken lip breathing exhaustion,
      diaphragmatic, thoracic expansion exercises), posture exercises with respiratory control
      (pectoral stretching, four-way trunk exercises, head-neck exercises, bilateral shoulder
      flexion and abduction exercises, sitting on a chair, standing up exercise. ), walking on the
      treadmill for 5-15 minutes without inclination and at a constant speed, starting with 3
      minutes without load, continuing with a load of 20 watts and 3 minutes, and reaching a
      submaximal load with 3 watt increments every 10 seconds, pedaling in the bicycle ergometer is
      taken. Stretching exercises are done during the cooling period. This group was included in an
      exercise program 2 days a week, 45-90 minutes, for 12 weeks, accompanied by a specialist
      physiotherapist in the pulmonary rehabilitation unit in the chest diseases ward. The same
      exercises (respiratory control training, shrunken lip breathing exhaustion, diaphragmatic,
      thoracic expansion exercises, posture exercises with respiratory control (pectoral
      stretching, four-way trunk exercises, head and neck exercises, bilateral shoulder flexion and
      abduction exercises), sitting and standing exhaustion, and brisk walking to reach 60-85% of
      the person's maximum heart rate.)) were taught to the home exercise group and given in the
      form of a brochure and they were asked to do these exercises at home 2 days a week for 12
      weeks. Participants of the home exercise group are contacted every two weeks via
      communication methods such as e-mail, message and telephone conversation. Exercise diary is
      given to all patients and is taken from them at the end of the study
    
  