
    
      The integrated intervention involves seven weekly 60-minute sessions. Each session involves
      15 minutes of computerized approach bias retraining followed by 45 minutes of individual
      cognitive behavioral therapy. In order to maximize adherence, the scheduling of session
      visits will be individualized to each participant's schedule.

      During the first session, the study therapist will begin by orienting the participant to the
      joystick procedures. The therapist will explain that the joystick task is thought to affect
      your automatic tendencies to approach or avoid cigarettes. At this time the participant will
      complete the first session of approach bias retraining. The therapist will then congratulate
      participants for deciding to quit smoking, review the positive health consequences of
      quitting, and express their willingness to help the participant succeed. Participants' past
      quit attempts will be reviewed to identify what strategies contributed to success and what
      factors hindered their previous attempts and a target quit date will be set for week 5.
      Lastly, participants will initiate self-monitoring or track each cigarette they smoke through
      Quit date and note situational cues for smoking (e.g. times of the day, activities while
      smoking).

      During sessions 2-4, participants will begin by completing the computerized task. Therapists
      will then assist participants in anticipating situations in their lives that will likely
      place them at risk for relapse, prepare them for the possibility of lapsing, and provide
      strategies for coping with the potential negative emotional reactions to lapsing. In
      addition, therapists will advise all participants to avoid or reduce drinking and advise all
      participants to tell their friends and family about their quit date and will discuss ways to
      increase social support during the quit attempt. Lastly, therapists will instruct
      participants in the proper use of the nicotine patch (e.g., placement of patch, use one a
      day, importance of not smoking while using the patch) and help them prepare for the quit day
      (e.g., removing all tobacco products from their environment).

      Session 5, the day of the quit attempt, will begin with the ABR task. Therapists will provide
      individual support for participants during this early period of abstinence. This contact will
      provide the opportunity for more tailored and elaborate discussions of quitting experiences
      and coping strategies for anticipated high-risk situations. Therapists will also reinforce
      success and provide support and encouragement for participants who slip and smoke and ask
      participants to anticipate potential challenges to remaining abstinent from smoking and
      discuss strategies for coping with those situations. In addition, during this session,
      therapists will ask participants to discuss social supports for nonsmoking, help to develop
      strategies for maximizing social support systems and develop participants' skills in
      requesting behavioral changes from others. Beginning week 5, participants will be instructed
      to apply one patch daily. Participants will use the full strength 21-mg patch for 6 weeks and
      then be instructed to taper to the 14-mg patch for the next 1 week, and then to the 7-mg
      patch for the remaining 1 week.

      Session 6 will be the last day that the ABR task is administered. This session will focus
      primarily on relapse prevention. Therapists will continue with relapse prevention tactics,
      including provision of social support, avoiding high-risk situations, using social support
      from friends/co-workers, and maintaining non-smoking lifestyle changes.

      Participants will be asked to come in for a brief follow- up visit at week 8, 1- month (week
      9), 2-month (week 13), and 3-month (week 17). The primary function of these visits is to
      gather information about the participants smoking habits post treatment.
    
  