
    
      Pectus excavatum, the most common chest wall deformity, occurs in roughly one in 1000
      children.1 Operative repair of the anterior thoracic concavity has transitioned to the
      minimally invasive approach with substernal bar placement through small axillary incisions
      (Nuss procedure and multiple modifications). These procedures were quickly incorporated by
      high volume centers around the world including our own.2-7 The operation is certainly quicker
      and associated with less blood loss than the open operation, but as opposed to most minimally
      invasive versions of an operation, patients do not leave the hospital sooner after bar
      placement and experience more post-operative pain.6,7,8 Pain during the post-operative
      hospital stay is the dominant management issue after bar placement. The sparse literature on
      the topic has suggested that a thoracic epidural is the most effective means for attenuating
      the pain during the first few post-operative days.10-12 Therefore; most centers approach all
      patients undergoing a pectus deformity repair with an attempt at epidural placement under the
      assumption that this provides the most effective strategy for pain control.3-9, 13 However,
      the investigator conducted a retrospective evaluation to examine the validity of this
      assumption and to investigate whether there is a role for a prospective study to determine
      the optimum post-operative pain management of these patients.14 The investigator found length
      of stay was shorter with PCA and pain scores were similar. What the investigator found
      certainly challenges the assumption that an epidural is the optimum management for these
      patients, and convincingly answered the question as to whether there is a role for a
      prospective randomized trial.

      The investigator conducted the prospective, randomized trial in 110 patients.15 The
      investigator found the pain scores were better with epidural for the first 2 days and better
      with PCA the last 2 days. There was no difference in length of stay although it trended to
      favor PCA. Epidural group incurred far greater operation times and charges. The pragmatic
      interpretation was that the investigator should just use PCA. The anesthesia interpretation
      is that the investigator need a better epidural. Therefore, the investigator have developed a
      better protocol for the transition to try to improve pain control the last 2 days. Further,
      the investigator recognize several flaws in the last study; the investigator included
      patients at extremes of age which don't represent a normal course. Second, the investigator
      kept patients in the hospital until they had a bowel movement which may have prolonged the
      care unnecessarily in the PCA group. The investigator will use the same sample size as last
      time since the difference in length of stay the investigator were designed to detect was more
      than a day which is clinically relevant.
    
  