
    
      Therapeutic dosage of the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) component of ATRIPLA® requires
      plasma concentrations of the drug that are associated with nephrotoxicity and decreased bone
      mineral density. Tenofovir alafenamide fumarate (TAF) has a unique metabolism that results in
      higher intracellular levels of the active phosphorylated moiety tenofovir-diphosphate.
      Compared with TDF, the therapeutic dosage of TAF reduces tenofovir plasma concentrations by
      over 90%. This reduction in plasma concentration results in decreased renal and bone risks.
      TAF has the potential to improve on the efficacy and safety profile of TDF.

      Efavirenz, another component of ATRIPLA® is widely associated with neuropsychiatric
      side-effects, including sleep disturbances, depression, and anxiety. Switching from Efavirenz
      to an integrase inhibitor is associated with improvements in mood.

      Bictegravir (BIC) is a novel, once daily integrase inhibitor. It has been shown to have
      potent antiviral activity, a favorable pharmacokinetic profile, good tolerability and an
      improved resistance profile when compared to previous integrase inhibitors. In a phase 2
      trial investigating previously untreated people with HIV, bictegravir plus emtricitabine and
      tenofovir alafenamide (BIKTARVY®) vs dolutegravir, plus emtricitabine and tenofovir
      alafenamide both showed high efficacy up to 24 weeks and both regimens were well tolerated.

      Additionally, switching HAART experienced patients to BIKTARVY® has been shown to be
      non-inferior to continuation of regimens containing Atazanavir or Darunavir, when they were
      given with either lamivudine/abacavir or FTC/TDF.

      The Investigators plan to evaluate in a real world setting the efficacy, safety and
      tolerability of switching from the older, established single tablet regimen of ATRIPLA®
      (EFV/FTC/TDF) to a new single tablet regimen of BIKTARVY® (BIC/FTC/TAF).

      Within the limitations of a real-world study, Investigators have attempted to replicate the
      protocol of Gilead Science's Phase 3 study evaluating a switch to BIC/FTC/TAF from
      dolutegravir plus either FTC/TAF or FTC/TDF14. This will have the potential benefit of
      comparing different regimen switches as well as potentially adding robustness to the body of
      data regarding BIC/FTC/TAF.
    
  