
    
      Epidemiological studies have shown that the incidence of atopic diseases (eczema, food
      allergy, allergic rhinitis and asthma) has been rising over the last few decades. The rate of
      increase precludes genetic make-up as the sole cause of the atopic epidemic and implicates
      environmental factors instead. Currently, allergic rhinitis (hay fever) is one of the world's
      most common chronic allergic diseases. It affects over 600 million people and often leads to
      asthma. There are huge costs associated with the condition in terms of both health care and
      work days lost, with British businesses estimated to lose £324 million this summer alone. For
      the sufferers, the symptoms severely affect their quality of life. It disturbs their sleep
      and impairs daytime concentration and performance at work or school. Currently there is no
      cure for it.

      The importance of the gut microbiota in general well-being is evidenced by several
      experimental observations. It is difficult to achieve oral tolerance in germ-free animals
      [Sudo et al. 1997] while administration of lipopolysaccharide (a constituent of the outer
      membrane of gram-negative bacteria) together with food antigens increases the tolerizing
      effect of feeding [Kim & Ohsawa 1995]. While able to assist in tolerance induction, bacterial
      products may also break oral tolerance [Gaboriau-Routhiau et al. 1996]. These findings led
      Wold to suggest in 1998 that an altered normal intestinal colonization pattern in infancy,
      which fails to induce immunological tolerance, could be responsible for the increase in
      allergies. Recent studies suggest that the effects of the gut microbiota may not only be
      related to food antigens, but also to aeroallergens [Noverr et al. 2004, 2005]. Forsythe and
      his colleagues (2007) managed to attenuate adverse airway responses in a mouse model of
      allergic asthma through oral administration of probiotics.

      The mechanisms by which probiotics exert their effects are unknown at present, but
      experiments in mice have documented improved gastrointestinal barrier function [Ewaschuk et
      al. 2008]. Since these experiments have also revealed a strain-dependent heterogeneity in the
      efficacy of probiotics [N.G. Hord 2008] it is unlikely that improved barrier function alone
      is responsible for the beneficial effects noted. Given the sheer numbers of microorganisms
      that inhabit our mucosal surfaces, it is likely that there are normally bidirectional
      interactions between them and the epithelial, immune, neurologic and endocrine physiological
      processes initiated by and between them. We hypothesize that a probiotic organism is ingested
      in sufficient quantities to amplify its particular trait relative to the milieu of other
      organisms present in relatively lower quantities, temporarily over-riding the diversity
      present. In that case, the transfer of information between the probiotic organism and
      cellular components of the gut has particular impact. In order to understand and manipulate
      this probiotic-mucosa cross-talk towards therapeutic advantage, there is a need to focus on
      the transfer of information between the microbiota and cellular components of the mucosal
      immune system.

      Few studies have examined the effect of probiotics on allergic rhinitis and the studies that
      have been performed [Helin et al. 2002; Wang et al. 2004; Xiao et al. 2006] are inconclusive.
      In our own pilot study we tested the ability of Lactobacillus casei Shirota (LcS) to alter
      immunological events in seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR) [Ivory et al. 2008]. The study
      format was double-blinded and placebo-controlled with ten SAR sufferers in each group. We
      compared changes in immune status arising through the daily ingestion of a milk drink
      supplied by Yakult, with or without live LcS, over a period of 5 months. Pre-, peak- and
      post-grass pollen season blood samples were collected for determination of plasma grass
      pollen-specific IgG and IgE levels by immunoassay. At the same time, cytokine levels were
      determined by flow cytometric bead array technology following culture of peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells for six days in the presence or absence of specific grass pollen antigens.
      We found that volunteers treated with LcS showed a significant reduction in levels of
      antigen-induced IL-5, IL-6 and IFN- production compared to volunteers supplemented with
      placebo. Meanwhile, levels of pollen-specific IgG increased and IgE decreased in the
      probiotic group. Other changes in cytokine levels were seen but they did not attain
      statistical significance, most likely due to the small number of volunteers tested. Our work
      has established for the first time that probiotic supplementation modulates immune responses
      in allergic rhinitis through down-regulation of both Th1- and Th2-type cytokines and to
      beneficially alter the balance of pollen-specific IgG and IgE levels in allergic rhinitis
      subjects. It has also suggested that the impact of probiotics reaches beyond the intestine.

      We would now like to conduct another study to show that the immunological changes arising
      through probiotic consumption have an impact on the clinical symptoms of hay fever. In
      addition, we propose to elucidate some of the mechanisms involved that may contribute to the
      health benefit. As far as we know there have not been any similar studies to date. The
      ability to demonstrate clinical efficacy of dietary intervention for hay fever treatment has
      obvious benefits for the relevant sufferers. Economic benefits would arise through the
      relatively inexpensive 'treatment' that would be self-administered and likely lower
      absenteeism from work. There is also a need for evidence-based viability for the many health
      claims made for probiotic consumption that could result in clear guidance to the general
      public.
    
  