
    
      Patients and parents of patients will be made aware of the Neurofibromatosis (NF) Registry
      through various non-commercial information sources such as the Children's Tumor Foundation
      (CTF) website, CTF-affiliated NF clinics, CTF educational and fundraising events, and other
      nonprofit organizations and foundations such as the National Organization for Rare Diseases
      (NORD) and social media.

      The NF Registry will be accessed by individual subjects via a web-based patient portal. The
      portal first provides informed consent information. Following consent, the registrant creates
      an account by choosing a unique username and password. An account can be created by an adult
      patient with the disorder, or by the parent or guardian of a child with the disorder. Account
      creators are required to enter identifiable contact and demographic data.

      After the account is created, a patient profile can be completed via on-line questionnaires.
      There are separate questionnaires for NF1, NF2, and Schwannomatosis. The questionnaires ask
      about about the affected individual's medical and family history of the disease, testing and
      diagnosis, clinical manifestations (e.g., tumor types and locations) interventions and
      therapies, and quality of life. They also ask permission from the patient or his or her
      parent or guardian to be contacted by email (via CTF) in regard to relevant clinical trials
      and studies.

      Participant's responses are used to compile charts and graphics of de-identified aggregate
      data. Registered patients may view this data.

      Researchers may request access to de-identified data. They may also request that CTF send
      emails of study recruitment materials to specific patient subgroups.

      Data capture and security for the NF Registry is done under contract by OpenApp (Dublin,
      Ireland), a web-based patient opt-in registry provider.

      Participants will be asked to update their information at least once a year. Their
      information will be stored in the NF Registry for an indefinite period of time.

      This longitudinal study is intended as a resource for patients and researchers. There is no
      specific outcome measure or anticipated endpoint.
    
  