
    
      Reconstruction of large scale skin defect is still a challenge for clinical surgeons. The
      application of skin grafting works as an important choice, however, the strong contracture
      and poor appearance limit its wide application in scar repair. The stromal vascular fraction
      (SVF) of adipose tissue is a group of heterogeneous cells including multipotential
      mesenchymal cells, preadipocytes, endothelial cells, fibroblasts, macrophages and smooth
      muscle cells. Previous researches have reported that SVF could secrete various angiogenic
      growth factors in vitro and enhance neovascularisation of ischaemic tissue in vivo. The
      Adipose-derived Stem cells in the SVF are multipotential stem cells which have the ability to
      regenerate, while differentiating to become adipose tissue and help to improve the texture of
      the grafted skin. Besides, SVF is easy to be harvested in large numbers with less donor
      injury and can be used directly after isolation without in vitro culture, which makes it a
      good alternative for regenerative medicine.This study is to observe the effect of autologous
      SVF on improving the texture and contracture of skin grafting.

      Patients requiring skin graft of 2 symmetry parts of the body between the age of 3 and 70
      years will be enrolled and randomized into two groups, named as the experimental group with
      SVF transplantation and the control group with no cell transplantation. Patients from the
      experimental group will have a fat aspiration on the surgery day. The adipose tissue in
      abdomen or thigh will be digested at 37 °C for 60 min with 0.2% collagenase IV. After
      filtration and centrifugation, mature adipocytes are separated from the cell pellet. The
      pellet then is treated with erythrocyte lysis buffer twice to remove red cell fragment. The
      harvested pellet is SVF. The SVF will be resuspended in saline and transplanted between the
      grafted skin and the wound with 1 million cells for 1 cm2 area. Skin thickness, texture,
      contracture and colour will be observed to measure the effect of SVF on skin grafting post
      treatment.
    
  