
    
      This Registry is an investigator initiated project designed to follow in the footsteps of the
      MagnaSafe Registry. MagaSafe was initiated to determine the risks of performing MRI for
      patients with pacemakers and Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators (ICDs). The latter is
      closed to new enrollments as of April 2014; however, there is still a need to accumulate data
      on these devices. There is also a significant clinical need, in that patients who are insured
      by CMS are currently excluded from having MRI scans if they have a pacemaker or ICD. The only
      option available to them is to undergo removal of their entire system, have the MRI scan, and
      then have a new system implanted. This is impossible for many patients who are "pacemaker
      dependent". It also exposes the patient to a well-known risk of complication from the
      removal/extraction process as well as the re-implant procedure. This must be contrasted to
      the negligible risk of having an MRI scan with the device in place (assuming proper
      precautions are taken), based on MagaSafe data as well as a large body of supporting
      literature.

      Magnetic resonance is the imaging modality of choice for the diagnosis of many diseases of
      the brain, spinal cord, and musculoskeletal system. For some disease states, no acceptable
      alternative diagnostic imaging method is available. MRI is not only a superior imaging and
      diagnostic modality for many disorders, but also does not expose patients to ionizing
      radiation as does CT. The number of patients living with permanent pacemakers or ICDs is well
      into the millions (some estimates are up to 4 million in the US), and continues to increase.
      Likewise, the use of MRI continues to rise annually in all patient groups, however, as people
      advance in age, they are the most likely to need an MRI scan. As the device population is
      disproportionally weighted towards the older population, it is exactly this group that has
      the greatest need for MRI scans, yet may be denied.

      As noted in the MagnaSafe information, "To provide optimal care to the increasing number of
      patients with an implanted cardiac device, health care professionals must have the capability
      to perform MR imaging with minimal risk and full knowledge of the possible complications."
      This registry recreates the protocol, safety monitoring and follow up in a manner very
      similar to other registries. The intent is to provide not only data that will hopefully
      continue to support the use of MRI scanning in device patients, but to allow this essential
      imaging technique to be available to patients without the need to expose them to 2 otherwise
      unnecessary procedures of removal and replacement of the implanted device.

      This is a physician and institutional based registry that will start with New York University
      Langone Medical Center as collaboration between the Division of Cardiology (Electrophysiology
      Section) and the Department of Radiology (MRI imaging section). It is anticipated that
      additional sites may join in the registry over time, FDA permitting. The protocol is based on
      the widely published "Hopkins protocol" as attached to this submission. Several thousand
      patients have safely been scanned using this technique which emphasizes patient safety.
      Patients are monitored by experienced device personnel (ACLS certified) for vital signs
      (non-invasive blood pressure monitoring, pulse oximeter, and cardiac rhythm monitor (EKG))
      while performing scans on patients with implanted devices. Scans are done at a major medical
      center equipped to manage any device or heart rhythm based complication should one occur.
      Only patients for whom no other imaging technique will provide adequate information are
      allowed to be scanned. The latter must be attested to by the physician who requires the
      information, and agreed upon by the electrophysiologist and the radiologist. IRB approval and
      a written investigator agreement will be required of any centers that may eventually
      participate in this registry.
    
  