
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, on Day 1, you may receive some
      fluid for hydration by vein and then cidofovir will be put into your bladder through your
      foley catheter. The catheter will be clamped shut for 2 hours to keep the drug inside your
      bladder. After 2 hours, the catheter will be unclamped so that the drug may drain out. If you
      were receiving bladder irrigation (where the bladder is flushed with water) as therapy for
      hemorrhagic cystitis, this therapy will be restarted after your dose of cidofovir.

      Pharmacokinetic (PK) Testing:

      On Day 1, blood (about 2 teaspoons each time) will be drawn for PK testing approximately 1
      hour (+/- 15 minutes) before the dose, and then again at 1 hour (+/- 15 minutes), 2 hours
      (+/- 15 minutes), 4 hours (+/- 1 hour), 14 hours (+/- 1 hour) and 24 hours (+/- 1 hour) after
      the dose. A PK sample will also be drawn on Day 14 (+- 2 days) after the dose. PK testing
      measures the amount of study drug in the body at different time points.

      Virus Testing:

      During this study, urine and blood will be collected and used for research to test for
      certain viruses, including the type of infection you had when you joined this study.

      Before and after the cidofovir dose on Day 1, Day 3 (+/- 1 day), Day 7 (+/- 2 days) and again
      on Day 14 (+/- 2 days) urine and blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be collected for virus
      testing.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your active study participation will be over after the Day 30 follow-up phone call (below).
      If you experienced a side effect, the study staff will continue checking your medical records
      until the side effect becomes stable or gets better.

      Follow-Up:

      On Day 3 (+/- 1 day):

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured, and you will be asked about any symptoms you may be
           having.

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Day 7 (+/- 2 days):

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured, and you will be asked about any symptoms you may be
           having.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

      On Day 14 (+/- 2 days):

        -  You will be asked about any symptoms you may be having.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Urine will be collected for routine tests.

      On Day 30 (+/- 2 days), you will be contacted by phone and asked about any side effects you
      may be having. This call will take about 10 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Cidofovir given by injection is commercially available and
      FDA approved to treat CMV in patients with HIV. Its use in this study is investigational.

      Up to 6 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  