
    
      Standard therapy of small AAAs currently consists of "watchful waiting" strategy with
      aggressive blood pressure control "Watchful waiting" includes an Ultrasound (more recently CT
      or MRI scan) every 12 months (for AAAs between 3.5 - 4.4 cm) or every 6 months (for AAAs
      between 4.5 and 5.5 cm) to observe. A growth rate of >7 mm/ 6 months has been suggested as a
      threshold for proceeding to aneurysm repair irrespective of aneurysm size. Clearly, there is
      need for a more sensitive method to evaluate the progress of AAA growth.

      Recent publications have shown that evaluation of AAAs using FDG-uptake with PET-scan may
      identify small AAAs that are more prone to grow and/or rupture, as these AAAs as compared to
      normal aorta's show increased inflammatory activity , which is considered the major
      pathophysiological pathway. Evaluation of FDG-uptake is also sensitive enough to observe the
      short-term effects of endovascular intervention of large AAAs, as unpublished data show a
      statistically significant reduction in aneurismal FDG-uptake only 6 weeks after endovascular
      repair of large AAAs. Therefore, the change in aneurismal FDG-uptake may also be a very
      promising and sensitive method to evaluate treatment effects of medical interventions within
      a relatively short period of time (3 months).

      Just as pressure unloading may represent an anti-inflammatory mechanism in endovascular
      repair of more advanced aneurysms, so may milder pressure unloading in moderately
      hypertensive individuals with smaller aneurysms display similar anti-inflammatory effects.
      Such a mild form of pressure unloading may be attainable with adequate anti-hypertensive drug
      therapy. In this context, however, a possible additional benefit may be that some
      anti-hypertensive drug classes have been proposed to exert specific anti-inflammatory effects
      relevant to aneurysm inflammation.

      Local activation of multiple components of the renin angiotensin system has been implicated
      in both the development of aneurysms, as well as in their inflammatory component. In
      accordance, preliminary evidence from murine studies suggest that ACE inhibitors, for
      example, may reduce inflammatory activity in aneurysmatic vessel walls. However, since ACE
      inhibitors block the renin angiotensin system halfway it's path, and non-ACE conversion of
      angiotensin I occurs, a rationale exists to block the renin angiotensin system upstream of
      ACE. Upstream blockade of the renin-angiotensin system may have additional advantages in
      antagonising direct pro-inflammatory effects of renin itself, which have been identified in,
      for example, kidney tissue and retinal microvessels.

      A case can thus be made for renin inhibition as a potential optimal strategy for reducing
      aneurysm inflammation in hypertensive patients with aortic aneurysms. In the proposed pilot
      trial, the direct renin inhibitor Aliskiren will be evaluated. As a control condition, an
      antihypertensive agent without postulated specific anti-inflammatory effects is appropriate.
      Calcium channel blockers represent such a class.

      The current study will explore what the size and variability of the effect of aliskiren
      monotherapy, the combination of aliskiren/hydrochlorothiazide, amlodipine monotherapy, or the
      combination of amlodipine/hydrochlorothiazide on FDG-uptake is (if at all measurable on top
      of the effect of antihypertensive and statin therapy). This will allow more accurate power
      calculation of larger future studies aiming at prevention of AAA-progression (diameter and
      rupture).
    
  