
    
      Overview This is a prospective, randomized, comparative trial examining 2 different
      instillation solutions for NPWTi. All wound types that meet the eligibility criteria will be
      enrolled into the study. After enrollment, subjects will be randomized into either the
      Prontosan NPWTi group (n=50) or the normal saline NPWTi group (n=50). Data will be collected
      from inpatient hospital records.

      Outline of Study Procedures

        1. Patients meeting the eligibility criteria requiring hospital admission for an infected
           wound will be identified. Demographic information will be obtained.

        2. Informed consent will be obtained.

        3. Subjects will be taken to the operating room for wound debridement within 72 hours of
           admission per standard of care (SOC). Further, antibiotic therapy and medical management
           will be performed per SOC.

        4. Randomization into the Prontosan or normal saline instillation group will be conducted
           after the informed consent has been signed, but before the first operation.

        5. For the first operating room visit the following will be conducted:

             1. Pre- and post debridement qualitative cultures

             2. Debridement performed in SOC fashion

             3. Post debridement measurements

             4. Application of NPWTi

        6. For subsequent operating room visits the following will be conducted:

           a. Pre- and post debridement qualitative cultures b. Debridement performed in SOC
           fashion c. Post debridement measurements d. Application of NPWTi or closure i. The
           decision to close the wound will be determined by the clinician per SOC.

           ii. The technique utilized for closure will be determined by the clinician per SOC.

        7. Subjects will discharged from the hospital

           a. Criteria for discharge will be per the judgment of the investigator per SOC

        8. After hospital discharge, the subject will be followed in the outpatient wound clinic
           per SOC. Information from the one month follow-up period will be collected. Subjects
           will be exited from the study at that point.

      Subject Recruitment No active recruitment strategy will be employed. Patients who meet the
      eligibility criteria will be approached to participate into the study.

      Participation Completion and Discontinuation:

      Subjects may elect to discontinue participation at any time for any reason. Investigators may
      elect to remove the subject from participating at any time for any reason.

      Surgical Technique:

      Surgical debridement will be performed in SOC manner and is at the discretion of the
      investigator.

      Postoperative Care:

      Will be conducted in customary SOC fashion and is at the discretion of the investigator. The
      30 day follow-up visit is part of SOC

      Application of Devices/Dressing:

      The device that will be utilized is the V.A.C. Ulta with Veraflo Technology (Kinetic Concepts
      Inc., San Antonio, TX). This is an FDA approved device that is indicated for wound care. The
      investigators currently use this device as the SOC for the inpatient management of the
      acutely infected wound. The device consists of a foam sponge applied to the wound surface
      with an adhesive drape that keeps it in place. This device applies subatmospheric pressure at
      -125mmHg to the wound surface. The instillation component includes the delivery of a topical
      solution at prescribed fashion to the wound surface. This solution is dwelled (no negative
      pressure during this interval) in the sponge for a specific duration and then is evacuated.

      Negative Pressure Wound Therapy:

      The setting for negative pressure will be -125mmHg, continuous setting, and moderate
      intensity. The application of the foam and drape will be conducted in the customary fashion.
      The negative pressure duration will be 2 hours.

      Prontosan:

      Prontosan (B Braun, Bethlehem, PA) is 0.1% polyhexanide, 0.1% betaine, sodium hydroxide, and
      purified water. The polyhexanide is an antiseptic and betaine is a surfactant. This solution
      is an FDA approved device indicated for topical irrigation. This solution has high
      tolerability with robust antimicrobial activity. Polyhexanide has been utilized as the
      instillation solution for NPWTi with positive clinical results. Prontosan is currently being
      used as the instillation solution for NPWTi in this facility as the SOC. The dwell setting
      for this solution is 20 minutes. The volume of solution to be used is dependent on the size
      of the wound hence varies.

      Normal Saline:

      Normal saline (0.9% NaCl) is an isotonic solution that is widely used for intravenous
      application but is also used as our SOC for wound irrigation. This solution has high
      tolerability. Normal saline has been used as the instillation solution for NPWTi. The dwell
      setting for this solution is 20 minutes. The volume of solution to be used is dependent on
      the size of the wound hence varies.
    
  