
    
      Dexmedetomidine is a potent selective α-2-adrenergic receptor agonist frequently used for
      sedation in the ICU, also among critically ill patients. It promotes sedation, anxiolysis,
      and moderate analgesia with minimal respiratory depression. Sedation of ICU patients remains
      challenging for doctors and nurses as there is evidence that the administration of sedatives
      in critically ill patients is potentially harmful mainly in relation to the delirium during
      critical care and the consecutive clinical outcome. However, in many cases, sedation is
      supportive for both patients and ICU personnel allowing controlled interactions with the
      patient through the established comfort and security, which upholds the patient's autonomy
      and herewith creates a less threatening environment. Delirium is frequent in acutely ill
      hospitalized patients, especially after cardiac or orthopaedic surgery, and in the ICU, and
      is associated with adverse outcome. It is a pathologic neurobehavioural syndrome caused by
      transient alteration of the normal neuronal network activity secondary to systemic
      disturbances. There is much effort to fight pain, agitation and delirium in the ICU where the
      majority of cases have to be dealt with. Many different sedatives are essential to calm the
      agitated or aggressive patients, despite the fact that sedatives bare the inherent risk of
      acute encephalopathy, especially in the post-sedation phase further aggravating the patient's
      status and thereby worsening outcome. However, the prognosis in patients with untreated ICU
      delirium is even worse.

      In the surgical ICU of the University Hospital of Basel, standard therapy of delirium
      consists of the intravenous administration of haloperidol either parenteral or oral and oral
      quetiapine. At present, despite the recommendation against their use in the latest American
      guidelines for sedation, analgesia and delirium (Reference: College of Critical Care Medicine
      (CCM) Guidelines sedation, analgesia and delirium) and ongoing concern for its safety and
      efficacy, haloperidol is the first-line agent used worldwide for the treatment of delirium in
      general. However, there seems to be evidence for its potential to prevent delirium. Due to
      the disturbed circadian rhythm among delirious patients, exclusive sedation with haloperidol
      and quetiapine, especially at night, is insufficient frequently calling for additional
      sedative agents, such as propofol. There is evidence for beneficial effects on the circadian
      rhythm by dexmedetomidine which induces a unique sleep-like sedation state and in highly
      selected patients, dexmedetomidine infusions at night inducing light sedation could be shown
      to increase sleep efficiency and shift the 24h sleep pattern mainly to the night. The
      mechanism of action of dexmedetomidine is unique compared to traditionally administered
      sedative agents due to its lack of activity at the γ-aminobutyric acid receptor and missing
      anticholinergic activity. Mentioned side-effects of dexmedetomidine include bradycardia and
      hypotension with the need for vasoactive support in some cases.

      The participants in this cohort will always have increased sympathetic tones, so hypotension
      and bradycardia are expected only in very few cases. Dexmedetomidine infusion is therefore
      not suggested for the treatment of acute agitation where bolus therapy is advised. There
      seems to be no negative effects on mortality but data suggest a highly significant reduction
      of incidence of delirium, agitation and confusion, lower treatment costs, reduction of
      ventilator days in less critically ill patients, and reduction of ICU and hospital stay when
      dexmedetomidine is used as a sedative agent. One study revealed that dexmedetomidine does not
      reduce the incidence but the duration of delirium; however, this study was restricted to
      postcardiotomy delirium. Another study measured a significant reduction of the incidence of
      postcardiotomy delirium, and one study in non-postcardiotomy patients also doubts the
      beneficial effect of dexmedetomidine in this context. These conflicting results call for
      further research in this field. Especially the role of dexmedetomidine in unique patient
      populations, such as neurosurgery, trauma and obstetrics still has to be evaluated but is not
      focused on in this investigation.

      In this randomized study, the investigators aim to test the hypothesis that the reinstitution
      of a normal circadian rhythm by continuous infusions of dexmedetomidine compared to propofol
      between 8pm and 6am after diagnosis of hyperactive or mixed delirium, decreases the duration
      of delirium. The infusions might have to be repeated several times to achieve resolution of
      delirium.

      For delirium assessment the investigators will follow the Intensive Care Delirium Screening
      Checklist (ICDSC) , for assessment of sedation level the investigators will comply with the
      Sedation Agitation Scale (SAS) and the Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS) , and for
      pain with the Critical care Pain Observational Tool (C-POT) and/or Visual Analogue
      Scale/Numeric Rating Scale (VAS/NRS) scales.

      To evaluate potential side effects (see next section: study drugs) the investigators will
      record the following parameters:

        -  Fluid balance

        -  Blood count

        -  Creatinine

        -  Blood urea nitrogen

        -  Triglycerides Creatine kinase, myoglobin and lactate will be monitored to evaluate
           propofol related infusion Syndrome (PRIS), a threatening side effect of long-term
           propofol infusion. If the latter mentioned values are elevated the investigators would
           perform a muscle biopsy, for the syndrome leads to haemodynamic abnormalities, lactic
           acidosis and rhabdomyolysis.

      The evaluation of the electroencephalogram (EEG) will enable the investigators to analyze
      different patterns of sleep architecture under the influence of dexmedetomidine and propofol.
      Interneuronal communication is based on electrical impulses and can be measured by EEG at any
      time, even during sleep.
    
  