
    
      Acute pancreatitis is a common diagnosis worldwide, with more than 220,000 cases reported
      annually in the United States alone. The leading etiology is gallstones.1 Gallstone
      pancreatitis is thought to occur due to transient obstruction of the common channel that
      drains both the biliary and pancreatic ducts, resulting in inflammation of the pancreas. The
      pancreatitis that ensues is usually mild and self-limited and the treatment is initially
      supportive with subsequent laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). However, a small subgroup of
      patients develop severe pancreatitis and/or concomitant cholangitis. When the latter is
      present, ERC and sphincterotomy with stone extraction as indicated are typically performed.

      While there is a clear consensus that patients who present with gallstone pancreatitis should
      undergo cholecystectomy to prevent recurrence, precise timing of surgery remains
      controversial. In patients with severe pancreatitis (Ranson's > 3), there is consensus that
      surgery is delayed until the pancreatitis has resolved because early operation is associated
      with a higher complication rate. 2 However, despite more than 30 years of debate in the
      surgical literature, the optimal timing of surgery in mild to moderate pancreatitis (Ranson's
      ≤ 3) remains unclear. With recurrence rates for gallstone pancreatitis reported as high as
      63%3 and with some of the repeat attacks occurring within two weeks of initial index
      presentation1, most investigators have recommended cholecystectomy during the initial
      hospitalization.4,5 Still, the actual timing of surgery during the initial index
      hospitalization is unsettled. In practice, surgeons often delay surgery until there is
      evidence of complete resolution of the inflammatory process, as evidenced by absence of
      abdominal pain and normalization of liver functional tests and pancreatic enzymes.6
      Unfortunately, this strategy may result in prolongation of hospitalization without any proven
      benefit.

      A previous prospective, non-randomized study from our institution suggested that early
      cholecystectomy could safely be performed within 48 hours of admission in patients with mild
      to moderate pancreatitis, regardless of resolution of abdominal pain and abnormal laboratory
      values. In this study, when compared to a retrospective control group in which surgery was
      delayed until there was resolution of clinical and laboratory parameters, hospital stay was
      significantly reduced from a median of 7 days to 4 days, without additional complications.7
      In order to address the optimal timing of surgery in a more definite fashion, a prospective
      randomized study was performed in which patients with mild to moderate gallstone pancreatitis
      were allocated to either an early group (surgery within 48 hours of presentation) or a
      control group (surgery after resolution of abdominal pain and normalization of laboratory
      values) and assessed overall outcomes.
    
  