
    
      The overall objective of the proposed pilot/feasibility study is to evaluate a home- and
      family-based intervention to increase formula-feeding mothers' responsiveness to infant
      satiety cues and moderate formula-feeding infants' rates of weight gain over a 12-week
      period. Specifically, the investigators propose to provide mothers with opaque, weighted
      bottles (instead of conventional, clear bottles) with which to feed their infants; based on
      preliminary studies, it is hypothesized that removal of mothers' abilities to assess the
      amount the infant consumes during a feeding will facilitate abilities to feed in response to
      infant satiation cues.

      For the proposed research, exclusively formula-feeding mothers with <8-week-old infants will
      be randomized to use weighted, opaque bottles (intervention or opaque group) or to use clear
      bottles (control or clear group). The investigators will conduct home-based assessments at
      the beginning and end of the 12-week study period during which mothers will be video-recorded
      feeding their infants using clear or opaque bottles. Two interim assessments will be
      conducted (after 2 and 6 weeks) to assess feeding adequacy and fidelity to the intervention.
      During feeding observations, infant intake will be assessed via bottle weight. Video-records
      will be later coded for maternal responsiveness to infant cues using the Nursing Child
      Assessment Parent-Child Interaction Feeding Scale (NCAFS). It is hypothesized that mothers in
      the opaque group will feed their infants less and show greater increases in their levels of
      responsiveness to infant cues compared to mothers in the clear group. Infants' weight and
      length will be measured at the beginning and end of the 12-week study; weight-for-length
      z-scores (WLZ) will be calculated using the WHO Growth Standards. It is hypothesized that WLZ
      change will be significantly lower for infants in the opaque compared to the clear group. The
      feasibility of the intervention will also be explored by collecting and analyzing objective
      and subjective data related to the extent to which mothers use and like the bottles, and
      whether characteristics of mothers or infants moderate intervention effects. The proposed
      feasibility study is a critical step toward understanding mothers' acceptance and use of
      opaque bottles compared to conventional, clear bottles, and the potential for opaque bottles
      to improve the outcome of feeding interactions in home-based settings.
    
  