
    
      Growing evidence suggests that early, postnatal pulmonary inflammation may play an important
      role in the development of chronic lung disease (CLD) in preterm infants on mechanical
      ventilation.The investigator's previous study demonstrated that interleukin-8 (IL-8), a
      marker of inflammation, in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid increased by as early as 2 days
      of age in infants who subsequently developed CLD compared with infants who did not develop
      the disease. Thus for any therapy to be beneficial in preventing CLD, it should be started
      very early. Early postnatal use of intravenous dexamethasone therapy for 4 weeks
      significantly suppressed pulmonary inflammation and significantly reduced the incidence of
      CLD. However, the use of dexamethasone was associated with increased incidence of infection
      and sepsis which affected the immediate outcome and contributed significantly to mortality.
      It was shown that school age children who had received early postnatal dexamethasone therapy
      for the prevention of CLD showed a significant increase in incidence of neuromotor and
      cognitive delay. Based on the results of these studies, early systemic dexamethasone therapy
      should not be recommended. Budesonide has high local anti-inflammatory activity and is one of
      the most extensively used inhaled glucocorticoids. Budesonide decreases airway
      hyperresponsiveness and reduces the number of inflammatory cells and mediators present in the
      airways of patients with asthma. A previous study indicated that the addition of Budesonide
      to Survanta did not affect the surface tension. We proposed a randomized controlled trial to
      study whether early endotracheal instillation of Surfactant-Budesonide (S/B) mixture would
      reduce lung inflammation and improve pulmonary outcome. We will measure the cytokines levels
      in BAL fluid to evaluate the local anti-inflammatory effect of S/B treatment.
    
  