
    
      The study will consist of pair of double-blind placebo-controlled trials of dietary
      supplementation with 15g/day FructoOligoSaccharide (FOS) for 7.5 weeks in patients with
      prostate carcinoma or 5 weeks in patients with cervical/endometrial carcinoma who are to
      undergo pelvic radiotherapy with intent to cure. Patients having post-operative adjuvant
      irradiation will be eligible, but not those having purely palliative treatment for symptom
      control. The clinical trials will be based at University College Hospital. Patients will
      attend a screening visit, a baseline visit, and follow-up visits at completion of
      radiotherapy, and then at three and six months.

      Patients will be randomised to take a daily dietary supplement of either placebo (a
      non-prebiotic carbohydrate) or FOS (a mixture of 70% oligofructose and 30% inulin), provided
      as a single 15g sachet that can be dissolved in water or added to food. Randomisation in the
      gynaecological trial will be stratified according to diagnosis. In other respects management
      will be that offered routinely to patients undergoing pelvic radiotherapy for prostate
      malignancy or endometrial/cervical malignancy.

      The studies are powered to detect the primary outcome measure of a clinical response (lower
      frequency of acute radiation enteritis/proctitis at 5 or 7.5 weeks respectively) using a
      2-sample binomial arcsine where the predicted rate of acute radiation induced bowel disease
      when on FOS is 50% and 80% on placebo, to a significance of 0.05 and at a power of 90%.

      Fifty-one patients will be required in each group to detect a significant difference between
      FOS and placebo. Therefore 110 patients will be recruited to each of the two studies to allow
      for attrition.

      The primary endpoint will be the clinical gastrointestinal status at 7.5 weeks or 5 weeks at
      completion of radiotherapy. This status will be enumerated in comparison with placebo treated
      patients from the Birmingham score of intestinal symptoms (a simple clinical score from 0-15,
      usually employed in ulcerative colitis). Most patients commencing radiotherapy for these
      malignancies will have a pre-treatment score of zero or 1. A score of 4 or more is indicative
      of active coloproctitis, and differences of more than 2 points are to be considered
      clinically meaningful.

      Secondary clinical endpoints will include the quantity of anti-diarrhoeal medication
      required, the international harmonised criteria for radiation toxicity, the EuroQol score of
      quality of life, and the appearance of the rectal mucosa: as judged endoscopically using the
      Baron score (a 0-3 scale usually employed in ulcerative colitis); and semi-quantitatively
      from histological assessment.

      The Birmingham score and each of the clinical secondary endpoints will be assessed again at 3
      and 6 months after completion of the radiotherapy. Endoscopic and histological assessment
      will be repeated only at 6 months after completion of radiotherapy.

      Laboratory endpoints will include the measurement of short chain fatty acids (SCFA)
      (including butyrate) in faeces at baseline and at completion of radiotherapy, and study of
      the microbiota profile in the mucosa as determined by fluorescence in-situ hybridization
      (FISH). Haematological and biochemical parameters will be monitored as in standard practice.
    
  