
    
      Aim of the study:

      To assess the utility of thromboelastometry for identification of hemostatic changes,
      goal-directed coagulation management, and prognosis of intracranial hemorrhagic injury
      progression as well as clinical outcome in patients with isolated traumatic brain injury.

      Objectives:

      To evaluate perioperative prevalence and characteristics of thromboelastometry identified
      coagulopathy in neurosurgical patients with isolated traumatic brain injury; To assess the
      correlation between routine laboratory test results and thromboelastometric findings; To
      evaluate the influence of thromboelastometric findings and goal-directed coagulation
      management on the progression of intracranial hemorrhagic injury; To evaluate the utility of
      thromboelastometry for goal-directed coagulation management, and its possible influence on
      clinical outcome.

      Study background:

      Traumatic brain injury still accounts for a considerable proportion of preventable deaths
      worldwide. The prevalence of coagulation derangements among patients with traumatic brain
      injury (TBI) is high and approximates 30 % (1,2). The main hypothesis explaining the
      development of coagulopathy in the absence of massive bleeding is extensive release of tissue
      factor from the damaged brain tissue and subsequent over-activation of coagulation leading to
      consumption of coagulation substrates. The presence of coagulopathy in the setting of TBI is
      associated with high risk of intracranial hemorrhagic insult progression and death (3,4).
      Many authors investigating coagulopathy associated with traumatic brain injury have used
      routine coagulation tests, such as APTT, PT, INR, fibrinogen levels. However, those tests do
      not reflect the overall clot quality and reflect only separate parts of the coagulation
      process.

      Craniotomy for traumatic brain injury is an urgent high-risk procedure presenting a serious
      challenge for the anesthesiology team. Significant, diffuse bleeding is not infrequent, and
      the spectrum of neurosurgical hemostatic options is limited. Moreover, even small amounts of
      intracranial blood may be life-threatening. Therefore the maintenance of optimal physiologic
      clotting capacity is crucial. Literature data investigating the use of ROTEM in TBI patients
      is still limited (5,6).

      The investigators believe that thromboelastometry could provide novel insights into the
      dynamic coagulation changes of TBI patients. Moreover, it could serve as a clinical tool for
      targeted coagulation management in the perioperative period of patients undergoing
      craniotomies for intracranial traumatic hematomas, and prove beneficial for patient outcome.

      Materials and methods:

      A prospective open-label case-control study will be performed. Adult isolated traumatic brain
      injury patients undergoing craniotomy and will be enrolled. Required sample size was
      calculated based on the average number of craniotomies performed to treat traumatic brain
      injury during the past five years in a tertiary neurosurgical centre. The investigators plan
      to enroll 70 patients into the ROTEM-guided group (Cases), and 70 patients into the
      conventional therapy group (Controls). All patients will undergo standard coagulation
      analysis (APTT, PT, INR, fibrinogen levels, platelet count) preoperatively, and 3 days
      postoperatively, whereas ROTEM-guided group patients will additionally be tested with ROTEM
      (EXTEM, INTEM, FIBTEM, APTEM). Coagulation management decisions in the ROTEM-guided group
      will be made according to a ROTEM-based algorithm for goal-directed hemostatic therapy.
      Conventional therapy group will be treated as usual. Perioperative demographic, clinical and
      laboratory data of study patients will be registered. Early neurological state (on
      postoperative days 1,2,3,7, and until discharge) will be assessed according to the Glasgow
      coma scale. Late neurological outcome (6 and 12 months postoperatively) will be assessed
      according to Glasgow outcome scale. Comparative analysis of Case and Control groups will be
      performed. Perioperative prevalence and characteristics of coagulopathy in neurosurgical
      patients with isolated traumatic brain injury will be estimated. Correlation between routine
      laboratory test results and thromboelastometric findings will be assessed. The influence of
      thromboelastometric findings and goal-directed coagulation management on the progression of
      intracranial hemorrhagic injury will be assessed. The influence of goal-directed coagulation
      management on clinical outcome will be evaluated.

      Anticipated scientific and clinical benefits:

      The investigators believe that ROTEM results could provide better insight into perioperative
      coagulation changes, be beneficial to patient blood management, and result in better outcome.
    
  