
    
      Cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes oxidize arachidonic acid to prostaglandins, which modulate
      normal neuronal function and inflammatory responses in the central nervous system. COX-2,
      which is constitutively expressed by glutamatergic neurons in the cortex, hippocampus, and
      amygdala, plays an important physiological role in synaptic plasticity and long-term
      potentiation. Pre-clinical studies point to a potential role for non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which inhibit COX enzymes, in modulation of mood and
      anxiety symptoms. Recent meta-analyses also suggest a role for adjunctive COX inhibitors in
      the treatment of depression and first-episode schizophrenia. While consensus guidelines on
      the use of anti-inflammatory therapy in children with acute-onset subtypes of childhood-onset
      obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) suggest NSAIDs as a first-line option for patients with
      mild impairment, there is limited empirical evidence to support their use in this population.
      Two small randomized-controlled trials in adults with OCD demonstrated improved symptom
      severity with celecoxib - a selective COX-2 inhibitor - raising the possibility that COX
      inhibition may be effective in a general OCD population.

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the effects of celecoxib and placebo as
      adjuncts to treatment-as-usual on reduction in symptom severity, as determined by Children's
      Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (CY-BOCS) after 12 weeks in children and youth with
      moderate-to-severe OCD.

      This is a randomized, controlled, single-centre superiority trial with two parallel groups
      (celecoxib 50 mg [≤25 kg] or 100 mg [>25 kg] twice daily and placebo). Participants will be
      recruited from the BC Children's Hospital (BCCH) Provincial OCD Program and based on
      self-referral from community practices. Randomization will be performed as block
      randomization with a 1:1 allocation and stratified based on pre-treatment symptom severity.
      The investigator, outcomes assessor, clinician, and patient will be blinded to the
      intervention groups. Labs at baseline and 12 weeks will include complete blood count (CBC)
      with differential, creatinine, electrolytes, liver enzymes, and CRP. Participants will be
      assessed for OCD severity and adverse events at weeks 6 and 12. Analysis will be carried out
      according to intention-to-treat principles. Power calculations using estimates based on
      previous studies suggest a target recruitment of 80 participants.

      The primary outcome is OCD severity (as measured by total CY-BOCS score) after 12 weeks in
      the celecoxib compared to placebo arm, adjusted for baseline. Secondary outcomes include
      CY-BOCS score after 6 weeks adjusted for baseline OCD severity, difference in the proportion
      of participants achieving a clinically meaningful response or remission; mean clinical global
      impression of severity and improvement after 6 and 12 weeks; and difference between celecoxib
      and placebo arms in the proportion of participants reporting adverse events that are
      possibly, probably, or definitely related to the study intervention.

      NSAIDs are common in clinical practice and referenced in both adult and pediatric treatment
      guidelines for OCD, but no controlled studies have evaluated the effects of COX inhibitors in
      childhood-onset OCD. This study will be the first to assess the efficacy and safety of
      adjunctive celecoxib in this population and will inform clinical management of children and
      youth with OCD.
    
  