
    
      HIV is an important global health issue. Globally, HIV is mostly transmitted through
      heterosexual sexual activity, and women bear the brunt of the pandemic as two-third are in
      women. New preventive strategies need to be developed to empower women to protect themselves.
      In Nairobi, Kenya, there are around 27 000 sex workers and despite prevention efforts, HIV
      incidence is very high in this vulnerable group which serves as catalyzers for HIV
      transmission to the community. Among those sex workers, despite being at higher risk of
      infection, some rare individuals remain HIV exposed seronegative (HESN). Over the years, our
      group has tried to understand this natural protection to HIV infection. The investigators
      discovered that in HESN individuals, the basal level of activation of the immune system is
      lower than in other people. This includes having few HIV target cells, mainly CD4+ CCR5+ T
      cells, in their genital tract. The investigators called this special phenotype Immune
      Quiescence (IQ). In a recent pilot study (Limiting HIV target cells by Inducing Immune
      Quiescence in the female genital tract ) the investigators showed that in non-sex worker
      women it is possible to decrease the proportion of HIV target cells and/or HIV co-receptor at
      the female genital tract by using anti-inflammatory drugs.

      Herein, the investigators are proposing to conduct a follow-up study in female sex workers to
      determine the best drug formulation and drug size effect on reducing HIV target cell number
      at the female genital tract (FGT). Participants will receive acetylsalicylic acid (ASA)
      (100mg/day), ASA (300mg), or nothing for five months. At visit 1, the baseline immune
      activation level of the participants will be determined. In this way, every woman will serve
      as her own control thereby reducing the variation between tested and control groups.
      Participants will be randomized and ask to take the drug daily. Participants will be followed
      on a monthly basis. At each study visit, blood, cervico-vaginal lavage and cervical cells
      will be taken to determine the level of immune activation. This study is a critical "second
      step" in the rational development of HIV preventive biomedical method.
    
  