
    
      The introduction of Section 64b of the German Social Code, Book V (SGB V) created the
      possibility of agreeing so-called FIT64b model projects for the further development of care
      for mentally ill people. The objective is to improve cross-sectoral care or optimize patient
      care. The statutory health insurance (SHI) funds AOK Baden-W端rttemberg and the SVLFG (as an
      agricultural health insurance fund) have developed a FIT64b model project in child and
      adolescent psychiatry (KJP) with the UKT, which will be tested for a total of eight years in
      the care region of T端bingen starting on 01 October 2017. The core of the model care is the
      Therapeutic Intensive Treatment in the Outpatient Setting (TIBAS, from the German
      abbreviation of "Therapeutische Intensivbehandlung im Ambulanten Setting").

      The goal of this model care is to provide more cross-sectoral service delivery through more
      flexible treatment intensities. The creation of TIBAS as an intensive outpatient form of
      treatment is intended to enable earlier discharge from the full inpatient setting. Four TIBAS
      levels have been implemented, representing different treatment intensities and frequencies,
      which can be flexibly deployed according to patient needs. A person-centered case manager
      accompanies patients throughout the treatment period. If necessary, the patients, but
      especially the family members, are accompanied by the social service of the AOK
      Baden-W端rttemberg and supported with regard to stabilizing the overall care situation
      (psychosocial counseling and networking with other care structures, etc.). For patients
      fulfilling the diagnostic criteria for either anorexia nervosa or moderate depression, direct
      access to TIBAS is possible without prior hospitalization.

      The aim of the evaluation is to examine the achievement of the objectives of the FIT64b model
      project on the basis of anonymized claims data and primary data to be collected and to assess
      the transferability of the care approach to standard care. The main goals of the model
      project are to shorten the duration of inpatient stays while intensifying outpatient forms of
      treatment, to reduce the cumulative psychiatric treatment duration and the emergency
      admission rate, to reduce the symptom burden, to accelerate the return to psychosocial living
      conditions and to increase the quality of life. Stabilization of the family's overall care
      situation will be used to sustain these improvements. Through qualitative research methods,
      the experiences with and the subjective benefit of the social service of the AOK
      Baden-W端rttemberg as well as the cooperation of this social service with the UKT will be
      examined in more detail. The costs of the FIT64b model care should not exceed those of the
      standard care or, at a maximum of the same costs, better results should be achieved with
      regard to the above-mentioned patient-related goals.

      The effectiveness, costs, and cost-effectiveness of the FIT64b model hospital compared to
      standard care are examined. The study presented here is a controlled cohort study which
      utilizes claims data as well as primary data. It will employ quantitative analyses of
      anonymized SHI data (Module A), quantitative analyses of questionnaires (Module B), and
      qualitative analyses of semi-structured interviews and a focus group (Module C). The
      controlled design is based on the fact that information of patients from the intervention
      hospital, the UKT, is compared to information of comparable patients from structurally
      similar hospitals of child and adolescent psychiatry in the same federal state (Petzold et
      al, Gesundheitswesen 2019, 81(1):63-71).
    
  