
    
      Antibiotics have revolutionized healthcare allowing clinicians the ability to treat
      life-threatening infections and to prevent infections following life-saving surgery.
      Unfortunately, antibiotic overuse results in antibiotic resistant bacteria and unnecessary
      adverse events including Clostridioides difficile infections (CDI). Data demonstrate that
      antibiotic resistant bacteria and CDI annually kill up to 150,000 and 29,000 Americans,
      respectively. Surgical antibiotic prophylaxis is a common area for unnecessary antibiotic use
      among children. Recent CDC surgical site infection (SSI) guidelines and the AAP Choosing
      Wisely Campaign recommend no postoperative antibiotic prophylaxis for procedures considered
      low risk for an SSI.

      In this study, our team will develop and test two theoretically informed strategies to
      eliminate ("de-implement") unnecessary postoperative antibiotic prophylaxis through the
      collaboration of surgeons and antimicrobial stewardship programs (ASPs). One promising
      strategy is the implementation of standard surgical order sets, which offer relative ease of
      implementation and a systematic approach across surgical subspecialties. While evidence
      suggests that order set standardization is a good approach, barriers to implementation are
      commonly noted, especially the lack of engagement with clinicians affected by change when
      initiating a new strategy. As such, complementary strategies are needed to extend the impact
      of order set standardization.

      This study will be guided by the i-PARIHS framework (Integrated Framework for Promoting
      Action on Research Implementation in Health Services), an implementation science framework
      designed to guide implementation of evidence-based practices. This framework posits that
      successful implementation of evidence into practice is a function of the quality and type of
      evidence to be implemented, the characteristics of the context where the evidence will be
      implemented, and the means by which it is integrated or facilitated into practice. Four
      primary constructs comprise the i-PARIHS framework: the innovation, recipients, context, and
      facilitation. Innovation describes the evidence and knowledge regarding a particular issue,
      as well as the qualities of the evidence that may influence how it is perceived by the
      potential user, recognizing that evidence may or may not be valuable to the end user based on
      local circumstances and priorities. Recipients are actors involved in implementation who may
      be affected by and influence the implementation of evidence. Context characterizes the
      circumstances in which knowledge and innovation uptake occurs, consisting of multiple factors
      at the micro, meso, and macro levels. Finally, integral to this framework is facilitation as
      the active mechanism by which uptake and implementation of evidence occurs, making it an
      ideal and appropriate fit for this study.

      All research activities for this study will be conducted in 9 children's hospitals that
      participate in both the SHARPS Collaborative and NSQIP-P. Our participating hospitals are
      geographically dispersed and (like most children's hospitals) are located in urban settings.
      SHARPS Collaborative hospitals feature active ASPs operated by dedicated pharmacists and
      physician leaders. Clinicians (MD/DO or PharmD) overseeing ASPs and surgical champions in
      participating hospitals will implement the proposed strategies and collect implementation
      outcomes that quantify the extent to which the test strategies are successfully deployed in
      the hospital. The daily work of these individuals to improve antibiotic use includes frequent
      interaction with surgical specialties that perform clean and clean-contaminated surgeries.
      Implementing our proposed strategies via established ASP clinicians and a surgical leader
      (rather than, for example, directly by a member of the research team) will leverage existing
      relationships between these clinicians and their associated surgical teams, creating a more
      realistic circumstance under which new ASP strategies are implemented. This approach will
      provide better insight into the feasibility of implementing these strategies in a sustainable
      way in the future. In addition to being SHARPS Collaborative hospitals, our participating
      hospitals will also be NSQIP-P hospitals, each with a full-time, trained dedicated data
      abstractor collecting data on surgeries and surgical outcomes.

      The investigators will compare the efficacy of the two strategies designed to reduce
      unnecessary postoperative antibiotic prophylaxis, using a cross-sectional stepped-wedge
      design. The investigators have identified 9 Children's Hospitals from across the US to
      participate in the study. Each of the 9 hospitals will be randomized into one of 3 clusters
      (cluster size = 3). All hospitals will begin with the control intervention-implementation of
      order set review and modification-at time 0. Each Step will last 6 months. Prior to the
      beginning of Step 1, Cluster 1 hospitals will receive the experimental intervention -order
      set review and modification plus facilitation. Just prior to steps 1, 2 and 3, the ASP teams
      will receive a 2-day in-person workshop led by the implementation scientist (Co-I Dr. McKay)
      and PI Dr. Newland, covering the specific facilitation strategies to be utilized. Every 6
      months, an additional cluster will initiate the experimental condition (Steps 2 and 3). The
      amount of time each cluster will receive the experimental condition will be 30 months
      (Cluster 1), 24 months (Cluster 2), and 18 months (Cluster 3). Monthly study webinars will
      occur with all sites in step 0. During steps 1 and 2, sites in the experimental arm will have
      a monthly webinar separate from the group still in the control arm. By step 3 all sites will
      be a part of the same monthly webinar.
    
  