
    
      This study will use a prospective, double-blind, randomized clinical trial design. As our
      main objective is to determine whether one pharmacological method of cervical preparation is
      more effective than the other in our population, this is the most appropriate study design. A
      double-blinded, randomized trial will allow for the maximal prevention of bias affecting
      study results. The study will be structured as a two-tailed comparison, as it is possible
      that mifepristone is significantly less effective than misoprostol in effecting initial
      cervical dilation. While previous studies have indicated that mifepristone is superior to
      misoprostol in this regard, our study focuses on a later gestational age range. Therefore, we
      believe that a one-tailed comparison would be inappropriate to test whether there is a
      difference between mifepristone and misoprostol as cervical preparing agents in our
      gestational age range.

      We will enroll approximately 50 subjects between 11 0/7 and 15 0/7 weeks GA seeking abortion
      and randomize them into two groups in a 1:1 ratio. Group A subjects will receive mifepristone
      200 mg capsulized orally at the time of their preoperative visit and be given two folic acid
      tablets (misoprostol placebo) to place buccally on the day of their procedure. Group B
      subjects will receive empty capsules (mifepristone placebo) orally at the time of their
      preoperative visit and be given two misoprostol 200 mcg tablets to place buccally on the day
      of their procedure.

      To preserve blinding, we will place mifepristone in capsules provided by the BMC IDS.
      Subjects not receiving mifepristone will receive identically-appearing empty capsules.

      The study will take place at Boston Medical Center's outpatient Women's Care Center.
      Preoperative appointments will take place in the Pre-Procedure Unit (PPU) and abortion
      appointments will take place in the Gynecology Procedures Unit (GPU). Patients seeking
      abortion services at BMC will constitute the population that will be the source of the study
      sample. Because we seek to investigate mifepristone and misoprostol as cervical preparants in
      the population of women seeking abortion services, this is an appropriate population from
      which to sample.

      Patients who are eligible to enroll as subjects in the investigation will be identified by
      the clinical provider who sees them for their preoperative visit. Approximately 20 patients
      per month seen at our clinic meet the criteria for inclusion into the study. The provider
      will describe the study briefly to the potential subject, and if they are interested, the
      provider will contact study staff. The staff member will describe the study in greater detail
      and obtain informed consent to take part in the study.

      Subject allocation to treatment group will be double-blind. The Boston Medical Center
      Investigational Drug Service (IDS) will prepackage all study medications in a random order
      and sequentially number the packages.

      We will enroll approximately 110 subjects between 11 0/7 and 15 0/7 weeks GA seeking abortion
      and allocate them randomly into two equal groups of subjects. Group A subjects will receive
      capsules containing mifepristone 200 mg orally at the time of their preoperative visit and be
      given two folic acid tablets (misoprostol placebo) to place buccally on the day of their
      procedure. Group B subjects will receive a empty capsules (mifepristone placebo) orally at
      the time of their preoperative visit and be given two misoprostol 200 mcg tablets to place
      buccally on the day of their procedure.

      It is important to note that the investigation will use cervical preparants in a similar
      fashion to what is already standard practice at BMC. Mifepristone ingestion is directly
      observed by a clinic provider, while misoprostol is dispensed at the preoperative visit for
      the patient to place buccally herself approximately 3 hours before their abortion procedure.
      Patients between 11 and 12 weeks GA receive 400 mcg misoprostol buccally three hours prior to
      their procedure or no preparant, at the discretion of the surgeon. For patients between 12
      and 14 weeks GA, 400 mcg buccal misoprostol for three hours prior to their procedure is the
      standard preparant. Patients between 14 and 15 weeks GA have the aforementioned misoprostol
      dosing option, and can instead also elect to receive mifepristone 200 mg orally 24 to 36
      hours before their abortion procedure. Patients between 14 and 15 weeks GA can also elect to
      receive osmotic dilators as the cervical preparant method. Therefore, both agents used in our
      study are familiar to our clinicians and are already in use for patients at our facility in a
      similar fashion.

      Enrolled subjects will be given a study subject number that corresponds to a treatment group
      assignment, which will be determined in advance by the BMC IDS in a random fashion. The
      clinic provider and study staff member will be blinded to the assignment, as will the
      subject. While the study is being conducted, only the BMC IDS will have access to the study
      subject treatment assignments. The clinic provider and study staff will then observe the
      subject take the first study agent (mifepristone or placebo). In order to preserve blinding,
      the BMC IDS will provide indistinguishable capsules of mifepristone and empty capsules.

      They will then direct the patient to place the second study agent (misoprostol or placebo)
      buccally approximately three hours before their abortion procedure. This time will correspond
      to 6 am for morning procedures and 10 am for afternoon procedures. To preserve provider
      blinding, the second study agent will be in an opaque package. The BMC IDS is unable to
      provide indistinguishable versions of misoprostol and folic acid because we plan buccal use.
      Despite this, we do not anticipate a significant threat to subject blinding.

      In order to ensure abortion provider blinding, the clinic provider and study staff member who
      enroll a subject will not be eligible to perform the subject's abortion.

      At the subject's preoperative visit, the following data will be collected: Study subject
      number; date; age; race/ethnicity; ultrasound-confirmed gestational age; gravidity; parity;
      time of first study agent ingestion; history of prior live births; history of prior pregnancy
      loss; history of prior elective abortion; history of cervical dysplasia treatment procedures
      (cold knife cone, LEEP, cryotherapy).

      A checklist of the aforementioned exclusion criteria will be present on the preoperative data
      sheet to prevent enrollment of subjects who meet these criteria.

      One follow-up visit will be planned for all subjects: their abortion procedure appointment,
      which will occur 24 to 48 hours after their ingestion of the first study agent. At this
      encounter, all of the outcome variables will be measured and collected for data analysis.
      Once the subject arrives to the GPU, a study staff member will confirm and record the time of
      buccal placement of the second study agent. The subject will then undergo the routine intake
      process of all abortion patients in the GPU, which includes a preoperative safety screening
      by a registered nurse. After the intake process, the patient will undergo their abortion
      procedure no sooner than three hours after the buccal placement of the second study agent.
      For procedural anesthesia and analgesia, patients receiving care in the GPU have two choices.
      They may choose to receive IV conscious sedation, consisting of midazolam and fentanyl in
      addition to lidocaine paracervical block. The alternative is IM ketorolac and lidocaine
      paracervical block. Study participants will be afforded the same choice as other abortion
      patients. The abortion will then be performed, including assessment of initial cervical
      dilation, which is described below. The subject will then remain in the GPU recovery area
      until she meets criteria for discharge, consistent with guidelines in place for all patients
      receiving care in the GPU.

      To measure initial cervical dilation, Pratt mechanical dilators will be used. Starting with a
      43F Pratt dilator, attempts will be made to pass sequentially smaller diameter dilators until
      a dilator passes without resistance. The size of the largest dilator to pass without
      resistance will be recorded as the initial cervical dilation value. Using dilators from
      largest to smallest will avoid causing dilation during measurement of initial cervical
      dilation. This method of measuring initial cervical dilation has been described in published
      studies, including by Goldberg, et al. (19) Physicians who perform abortions for patients
      within the study will be trained to conduct the measurement of initial cervical dilation in a
      standard fashion.

      All abortions will be performed by attending OB-GYN physicians and family planning fellows to
      limit confounding due to provider inexperience on the part of residents and medical students.

      The data to be collected will include the date and time of buccal placement of the second
      study agent; subject's experience of preoperative vaginal bleeding, nausea, vomiting or
      diarrhea; preoperative pain score; anesthesia/analgesia agents used and doses used; initial
      cervical dilation; the amount of additional dilation needed to perform the procedure;
      intraoperative pain score; duration of procedure (speculum in to speculum out time);
      postoperative pain score; patient satisfaction; and provider rating of difficulty of
      procedure. Complications, if any, of the procedure will also be noted.
    
  