
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is characterized by recurrent episodes of airflow obstruction
      in the upper airway that results in oxygen desaturations and arousal from sleep. The most
      common symptom of OSA is excessive daytime sleepiness. Recent studies have also shown clear
      association of OSA with the development of obesity, hypertension diabetes mellitus, and
      congestive heart failure. Approximately 13% men and 6% women have moderate to severe OSA
      (apnea hypopnea index, AHI ≥ 15) in the US.

      The efficacy of therapies for OSA, and in particular, continuous positive airway pressure
      (CPAP) has been limited due to patient intolerance, poor patient selection, or limited
      response to the therapy.

      The Inspire Upper Airway Stimulation (UAS) system is intended to prevent upper airway
      obstruction by stimulating the hypoglossal nerve synchronous with respiration [7].

      The Inspire system is comprised of the following components:

        -  Inspire Upper Airway Stimulator (Implantable Pulse Generator (IPG))

        -  Inspire Stimulation Lead

        -  Inspire Sensing Lead

        -  External programmers used with the system are:

             -  Inspire Programmer (physician programmer)

             -  Inspire Patient Programmer (patient remote)

      The Inspire system received CE Mark in 2010 (CE Certificate No. 562872) providing the
      regulatory authority to provide the device in a commercial setting. Furthermore, this study
      will be conducted within the CE marked intended use of the Inspire system and will not
      involve any additional stressful or invasive tests.

      The objective of this randomized controlled crossover study is to assess treatment effect of
      Inspire UAS in patients at different time points with two different therapy settings. This
      study will provide additional clinical evidence of Inspire UAS for treatment of moderate to
      severe OSA using a randomized controlled crossover trial design.
    
  