
    
      Stroke is defined as an acute neurological dysfunction of vascular origin, with subtle
      development of clinical signs of cerebral function disturbs, lasting more than 24h. The
      traditional therapy includes drugs and physical rehabilitation, without systematization, with
      complicates its replication. The transcranial direct current (DC) stimulation might promote
      an increase in the motor function of the hands, when compared with placebo stimulation.

      In fact, some clinical trials point positive effects of transcranial DC stimulation (tDCS) as
      a post-stroke intervention, however, in general, they only include patients in the chronic
      stage, with cerebral damage in different areas and diverse disabilities, most being assisted
      by non-standardized physical therapy treatments. tDCS combined with a standardized
      physiotherapy program, noted as constraint-induced movement therapy (CIMT), could be able to
      modulate the cortical excitability and promote better functional recovery.

      However, no relate of longitudinal studies assessing patients in the acute stage submitted to
      tDCS and physiotherapy for more than 6 months have been found. Studies like this would help
      us elucidate the action mechanisms of this treatment in the early stages of stroke.

      With this in mind, START - tDCS, a phase II/III clinical trial, will be developed to assess
      the therapeutic effects of the tDCS in early stage enrolling 40 post-stroke patients. They
      will be allocated in 2 groups at random to receive active tDCS or sham, associate to CIMT.
      The protocol will be applied in a daily basis for 10 consecutive working days (2 weeks),
      after that, the patients will be followed for 1 month. By the end of the study, the
      participants that receive tDCS and show better clinical condition will be invited to
      participate in bimonthly stimulation for 12 months, as part of a longitudinal study regarding
      tDCS for stroke. An increase in the clinical condition will be considered as a final score
      higher than 10 points in the Barthel Index, our primary outcome, when compared with baseline,
      before the treatment protocol.
    
  