
    
      Background: The use of E/Em (mitral early-diastolic velocity divided by mitral
      early-diastolic annular velocity) assessing left ventricular filling pressure has some innate
      defect since it was born to assess the regional function of myocardium. It is rational to
      infer that ischemic heart disease with regional wall motion defect will affect the
      measurement of tissue Doppler and, thereupon, influence the accuracy of using regional
      parameters to estimate global function. Conduction disturbance with bundle branch block is
      another significant confounder, since it truly influences the data of regional peak Em.
      Therefore, it is necessary to develop or design a new global parameter to overcome the
      handicap of tissue Doppler. In our recent studies (1, 2), there are significant logarithmic
      relationships between LV filling pressure and LA distensibility in patients with acute
      myocardial infarction received primary percutaneous coronary intervention and in patients
      with severe mitral regurgitation. In patient received coronary intervention for chronic
      angina pectoris, the relationship is also similar (submitted to J Am Soc Echocardiogr. under
      major revision). In our recent ongoing study, LA distensibility is applied to low-risk
      general population for assessing the risk of stroke, cardiovascular event, mortality and the
      presence of atrial fibrillation. This time, the investigators try to use this parameter to
      monitor patients with advanced chronic heart failure (high-risk group) and to adjust
      patient's management and treatment.

      Introduction LA volume provides the significantly prognostic information in the general
      population and patients with heart disease, including acute myocardial infarction (3), left
      ventricular dysfunction (4, 5), mitral regurgitation (6), cardiomyopathy (7, 8) and atrial
      fibrillation (9). Large LA volume, which represents chronic diastolic dysfunction, is
      associated with poor outcome, regardless of systolic function (10). Thereby, LA volume
      provides a long-term view of whether or not the patient has the disease of diastolic
      dysfunction, regardless of whatever loading conditions are present at the time of the
      examination, as the hemoglobin A1C in diabetes mellitus (10). Until recently, the relation
      between LA volume and LV filling pressure has been confirmed directly by simultaneous
      echocardiography-catheterization, which those studies were conduced by our team (1, 2). LA
      distensibility is associated logarithmically with left ventricular filling pressure in
      patients with chronic stable angina, acute myocardial infarction, or severe mitral
      regurgitation. It can be treated as non-invasive Swan-Ganz catheter, which isn't likely to
      affect by the tissue Doppler confounders of regional wall motion defect and bundle branch
      block. Since the relationship between LA distensibility and left ventricular filling pressure
      is logarithmic, LA distensibility would be relatively insensitive in the low-pressure end.
      Therefore, the investigators conduct an investigation that assesses the risk stratification
      of cardiovascular risk by LA distensibility in low-risk general population (potential low
      left ventricular filling pressure) from 2009. This time, LA distensibility will be used to
      guide the treatment of advanced chronic heart failure.

      Methods Study population: Advanced chronic heart failure (HF) will be defined as left
      ventricular ejection fraction less than 35%, creatinine less than 2 mg/dL, and CHF NY
      functional class III-IV for more than 3 months. Enrolled patients should be admitted to
      hospital due to heart failure requiring adjustment of inotropic agents or diuretics within
      recent 6 months. Three hundred HF cases will be recruited - 100 with sinus rhythm, and 100
      with atrial fibrillation served as LA distensibility guided treatment group (guide group) and
      another 100 patients, either sinus rhythm or atrial fibrillation, served as control group.
      The management of guide group will be adjusted by LA distensibility, including the
      adjustments of inotropic agents, diuretics, beta-blocker, ACEI, and AIIB. The control group
      will be treated by conventional management and traditional echocardiography can be performed
      as in-charge doctor request. Renal function will be checked 1 time per 3 months. All patients
      will give written informed consent to participate in the study, and the study will send to
      the institutional review board for approval.

      Conventional echocardiographic and myocardial tissue Doppler measurement: Echocardiography
      will be performed in each patient initially. LV ejection fraction is calculated using
      Simpson's method for biplane images. Mitral inflow is assessed by pulsed-wave Doppler
      echocardiography form the apical 4-chamber view. From the mitral inflow profile, the E-wave
      velocity, A-wave velocity, and E-deceleration time are measured. Pulsed-wave tissue Doppler
      imaging (TDI) is performed using spectral pulsed Doppler signal filters, by adjusting the
      Nyquist limit to 15 - 20 cm/s and using the minimum optimal gain. In the apical 4-chamber
      view, a 3-mm, a pulsed-wave Doppler sample volume is placed at the level of the mitral
      annulus over the septal border. Pulsed-wave TDI results are characterized by a myocardial
      systolic wave (Sm) and 2 diastolic waves: early (Em) and atrial contraction (Am). The
      pulsed-wave TDI tracing is recorded over 5 cardiac cycles at a sweep speed of 100 mm/s and is
      used for offline calculations.

      Measurements of LA volume: All LA volume measurements will be calculated from apical 4- and
      2-chamber views using the biplane area-length method (11). The LA volumes are measured at 3
      points: 1) immediately before the mitral valve opening (maximal LA volume or Volmax); 2) at
      onset of the P-wave on electrocardiography (pre-atrial contraction volume or Volp); and 3) at
      mitral valve closure (minimal LA volume or Volmin). The LA distensibility was calculated as
      (Volmax - Volmin) / Volmin. The LA ejection fraction is calculated as (Volp - Volmin) / Volp.
      In all patients, LA volumes are indexed to body surface area (BSA) (12). For patients with
      atrial fibrillation, the average of 5 LA distensibilities will be used for clinical
      assessment.

      Study Design: This study is a prospective, observational, and open label investigation. The
      guide group will be followed 1 time per 2 week at first 3 months, then 1 time per month
      later, and then 1 time per 3 months. Each time, the guide group should receive
      echocardiography, including the measurement of LA distensibility. LA distensibility-guided
      therapy is enabled in 2 ways. Prescriptions should be adjusted according to overall left
      ventricular filling pressure estimated by LA distensibility. The specified treatments after
      adjustment by the current LA distensibility are also allowed. Investigators individually
      adjust medications for each patient according to the ranges of LA distensibility. The
      specified therapy is based on 5 LA distensibility ranges (very low, low, optimal, high, and
      very high). Each range is associated with a prescription for medication dosing, sodium and
      fluid intake, or activity level. Although there are no specific prescribing rules ad dynamic
      prescribing is at the discretion of the investigators, the general aim is to reduce or
      eliminate diuretic doses for high or very high LA distensibility and increase diuretic or
      vasodilator doses for low or very low LA distensibility. The necessity of hospitalization for
      heart failure will be adjusted by 2 cardiovascular specialists and all patients admitted for
      heart failure will be managed by the same one cardiovascular specialist. The total duration
      of follow-up will be 2 years. Patients will be encouraged to take additional visit if they
      have worsening symptoms. For life-threatening heart failure, intravenous nitroprusside drip
      under continuous A-line monitor, percutaneous coronary intervention, Swan-Ganz catheter
      insertion, intra-aortic balloon pump, and ECMO can be done according to the order of
      in-charge doctor. The primary end-point will be all-cause mortality. The second end-points
      will be heart failure with hospitalization and the duration of each hospitalization.
      Additionally, the ratios of medication changes in 2-year follow-up, including diuretics,
      inotropic agents, beta blockers, ACEI, and AIIB, will be assessed. Analysis will also be
      performed to estimate the trends of heart function (either systolic or diastolic) and renal
      function during 2-year follow-up according to whether guiding by LA distensibility is done or
      not.

      Interobserver variability: In the first 50 enrolled cases, Volmax, Volmin, and Volp will be
      measured by 2 independent observers. Interobserver variability is calculated as the
      difference between the values obtained by the 2 observers divided by the mean. Interobserver
      difference and variability of Volmax, Volmin, and Volp will be assessed.

      Statistical analysis: The SPSS software (version 12) will be used for all statistical
      analyses. All continuous variables are presented as means ± standard deviation. Analysis of
      variance and post hoc test (Scheffe F-test) for unpaired data are used to evaluate the
      significance of differences between groups. A p vale of < 0.05 is considered statistically
      significant. Comparison of clinical characteristics is performed by chi-square analysis for
      categorical variables. Bivariate analysis, simple correlation and linear regression are used
      as appropriate. Target ACEI, AIIB, and beta blocker doses are defined as > 50% of maximal
      American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology heart failure guideline doses. LA
      distensibility control will be empirically defined if the frequency of LA distensibility <
      90% (according to the logarithmic regression curve in acute myocardial infarction patients,
      LA distensibility < 90% indicated left ventricular filling pressure more than 15 mmHg in our
      prior study) is less than 10% for 6 consecutive months. ROC curve analysis is performed to
      assess the sensitivity and specificity of the cut-off points of LA distensibility when
      predicting hospitalization for heart failure and the duration of hospital stay. Kaplan-Meier
      curve will be performed to assess the cumulative event-free rate according to subgroup
      analysis (guide group with sinus rhythm, guide group with atrial fibrillation and control
      group). To evaluate the effect of covariates on mortality and heart failure with
      hospitalization, relative risk and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated as hazard
      ratios derived from the Cox proportional-hazards model.

      Solutions to the Anticipated Difficulty The problem is to unify echocardiographic measurement
      of left atrial border in sonographers participating in this study. Therefore, the
      investigators will perform those measurement in 50 consecutive patients scheduled for routine
      echocardiography and discuss all cases to reduce the technique's error of measurement.

      Anticipated results:

        1. LA distensibility is useful for guiding the management of advanced chronic heart
           failure.

        2. The treatment adjusted by LA distensibility provides more advanced information for
           clinical physician. Therefore, it potentially influences patient's outcome. The
           hypothesis will be confirmed by comparison of the primary and second end-points between
           treatment group and control group.

        3. Although patient with sinus rhythm will be better to assess LA distensibility, the
           average of 5 LA distensibilities in patients with atrial fibrillation is possibly as
           useful as in patients with sinus rhythm. Subgroup analysis of treatment group according
           to whether sinus rhythm or atrial fibrillation will be done to assess the feasibility of
           LA distensibility.
    
  