
    
      Patients will be clinically and radiographically examined and their eligibility will be
      assessed Eligible patients will be treated in 2 visits

        1. Anesthetizing the tooth using inferior alveolar nerve block technique by local
           anesthesia of 1.8 ml of 2% Mepivacaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine.

        2. Removal of caries and/or coronal restorations completely with sterile bur and rubber dam
           will be applied.

        3. Cleaning the operative field, including the tooth, the clamp, and rubber dam sheet, with
           30% hydrogen peroxide until no further bubbling of the peroxide occurred. All surfaces
           will then be disinfected by a sterile cotton swab with a 5.25% sodium hypochlorite
           solution.

        4. Preparation of access cavity using another sterile round carbide bur size 3 and Endo-z
           bur.

        5. After completing the access, the operative field and the pulp chamber will be cleaned
           and disinfected once again in the same way mentioned above. NaOCl will be then
           neutralized with 5% sodium thiosulfate.

        6. The patients will be randomly divided into 2 groups. Intervention group (9% Etidronate
           in 2.5% sodium hypochlorite root canal irrigant /Dual rinse) and control group (2.5%
           sodium hypochlorite root canal irrigant).

        7. Confirming the patency of the root canals using stainless steel hand K-files size #10
           and #15. Working length will be determined using an electronic apex locator then
           confirmed radiographically to be 1 mm shorter than radiographic apex. The canals to be
           enlarged to size #20.

        8. The pre-instrumentation root canal sample (S1) as follows: a sterile paper point will be
           placed in the wider /largest canal to soak up the fluid in the canal with saline to a
           level approximately 1 mm short of the tooth apex based on diagnostic radiographs and
           estimated working length. The paper point will be left in the canal for at least 1
           minute. Paper points will then be transferred aseptically to tubes containing 20 ml of
           sterile thioglycollate broth.

        9. Mechanical preparation will be done using M PRO rotary files in an endodontic motor.The
           first file (18/.09) will be used as an orifice opener for two thirds of the working
           length followed by (20/.04) for the full working length and finally (25/.06). In-and-out
           motions will be applied with stroke lengths not exceeding 3 mm in the cervical, middle,
           and apical thirds until attaining the established working length. The first file is used
           with a continuous rotary motion at a speed of 500 rpm and torque of 3 Ncm. The second
           and third files are both used with a speed of 500 rpm and torque of 1.5 Ncm. The canal
           will be irrigated and recapitulated after the use of each instrument.

       10. The canals will be thoroughly irrigated with the allocated irrigant (5ml for 1 min)
           using plastic disposable syringe with needle gauge 30 reaching 1 mm short of the working
           length. All teeth will receive the same volume of irrigant (25 ml)

       11. The canal will then be dried by using sterile paper points and then flushed with 5 ml of
           5% sodium thiosulfate followed by 5 ml distilled water to inactivate the NaOCl. The
           postinstrumentation sample (S2) will be taken from the canal as described above. In
           addition, the periapical sample (S3) will be collected after cleaning and shaping by
           introducing a fine sterile size 20 paper point 2 mm beyond the canal terminus for 1 min.
           This procedure was performed twice. The paper points were placed in a sterile
           micro-centrifugation tube (Merck) containing 2 mL of sterile physiological saline
           solution, and immediately transferred to a -80 °C freezer until further processing.

       12. The access cavities will be closed using sterile cotton pellet and temporary filling and
           patients will be recalled after 1 week.

       13. The patients will record their pain level on Visual analogue scale & Numerical rating
           scale at 6,12, 24 and 48 hours.

       14. In the recall appointment after 1 week. Rubber dam will be applied and tooth will be
           disinfected as before. The previously sampled canal will be re-entered, flushing with
           saline and a second periapical sample (S4) will be taken. After the sampling, final
           flush with 2.5% NaOCL and 17% Ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) in the control
           group, and with 2.5% NaOCL and 9% Etidronate in the intervention group. Master cones of
           (0.40) taper gutta-percha will be fitted to the working length and a radiograph will be
           taken to ensure proper length. Obturation using resin-based root canal sealer. The
           access cavity will be restored with composite resin and occlusal contact will be
           checked.

       15. The patients will be asked to record their pain level on VAS & NRS at 6, 12, 24 and 48
           hours .

       16. The details of the endodontic procedure for each patient will be recorded in the
           patient's procedure chart

       17. Finally, the patient will be appointed after 48 hours to collect the outcome data.
    
  