
    
      Objective of the study is to assess if a two-year course of 1500 mg oral metformin is
      effective and safe in treatment of ADPKD, as compared to the actual gold-standard therapy,
      tolvaptan (Jinarc®) This is a phase 3a, independent, multi-centre, parallel arms, randomized
      controlled trial comparing efficacy and safety of metformin and tolvaptan in ADPKD.

      This trial will enroll approximately 150 tolvaptan and metformin naïve subjects affected by
      Type I-truncating ADPKD, as these subjects have grater probability of progression.

      The trial contemplates a 2 weeks screening period (included in a 9 months total recruitment
      period) during which 3 visits have to be collected (the 1st and the 2nd in three days, and
      the 3rd after biochemical analyses performed during the first two visits have been reviewed).
      The subject's eligibility for the trial will be confirmed by the mean of eGFR calculated from
      the 2 pre-treatment, central-lab, serum creatinine assessments. Longer screening periods (up
      to 4 additional weeks) are acceptable for subjects needing stabilization after changing or
      discontinuing other treatments, especially anti-hypertensives and diuretics.

      Once eligibility is assessed, patients will undergo non-contrast enhanced CT-scan of kidneys
      (if not performed within six months prior to randomization).

      Randomization visit will occur on Day -29. During this visit patients will be randomized (in
      a ratio 1:1 tolvaptan:metformin) to each arm of treatment and will start an IMP titration
      period (3 weeks from -28 to -8). Subjects not tolerating the minimum IMP dose will be
      considered "Titration failures" and will complete End of Treatment (EoTx) visit assessments
      and will be followed up after 7 days by phone call to assess any ongoing AEs. Subjects
      tolerating the minimum IMP dose enter the unblind run-in period (1 week from Day -7 to -1).
      During the "Run-in" phase, subjects will continue on a stable IMP dose to confirm
      tolerability over a longer period. At the end of the run-in period (Day -1), subjects not
      tolerating the minimum IMP dose will be considered "Run-in failures" and will complete EoTx
      visit assessments and will be followed up after 7 days by phone call to assess any ongoing
      AEs. Subjects completing the run-in will start the open-label 24 months treatment period,
      during which visits will be collected three-monthly. At the end of the 24th month, and in
      case of early treatment cessation, follow-up period (3 weeks from +8 to +21) will start,
      during which 2 visits have to be collected. No IMP will be administered during this period.

      This trial will enroll approximately 150 tolvaptan and metformin naïve subjects and will be
      conducted in about 11 Italian Hospital Nephrology Departments The investigators plan to
      recruit a total of 150 patients which are currently within the reach of the network
      coordinated by the proponent and composed by 11 Nephrology Centres. This network treats a
      total of 1500 (already genetically studied) patients of which the investigators expect (based
      on standard response rates recognized in the population) acceptance to participate in the
      study to a value of approximately 40% of patients that will be then allocated to the
      experimental and control intervention.

      The selected sample is adequate to evaluate a significant reduction in the slope of eGFR at 2
      years by 10%, which is a clinically relevant piece of information at the current state of
      knowledge, as well as a complete assessment of the benefits-harms trade-off of the two
      interventions.

      The trial has a 36 months overall duration, that include a 9 months recruitment period; has a
      2 weeks duration, it is included in the 9 months recruitment period. The treatment period has
      a 25 months duration. Each month lasts 28 days. It includes the 3 weeks titration period and
      the 1 week run-in period.

      The post-treatment follow-up: lasts 21 days. The total Study Duration is of about 3 years.
    
  