
    
      Over the past two decades, enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) has been initiated and
      developed in colorectal surgery by Kehlet. Studies have demonstrated that ERAS program can
      reduce length of hospital stay, hospital cost, complications and morbidity and improve the
      quality of patient recovery in colorectal, urologic, thoracic, orthopedic, and vascular
      surgeries by randomized trials and meta-analyses. However, the data in gynecologic oncology
      underwent minimally invasive therapy is scarce. Therefore, the aim of this study is compare
      outcomes of ERAS procedure with conventional treatment procedure, to provide practical
      experience and guidance for the treatment of gynecologic cancer in the future.

      The study is a single-center randomized control trial (RCT), and 80 cases of gynecological
      malignancy in Shanghai First Maternity and Infant Hospital from 2018 to 2021 will be enrolled
      in this research. All patients with a known or suspected gynecologic malignancy scheduled for
      laparoscopic surgery will be screened for study eligibility. Those eligible for the study
      will be approached for participation in the study and provided written informed consent. The
      randomization sequence of group allocation by means of computer-generated random numbers was
      generated by an independent statistician from Tongji University.

      For ERAS group, patients would receive an optimized preoperative, intraoperative and
      postoperative care, including extensive preoperative counselling, no mechanical bowel
      preparation, nonselective NSAIDs premedication, no preoperative fasting but with preoperative
      carbohydrate loading, tailored anaesthesiology, non-opioid pain management, early removal of
      urinary catheter, early postoperative feeding and mobilization, and postoperative antiemetic
      and analgesia management. For control group, patients would receive standard conventional
      procedure. After meeting the discharge criteria, patients would discharge and additionally
      follow-up in gynecologic oncology clinic at 2 weeks and 6 weeks postoperatively.

      Primary outcome measure of the study involves operation length(h), intraoperative blood
      loss(mL), intraoperative fluid transfusion units(mL), intraoperative urinary volume(mL),
      intraoperative blood transfusion(mL), postoperative vital signs, Visual Analog Score (VAS)
      scale, Post Operative Nausea And Vomiting (PONV) status, first exhaust defecation time,
      ambulation, length of stay, hospitalization expense, albumin and prealbumin, and
      postoperative complications. Apart from clinical outcomes, the immunological indicators will
      also be assessed, consist of WBC, neutrophil count (NEUT), C-Reactive Protein (CRP), CD3+ T
      cells, CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, CD4+/CD8+ T cells preoperatively, and on post-operative
      day 1(POD1), POD3, POD5. In addition, the anxiety and sleep quality indicators were analyzed
      by questionnaire preoperatively and POD5.

      For statistical analyses, categorical variables were described using counts and frequencies,
      and quantitative variables were described using mean, medians and ranges. Patients'
      characteristics and distribution were compared with MannWhitney U and χ2 tests. The level of
      statistical significance was set at P< 0.05. Statistical analyses were carried out with the
      SPSS 20.0.
    
  