
    
      The primary objective of this study is to understand the needs of SCD patients and health
      workers involved in SCD management, with particular reference to the disease management in
      the clinical centre. This is a descriptive, mixed method prospective questionnaire-based
      study.

      The study is intended as a pilot experience to verify the feasibility of the action through a
      structured survey.

      Two questionnaires have been developed: one will be administered to 30 SCD patients or
      parents/legally designated representatives of children affected by SCD and 30 Professionals
      working with SCD patients (mainly doctors and nurses) in four clinical centres in Nigeria for
      a total of 120 patients and 120 health workers. A focus group discussion will be run with the
      SCD patients/parents. Following the pilot study, a wider survey will be launched involve
      patients, parents and healthcare professionals in the whole country and in other centres
      involved in the project.

      Data for this study will be collected using triangulation methods. A simple random and
      purposive sampling techniques will be used to select respondents for the study. The collected
      data for this study will be presented and analysed using SPSS and thematic analysis. The
      study will be conducted in four centres in Nigeria: Barau Dikko Teaching Hospital Kaduna
      State University (BDTH), Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital Zaria (ABUTH), National
      Hospital Abuja (NHA), and Federal Medical Centre Katsina (FMC). The study will be performed
      in the framework of the "African Research and Innovative initiative for Sickle cell
      Education: Improving Research Capacity for Service Improvement" project (GA 824021 - ARISE -
      H2020-MSCA-RISE-2018).

      ARISE is the EU (Horizon 2020) 4-year funded project between European, African, US and
      Lebanon institutions for research staff exchanges, started on 1st of January 2019. Fondazione
      per la Ricerca Farmacologica Gianni Benzi Onlus coordinates the ARISE project.
    
  