
    
      Background:

      Within intestinal epithelial cells, some of the imported iron is incorporated into ferritin
      and other storage forms. A fraction of the iron taken up from the intestinal lumen passes
      through the cell, and is exported across the basolateral membrane to enter the body.
      Ferroportin, a metal ion transporter, serves as the basolateral iron exporter. Hepcidin
      regulates basolateral iron export by binding to ferroportin to trigger its internalization
      and lysosomal degradation. Each day, normal adults need 25 mg of iron to support hemoglobin
      production in maturing erythrocytes. This amount is much greater than the iron absorbed daily
      through the intestine. Obviously, iron needed for erythropoiesis must be acquired from
      supplies already existing in the body. The primary source of plasma iron is the
      reticuloendothelial macrophage system, which recovers iron from senescent and damaged
      erythrocytes. Other significant site of iron exchange is the liver.

      Dietary iron absorption is enhanced in response to insufficient iron stores, increased
      erythropoietic demand or hypoxia. It is diminished in response to iron surfeit and
      inflammation. Based on these observations, four different "regulators" have been defined
      functionally: 1) The stores regulator modulates absorption several fold, increasing it in
      iron deficiency and decreasing it in iron overload. 2) The erythroid regulator is more
      potent-it can increase iron absorption 6- to 10-fold when erythropoiesis becomes iron
      -restricted, result either from iron deficiency or from accelerated production of erythroid
      precursors. 3) The hypoxia regulator mediates an increase in iron absorption in response to
      hypoxia, to allow for production of hemoproteins that bind and carry oxygen. 4) An
      inflammatory regulator also exists, which acts to decrease iron absorption in response to
      inflammation. All of these regulators act through a common, humoral effector that coordinates
      intestinal iron absorption and macrophage iron recycling. Hepcidin plays a major role in iron
      metabolism. It is produced in the liver, cleaved from a larger precursor molecule and
      secreted into the plasma. Circulating hepcidin attaches to ferroportin expressed on
      enterocytes and macrophages, causing ferroportin to be internalized into the cell and
      degraded in lysosomes. Hepcidin is induced in response to iron overload and inflammation. It
      is turned off in response to iron deficiency , ineffective erythropoiesis and hypoxia.

      Polycythemia vera (PV) is one of the myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) and is characterized
      by marrow hyperplasia with an increased number of erythrocytes, leukocytes and platelets in
      peripheral blood. Several studies have shown that iron deficiency is common in PV patients
      and can significantly influence the quality of their life. These complications are a result
      of expansive erythropoiesis, in addition to phlebotomy and/or gastrointestinal bleedings. The
      role of JAK2V617F in pathogenesis of iron deficiency in PV is also very intriguing. Kinase
      JAK2 is involved in signal transduction via the erythropoietin receptor. EPO is one of the
      hepcidin synthesis regulators. Some of the data has confirmed that JAK2 mutation may be
      involved in the regulation of the iron status in myeloproliferative disorders.

      There are several reports in the literature on thrombotic complications in iron-deficient
      adults. Secondary thrombocytosis has been implicated in many cases.

      In addition to the increased thrombotic risk associated with high platelet count, the
      decrease in antioxidant defense in iron deficiency may cause increased oxidant stress, which
      in turn may result in a tendency toward platelet aggregation. The abnormal platelet count and
      function observed in iron deficiency anemia could act synergistically to promote thrombus
      formation. Iron deficiency may contribute to a hypercoagulable state by affecting blood flow
      patterns within the vessels because of reduced deformability and increased viscosity of
      microcytic red blood cell.

      Purpose:

      Incidence and effect of iron deficiency in patients with PV is not well characterized. The
      study will assess the incidence of iron deficiency at diagnosis and during the course of PV,
      assess effect of iron deficiency on patient symptoms and its correlation with disease
      features.
    
  