
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating metastases of the bone. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied.

      SBRT is an advanced technique that allows for more precise delivery of radiation than with
      standard radiation therapy. In comparison to standard radiation therapy, it allows us to give
      higher doses of radiation to a tumor while limiting the radiation dose going to the
      surrounding normal tissues. This technology has been made possible by advances in imaging and
      treatment capabilities on the radiation treatment machines. SBRT works just as standard
      radiation therapy works by damaging cancer cells.

      SBRT has been used to deliver radiation to people with cancer in the lung and those with
      metastases in the spine or liver. Studies of those groups have shown low rates of side
      effects with good rates of killing the cancer in that area and preventing it from coming
      back. In the current research study, the investigators are looking to further evaluate how
      well this type of radiation controls disease in bone and whether the toxicity (side effects)
      of SBRT differs from that of standard treatment. The investigators hypothesis is that
      toxicity might be less, as less normal tissue receives radiation with SBRT than with standard
      treatment. It is important to note that SBRT, just like standard radiation therapy for the
      participant disease, is being used to attempt to stop the growth of cancer cells in a bone
      metastasis and relieve or prevent any symptoms (ex. pain) associated with bone metastases.
      The goal of the SBRT is not to cure the participant cancer. The primary goal of the study is
      to see how well SBRT controls the disease in the bone, and the investigators also want to
      analyze its ability to control disease symptoms without added toxicity.
    
  