
    
      Background:

      The benefits of exercise are plentiful (1). They are physical, psychological and social.
      Exercise exhibits its effects on multiple systems through multiple mechanisms. These
      mechanisms are often poorly understood. Long-term resistance training results in many health
      benefits. It is associated with a reduced risk of low-grade inflammatory diseases, improved
      metabolic profile in patients with type two diabetes and the prevention of osteoporosis (2,
      3). The means by which resistance training achieves this is not fully understood. A study of
      paediatric patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease found that this patient cohort tolerated
      high intensity exercise well (4). Regular exercise could help improve disease activity in
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease by the release of anti-inflammatory cytokines from myocytes during
      exercise.

      Intestinal microbiota are now thought to be a key link in disease expression in humans (5).
      Previous studies have shown that aerobic exercise in obese adolescents has led to particular
      alterations in intestinal microbiota (6). These alterations appear to be related to the
      weight loss experienced. This may determine the quantity of weight and body fat lost by these
      adolescents.

      Persistent resistance and aerobic exercise also leads to changes in baseline immunological
      profiles, particularly cytokines (7).

      The investigators aim to explore the relationship between alterations in intestinal
      microbiota following a structured mixed cardio-respiratory and strength training exercise
      program and the correlation with changes on cytokine profile, percentage of body fat lost and
      disease activity.

      Hypothesis:

        1. A structured, 8-week mixed cardio-respiratory and resistance training exercise program
           results in specific changes in intestinal microbiota in inactive disease populations.

        2. For inactive individuals, changes in intestinal microbiota following an 8-week exercise
           program are associated with changes in immunological profile.

        3. Adjusting for the amount of exercise performed, greater decreases in percentage body fat
           are associated with the presence of particular intestinal microbiota changes after
           exercise.

        4. Enhanced disease control, mood and anxiety states occur following an 8-week exercise
           program. This is associated with changes in the intestinal microbiota and immunological
           profiles.

      Study design:

        -  Prospective, randomized control trial

        -  Interventional

      Following identification of appropriate patients and subsequent recruitment both IBD and RA
      patients will equally be randomized into 2 groups in a 1:1 ratio.

      The first group will enter an 8-week exercise program immediately and be measured at
      timepoint 0 - week 0 - and timepoint 1 - week 8. The second group will enter a delayed 8-week
      exercise program having first completed an 8-week period maintaining their usual levels of
      low physical activity. These patients will be measured at timepoint 0 , timepoint 1 and
      timepoint 2.

      Sample Size:

      The investigators will seek to recruit participants in the following groups

        1. Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn's - 30 patients total

        2. Rheumatoid Arthritis - 30 patients

      Randomization process:

      Subjects will be randomized into 8-week exercise or 16-week usual physical activity +
      exercise groups by their selection of appropriately marked envelopes containing the group
      number they are to be recruited to. Subjects will be recruited on a 1:1 basis to 8 week
      study: 16-week study respectively. Randomization will occur at the initial screening visit
      and will be witnessed by the subject and by 2 investigators.

      Intervention:

      A minimum standardized, mixed cardio-respiratory and resistance training exercise program
      will attempted to be adhered to. An individualized exercise program will be delivered with
      safety in mind. This program will be suitable for beginners and will be based around a basic
      "couch to 5km" exercise plan identical to that used in our previous research study, the ExMET
      study. In our experience participants enjoyed this program and progressed well, despite their
      baseline inactivity. Subjects are allowed to progress further than this program but only
      under supervision of the gym instructor or investigators. Free weights will not be included
      in the exercise program. For resistance exercises subjects will initially be required to
      perform 1 to 2 sets of 8 to 12 repetitions of 70% of their 1 Repetition max. This will be
      increased to 3 sets of 8 to 12 repetitions. An appropriate warm up will be encouraged to
      minimize injury. Gym instructors will be available on site throughout the exercise program
      for assistance if individuals have queries regarding their exercise program, recording of
      activities on FITLINXX or gym machinery.

        -  Type of exercise: Aerobic and resistance training - Options include walking/running on
           treadmill, stationary cycling, cross trainer, stepper machine for aerobic training.
           Resistance exercises will comprise 6-8 different machine based exercises focusing on
           core muscle strength as well as upper and lower body muscle groups e.g. chest press, leg
           extensions.

        -  Intensity: Moderate to vigorous intensity as per the Borg perceived exertion scale.

        -  Duration: 18 to 20 - minute aerobic sessions initially escalating weekly guided by
           standard couch to 5km protocols.

        -  Frequency: Three training sessions per week.

        -  Length: 8 weeks.

      Methodology:

      After recruitment, completion of the informed consent process and screening for inclusion and
      exclusion criteria, patients will be asked to attend 2 or 3 measurement visits depending on
      randomization. These visits will take place in the Clinical Sciences Building of Cork
      University Hospital. Confidential demographic data will be collected from each subject,
      including subject's sex, age, race, weight and height. Information regarding medical history
      and current medical status of the subject will be obtained. Validated questionnaires on
      medication adherence i.e. the Morisky adherence scale, physical activity and self-perceived
      stress: Beck Depression Inventory, Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale and State/trait
      Anxiety Inventory questionnaires as well as quality of life questionnaires including the
      SF-36 will be filled out.

      Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry scanning will be conducted to measure body composition
      including percentage body fat.

      Patients will complete a detailed dietary survey the Food Frequency Questionnaire similar to
      that carried out in a recent study from our centre (8). Disease activity of patients will be
      assessed through clinical exam and history. Disease activity index scores, Harvey Bradshaw
      for Crohn's Disease, Powell-Tuck for Ulcerative Colitis and DAS-28-CRP for RA will be
      recorded.

      Following these measurements and an appropriate warm up, individuals will undergo the
      Rockport one-mile walk test to establish a baseline level of fitness and estimated VO2 max.
      This sub-maximal fitness test entails participants walking one mile at a brisk pace without
      stopping. They are timed and at the end of the procedure the individual's heart rate is
      measured. An estimated VO2 max can be calculated based on previous validated studies (9).
      This test will be conducted under consistent and reliable environmental conditions at the
      indoor track at the Mardyke Arena.

      Following theses procedures and measurements, subjects will be familiarized with the exercise
      program and equipment within the Mardyke arena. Subjects will attend a 90-minute induction
      session with a dedicated gym instructor from the Mardyke Arena. During these sessions the
      instructors will demonstrate the safe and appropriate use of equipment, illustrating the
      correct technique for resistance exercises. In order to keep a record of all exercise
      sessions conducted during the 8-week exercise programs, participants will be shown how to
      correctly record their individual activity on the FITLINXX activity monitoring system,
      adjacent to each machine in the Mardyke Arena. Subjects will have ample opportunity to try
      out and practice on these machines as well as being measured for their 1 repetition max.
      values required for the individual muscle strengthening goals.

      Training program compliance will be monitored by examining weekly downloads of each subject's
      logged exercise activities in the Mardyke arena. For those subjects not maintaining the
      minimum exercise requirements, the subject will be contacted by telephone and facilitated to
      ensure progress matches the minimum standard over the following week. If this is not achieved
      or the subject wishes to withdraw from the study, they will no longer be involved in the
      study.

      Outcome measures:

        -  Change in Intestinal Microbiota and virome - Intestinal microbiota and virome will be
           sampled from faecal samples provided by the subjects. These will then be stored before
           being characterized and quantified. Bile acid profiles (faecal, blood and urinary
           profiles) will be analyzed at beginning and end of study to see for potential changes
           with exercise. This will be performed in the APC, University College Cork or Teagasc
           Moorepark, Fermoy.

        -  Resting levels of immunological markers (cytokines such as TNF alpha, IL-6) at time
           points during the program.

        -  Change in glucose and cholesterol profiles in response to exercise.

        -  Proof of change in fitness - Predicted VO2 max via 1-mile walk test (Rockport test).

        -  Change in percentage body fat - DEXA - Total body composition scans performed in CUH.

        -  Basic Biochemistry and Haematology including CRP and creatine kinase

        -  Weight, height, BMI and waist/hip measurements.

        -  Food frequency diary including alcohol consumption to be measured at week 0 and week 8.

        -  Urinary, faecal and blood microbial metabolomics measured at each timepoint

        -  Disease activity scores - these will be measured by validated disease activity indices;
           Harvey-Bradshaw Index for patients with Crohn's Disease and the Simple Clinical Colitis
           Activity Index as well as the and Powell-Tuck Index for patients with Ulcerative
           Colitis. For patients with RA the DAS-28 CRP score will be calculated.

        -  Quality of life, mood and Anxiety Scores will be recorded: The Beck depression
           inventory, Hospital Anxiety and Depressions Scale (HADS), the State/Trait Anxiety
           Inventory will be used to monitor changes in mood/ anxiety. The Short form-36 (SF 36)
           will be used to monitor quality of life change.

      Overall Statistical Data Analysis:

      The investigators have access to sophisticated biostatistical analysis platforms for
      generating associations based upon diverse criteria.
    
  