
    
      Cesarean section may result in great trauma and postoperative pain. Besides incision pain,
      uterine contraction pain is another source of postoperative pain after cesarean section. In
      clinical practice, a large amount of uterine contraction agent is routinely applied after
      cesarean section so as to promote involution of uterus and reduce postoperative hemorrhage,
      which also causes great uterine contraction pain. Acute pain is the risk factor of chronic
      pain, and may postpone the recovery from labour and influence the quality of life of
      parturient. Though various analgesia modules have been attempted, more than 20% parturients
      still experience severe postoperative pain, and pain management after cesarean section
      remains a challenge to anesthesiologists.

      Opiate drugs constitute the baseline medication for postoperative analgesia. However, pure μ
      opioid receptor agonist like morphine and fentanyl may induce adverse effects such as nausea,
      vomiting, dizziness, drowsiness and respiratory depression. Nalbuphine hydrochloride is an
      opiate-like substance structure-related oxymorphone, which is a κ receptor agonist/μ receptor
      partial antagonistic type analgesia drug. Specific κ receptor agonist and gene knockout
      experiment reveals that κ receptor agonist depresses the visceral pain induced by chemical
      stimulation, the effect of which outperforms pure μ opioid receptor agonist. Studies have
      discovered that some κ receptor agonists can reduce or inhibit the side effects of μ receptor
      agonist such as tolerance or dependence. The adverse effects of μ receptor agonist such as
      pruritus, nausea, vomiting, delayed gastric emptying are caused by the drug on peripheral
      opioid receptor, and can be relieved by opioid receptor agonist. The structure of nalbuphine
      hydrochloride is related to naloxone, an opioid receptor antagonist, therefore, the incidence
      of adverse effects of nalbuphine hydrochloride is lower than that of μ receptor agonist. In
      recent years, nalbuphine hydrochloride has become more and more popular in postoperative
      analgesia. There has been reports on intrathecal administration of nalbuphine hydrochloride
      for analgesia after cesarean section, while the effect of intravenous administration of
      nalbuphine hydrochloride on analgesia after cesarean section remains undetermined. This study
      aim to compare the effects of nalbuphine hydrochloride vs sufentanil citrate on
      patient-controlled intravenous analgesia after cesarean section.
    
  