
    
      At baseline, each subject will complete a demographic questionnaire (age, gender, date of
      type 1 diabetes diagnosis, current medications, other medical conditions, number of episodes
      of severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis since diagnosis of type 1 diabetes) and an
      anthropometric data form (height, weight, body mass index). A baseline stool sample will be
      collected at home. One tablespoon of stool will be placed in a pre-labelled sterile conical
      tube, placed in a biohazard bag and stored in the home freezer (-20°C). Stool samples will be
      brought to the laboratory on ice within 3 days from collection and stored at -80°C until
      analysis. Subjects will have a baseline blood sample drawn for HbA1c, C-peptide, and
      inflammatory markers (IL-6, IFN-γ, TNF-α, and IL-10), GLP1 and GLP2. An intestinal
      permeability test will be performed as described below.

      Subjects will be randomized to receive either placebo (maltodextrin 3.3 g orally/ day) or
      prebiotic fiber (1:1 oligofructose: inulin 8 g orally /day). Both are approved as food
      ingredients in Canada and not regulated as natural health products. Dr. Reimer has a 'no
      objection' letter from Health Canada and has previously used these in a clinical trial (14).

      Both prebiotic fiber and placebo come in a powder form in a pre-measured packet. Subjects
      will be instructed to mix the packet with 250 mL water until dissolved and to take 15-20
      minutes prior to their evening meal. For the first two weeks, subjects will be asked to only
      take half of the dose in order to minimize GI side effects and then they will take the full
      dose for the remaining 10 weeks. Subjects will be asked to record any diabetes related
      adverse reactions (ie. severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis). At the end of the 12
      weeks (3months), subjects will be asked to submit a second stool sample and repeat baseline
      blood tests and intestinal permeability testing. Subjects will be asked to return any
      remaining packets of placebo or prebiotic in order to assess for compliance. A third stool
      sample, intestinal permeability testing and blood sample (HbA1c, C-peptide, inflammatory
      markers (IL-6, IFN-γ, TNF-α, and IL-10), GLP1 and GLP2) will be done at 6 months follow up.
      Telephone contact from a member of the research team (research assistant or PI) will occur
      monthly to encourage compliance and recording of adverse reactions.
    
  