
    
      Hemodynamic monitoring is an essential part of modern anesthesia. Establishing and
      maintaining normovolemia during surgery is of high clinical relevance. Various studies
      suggest that dynamic preload parameters like stroke volume variation (SVV) and pulse pressure
      variation (PVV) are superior for interpretation and management of fluid status than static
      parameters like central venous pressure (CVP). Consequently, dynamic preload parameters have
      been integrated in recent guidelines for hemodynamic and fluid management.

      Animal studies have shown reliable results for SVV and PVV to discriminate fluid-responder
      from non-responders if intraabdominal pressure is increased [Jacques D 2011]. In contrast to
      these findings, van Lavieren and colleagues have shown an inappropriate increase in measured
      dynamic preload parameters upon opening the abdomen using a non-invasive and uncalibrated
      system (Nexfin™). The present study thus aims to determine the effects of changes in
      abdominal pressure on dynamic preload parameters (PPV and SVV) (primary objective) employing
      an established invasive hemodynamic monitoring tool (Vigileo®, Edwards Lifescience) during
      open abdominal surgery as well as in minimal invasive surgical procedures using
      pneumoperitoneum.

      Secondary objective is the effect of changes of cerebral oximetry readings during open and
      laparoscopic procedures and their relation to changes in cardiac index.

      Elective ASA I-III patients scheduled for open and laparoscopic abdominal surgery will be
      enrolled according the planned operative procedure (open abdominal surgery or minimal
      invasive surgical procedures using pneumoperitoneum) and assignment. 60 patients (30/group)
      will be included according to a sample size calculation based on the data by van Lavieren.

      Prior to induction of anesthesia an invasive blood pressure monitoring (radial artery) will
      be established and connected to a Vigileo® monitor (Edwards Lifescience). Additionally,
      bilateral optodes for the monitoring of cerebral oxygenation will be applied (INVOS,
      Somanetics). Ventilation, anesthesia and fluid management will be standardized.

      Hemodynamic variables will be recorded prior to induction of anesthesia, after anesthesia was
      induced, and at the initial time point of pneumoperitoneum/open abdomen.
    
  