
    
      Individuals at risk for coronary artery disease are often prescribed statins, which are
      medications that reduce the amount of cholesterol in the blood. By lowering cholesterol
      levels, these individuals have a lower incidence of heart disease, heart attacks, and stroke.
      Simvastatin and pravastatin are two common statins that are often prescribed for individuals
      with high cholesterol. While statins are effective at lowering cholesterol levels, their
      effect on mood, behavior, and aggression has not been widely studied. Preliminary research
      has shown that lowering cholesterol levels may lead to an increase in aggressive behaviors
      and a change in cognitive function. Serotonin, a type of neurotransmitter, is believed to
      play an important role in the regulation of mood, as well as behavior and cognition. The
      direct effect of statins on serotonin levels remains unknown. The purpose of this study is to
      evaluate the effect of simvastatin and pravastatin on mood, cognition, aggression, and
      serotonin levels.

      This study will enroll individuals who do not currently take cholesterol-lowering
      medications. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive 20 mg of simvastatin, 40 mg of
      pravastatin, or placebo for 6 months. Study visits will occur at baseline and Months 1, 3, 6,
      and 8. Height, weight, and waist circumference will be measured at all study visits. Blood
      and urine will be collected for laboratory testing, and standardized psychological
      questionnaires will assess cognition, aggression, mental flexibility, memory, depression,
      sleep quality, and quality of life at Months 1, 6, and 8. At Month 3, medication side effects
      will be monitored and a liver function test will be performed. Participants' partners will
      take part in a telephone interview at this time. At baseline and Month 6, some participants
      will undergo cardiac reactivity testing. During this procedure, participants will be
      videotaped and monitored for vital sign changes (blood pressure and heart rate) while they
      talk about potentially stressful situations.
    
  