
    
      Coronary Artery Disease (CAD) is the commonest cause of premature death and disability in the
      UK. Several demographic and lifestyle factors, such as age, gender, smoking, hypertension,
      diabetes and dyslipidaemia contribute to risk of CAD. A number of CAD prediction risk
      algorithms based on these factors, such as the Framingham and the QRisk2 scores have been
      developed and allow classification of individuals into low (< 10%), medium (10-20%) and high
      (> 20%) 10-year CAD risk. These risk scores have been used to identify and target primary
      prevention measures to those at highest risk. While targeting such individuals is clearly
      beneficial, because many more subjects are located in the intermediate or low risk
      categories, although their proportional risk is lower, in absolute terms more events actually
      occur in these groups. Improving the accuracy of risk categorisation for CAD is therefore a
      high public health and clinical priority.

      Inheritance plays an important role in the aetiology of CAD. The risk to an individual is 4-8
      fold higher if a first degree relative has died prematurely of CAD. The heritability of CAD
      is estimated at around 50%. In some, especially more recent risk scores, a "family history"
      of CAD is included in the algorithm. However, identifying a positive family history due to
      inheritance has significant limitations. Family history based on recall can be notoriously
      inaccurate. Algorithms vary in the age cut-off used to define a positive family history.
      Furthermore, an individual's family may not be sufficiently large (e.g. no siblings) to
      assess familial risk, family members could have died from competing causes (e.g. cancer or
      road traffic accidents) before manifesting CAD, or could have developed CAD but due to a
      strong lifestyle factor such as heavy smoking. In short, although a family history of CAD can
      be useful it is neither a sufficient or accurate surrogate for an individual's genetic risk.

      Recently, significant progress has been made in directly dissecting the genetic basis of CAD.
      In work led by the Principal Investigator in collaboration with national and international
      collaborators, over 30 common genetic variants (carried by between 10-80% of the population)
      have been identified that increase risk of CAD by between 5-30% per copy of each variant.
      Further variants are likely to emerge in on-going work and especially lower frequency
      variants that have more powerful effects. Individually, the genetic variants do not have
      sufficient discrimination to individually change risk prediction sufficiently. However, a
      Genetic Risk Score (GRS) based on combining the variants (adjusted for their individual
      effects) could be more powerful. Indeed, in a recent study we showed that there was a >
      3-fold difference in odds ratio for CAD between those subjects in the highest quintile
      compared with those in the lowest quintile for a GRS score based on 25 of the initially
      identified CAD-associated variants. This is similar to or greater than the strength of
      association seen with other established risk factors such as blood pressure and cholesterol.
      Addition of further variants as they are discovered to the GRS is likely to further improve
      its risk prediction potential. Therefore, recent discoveries on the basis of CAD now provide
      a framework for testing whether adding genetic information in the form of a genetic risk
      score can improve current risk prediction of CAD.

      To test whether a GRS for CAD can improve risk prediction requires assembling a large cohort
      of individuals representative of the general population who are: (i) free of overt CAD at
      recruitment (ii) who are assessed in a uniform fashion for their CAD risk (iii) and who can
      provide blood samples for genetic analysis and (iv) who can be followed up systematically for
      Cardiovascular Disease (CVD) outcomes. Such cohorts are rare nationally and internationally.
      Biobank UK (at a cost of > £30 million) has been established to address this deficiency
      although one of its limitations is that it is not representative of the general population.
      One of the key factors that inhibits the assembly of such cohorts solely for research
      purposes is the huge initial cost of setting up the infrastructure required to recruit a
      sufficiently large sample size. In this context, the recently initiated Department of Health
      NHS Vascular Health Check Programme provides a unique opportunity to establish such a cohort
      as all individuals in the appropriate age range (40-74 years) free of CVD are being invited
      to their general practices for a Vascular Health Check. The large number of subjects that
      will be assessed in a systematic manner for cardiovascular risk and who will all have blood
      samples routinely collected for lipid profiling provides an ideal scenario to add a research
      project that can help determine whether a GRS will be useful in predicting CAD risk. In
      short, the Vascular Health Check programme provides a unique opportunity to test, in a major
      way and at a marginal cost, whether in the future adding genetic information will improve CAD
      risk prediction.

      Hypothesis Addition of genetic information in the form of a Genetic Risk Score based on
      recent discoveries of genetic variants that associate with CAD will improve risk prediction
      of coronary artery disease.

      Objectives

      The objective of the GENVASC Study is to recruit (with informed consent) subjects who attend
      their GP practices to have a Vascular Health Check. Subjects will be asked to consent to:

        -  Providing blood samples for research (in most cases taken at the same time as clinical
           samples for their vascular check).

        -  Allow the GENVASC research database to hold semi-anonymised (no identifiable names) data
           on their CVD risk score calculated using conventional algorithms.

        -  To allow the database to be periodically updated with any CVD outcomes via GP practice
           databases as well as from appropriate national registries.

        -  To allow their stored samples be used for DNA and other analyses (again anonymised).

      The GENVASC Study will not interfere with the primary clinical imperative of the Vascular
      Health Check Programme. It will retrospectively analyse whether addition of a GRS would have
      improved CAD risk prediction.
    
  