
    
      Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a common cause of end stage renal disease (ESRD). Data from
      Indonesian Renal Registry (2011) revealed that 25% etiology of patients who underwent
      hemodialysis is DKD. Risk factors that are associated with DKD include blood glucose control,
      hypertension, dyslipidemia, duration of diabetes mellitus, high body mass index (BMI), age,
      sex, ethnicity, vitamin D deficiency, high sodium diet, high protein diet, and smoking.

      The roles of vitamin D that are related to kidney are inhibition of renin transcription
      process, angiotensin II, renal inflammation process, and albumin excretion, prevention of
      podocytes damage, glomerulosclerosis process, and transformation from kidney epithelial cell
      into mesenchymal cell. Current studies on association between vitamin D deficiency and DKD
      had shown conflicting results. It may be related to genetic factor which is vitamin D
      receptor polymorphisms. The vitamin D receptor polymorphism is affected by Cdx2, ApaI, BsmI,
      FokI, and TaqI gene, where Asian population is mostly affected by ApaI, FokI, and Cdx2.

      Several studies had reported the association between BsmI polymorphisms in vitamin D receptor
      gene and DKD in various population. Zhang, et al (2012) study revealed the association
      between BsmI polymorphisms in vitamin D receptor gene and DKD in Han Chinese population,
      while study from Vedralova, et al (2012) in Caucasian race showed opposite result. However,
      the association between BsmI polymorphism in vitamin D receptor gene and DKD has not been
      investigated in Indonesian-Malay race.

      This is a cross-sectional study that investigate the association between BsmI polymorphisms
      in vitamin D receptor gene and DKD in Indonesian-Malay race. The investigators collected data
      about study participants' characteristics, conducted physical examination and laboratory
      examination, which include BsmI polymorphisms in vitamin D receptor gene.
    
  