
    
      Large knowledge gaps remain regarding strategies to promote change in public child welfare
      systems (CWS), yet opportunities to evaluate strategies to create system-wide change and the
      resulting public health impact are rare. The CWS in the United States is populated with
      vulnerable children and families at high risk for negative outcomes, including substance use,
      risky sexual behavior, delinquency, incarceration, homelessness, and early mortality. This
      proposal addresses the National Institute of Health (NIH) priority to understand methods for
      "scale-up and sustainability of evidence-based interventions." Leveraging a real-world,
      federally funded, system-initiated effort to infuse the use of evidence-based principles
      throughout the multi-levels of the Tennessee CWS workforce, this study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of a supervisor-targeted implementation strategy in creating organizational
      change and subsequent positive family outcomes. The R3 Supervisor Strategy was developed to
      modify the way that the CWS workforce supports families toward completing their treatment
      plans, by utilizing evidence-based behavioral principles found in previous intervention
      trials to improve system-level outcomes, including child permanency, stability, and
      well-being. The R3 strategy provides training, consultation, and fidelity-monitoring to
      supervisors, who are centrally positioned in the system between caseworkers (who have daily
      interactions with CWS-involved families) and leadership (who make decisions that affect the
      organization in which families receive services). The three Rs include reinforcement of (1)
      effort, (2) relationships and roles, and (3) small steps toward goal achievement. R3 is
      founded on social learning theory; these reinforcement targets are encouraged in interactions
      between supervisors and their supervisee- caseworkers and between caseworkers and the
      families they serve. Utilizing a variation of a dynamic wait-listed design, four Tennessee
      CWS regions (serving over 12,000 children annually) that have been awarded a federal
      Title-IV-E Waiver and have opted to adopt R3 as part of their waiver plan will be observed.
      The CWS workforce (n = 85 regional administrators, 50 supervisors, and 220 caseworkers) will
      be recruited to participate in a Hybrid Type II trial of the effectiveness of R3 in achieving
      organizational and subsequent positive system-level, client-level outcomes. This project will
      examine the potential of R3 to influence supervisor interactions with caseworkers and
      subsequent family outcomes (Aim 1); the impact of R3 on organizational characteristics known
      to impact staff retention and the successful adoption of innovations such as climate,
      leadership, readiness, and citizenship (Aim 2); and the potential for maintaining fidelity
      standards to the R3 strategy as consultation and coaching are fully transferred to the system
      (Aim3). This project will inform the potential for R3 to effectively infuse evidence-based
      principles into the daily interactions of those involved in the CWS, and to narrow the gap
      for achieving outcomes for one of the nations most costly and vulnerable populations-families
      involved in the child welfare system.
    
  