
    
      The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma has increased dramatically over the past three
      decades. These adenocarcinomas usually arise from columnar lined epithelium of the esophagus
      known as Barrett's esophagus (BE). There is an established association between
      gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and the development of BE and esophageal
      adenocarcinoma. In an attempt to diagnose esophageal adenocarcinoma at an earlier and more
      treatable stage, efforts have been directed at identifying patients with BE and enrolling
      them in surveillance protocols. Several authors have challenged this strategy since it has
      not yet been proven to save lives and is very expensive. A major unresolved problem is the
      fact that the clinical factors considered to be somewhat predictive of the presence or
      absence of BE are neither sufficiently sensitive nor specific. In addition, once BE is
      identified, predicting who may or may not progress to cancer is far from perfect. A molecular
      understanding of why certain patients develop BE and why certain of those progress to cancer
      is of obvious importance.

      The molecular pathway from normal esophageal mucosa to Barrett's esophagus and on to
      adenocarcinoma is not well understood. Micro-RNA (miR) RNAs have recently emerged as
      important regulators of carcinogenesis and have not been studied in BE. We seek to confirm
      our ability to characterize miR expression in various tissues (esophagus, stomach and
      duodenum) obtained from the upper gastrointestinal tract in preparation for the study of MiR
      in patients with Barrett's esophagus and other inflammatory conditions of the upper
      gastrointestinal tract.

      This study will involve collection of tissue via endoscopic biopsy in 10 patients with normal
      endoscopic appearance from the esophagus, stomach and duodenum. Ambion miR oligonucleotide
      arrays will be utilized to profile miRs that are specifically expressed in epithelial
      biopsies from the duodenum, stomach, and esophagus. Total RNA will be extracted from
      independent biopsy samples using the mirVana(R) micro RNA isolation kit from Ambion. The
      Ambion Flash PAGE(R) electrophoresis system will be used to resolve mature miRs from the
      larger pre-miR species. Mature miRs will be labeled and hybridized to Ambion mirVana
      miR(R)arrays, which will be scanned to identify miRs that are regulated under these
      circumstances. Signals from the microarrays will be processed using the R functions of
      Bioconductor for normalization and background correction and RMA for summarization.
      Statistical significance will be determined using Insightful S+ functions and assuming a
      least pooled error model. Potential targets will be confirmed by northern blotting. The
      routine histology sample will be reviewed simply to exclude other, unexpected microscopic
      pathology. Benign histologic findings such as minor inflammation, will not exclude the
      patient from inclusion. If there is a wide variation in miR expression, then the histology
      might be needed to help explain such variation.
    
  