
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the safety and tolerability of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride
      (doxorubicin), etoposide phosphate (etoposide), prednisone, and brentuximab vedotin
      (CHEP-BV), as induction therapy in patients with CD30-positive peripheral T-cell lymphoma
      (PTCL). (Safety lead-in) II. Assess the anti-lymphoma activity of CHEP-BV as induction
      treatment in patients with CD30-positive PTCL. (Phase 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Describe outcomes of CD30-positive PTCL patients who go on to receive BV consolidation
      therapy post CHEP-BV induction with/without autologous hematopoietic cell
      transplantation/radiation.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Explore the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity (as assessed by
      next-generation sequencing) and MRD kinetics after CHEP-BV and BV consolidation therapy in
      CD30-positive PTCL.

      II. Explore the possible association between outcome after study treatment and CD30
      expression, gene expression profiles (GEP), and genetic mutations as measured in PTCL tumor
      samples.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) and doxorubicin IV on day 1,
      etoposide IV on days 1-3, and prednisone orally (PO) on days 1-5. Patients also receive
      brentuximab vedotin IV over approximately 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for up to 6 cycles (or for up to 5 cycles for patients who received 1 cycle of
      cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone [CHOP]-like or brentuximab vedotin,
      cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and prednisone [CHP-BV] therapy prior to induction, per
      investigator's discretion) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION: Between 30-60 days post-consolidative autologous stem cell therapy,
      post-consolidative radiation therapy, or after completing induction cycle 6 (cycle 5 for
      patients who qualify for receiving 5 cycles of CHEP-BV instead of 6), patients with objective
      response (complete response or partial response) receive brentuximab vedotin IV over
      approximately 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 10 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 6 months, and 12
      months.
    
  