
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity of cellular immunotherapy with autologous CD8+
           cytotoxic T-lymphocyte clones after chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide,
           vincristine, and prednisone in patients with relapsed or refractory CD20+ indolent
           lymphomas or mantle cell lymphoma.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the duration of in vivo persistence of adoptively transferred CD20-specific
           CD8+ cytotoxic T-lymphocyte clones in the absence and presence of subcutaneous
           interleukin-2 in these patients.

        -  Assess the trafficking of CD8+ cytotoxic T-lymphocyte clones to lymph nodes in these
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine immune response and tumor response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, pilot study.

        -  Leukapheresis: Patients undergo leukapheresis. Selected CD20-specific CD8+ cells are
           cultured to expand the cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), which are then cloned.

        -  Chemotherapy:

      Patients receive oral cyclophosphamide and oral prednisone on days 1-5 and vincristine IV on
      day 1. Courses repeat every 3-4 weeks for a total of 6 courses.

        -  Immune cell infusion:

      Beginning 4 weeks after the last course of chemotherapy (and lymph nodes ≤ 5 cm diameter or ≤
      5,000 circulating CD20+ lymphocytes/mm^3), patients receive autologous CD8+ CTL clones IV
      over 30 minutes. Courses repeat every 2-5 days for a total of 3 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The last 6 patients receive interleukin-2
      subcutaneously every 12 hours for 14 days, beginning 2 hours after the last infusion of CD8+
      CTL clones.

      After course 2 or 3 of immune cells, all patients undergo surgical lymph node biopsy to
      determine if immune cells are moving to the lymph nodes.

      Patients are followed monthly for 1 year and then annually for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 12 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  