
    
      This is a phase I clinical trial examining the safety, feasibility, and toxicity of
      gemcitabine and erlotinib when given in combination with capecitabine in adult patients with
      locally advanced unresectable or metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. This combination of
      drugs has never been used before.

      Screening tests will consists of demographics, a medical history, and physical exam, vital
      signs, height, weight, performance status, blood counts, chemistries, and clotting. There
      will also be an electrocardiogram (EKG), tumor measurement (computed tomography [CT Scan] or
      magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] or positron emission tomography CT [PET-CT]), cancer antigen
      (CA 19-9), and a serum pregnancy test (for women of childbearing potential). Tumor
      measurements are also performed after cycle 2, 4, and 6 (study end).

      Treatment will be administered on an outpatient basis and consists of both intravenous (IV)
      medication and tablets taken by mouth. The gemcitabine will be administered at Moffitt once
      per week for 3 weeks, followed by a week off treatment. One tablet of erlotinib will be taken
      by mouth continuously starting with day one of cycle 1 while capecitabine will be taken twice
      per day on days 1-14 of each cycle followed by a 2 week off treatment rest period. This set
      of treatments is called a cycle. One full cycle of treatment will last 28 days and a total of
      6 cycles of treatments are planned. Before each cycle we will repeat the blood counts and a
      brief physical exam (vital signs) will be recorded weekly during the first 3 weeks of the 28
      day cycle of treatment (when receiving Gemcitabine).

      An accelerated dose-escalation scheme will be employed with 4 planned dose levels. Patients
      will be enrolled at the lowest dosage level, if no patients have unacceptable toxicity, the
      dose will be escalated and additional patients enrolled. If one of the patients at a given
      dose level experiences a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), more patients will be treated at that
      dose level. When 2 patients have DLTs at the same dose, the dose will be deescalated to the
      previous dose and additional patients will be enrolled. After de-escalation begins, whenever
      patients have been enrolled at a given dose with at most 1 DLT, the protocol will be stopped
      and the dose will be called the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). Patients will be treated at the
      recommended phase II dose (RPTD) to confirm tolerability at that dose.

      In the absence of treatment delays due to adverse events, treatment may continue for 6 cycles
      or until disease progression. Patients may continue on the study regimen unless they
      experience an adverse event that meets the criteria for a dose limiting toxicity.
    
  