
    
      Rationale: Most surgeons at some point have used the "cut" setting on a cautery device to
      make or extend an incision. Anecdotally, there does not appear to be a noticeable difference
      in the scarring. This opinion, however is not shared by all surgeons.

      Review of the literature reveals a paucity of evidence supporting the use of cutting cautery
      vs. standard, scalpel incision. A study that objectively, prospectively, and randomly
      compares the scars between these two methods has the potential to alter the doctrine of
      scalpel incisions, potentially saving money, and allowing a safer operating room environment
      (one free of scalpels in some cases).

      Objectives: To objectively compare the cutaneous scars resulting from scalpel versus cutting
      cautery incisions using a subjective and objective scar measurement tool.

      Methodology:

      Research Design: This study will be a Blinded, Prospective, Randomized Controlled Trial.

      Research Participants:

      Comparison Information: The patient will have ½ of the incision performed with standard
      scalpel incision, and the contralateral ½ of the incision with cutting cautery incision. The
      sides will be randomized using a random number generator. For purposes of this study, the
      right side of the incision is defined as the patient's right side and the left side of the
      incision is defined as the patient's left side.

      Criteria for Discontinuation: The study will be discontinued if it becomes obvious that the
      cautery ½ of the incision develops increased complications relating to infections, wound
      breakdown, or scarring.

      Observations: The patients will follow up after surgery for evaluations at 2 weeks, 3 months,
      6 months, and 12 months. Patients, physicians and a blinded independent observer will
      evaluate the scars using a visual analogue scale at 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 12
      months. Also, at 12 months, the Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Tool will be used to
      evaluate all scars in order to provide objective and subjective scar evaluation. The subject,
      surgeon and blinded observer will complete this evaluation.

      Sample Size: 10 patients will be enrolled in our study. The data gathered from this pilot
      study should provide us with the data necessary to perform a power and sample size
      calculation for a future randomized controlled trial.

      Date Management and Analysis: At postoperative follow up visits (2 weeks +/- 4 days, 3 months
      +/- 2 weeks, 6 months +/- 2 weeks), the patient, physician and independent observer will
      evaluate the scar subjectively using a visual analogue scale measuring 10 cm in length. One
      side of the scale (the side nearest 0) will imply the poorest scar imaginable; the opposite
      side will represent the best. Measurements will be taken regarding width, and observations
      regarding erythema and pigment will be noted.

      At the 12 month postoperative follow up, the Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Tool will
      be used to compare the scars in order to provide both subjective and objective data.

      Ethical Considerations

      Protection of Human Subjects: Approval from the IRB will be obtained prior to beginning this
      study. All investigators have met federal and institutional educational requirements for
      Human Subjects Protection.

      Patients will be offered scar revisions at no additional costs to the patient on the "test"
      side. These scar revisions will be offered at 1 year if necessary.
    
  