
    
      Recurrent miscarriage has been associated with genetic, anatomic, endocrine, immunologic,
      behavioral, environmental factors and prothrombotic states; however, almost 50% of cases of
      recurrent miscarriage are unexplained.

      Angiogenesis and uterine blood supply are essential for both endometrial growth and embryo
      development. As a result, endometrial vascularity has been considered to play a critical role
      in endometrial receptivity formation and pregnancy maintenance. The development of
      three-dimensional (3D) ultra-sonography with power Doppler angiography provides an objective
      and reproducible way to determine endometrial-subendometrial vascularity , which may evaluate
      quantitatively the uterine vascularity microenvironment for the developing embryo.

      Few studies have shown the application of 3D-power Doppler angiography in assessment of
      pregnancy loss.

      The rationale behind the use of aspirin is that this substance, at low doses, produces a
      vasodilatatory effect by shifting the TXA2/PGI2 ratio toward the dominance of PGI2 activity
      through the inhibition of TXA2 production. TXA2 is synthesized mainly by platelets and
      induces platelet aggregation and vasoconstriction, whereas PGI2, produced at the level of
      vascular endothelial cells, inhibits platelet aggregation and promotes vasodilatation.
      Aspirin, at low doses, has been proven to produce the selective inhibition of TXA2
      production. In fact, TXA2 is primarily produced by the activity of cyclooxygenase
      prostaglandin synthase-1 (COX-1) at the platelet level, which is highly sensitive to aspirin
      inhibition. In contrast, PGI2 is mainly synthesized in the endothelial cells through the
      activity of both COX-1 and COX-2, which is insensitive to aspirin administration at low
      doses. Therefore, the administration of aspirin at low doses reduces TXA2 production without
      affecting PGI2 secretion. It is reasonable that the increased PGI2 vasodilatation activity
      can enhance uterine perfusion, thereby improving reproductive outcome. In addition, it has
      been hypothesized that aspirin administration can reduce TXA2 endometrial cell excretion. It
      is known that TXA2 levels at the site of embryo implantation are crucial for the success of
      pregnancy. The presence of lower endometrial cell TXA2 production has been demonstrated in
      patients who became pregnant with respect to those who did not achieve pregnancy. For these
      reasons, low dose Aspirin supplementation is currently considered as an effective and safe
      treatment option in the prevention of several pregnancy complications.

      Nevertheless, aspirin even when administered at low doses can cause gastrointestinal
      bleeding, as reported in studies using 30-50 mg daily. In addition, it has not been proved
      that enteric-coated or buffered aspirin is less likely to cause gastrointestinal bleeding
      than normal aspirin.

      The search for active anti-platelet drugs within the original chemical class of the
      thienopyridines, led to the discovery of clopidogrel, a novel ADP-selective agent whose
      anti-aggregating properties are several times higher than those of ticlopidine. The
      anti-aggregating properties of this compound are well known and, very recently, new results
      have clarified its mechanism of action.

      Clopidogrel is active only after intravenous or oral administration, and no circulating
      activity has been found in the plasma of treated animals or human volunteers.

      Experiments in rats have demonstrated that the anti-aggregating activity was caused by a
      short lasting metabolite generated in the liver by a cytochrome P450-dependent pathway. The
      anti-aggregating property of clopidogrel is caused by an inhibition of the binding of ADP to
      its platelet receptors, and more specifically to the low affinity receptors, the high
      affinity binding sites being unaffected by clopidogrel. Several events in the ADP activation
      process, including adenylyl cyclase down-regulation, protein tyrosine phosphorylation,
      activation of the GPIIb-IIIa complex, fibrinogen binding, aggregation and release, were
      inhibited by clopidogrel and indicate their close relationship with the activation of a low
      affinity receptor by ADP. Thus, clopidogrel is not only a potent antithrombotic drug in
      humans but also a good tool to study the effect of ADP on platelets.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the effect of Aspirin versus clopidogrel effect on
      uterine perfusion in women with unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss with decreased uterine
      artery pulsatility index.
    
  