
    
      Number of Subjects:

      Estimated

      Year 1 10 Sites 80 Subjects Enrolled

      Year 2 13 Sites 130 Subjects Enrolled

      Year 3 16 Sites 170 Subjects Enrolled

      Year 4 and on going 200 Subjects per year

      The North American Scapula Consortium, NASCon is a multi center injury specific outcomes
      registry. Patients presenting to participating surgeons with Extra Articular and/or Intra
      Articular scapula fracture meeting inclusion criteria will be asked for their signed consent
      to participate in the outcomes registry regardless of treatment plan (operative or
      non-operative).

      Justification for stated number of subjects:

      The goal of this study is to capture as many patients meeting inclusion criteria from the
      enrolling sites as possible. The investigators estimate this to be between 10 and 13 patients
      per site, per year.

      Participating sites: Participating sites will be identified based on their experience and
      expertise in scapula repair, their interest in research, and their desire to advance
      knowledge and continuing education in this area. Initially, Dr. Peter Cole will personally
      invite new sites. Future site recruitment will be approved by Dr. Peter Cole and a selected
      board. Sites must have the necessary research infrastructure and be willing and able to
      follow all rules and regulations associated with Human Research requirements. They will be
      required to submit evidence of site IRB approval prior to initiation.

      Data Collection:

      Time point: Day 0

      Activity: obtain patient consent, x-rays, chart review, data pull from electronic medical
      record

      Activity conducted by: study coordinator at participating NASCon site

      Time point: 6 wks , 3 mos, 6 mos, 12 mos, 24 mos

      Activity: patient questionnaires, Range of Motion, Strength, and x-rays

      The following is a list of demographic and treatment variables that will be collected during
      the patient's initial enrollment visit as well as from the patient's EMR:

      Demographics: Gender, date of birth, dominant hand

      Injury: Inclusion indication, radiographic image, date of injury, mechanism of injury, side
      of scapular injury, ipsilateral UE fractures, other SSSC lesions, other system injuries, Ada
      & AO/OTA Classifications, prior treatment, and workman's compensation status.

      Surgical Data (when applicable): Date of surgery, operative time, estimated blood loss, other
      procedures, subsequent shoulder procedures required, scapula operative approach, type of
      implant.

      The following is a list of outcome variables that will be collected during each follow-up
      clinic visit as well as from the patient's EMR:

      General Information: Physical Therapy, activity level, return to work, pain/pain medication,
      complications, subsequent procedures, radiographic image.

      Range of Motion:

      A 14 inch goniometer will be used to evaluate flexion, abduction, external rotation, internal
      rotation on injured and contralateral shoulder.

      Strength:

      A handheld dynamometer (MicroFET 2, Hoggan Health Industries, Draper, Utah), which has been
      previously published as a reliable technique10, will assess strength in shoulder flexion,
      abduction, and external rotation on injured and contralateral shoulder.

      Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand questionnaire (DASH). 11

      The DASH was developed to measure physical disability and symptoms of the upper extremities
      in people with upper extremity disorders (hand, wrist, elbow, and shoulder). It is a 30-item
      scale that addresses difficulty in performing various physical activities that require upper
      extremity function, stiffness, and impact of disability and symptoms on social activities,
      work, sleep, and psychological well-being. The score ranges from 0 to 100, where 0 is
      equivalent to no disability and 100 is equivalent to most severe disability. The DASH is a
      validated instrument with established normative and minimal clinically important difference.

      SF-12v2

      The SF-12v2 is a multipurpose, short-form health survey with 12 questions. The SF-12v2 was
      developed in 1994 by The Health Institute as a shortened version of the SF-36 health survey.
      It yields an eight-scale profile of scores as well as physical and mental health summary
      measures. The eight scales include: physical functioning, role of physical functioning,
      mental functioning, role of mental functioning, social function, bodily pain, vitality, and
      general health. It is a generic measure, as opposed to one that targets a specific age,
      disease, or treatment group.

      Reporting of Results:

      Demographic data, treatment details, and outcome variables will be summarized through
      frequencies and proportions, if they are categorical, or through measures of central tendency
      (e.g., mean, median) and dispersion (e.g. standard deviation, quartiles) if they are
      continuous. Quarterly registry reporting will include enrollment rates, follow-up capture
      rates, descriptive summaries of demographic, surgical and outcomes data as well as a
      description of any safety events for which the membership or the sponsors should be made
      aware. Reports will be shared with the membership and study sponsors on a minimum of an
      annual basis.

      Publication and presentation of outcomes is expected in peer-reviewed orthopaedic journals
      and symposia, once substantial data collection and outcomes of ≥1 year post-injury are
      accomplished. Additionally, opportunities to describe the establishment of an injury specific
      consortium and registry, including experience, process and tools utilized in the development
      of such a registry, may be pursued by the membership.
    
  