
    
      The study will assess the clinical course, the outcome, and the immunologic response of organ
      transplant patients who have had COVID-19 (participants); The investigators aim to study the
      development of the immune response to COVID-19 infection to see if participants on
      immunosuppressive treatment, will establish sufficient immunity to protect against
      reinfection. The findings among participants will be compared to a suitable control
      population. In addition, the investigators will identify patients in our cohort who are
      undergoing clinically apparent infections and study their clinical course and antibody
      response profile in the acute phase (seroconversion).

      Control groups: Other current studies with matched protocols and WHO pooled data.

      Overall study design Part 1: Potential participants are all patients who have undergone solid
      organ transplantation (SOT) in Sweden will be invited to participate in the longitudinal
      cohort seroprevalence part of the study (approximately 1000 patients will be included). This
      part of the study is a single-center longitudinal cohort study that will evaluate the
      development of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in solid organ recipients at all stages after
      transplantation and study their disease course, complications, and death rate.

      The study has been designed to follow the best practices outlined by the WHO in their recent
      guidelines entitled "Population-based age-stratified seroepidemiological investigation
      protocol for COVID-19 virus infection COVID-19 v1.1". This will allow a comparison of
      symptoms, outcomes, case fatality rate, as well as antibody titers and prevalence, with other
      relevant control groups. Participant enrollment will be allowed for a maximum of 2 years. The
      duration of the study will be two years from enrollment. The last participant will thus
      complete follow-up a maximum of 4 years after the commencement of the study Part 2: The
      investigators will also do a retrospective assessment of transplanted patients in Sweden with
      PCR confirmed COVID-19.
    
  