
    
      Despite ongoing treatment advances for women living with secondary (metastatic, stage IV,
      advanced) breast cancer, quality of life (QoL) remains a crucial concern. Patients' diverse
      psycho-social and supportive needs are widely reported to be poorly understood and
      inadequately addressed.

      The LIBERATE intervention is a multi-component self-management, symptom monitoring and
      signposting website tailored to the supportive needs of women living with secondary breast
      cancer.

      Phase I of the LIBERATE project informed intervention development though several strands:

        1. Semi-structured interviews with patients and health & charity professionals explored the
           supportive needs and factors affecting the quality of life of women living with
           secondary breast cancer. This guided the components and content of the online
           intervention.

        2. A systematic review of online interventions in the context of advanced cancer was also
           conducted. This guided the design and delivery of the online intervention.

      The final intervention comprises five components delivered via an interactive website;

        -  A wide range of holistic health information specific to secondary breast cancer.

        -  Online symptom monitoring questionnaire generating tailored self-management advice with
           results available for clinician review.

        -  Case studies of a diverse range of women living with secondary breast cancer.

        -  Signposting to services and resources specific to secondary breast cancer.

        -  Support for others affected by a diagnosis of secondary breast cancer. The overall aims
           of the LIBERATE intervention are to better address the supportive needs and to improve
           the quality of life of women living with secondary breast cancer.

      Aims and objectives: In this feasibility randomised controlled trial, the investigators plan
      to test the complete LIBERATE intervention, including the clinical integration of users'
      symptom monitoring questionnaire results with their electronic medical records.

      The investigators aim to examine the feasibility, acceptability and adherence to the online
      intervention from the perspective of women living with secondary breast cancer and to explore
      the effect of the intervention on their quality of life and self-efficacy in managing their
      cancer. The investigators aim to determine effect sizes to inform a potential future larger
      scale randomised controlled trial.

      Eligibility and study design:

      Adult females with a diagnosis of secondary breast cancer and access to the internet who are
      receiving their care at St James' University Hospital, Leeds, will be eligible to take part
      in this study.

      This study will be a prospective randomised controlled feasibility trial using a waiting list
      control design, repeated measures and mixed methods. Participants will be randomised
      (following a 1:1 randomisation strategy) to either receive the intervention or to be assigned
      to a waiting list to receive access to the intervention following study completion. Those on
      the waiting list will receive care and support as usual during the study period. The
      investigators aim to recruit a maximum of 30 patients to the study.

      Participants in the intervention arm will receive training to navigate the LIBERATE website
      and complete the online symptom monitoring questionnaires from home. They will be free to use
      the website as much or as little as they choose over the 12 week study period. They will be
      reminded to complete a symptom monitoring questionnaire at least once per week. Their health
      professionals will be able to view the results of their symptom monitoring questionnaires and
      act on the information accordingly. Alerts will also be sent out to the relevant clinician
      when patients report any severe symptoms.

      All participants (within both the intervention and the waiting list control arm) will
      complete paper-based self-report questionnaires measuring quality of life and self-efficacy
      at baseline and at 12 weeks.

      A separate single-arm sub study will also recruit approximately 15 women with secondary
      breast cancer (bringing the overall recruitment target to 45) who are being cared for outside
      of the Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust. The aim of this study is to explore whether
      participants outside of Leeds find symptom monitoring and the overall website useful without
      the function for linking to their medical records. Participants will fill in questionnaires
      asking about their QoL and confidence in self-managing their cancer before and after the
      study.

      Study measures:

      This study will use a range outcome measures to compare the LIBERATE intervention with care
      as usual (waiting list control):

      Patient reported outcome measures: Validated questionnaires will be used to measure quality
      of life (EQ-5D-5L and FACT-B) and self-efficacy (CBI-B and SEMCD-6).

      Clinical process measures: including number of clinician alerts generated, number of Clinical
      Nurse Specialist contacts in intervention period, calls to hospital and number of visits to
      hospital during intervention period.

      End of study interviews: semi-structured interviews with participants and health
      professionals will explore acceptance and experiences of using the LIBERATE intervention.

      Overall findings will determine the feasibility and value of a self-management,
      symptom-monitoring and signposting website as a supportive intervention for women living with
      and being treated for secondary breast cancer.
    
  