
    
      The age pyramid of the world population is changing, and as it does so, the percentage of
      elderly people is rapidly increasing. As one advances in age, it has been found that they
      tend to sleep latency later, have reduced time spent within crucial rapid eye movement (REM)
      sleep, and have reduced total duration and quality of sleep and sleep-related problems start
      to occur. The National Sleep Foundation The national sleep federation recommends 7-8 hours of
      sleep per day for the elderly. However, many elderly report that they sleep less than
      recommended and have difficulty sleep latency.

      Sleeping is a significant action that affects individuals' daily lives as well as their
      quality of life. Sleep is required to meet the basic needs of daily life and comprises
      physiological, psychological, environmental and sociocultural dimensions. Sleep quality,
      which has been considered as increasingly significant in recent years, can be defined as
      feeling physically-fit, refreshed, and ready for a new day when waking up. Sleep quality
      consists of several quantitative aspects and measurements of sleep itself, such as the
      duration before sleep latency, the duration of sleep, the number of times a person wakes up
      in the night, as well as more subjective aspects such as the depth of sleep and the relaxing
      characteristic of sleep.

      Such sleep-related problems may negatively affect an individual's comfort. Comfort is a basic
      need that comprises one of the cornerstones of holistic nursing care practice. Accordingly,
      solving sleep-related problems, increasing sleep quality, and ensuring comfort for the
      individuals concerned will require comprehensive nursing care. Pharmacological methods are
      the most commonly used approach in trying to resolve sleep-related problems. However, these
      methods have been insufficient as they do not provide a complete solution for sleep-related
      problems. Additionally, the side effects of these methods, which are obligatory for the
      affected individuals, are numerous, and this has paved the way for the development of
      non-pharmacological treatment methods. Relevant literature indicates methods such as eye
      masks, music therapy, massages, alternative and supplementary therapies, aromatherapy, and
      warm foot bath have all been successfully used to solve sleep-related problems among elderly
      people, thereby boosting their sleep quality and comfort.

      Warm foot bath causes peripheral vasodilation and decreases core body temperatures. A
      negative relationship was found between core body temperature and inclination to sleep.
      Individuals' sleep latency decreases when body core temperature decreases thus, individuals'
      sleep quality and comfort level are increased. Warm foot bath as a non-pharmacological
      methods is a more practical and less expensive approach when compared with others.

      The relevant literature demonstrated that the number of studies examining sleep quality and
      comfort among elderly people was limited. The literature included some studies that examined
      the use of relaxation exercises, back-massage practices, aromatherapy, and music therapy to
      improve sleep quality and comfort. However, the number of studies examining the effect of
      warm foot bath on sleep quality was found to be limited . The purpose of the trial was to
      investigate the effect of a warm foot bath on sleep quality and comfort level among elderly
      individuals with sleep problems. Our primary hypothesis was that the sleep quality of the
      intervention group would be better after 6 weeks than the control group. The secondary
      hypotheses were that the comfort levels of the intervention group would be better after 6
      weeks than the control group
    
  