
    
      Overweight and obesity is rapidly increasing in most countries, including Norway, and at
      present there is controversy regarding what diet should be recommended for reducing weight
      and the complications of obesity.

      The present study is performed in in 200 overweight and moderate obese individuals, that is
      in men with body mass index (BMI) from 28 to 40, and women with BMI 28-35. To be included,
      the participants should also have at least one component of the metabolic syndrome.

      After a medical examination and check for inclusion and exclusion criteria, the participants
      are randomized to one the two following diets: 1) A low-glycemic load diet aiming at a
      macronutrient composition with 25-30% of energy from protein, 35-40% from fat and 30-35% from
      carbohydrate or 2) A low-fat diet aiming at a macronutrient composition with 15% of energy
      from protein, 25-30% from fat and 55-60% from carbohydrate.

      Each group will have 9 dietary counselling sessions in the course of the study; baseline,
      week 2, month 1,3,4,5,6 and 9. Recommended total energy intake will be individualized based
      on the metabolic rate at rest for each subject, and using a physical activity level of 1,4. A
      500 kcal/day deficit relative to the daily energy requirements will be recommended.

      The primary objective will be to compare the effects of the two different diet
      recommendations with respect to the one-year change in body weight.

      As secondary objectives the study will compare the consequences of the two strategies with
      respect to 3, 6, and 12 months development of the variables glucose/insulin, insulin
      sensitivity index, number of metabolic syndrome factors, high sensitive C-reactive protein,
      lipids, lipoprotein B and anthropometric indices (waist /hip ratio). Serum will be frozen for
      additional parameters as leptin, adiponectin, ghrelin and ICAM. Also to be studied is an
      additional weight at 18 months follow-up, when no more advice is given past the 9-month
      visit.
    
  