
    
      After the eligible criterion for treatment has been met and a suitable UCB stem donor has
      been found, the patient will have a central line placed.

      Research Therapy:

      After placement of the central line, the following chemotherapy will be given to after
      admission to the hospital and before the infusion of the umbilical cord blood stem cells:

        -  9 - 6 days before the infusion: Total Body Irradiation (TBI) in two fractions ("doses")
           per days.

        -  5 - 2 days before the infusion: Cytoxan given daily for 4 days, over 1 hour as an
           intravenous infusion. Mesna will be given per standards. Mesna is a drug given to
           decrease the side effects of Cytoxan. It will be given daily as an intravenous infusion
           while the patient receives the Cytoxan.

        -  4 - 2 days before the infusion: Fludarabine given daily for 3 days over 1 hour as an
           intravenous infusion.

      Stem cell transplant (intravenous infusion of the UCB stem cells) - defined as day 0 of the
      treatment. All other "numbered" days relate to this infusion date. For example, Day 1 is the
      first day after the stem cell transplant.

      The following medications will be given to help decrease side effects from the chemotherapy
      and UCB infusion: Cyclosporine A (CSA) will be given starting 3 days prior to the stem cell
      infusion. It will be given daily over 2 hours every 12 hours, after the infusion and then
      tapered if no GVHD is present.

      Administration of Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) will start on the day the stem cell infusion is
      completed and will continue daily for 45 days, unless the patient develops GvHD.

      Intravenous immunoglobulin's (IVIG) will be given monthly until GVHD therapy is stopped and
      there is evidence that the patient's body is producing antibodies.

      Study Evaluations: Various study evaluations will be performed before and during the trial.

      Follow Up: After year 1, the patient will be asked to return to the clinic once a year for
      consultations and bone marrow tests. A follow up bone marrow biopsy and aspirate will be done
      1 and 2 years after transplant. Consultations with specialists will be similar to the ones
      the patient had before the transplant.
    
  