
    
      High-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2) therapy is currently indicated for treatment of metastatic
      renal cell carcinoma and metastatic malignant melanoma, and has been associated with a 5-15%
      long-term clinical response. In addition, IL-2 therapy is showing promise in treatment of
      acute myelogenous leukemia, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and breast cancer, and in improving
      immunologic function in patients with AIDS. However, the major dose-limiting toxicity of
      IL-2, hypotension, severely limits the usefulness of IL-2 therapy.

      Because of the unresponsive hypotension and loss of response to exogenously administered
      vasopressors, 20-50% of the patients receiving high dose IL-2 therapy require ICU management.
      These dose-limiting side effects frequently necessitate curtailing the full period of IL-2
      dosing in order to reverse the hypotension and prevent subsequent renal dysfunction. Thus,
      hemodynamic toxicities have limited the usefulness of IL-2 therapy. A course of IL-2 therapy
      requires long hospitalization and intense patient monitoring during administration. As a
      consequence, despite favorable long-term response, few sites offer this treatment.

      The availability of an agent that prevents IL-2-induced hypotension without adversely
      affecting the therapeutic mechanism of IL-2, would markedly facilitate IL-2 administration
      and at a minimum, would maximize the number of patients who could receive the full regimen of
      IL-2. The reduction in IL-2 toxicity may also enable higher doses and/or more frequent dosing
      of IL-2 to be used, with the potential of higher success of tumor response. Because M40403
      may decrease the toxicity of IL-2, co-administration of M40403 may make it possible to
      broaden the clinical use of IL-2 to conditions where it is not currently indicated.

      The indication to be studied is for use in the prevention or reduction of hypotension
      associated with interleukin-2 (IL-2) therapy in patients with metastatic melanoma and renal
      cell carcinoma.

      The study is divided into a sequential dose escalation phase followed by the expansion of the
      selected dose in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, evaluation phase. Patients with
      metastatic or inoperable melanoma and renal cell carcinoma will be receiving high dose IL-2
      per approved labeling as two 5-day sequences. M40403 will be administered by intravenous
      infusion over 30 minutes prior to each intravenous administration of high dose IL-2.
      Sequential panels of patients will receive increasing doses of M40403 along with IL-2 until
      an active dose is determined and an MTD is reached. Patients will be followed to determine
      the effects of M40403 on development of markers of IL-2 dose-limiting toxicity including
      hypotension, tachycardia, index of renal perfusion, cumulative dose of pressor required and
      cumulative dose of IL-2 administered. Approximately 48 patients will be studied.
    
  