
    
      Two groups of patients with mandibular body fractures indicated for Open reduction internal
      fixation alone or in combination with fractures elsewhere in the mandible or midface. First
      group will be subjected to traditional titanium internal rigid fixation. Second group will be
      subjected to custom made PEEK plates.

      Inclusion criteria:

      All subjects were required:

        1. Patients with at least a unilateral body fracture indicated for Open reduction internal
           fixation alone or in combination with fracture elsewhere in the mandible or midface.

        2. All ages and both sexes were included in this study.

        3. Patients should be free from any systemic disease that may affect normal healing of
           bone, and predictable outcome.

        4. Patients with good general condition allowing major surgical procedure under general
           anesthesia.

        5. Patients with physical and psychological tolerance.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Patients with high risk systemic diseases like uncontrolled diabetes . As uncontrolled
           diabetes has a negative impact on normal bone healing.

        2. Patients with old fractures. As they will affect accuracy of reduction of the fractured
           segments.

        3. Patients with physical and psychological intolerance. As psychological stress will
           affect the immune system and patient's fitness including healing capacity.

      Interventions:

      Eligible patients will be randomized in equal proportions between the study group (PEEK
      custom made plates) and the control group (titanium plates).

      A- Computer-assisted PEEK custom made plates:

        -  All cases will undergo surgery under general anesthesia.

        -  Exposure of the fractured segments will be done using a standardized surgical approach.

        -  The fractured segments will be reduced in normal anatomic position guided by customized
           plate.

        -  Fracture fragments will be fixed using PEEK custom made plate utilizing 2.0 mm screws.

      B- Conventional titanium plates:

        -  All cases will undergo surgery under general anesthesia.

        -  Exposure of the fractured segments will be done using a standardized surgical approach.

        -  Inter-maxillary fixation will be done.

        -  The fractured segments will be reduced in normal anatomic position guided by occlusion.

        -  The fracture fragments will be fixed using 2.3 titanium plate on the inferior border and
           2.0 titanium plate on the superior border utilizing bone screws.

      Follow up:

      Clinical evaluation will be performed at the first week postoperative. Computed tomography
      will be performed at the first week postoperative then patients will be recalled for clinical
      evaluation every week for one month. Final follow up visit will be at 3 months postoperative.
    
  