
    
      Background In 2016 the Danish Emergency Medical Services (EMS) introduced a nationwide
      electronic medical reporting system. This provided new possibilities for exploring many of
      the aspects surrounding the daily practice the EMS, including information on selective
      subgroups of cardiac arrest patients. The Danish out-of-hospital cardiac arrests (OHCA)
      registry is based on electronic EMS reports together with a strenuous manual validation
      process. The product is a solid base for identification and verification of OHCA. Whenever a
      cardiac arrest is identified, EMS medical reports can be accessed supplying information on
      the background, observations and treatments that can be extracted systematically. The gain of
      insight from this process, provide us with the possibility to explore several novel aspects
      of pediatric OHCA.

      OHCA is a rare event in pediatric populations with varying reports of incidence rates,
      ranging from 3.3 to 19.7 per 100.000 person years. Most studies, however, are centered around
      an incidence rate of about 8-9/100.000 person years. Generally, increased incidence rates are
      reported for infants compared to older children, and discrepancies in the overall incidence
      rates could partly be explained by different age-caps when defining the pediatric population.
      These inconsistencies unfortunately underline a general trend in pediatric OHCA studies, with
      different term definitions and data validation obscuring the overall overview and
      complicating more in-depth aggregate analyses. This calls for more high-quality data sources,
      including data validation, and a more strict adherence to standardized reporting templates
      such as the Utstein style for pediatric advanced life support (PALS).

      Unquestionably, pediatric settings of cardiac arrest embarks an inherent urge to perform
      beyond ones supreme, but though discrepancies exist, overall survival is reported to be less
      than 11%, with 30-day survival ranging from 8.1% to 11%, and survival until hospital
      discharge ranging from 2% to 10.9%. This leads to a potential for improvement, which requires
      first and foremost clarification of the most obvious causes.

      The etiology of OHCA is often categorized by cardiac or non-cardiac etiology as an object of
      prevention and post-mortem determination. However, OHCA in children are less likely to be a
      primary cardiac event. When the focus is solely on increasing survival, reversible causes is
      more often the focus and is labelled a key component of adult advanced resuscitation
      algorithms. The most commonly used denomination for reversible causes to consider during
      advanced life support is "H's" (Hypoxia, Hypovolemia, Hydrogen ion (acidosis),
      Hypo-/hyperkalemia and Hypothermia) and "T's"(Toxins, Tamponade cardiac, Tension
      pneumothorax, Thrombosis, pulmonary and Thrombosis coronary). Likewise, PALS operate in "H's"
      and "T's", and more often than not, prescribe a primary focus on hypoxia as the most
      prominent reversible cause.

      The investigators speculate that the EMS medical reports provide new and central information
      about etiology and, perhaps more central to survival, reversible causes of pediatric OHCA.

      Aim The purpose of this analysis is to describe the incidence, presumed etiology and
      survival-rates for pediatric OHCA within a four-year period in a Danish setting.

      Methods The study is a registry-based follow-up, including prehospital medical record
      registrations of pediatric EMS patients in Denmark in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 with cardiac
      arrest.

      Data source:

      This analysis will be based on data from the national verified Danish OHCA registry. In,
      Denmark all cases of OHCA with resuscitative attempts are immediately followed up with
      recording of specific data, including EMS reports, aimed at the registry. In 2016 the
      registry became electronic, as one central database enabling an easier approach to research
      on OHCA. The registry contains approximately 5.400 registrations of OHCA annually. These
      composed of active entries, as well as advanced text searches of prehospital patient charts
      maximizing the likelihood of identifying and collecting all possible cardiac arrests. In a
      large validation process, all identified cases are read through manually by an external
      verification team, ensuring a high standard of data quality. During this process, several
      additional data sources is coupled with each registered OHCA, notably survival, initiation of
      bystander CPR and actions from EMS personnel.

      Identification of pediatric cardiac arrests:

      The external verification team indirectly mark cases as pediatric, whenever a subject is less
      than 16 years of age at the time of the event. This together with age derived from individual
      personal identification numbers is used to identify all pediatric cases. All Danish citizens
      is provided with a unique personal identification number at birth, containing the individuals
      date-of-birth. Subjects reported as unquestionably deceased (late signs of death) at EMS
      arrival will be excluded.

      Identification of presumed causes:

      Three individual raters [MGH, TWJ and NB] will independently review all cases for an
      assessment of the suspected cause of arrest and assign a presumed reversible cause based on
      "H's" and "T's" alongside a free-text description for justification. Disagreement will be
      resolved by third party members [HCC, SM or FL]. If a case does not present with any obvious
      information indicating a reversible cause or with several competing reversible causations,
      the cases will be denoted as "NA" and "Inconclusive" respectively. If a case is obviously a
      result of a chronic disease and no reversible causality was possible the case will be noted
      "non-reversible".

      Variables included:

        -  Age: Age will be defined as the subject age at the time of the event. Subjects will be
           stratified into four age-groups, including; infants (<1 years of age), pre-school
           children (1-5 years of age), school children (6-12 years of age) and teenagers (>12
           years of age).

        -  Gender: Gender will be defined as either male, female or undetermined, and derived from
           personal identification numbers. In the expected minority of cases without a number,
           gender will, as far as possible, be defined based on EMS-charts.

        -  Initial rhythm: The initial rhythm will be defined as the first rhythm observed by EMS
           personnel, and categorized as either shockable, non-shockable (asystole), non-shockable
           (other) and undetermined.

        -  Etiology of cardiac arrest: Presumed etiology will be categorized as either reversible
           (including a subcategorization into the 4H's and 4T's) and non-reversible. Further, the
           investigators aim to categorize the preceding event, stratifying this into either; a
           medical cause, trauma, drug overdose, drowning, asphyxia, sports-related or suicide.

        -  Event location: This will be classified as either; private home, public space, outdoor
           nature or other.

        -  Observation of occurrence: Arrests will be classified as either unwitnessed, bystander
           witnessed or EMS-witnessed.

        -  Cardio-pulmonary-resuscitation (CPR): CPR will include bystander initiated and EMS
           treatment with CPR.

        -  Defibrillation and use automatic external defibrillators (AEDs): Defibrillation will
           include defibrillation by bystanders and/or EMS personnel, including the use of publicly
           available AEDs that have analyzed the rhythm without delivering shocks.

        -  EMS-response time: This will include the time between a dispatcher receiving the
           emergency call and the arrival of the first EMS-personnel.

        -  Hospitalization: This will be categorized as either; transported to hospital or declared
           dead by EMS-personnel.

        -  Return-of-spontaneous-circulation (ROSC): ROSC will be defined as cases achieving ROSC
           anytime between recognition of the event and termination (defined as either hospital
           admission og declaration of death by EMS-personnel).

        -  State at hospital admission: The investigators will define the case state on arrival at
           the hospital as either; ROSC or ongoing CPR.

        -  Survival: Survival will be defined as ROSC at the time of hospital admission, further
           the investigators will include rates for 30-day survival derived with data from the
           National Patient Registry.

        -  Airway management: The investigators aim to describe the airway maneuvers performed on
           each case by listing the use of nasopharyngeal airways, oropharyngeal airways,
           endo-tracheal intubation, supraglottic airways and isolated bag-valve-mask ventilation.

        -  Use of epinephrine: This will include a binary (yes/no) variable based upon the
           potential administration of epinephrine for each case.

      Analysis and presentation of data:

      The primary aim of this study is to provide a descriptive analysis of the reversible causes
      (H's and T's) in a Danish nationwide setting of pediatric OHCA. The secondary goal is to
      provide updated annual incidence- and survival rates. Descriptive statistics will include the
      variables listed above with a denotation of the absolute numbers with percentages and
      stratified in the specified age-groups. Comparative analyses, addressing between age-group
      differences, will be performed using non-parametric statistics. The data will be
      pseudo-anonymized all analyses will be performed on an aggregated nationwide level. The
      primary outcome is ROSC at hospital admission, in relation to reversible causes and
      age-groups. The secondary outcome is 30-day survival in relation to reversible causes. Final
      outcomes will be compared to a control-group of adult OHCA with an aim to quantify
      differences in survival including influencing variables.

      Pilot study:

      Prior to this study, the investigators initiated a pilot project based on available data
      (from 2016-2019) from the capital region of Denmark within the verified Danish OHCA registry.
      The aim was to investigate the feasibility of the proposed methods. The investigators
      identified 56 cases and were able to deduct a presumed cause in 73% of cases. Reasonably
      amounts of information was attainable from exploration of the prehospital EMS-charts. The
      other Danish regions will provide data with a similar setup, and hence the investigators
      expect the presumed methods to be feasible at a nationwide level.

      Perspective The descriptive part of this study will provide updated realistic numbers on
      pediatric OHCA from a thoroughly reviewed, high-quality database. In addition, a review for
      reversible causes will contribute to an understanding of the extent of cardiac arrests where
      focus should be extended to involve more than hypoxia, including associated survival rates.

      List of abbreviations EMS: Emergency Medical Service OHCA: Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest
      PALS: Pediatric Advanced Life Support CPR: Cardio-pulmonary resuscitation AED: Automated
      External Defibrillation ROSC: Return of spontaneous circulation GDRP: General Data Protection
      Regulation
    
  