
    
      Background and Rationale

      Apoptosis of retinal ganglion cell has been considered as the most plausible pathogenic
      mechanism of glaucoma. Apoptosis can be caused by neurotrophic factor withdrawal or glutamate
      release and both of them are triggered by elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) and ischemia
      simultaneously or separately.

      The topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, Dorzolamide (Trusopt*), has recently been approved
      for chronic use in the treatment of glaucoma. The ocular hypotensive effects of this topical
      carbonic anhydrase inhibitor seem likely to produce the same results as *-adrenergic
      antagonists. Systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibitors are known to have vasodilatory effects
      (Maren,1987). Rassam S.M.B., Patel V. and Kohner E.M. (1993) have concluded that
      acetazolamide causes an increase in retinal blood flow in the human retinal circulation. It
      has also been demonstrated that Trusopt* increases retinal circulation as measured by
      scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (SLO) (Harris, Arend, Martin, 1996). Furthermore, Trusopt
      increases arteriovenous passage (AVP) time and improves contrast sensitivity in normal
      tension glaucoma patients (Harris, 1999).

      Cosopt* (dorzolamide hydrochloride-timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) is combination of a
      topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and a topical beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agent.
      Each of these two components reduces intraocular pressure. The IOP-reducing effect of Cosopt
      b.i.d. was greater (1-3 mm Hg) than that of monotherapy with either 2.0 % dorzolamide t.i.d.
      or 0.5 % timolol b.i.d. The IOP-lowering effect of Cosopt* b.i.d. was approximately 1 mm Hg
      less than that of concomitant therapy with 2.0% dorzolamide t.i.d. and 0.5 % timolol b.i.d. A
      previous study showed that the retinal circulation (AVP time) was significantly accelerated
      after replacing Timoptic* with Cosopt* in glaucoma patients (Harris, 1999).

      Latanoprost (Xalatan*) is a prostaglandin F2* analogue which is believed to reduce IOP by
      increasing the outflow of aqueous humor. The retinal vascular effects of Latanoprost,
      however, remain unclear. While some studies have shown PGF2* to induce constriction in bovine
      isolated aqueous veins (Nielsen 1996), other studies have been unable to demonstrate an
      effect on retrobulbar flow velocities (Drance 1996). It is possible that vasoconstrictive
      properties of the drug may produce a negative impact on previously ischemic retinal tissue or
      at best no change.

      In a recent study comparing Trusopt® with Xalatan® some very encouraging results emerged, AVP
      time was significantly reduced with Trusopt®, but not with Xalatan® despite the fact that
      Xalatan® increases perfusion pressure (due to IOP) more than Trusopt®. This is the strongest
      evidence so far of a pressure independent effect of Trusopt® on ocular blood flow.

      Objectives

        -  To compare the IOP efficacy of Cosopt® and Xalacom® on IOP.

        -  To determine the perfusion pressure effect of Cosopt® and Xalacom®.

        -  To determine the blood flow effect of the two drugs on the ophthalmic, central retinal
           and short posterior ciliary arteries, using Color Doppler Imaging (CDI).
    
  