
    
      Rationale: Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) in patients diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral
      sclerosis (ALS) is nowadays common practice to provide comfort at the end stage of the
      disease. As complaints vary there is the need of a non-invasive device to measure respiratory
      volume to objectify complaints.

      The ExSpiron© is a device for non-invasive monitoring of respiratory volume. The validation
      of this monitor in patients with ALS is the aim of this study.

      The hypothesis is that the ExSpiron© delivers a valid assessment of respiratory volume in
      patients with ALS Objective: The primary objective is the validation of the ExSpiron©
      non-invasive monitor in patients diagnosed with ALS.

      Study design: This is an intervention study The validation of the ExSpiron© in patients
      diagnosed with ALS is done during admission on the Respiratory Care Unit (RCU) of the
      University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG). At daytime, tidal volume (TV) and minute volume
      (MV) will be measured during spontaneous breathing with the ExSpiron© simultaneously with a
      pneumotachometer (gold-standard). After installation of the chest pad of the ExSpiron© and
      the pneumotachometer, the first measurements are in sitting position. Three complete cycles
      of ten breaths; normal breathing, slow-deep breathing and rapid-shallow breathing, will be
      done. Between each cycle, a pause is allowed. After completing this breathing sequence, it is
      repeated in supine position. If patients are not able to perform this in supine position,
      because of orthopnea, an angle of 45º degree is adequate. After completing this cycle, the
      chest pad should be left in place and the electromyography (EMG) equipment should be
      installed. During the first night of admission, a full night of measurement of TV and MV will
      be conducted using the ExSpiron©.

      Study population: 10 patients diagnosed with ALS and an indication to start NIV, >18 years of
      age.

      Intervention (if applicable): The ExSpiron© is a device for non-invasive monitoring of tidal
      volumes and minute ventilation in non-intubated patients by using a disposable chest pad.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main endpoint is the validation of the ExSpiron© in
      patients diagnosed with ALS and screened positive for starting NIV.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: NIV has no known serious side effects. ALS patients differ in starting NIV is
      done on the RCU while patients are monitored as standard care, the ExSpiron© is not an extra
      risk complaints but those screened positive to start NIV are not associated with risks. The
      intervention product, ExSpiron© is a non-invasive monitor with a chest pad attached to the
      patient.
    
  