
    
      1. AIM The aim of BRAHIT is to test a new model of care for patients with heart failure in
           Rio de Janeiro since the investigators can apply well-defined international guidelines
           for high-quality management of heart failure patients as success criteria, which have
           been endorsed and adapted in Brazil. Ultimately to provide a policy advice for
           innovative health management with telemedicine.

        2. BACKGROUND Previous clinical trials that have randomized patients to conventional care
           or home monitoring with telemedicine solutions have failed to demonstrate a benefit of
           telemedicine. This is probably due to a selection bias. Accordingly, if only patients
           with high e-literacy, education and social level are selected for participating in
           telemedicine studies, it is probable that they have maximum advantage from any
           treatment, thus making it difficult to assess a benefit with telemedicine. In contrast,
           weaker patients who truly need a close care remain out of reach for cardiology
           expertise, remaining under primary care management, with scarce resources.

           Another problem is that, once the participants have access to the new healthcare
           management to be studied, conventional management gets unavoidably changed and
           comparison is no longer possible. Therefore, in BRAHIT, randomization will not occur at
           the individual patient level, but through cluster randomization at the organizational
           level of the primary care clinics. Successful multifaceted programs for heart failure
           are based on multiple visits to cardiology outpatient clinics, and patients can be
           safely transferred to Primary Care, but can be too strenuous for frail patients or
           impossible in remote areas BRAHIT includes quality indicators that allow monitoring
           quality of care; telemedicine-based tools for patient education, to enhance e-health
           literacy and innovative communication and data-exchange to support integrated care
           between health sectors. Telemedicine in BRAHIT can bring cardiology expertise to
           socially frail patients and, thereby, overcome social inequality.

           The Brazilian primary care sector is challenged with long waiting lists for referrals to
           specialist visits, elective surgeries, and to access higher technology services . This
           is aggravated in the last years, as Brazil is facing austerity measures.

           The Brazilian primary Health Care Model has evolved to almost 60% coverage, based on
           Family Health Teams, composed by specialized general practitioners, a nurse, nursing
           technicians and community health agents, while the rest are Family Health Teams with
           "generalists" (under-graduated physicians).

           The municipality of Rio de Janeiro, as it is particularly suitable for this project,
           with roughly six million habitants and a large social and cultural diversity. About 80%
           of the population has access to internet, electronic medical records and communication
           and information technology and Homecare teams are able to use social media and blogs in
           communicating with the local population. Therefore, it is feasible to use telemedicine
           communication in association with homecare teams to reach the entire population living
           in Rio de Janeiro. Furthermore, in BRAHIT, Primary care physicians training programs on
           heart failure will be based on action mapping, with adaptive technology-enhanced
           distance learning.

        3. METHODS Participants Patients discharged from Instituto Nacional de Cardiologia (INC)
           with the heart failure as the primary reason for admittance (ICD-10): (DI-11.0, 13.0,
           42.0, 42.6, 42.9, 50.0, 50.1, 50.9).

           Background population Rio de Janeiro State has nowadays 2,888 family health/homecare
           teams , covering 9,695,782 (57.99%) people of the State Population, and Rio de Janeiro
           municipality has 1.164 Family Health Teams, covering 4,016,835 people (61.61%) of the
           city population.

           Hypothesis A new collaboration model across sectors, using telemedicine aid, can improve
           the quality of care management of chronic heart disease, and reach out to weak patients.
           Concretely, the investigators test the hypothesis that the proportion of patients
           receiving correct medications for heart failure will increase from 30% to 60% in
           patients managed according to the BRAHIT model.

           Furthermore, the investigators hypothesize, that use of the BRAHIT model will result in
           a reduction of number of readmissions for heart failure within 90 days after discharge
           from 50% (current proportion of readmissions) to 30% (secondary end-point).

           Project design Since BRAHIT intends a complex public health intervention, it is
           necessary to apply mixed methods in a pragmatic manner to analyze the development and
           impact of the intervention. During an initial feasibility phase, unmet needs will be
           described based on ethnographic field observations on patients belonging to one Family
           Clinic that agrees to take a role as pilot-test clinic. Equivalent observations will be
           registered from patients discharged from INC with the selected heart failure diagnoses,
           who belong to other Family clinics or Basic Clinics discharged from INC Hospital.

           Patients will be informed that new procedures are being tested at INC Hospital. Data
           will be gathered for all patients in current clinical settings. Cluster randomization
           will follow with telemedicine intervention or usual care stratified by Family clinics
           and Basic Clinics willing to participate. Patients will be followed according to which
           primary care the patients belong to. The patients will be informed on what cluster their
           Primary Care Clinic and invited to be followed, including interviews for at least one
           year, until the end of the study.

           Follow-up details

           To quantify adequate use of target medications in the subgroup of patients with heart
           failure and reduced ejection fraction, the investigators construct a Brazilian Heart
           Insufficiency with Telemedicine (BRAHIT) score based on changes of clinical parameters,
           where higher score indicates worsening:

             -  NYHA: improved or I (0 points) / no improvement (1 point) / worsening (2 points)

             -  Weight: closer to target or on-target (0 points) / no change +/- 1.9 Kg since last
                measurement (1 point), increase 2 Kg or more (2 points)

             -  ACE-I/ARB: Target dose (0 points) / tried but not reached target or not tolerated
                (1 point) / Never used (2 points)

             -  Betablockers: Target dose (0 points) / tried but not reached target or not
                tolerated (1 point) / Never used (2 points)

             -  Mineralocorticoid antagonist: Target dose or not indicated (0 points) / tried but
                not reached target or not tolerated (1 point) / Never used (2 points)

           Each patient record will have the option "unknown", when no data are available at each
           follow-up timepoint, to provide an indicator for data quality in the trial.

           Qualitative measurements Ethnographic observations throughout the study will be recorded
           and summarized at the end of the feasibility phase, identifying patient groups and
           elements in the process needed to reach the patients who have difficulties to receive
           specialized assistance when needed and an equivalent summary will be repeated based on
           subsequent observations until the end of the study, aiming to elucidate how use of
           low-cost technologies can equally reach frail and resourceful patients, regardless of
           the level of health literacy. Open-questions interviews will be conducted during the
           cluster-randomization phase to evaluate how successful the approach is from the patient
           perspective.

           Statistics These are a priori calculations based on expected outcomes, and they will be
           re-calculated based on the observations acquired during the pilot phase.

           Categorical variables will be described as absolute and relative frequencies, and
           continuous variables as medians (interquartile range) or means (standard deviation)
           according to the distribution of the variable. Normality will be evaluated with the
           visual inspection of histograms and application of the Shapiro-Wilks test of normality.
           Comparison of categorical variables will be analyzed with the Fisher exact test or
           chi-square for the relationship between intervention and outcomes, whereas continuous
           variables will be analyzed with the Mann-Whitney U test. To assess the relationship
           between intervention and outcomes the investigators will construct models of analysis of
           variance (ANOVA). These tests will be calculated as two-tailed, and p values < 0,05 will
           be considered significant. For evolution over time the investigators will perform
           Kaplan-Meier tests. The investigators use SAS, R and STATA.

           Sample size calculations for primary outcome Mortality and risk of readmission can be
           decreased roughly by 10% when patients are managed by multidisciplinary teams, compared
           to primary care management. There are no currently available data for an accurate power
           calculation for the population of Rio De Janeiro. Yet, based on the BREATH registry,
           almost 50% of the patients admitted with heart failure diagnosis are re-admitted to the
           hospital within 90 days after discharge, in most cases due to lack of use of relevant
           heart failure medications. Accordingly, 30% of patients in the cohort were admitted due
           to inadequate medicines for heart failure.

           Assuming a similar success to that dedicated clinics, use of beta-blockers, the most
           triggered treatment compliance due to side effects, can rise from less than 40% to 89%
           (Danish experience) or from 35 to 42% (Germany). Based on these effects, and counting on
           two parallel clusters, managing 26 patients in the novel collaborative BRAHIT model,
           there should be an improvement of adherence to the treatment from 30% to 60%, three
           months after discharge, with 90% power and a significance level of 5%. This shall be
           re-calculated with most recent data at the end of BRAHIT feasibility phase.

           Secondary outcomes In addition to the 30% admissions due to inadequate medications, many
           re-admissions may be due to insecurity from the primary care side. The investigators
           expect that the BRAHIT intervention provides a 20% absolute reduction of readmissions.

        4. PUBLICATIONS AND DISSEMINATION The protocol and the results of the pilot phase of BRAHIT
           will be published in international peer-reviewed journals, the latter according to the
           extended CONSORT checklist for quantitative measurements. The findings and the evolution
           of the project will be described following the Template for Intervention Description and
           Replication (TIDieR) checklist.

      Additionally, the project aims a high outreach through presentation in popular scientific
      media for the broader public and to publish a short policy advise that can facilitate
      implementation of the findings in BRAHIT.
    
  