
    
      General findings that have consistently been demonstrated in the literature are that activity
      tends to decreased during pregnancy from pre-pregnancy levels and that activity in the third
      trimester is less than in the first trimester. In non-pregnant patients, increase in physical
      activity and exercise has been associated with improved mood and self-esteem. Although the
      data in pregnancy is limited, available studies do suggest that inactivity is associated with
      worse mood. Regular physical activity is not detrimental in low-risk patients and in fact may
      be beneficial.

      Bed rest or activity restrictions are commonly employed interventions for women with a
      variety of obstetric complications such as preterm contractions, vaginal bleeding, and fetal
      growth restriction. There is no compelling data to support bed rest as an effective
      therapeutic modality. There has been some data that occupational work can increase the risk
      of preterm birth, but other studies have not demonstrated an effect.5 Furthermore, prolonged
      bedrest can have detrimental effects such as muscle weakness and increased thromboembolic
      risk, as well as negatively impact familial relations.

      The use of the accelerometer is an attempt to objectively quantify physical activity in
      pregnancy. The accelerometer assesses activity by measuring voltages, and can thus provide
      information on the intensity of activity. An additional advantage is that it can be worn on
      the wrist or ankle, whereas pedometers need to be worn on the waist for maximal accuracy
      which limits their use in pregnant women. This novel study would contribute to the existing
      literature on pregnancy activity that consists primarily of survey/subjective data to
      determine what correlation, if any, exists between activity and pregnancy outcome.
      Secondarily, the study will survey its participants to see if we can corroborate previous
      studies that have demonstrated a relationship between activity level and patients' moods.
    
  