
    
      Biodex Balance System: The unipodal stability protocol was used in the anteroposterior and
      laterolateral directions. The test lasts for 20 seconds with five levels of instability, with
      level six being more stable and level two more unstable. The participant performed an
      adaptation test with the system and subsequently assessed the performance of the balance in
      three tests in each limb between each 10-second test. This will be instructed about the
      positioning during its evaluation, being oriented to keep the gaze in the previous direction;
      Hands on waist; Contralateral knee flexed at 90º, foot positioning is referenced in degrees
      on the platform as anthropometric information provided on the participant. At the end, the
      results of the anteroposterior and lateral-lateral directions and the general index were
      collected.

      Weight Bearing Lunge Test (WBLT): The WBLT consisting of the use of a tape measure has no
      soil in which the participant will support or be evaluated so that the first finger touches
      On the tape and its distance to a reference wall for tape measurement. Required that the
      participant performs ankle dorsiflexion in CCF with the purpose of approaching the knee in
      the wall avoiding to remove the heel of the ground, that is on a marking.

      Y test: To evaluate the dynamic balance and reach of lower limbs will be used The test
      balance consisting of the evaluation of the participant's performance during the movements of
      anterior, posteromedial and posterolateral angle with the value measured in centimeters with
      metric tapes In Direction.

      The protocol performed six replicates for adaptation and one final repeat that is considered
      as a result of the test. For an earlier point, the reference point used is not support for a
      fixed reference point for the intersection of the conditions and for two other directions
      used. It is necessary that the participant be the same as the member farthest from the
      starting point without touching the tape. At the end of the seventh repetition is measured or
      value and considered the test result.

      Intervention: Participants are divided into three groups: Thrust Group in open kinetic chain;
      MWM group in closed kinetic chain and control group with placebo intervention. Allocation in
      one of the groups will be randomized by lot.

      Taken as applications of the questionnaires and initial evaluations (BBS, WBLT, Y Test), the
      assays receive a specific technique, are reassessed with the BBS and WBLT.

      Talocrural manipulation: The technique of talocrural manipulation consists in the application
      of traction with a high caudal direction. Follow with the participant in supine position and
      as two hands to therapist around the talocrural joint, fifth finger in the anterior talar
      region and the two thumbs in the plantar area do the participant performing a manipulation in
      the affected limb. It is not considered an audible cavitation presence.

      Mobilization with Motion (MWM): The Mulligan® concept-mobilized manual therapy technique
      follows the following protocol: the athlete is positioned on a stretcher with the limb
      treated in hip and knee flexion and the contralateral limb in knee flexion And neutral hip.
      With the use of a belt in the hip region of the physiotherapist and on a distal tibiofibular
      joint of the participant and bulkhead between the limb and the belt, they are placed as two
      hands of the physiotherapist superimposed non-talus for stabilization. With the posterior
      removal of the physiotherapist's hip a distal end of the tibia and fibula will be tractioned
      and maintained anteriorly, while requested that the participant performed an active knee
      flexion movement in a closed kinetic chain in order to force the movement of ankle
      dorsiflexion And thus, once the end point for the purpose, a mobilization will be held for 10
      seconds. The patient will return to the starting point resting for 20 seconds for a next
      mobilization. In all, 4 separate mobilizations.

      Placebo intervention: The positioning of the hand in the specific treatment condition (Thrust
      or MWM) will be accurately reproduced, however, without any movement or force being applied.
      All interactions, procedures and deadlines are identical.
    
  