
    
      In the literature, there are a limited number of studies on the effect of reflexology applied
      on patients undergoing CABG surgery on anxiety and physiological parameters. In addition, no
      studies on the effect of reflexology on sleep on patients undergoing CABG surgery have been
      encountered. Anxiety, stress, pain, fatigue, sleep disorders and permanent symptoms may occur
      in individuals after cardiovascular surgery. It has been determined that with the
      deterioration in the body system functions and the resulting psychological problems, the
      blood pressure, heart rhythm and the number of breaths in the individual, respiratory and
      coughing difficulties due to pain inactivity, body temperature changes, muscle tension,
      fatigue and even death can occur. With the application of reflexology, the work of the body
      systems is regulated by providing homeostasis, physiological and psychological relaxation and
      relaxation are felt with the energy flow that occurs in the body, and toxins are removed from
      the body. In this study, it is thought that reflexology application to patients undergoing
      CABG surgery on nursing care will contribute to the nursing literature by examining the
      effect of reflexology on pain, anxiety, fatigue, sleep and physiological parameters. The
      population of the study will be the patients who underwent CABG surgery in the Cardiovascular
      Intensive Care Unit and Cardiovascular Surgery Clinic of Uludağ University Health Practice
      and Research Center Hospital. The sample will be composed of patients undergoing CABG surgery
      in Uludag University Health Practice and Research Center Hospital Cardiovascular Surgery
      Department Cardiovascular Intensive Care Unit and Cardiovascular Surgery Clinic that meet the
      inclusion criteria. Data will be collected using Personal Information Form, Physiological
      Parameters Control Form, Visual Analogue Scale, State Anxiety Scale, Richard's Campbell Sleep
      Scale. The data obtained from the research will be analyzed using the SPSS (Statistical
      Package for Social Sciences) for Windows 22.0 program. Number, percentage, average and
      standard deviation will be used as descriptive statistical methods in the evaluation of the
      data. The t-test will be used to compare quantitative continuous data between two independent
      groups. Differences between repeated measurements will be analyzed by repeated measurements
      ANOVA test.
    
  