
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial with 5 parallel groups of approximately equal size. Two
      hundred subjects with increased waist circumference (≥84 cm in women and ≥98 cm in men) and
      at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor will be included.

      Four of the 5 groups will receive dietary advice (A or B) and 2 of them will be allocated to
      physiotherapy. A fifth control group will only receive usual care in addition to follow-up.
      Randomization will be performed by use of an internet-based random number generator from the
      School of Computer Science and Statistics, Trinity College, Dublin (www.random.org). randomly
      assigned to receive Diet A or Diet B, with or without a structured exercise program at the
      department of physiotherapy, or to a control group receiving usual care.

      In addition to primary (waist loss) and secondary outcome measures as given below, a health
      questionnaire will be performed at baseline and after 12 and 24 months with questions about
      general health, self-reported quality of life, medication use, living habits, physical
      activity, nutrition, tobacco, alcohol, personal motivation and perceived ability to change
      lifestyle. Furthermore, serum creatinine will be measured at baseline, and after 3, 6, 12 and
      24 months.

      There are few randomized controlled trials comparing the effect of different lifestyle
      interventions on physical activity level or weight loss in overweight people at high risk of
      cardiovascular disease. There is no such study of the possible effect of a structured
      exercise program with group training led by physiotherapists, with the exception of
      rehabilitation programs after myocardial infarction. In addition, the possible unique effect
      of cereal grains on satiety and energy intake has not been addressed in randomized controlled
      trials. In two earlier studies in glucose intolerance and diabetes type 2, we have applied a
      dietary model (Paleolithic diet) based on root vegetables, fruit, vegetables, meat and fish,
      partly at the expense of cereal grains (Lindeberg et al., 2007; Jönsson et al., 2009). The
      results showed a more beneficial effect on waist circumference than from traditional dietary
      advice. In one of the studies in 29 overweight men with coronary heart disease and impaired
      glucose tolerance, the decrease of waist circumference was 2.7 cm greater (p=0,03) in the
      intervention group (-5.6 cm; 95% confidence interval [CI] -7.2;-3.9) than in the control
      group (-2.9, CI -4.8;-1.1) during 3 months of follow-up (Lindeberg et al., 2007). In the
      second study, where the same dietary model was applied in cross-over design among 13 subjects
      with diabetes type 2, waist circumference decreased 4 cm more (p=0,02) during the
      intervention diet than during the control diet (Jönsson et al., 2009). There is some evidence
      to suggest that cereal grains may interfere with leptin receptor activity in a way that could
      hypothetically suppress satiety (Jönsson et al., 2005; Kamikubo et al., 2008).
    
  