
    
      Massive haemoptysis commonly occurs in patients who have had tuberculosis. While surgical
      resection of the affected lung segment can be curative, a large majority of patients may not
      qualify for surgical intervention for a number of reasons. This leaves them with few options
      to manage their haemoptysis.

      Many patients at Tygerberg Hospital have severely reduced cardiopulmonary reserves secondary
      to multiple episodes of pulmonary Tuberculosis and often present either a unilateral largely
      destroyed lung or bilateral disease, which make them unsuitable for surgery. For these
      unfortunate patients who do not qualify for surgery or repeat BAE, practically no treatment
      options exist, and a significant proportion die in hospital or after discharge from a
      recurrent episode of massive haemoptysis. For these patients the only option may be to block
      the bleeding bronchus (identified by the previous BAE or during bronchoscopy) with a balloon
      catheter (Fogarty catheter) or placement of haemostatic gauze or gel. All these procedures
      are, however, of limited benefit. Using a blocking device which could be deployed and left in
      place permanently or be removed if needed has become a new therapeutic concept. Dutau and
      colleagues reported the successful use of the endoscopic placement of a silicone Spigot in a
      39-year-old-woman with massive haemoptysis which prevented alveolar inundation preceding and
      during the time of bronchial artery embolisation.

      Our institution has a long standing experience in massive haemoptysis, clinically and
      scientifically. We evaluate about 80-100 patients with life threatening haemoptysis a year.
      Furthermore, we were involved in an early emphysema trial using the IBVEBV® (Intra-Bronchial
      Valve) of Spiration and have, therefore, the necessary experience with the valve implantation
      technique.

      No data are available regarding the potential clinical use of endobronchial valves in
      patients with recurrence of haemoptysis after BAE in patients who are not candidate for
      surgery or BAE.

      This study aims to investigate the use, therapeutic benefit and safety of IBV Zephyr® valves
      in inoperable patients with haemoptysis not responding to BAE or in cases where BAE is not
      considered feasible.

      This is a prospective randomised intervention-control study, with patients allocated to
      either best medical care (control) or endobronchial valve (intervention) groups. The valves
      will be inserted via flexible bronchoscopy into the affected lung regions. The primary
      outcome measure is the time to resolution of massive haemoptysis. Secondary outcomes will
      include physical and lung function and the occurrence of complications resulting from the
      insertion of the EBV.

      Statistical analysis will be performed blinded to patient grouping by a statistician, and
      both univariate and multivariate analyses will be performed using the appropriate parametric
      and non-parametric tests. Appropriate tests for categorical data (e.g. Chi-squared test) and
      continuous data (e.g. Kruskal-Wallis, and ANOVA) will be used. Logistic and linear regression
      modelling will be used for certain outcomes, and multivariate analysis will be performed
      using stepwise regression modelling and full modelling where appropriate.
    
  