
    
      Data show that nearly 25% of children aged four to eight years consumed fast food on a
      typical day. These trends in fast food consumption are more acute among low-income urban
      dwellers where higher rates of overweight and childhood obesity are seen. This has led to a
      focus on providing fast food consumers with point-of-purchase nutrition information, such as
      the calorie posting mandates, in the hopes that these decision cues will help consumers make
      better informed dietary decisions. Most children chose their own meals at the
      point-of-purchase. It is clear that additional strategies are needed to encourage the
      point-of-purchase use of calorie postings, however available studies provide little insight
      into best practices or the types of approaches needed.

      It is with this in mind that the investigator developed a school-based approach to improve
      point-of purchase use of calorie postings, by creating a novel intervention that targets menu
      board calorie literacy as a means of improving food-purchasing behaviors.

      Hip Hop Nutrition-Math Curriculum is a novel behaviorally focused multimedia, musical school
      health rap toolkit that targets what we refer to as menu board calorie literacy. 4th grade
      common core math standards are integrated into the program in a manner that incorporates
      evidence-based nutrition education recommendations by the Institute of Medicine and the
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

      The investigator proposes to test the efficacy of the integrative approach on food purchasing
      behaviors of children in an adequately powered, controlled trial. The investigator will test
      the intervention in the after-school setting among economically disadvantaged children and
      incorporate parental engagement in our outcome evaluations. There is a partnership with New
      York City's largest after-school program vendor, New York Edge (formerly called Sports and
      Arts in Schools foundation/SASF), for the implementation of this study.

      The goal of a health literacy intervention is to improve health decision-making and/or
      behavior. For this reason, the investigator will measure both menu board calorie literacy and
      food choice behavior at a point-of-purchase.
    
  