
    
      This is a double-blinded, randomized controlled trial evaluating the analgesic efficacy of
      infraclavicular regional blocks for postoperative pain control in patients following open
      reduction and percutaneous pinning for isolated closed lateral condyle fractures. Each
      patient will be evaluated initially at OIC's pediatric urgent care center and placed in a
      long arm splint with instructions to elevate the affected arm. Patients will not be
      discharged with any prescriptions for narcotic pain medication and will be instructed to take
      weight-based doses of acetaminophen and/or ibuprofen for pain control as needed.

      All patients age 4-12 with isolated closed Weiss classification type II and III (>2mm
      displacement) lateral condyle fractures requiring fixation (e.g. satisfactory reduction not
      achieved with closed reduction and casting) will be approached for participation in the
      study. Demographic data (age, gender, weight, height, ethnicity, primary language spoken at
      home, insurance type) will be obtained through chart review on each included patient.

      The exclusion criteria include open fractures, fractures with concomitant vascular or
      neurologic deficit, pathologic fractures, those presenting with concomitant injuries,
      swelling requiring post-operative hospitalization for monitoring, any known history of
      allergies to ropivacaine or oxycodone, and patients with developmental delay that would
      preclude participation in the visual analog Faces Pain Scale-Revised. Informed consent will
      be obtained from all parents who wish to participate in the study, and assent will be
      obtained from patients when possible. If parents refuse participation in the study, the
      reason for refusal will be documented, and their child's care and post-operative protocol
      will be consistent with typical protocol at OIC.

      All surgeries will be performed at the outpatient surgery center at OIC. Prior to surgery
      each patient will be randomized into one of two treatment groups. The group selected to
      undergo regional anesthesia will receive a single-stick ultrasound-guided infraclavicular
      nerve block to the affected extremity by a fellowship-trained pediatric anesthesiologist in
      the operating room using standard sterile technique. For each block ropivacaine 0.5% will be
      administered up to a max of 0.5 mL/kg until appropriate US-guided spread is achieved. Block
      duration and volume of ropivacaine used will be recorded, as will any immediate complications
      encountered (e.g. failed block). Participants randomized to the no regional anesthesia group
      will not receive any additional anesthetic prior to surgery and will undergo OIC's standard
      preoperative protocol. All patients in both groups will receive general anesthesia per
      standard protocol. All patients will undergo open reduction and percutaneous pinning using
      2-3 pins placed laterally by two pediatric orthopedic surgeons (Dr. Mauricio Silva and Dr.
      Rachel Thompson). Participants will all be placed in posterior long arm splints thereafter
      and made non-weight bearing in that extremity. The patients will be transferred to OIC's
      post-anesthesia care unit (PACU), where morphine IV 0.1mg/kg will be utilized as needed
      before discharge home. Nursing staff will record the amount of pain medication provided in
      the PACU, as well as the pre-discharge pain scores, as is typical post-operative protocol.
      Prior to discharge a prescription for oxycodone solution 0.1 mg/kg PO q4-6 hours as needed
      will be given to all participants in both groups with instructions on medication
      administration and how to fill out the home medication log as per typical OIC post-operative
      protocol.

      Post-operatively, the parents of each participant will be asked to use the Faces Pain
      Scale-Revised (FPS-R) to rate the child's level of pain at 24 hours and 48 hours after
      surgery. A research team member will call each participant's guardian at 24 and 48 hours
      post-operatively to collect these responses. Parents will further be asked to complete the
      modified Total Quality Pain Management Instrument (TQPM) regarding their level of
      satisfaction with surgery and post-operative pain control. Parents will be asked to report
      any side effects (e.g. nausea, vomiting, lethargy, constipation) associated with the
      medications. Parents will also be asked about any side effects (e.g. swelling, redness,
      hematoma, prolonged block) from the regional anesthesia. A take-home medication log will be
      utilized by the parents to record the type and amount of mediation given to each participant
      and to record any associated side effects.
    
  