
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a common, costly condition characterized by recurrent periods of
      clinical decompensation that often lead to repeated hospitalizations (1, 2). Despite advances
      in the care of patients with HF, population-based outcomes such as mortality and
      hospitalization rates have not improved substantially over the past decade (3). Episodic,
      infrequent, outpatient visits are the only usual opportunities for clinicians to detect and
      treat early signs of HF decompensation; this constitutes a major gap in the current medical
      model. Moreover, opportunities for patients to take an active role in managing their own
      conditions occur infrequently. Disease management has emerged as a possible solution to the
      need for better patient surveillance and engagement. It typically involves multidisciplinary
      efforts to improve the quality and efficiency of care for patients with chronic conditions,
      with interventions designed to foster adherence of clinicians to scientific guidelines and
      patients to treatment plans. However, traditional disease-management programs are generally
      resource-intensive (often relying on nurse case management), difficult to scale for a large
      population, and inefficient in providing daily patient monitoring.

      Telemonitoring, which bridges clinicians and patients with communication technology, holds
      promise for closing the gap in HF care (4). This technology has the potential for
      standardized, widespread implementation (and long-term maintenance) in the near future
      because it can be easily applied to large patient populations and integrated into the current
      medical care system. Supporting this potential, preliminary evaluations have suggested that
      telemonitoring is feasible across a broad spectrum of typical HF patients, relatively
      inexpensive on a per-patient basis, and highly effective in improving health outcomes. Thus,
      this approach is ready for rigorous evaluation.

      Accordingly, we propose an office-based, multicenter, randomized controlled trial (Tele-HF
      study) to determine the effectiveness of a telemonitoring strategy in decreasing hospital
      readmissions and death in patients with HF. Many HF patients experience deterioration in
      their health status and an increase in weight and symptoms over a period of days and weeks
      before ultimately presenting to medical attention and requiring hospitalization. Our premise
      is that a frequent monitoring system can alert clinicians to the early signs and symptoms of
      decompensation, providing the opportunity for intervention before the patient becomes
      severely ill and requires hospitalization. Moreover, such a system can engage patients in
      their care and provide instruction about beneficial self-care strategies. This intervention
      is not intended to substitute for communication relating to acute care or acute, sudden
      changes in health status. In these cases, patients are instructed to make direct and
      immediate contact with their doctor or hospital.

      We will use the Pharos Tel-AssuranceTM, an in-home communication system that allows patients
      to transmit information to their clinicians and provides education to enable patients to
      actively participate in managing their condition. The system uses conventional telephone
      lines and does not require the patient to have Internet access. Patients are asked a
      pre-programmed series of questions and the system automatically uploads the responses to a
      secure data center. A clinician in each practice can then log on to a secure Internet site
      using a Web browser to review the patients' responses. The system thus serves as an interface
      between patients at home and their clinicians, facilitating monitoring of chronic conditions
      and patient education. While many vendors have potential tools to implement this study, we
      chose to use Pharos Tel-AssuranceTM because it is simple to use, does not require any
      equipment in patients' homes and substantial preliminary data suggest high patient and
      clinician satisfaction with its use. The investigators have no financial interest in this
      company.

      Primary Aim Our primary aim is to determine whether telemonitoring by community-based
      cardiology office practices reduces the risk of hospital readmission (for any cause) or death
      after an initial "index hospitalization" for HF. We hypothesize that, among patients recently
      discharged after a hospitalization for HF, telemonitoring will decrease the rate of
      rehospitalization or death over 6 months by at least 15% (relative risk reduction). This
      would yield an absolute risk reduction of 7.5%, so that 1 major adverse event would be
      averted for every 13 patients.

      We have chosen all-cause readmission as part of our primary outcome because poorly controlled
      HF can result in admissions for a variety of reasons, as the patient becomes weak and
      susceptible to falls, mental status changes, renal dysfunction, and other debilitating
      conditions that can result in hospitalization. In addition, from a societal and health system
      perspective, the overall risk of readmission is more important than disease-specific
      readmission. Moreover, prior studies suggest that telemonitoring can reduce this outcome.

      Secondary Aims

      In our secondary aims we will determine whether telemonitoring will:

        1. Reduce the rate of all-cause hospital readmission

        2. Reduce the rate of hospital readmission for HF

        3. Reduce the total number of all-cause and HF-specific hospital readmissions

        4. Increase office visits with the clinician receiving information from the telemonitoring
           system

        5. Improve survival after index hospitalization

        6. Reduce the cost of inpatient medical care

        7. Improve health status

        8. Improve patient satisfaction with care

        9. Improve patients' self-management of HF

      Sub-Group Analyses

      The following sub-group analyses will be conducted:

        1. Age

        2. Sex

        3. Race

        4. HFPEF vs depressed EF

        5. Education

        6. Insurance status

        7. Self-reported access to care

        8. Baseline self-efficacy and self-care

        9. Socioeconomic Status

       10. Site characteristics
    
  