
    
      Newer, more effective all-oral regimens for hepatitis C viral (HCV) infection are available.
      However the available data from industry-sponsored trials do not provide all the information
      that patients need, nor do these data represent the broad spectrum of patients treated in
      real-world practice. Trials also exclude disadvantaged subgroups, focus on short-term
      efficacy and clinician-rated adverse events, rarely obtain the patient's perspective, and do
      not investigate longer-term harms of treatment or benefits of viral cure. Given these
      informational gaps, patient-centered outcomes research on treatment harms and benefits that
      matter most to patients, is needed.

      PROP UP is funded by The Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI). PROP UP is a
      multi-centered prospective observational study that will evaluate newly approved direct
      acting antiviral (DAA) treatment regimens for HCV regarding several patient-reported outcomes
      (PROs) such as HCV-associated symptoms, treatment side effects, medication adherence, out of
      pocket costs, comorbid conditions, and long-term benefits of cure and harms of treatment to
      compare PROs of different treatment regimens, treatment durations, and patient subgroups.

      PROP UP is a collaborative effort between researchers, a patient engagement group, and a
      patient advocacy organization. Eleven U.S. liver centers will collaborate on PROP UP.
      Approximately 1920 patients with HCV infection who are prescribed a DAA regimen for chronic
      HCV will be consented and will complete baseline PRO surveys. Approximately 1600 patients who
      are approved and begin HCV treatment will be enrolled in the longitudinal study. Participants
      will complete several PRO surveys at 5 assessment periods during the study: baseline,
      treatment week 4, end of treatment, 3 months post-treatment, and 12 months post-treatment.
      PRO survey data will be collected via 3 options: patient home-based computers, tablet,
      smartphone; phone-administered surveys with a centralized call enter; or at regular clinic
      visits.

      Analysis of PROs collected longitudinally before, during and after treatment for HCV will
      allow the investigators to answer a variety of questions important to patients and
      clinicians. Specifically, the investigators will evaluate: (a) prevalence of pre-existing
      baseline symptoms associated with HCV; (b) the development of new onset treatment side
      effects and exacerbation of pre-existing symptoms during HCV treatment; (c) medication
      adherence and out of pocket costs associated with treatment; (d) changes in HCV-associated
      symptoms and functional status in patients who are cured; (e) long-term patient-reported
      harms associated with treatments and long-term benefits associated with viral cure.
    
  