
    
      Despite advances in prevention and treatment, hospital-acquired pneumonia remains a
      significant problem as the second most common infection acquired in the hospital and the most
      deadly (20%-50% of patients who acquire pneumonia while in the hospital die from
      complications of pneumonia). Levofloxacin has been shown in clinical trials to be effective
      against a number of different bacteria, including those found to be common and uncommon
      causes of pneumonia. This multicenter, open-label study evaluates the safety and
      effectiveness of levofloxacin as compared with imipenem/cilastatin, another type of
      antibiotic treatment, in patients with pneumonia acquired in the hospital. Patients receive
      treatment for a total of 7-15 days, initially with levofloxacin or imipenem/cilastatin,
      administered slowly through a vein. If patients respond positively to either drug, treatment
      may be changed to levofloxacin or ciprofloxacin (if initially treated with
      imipenem/cilastatin), to be taken by mouth. Certain additional drugs may be added if needed
      to treat pneumonia caused by certain bacteria. Patients showing signs of improvement continue
      in the study, with assessments 5-7 days (posttherapy visit) and 28-32 days after completion
      of the study drug (poststudy visit). Effectiveness is assessed by measuring the ability of
      the study drug to eliminate bacteria causing pneumonia and to reduce the signs and symptoms
      of pneumonia. Chest x-rays and laboratory tests for bacteria are performed throughout the
      study and patients' severity of disease is rated according to the Acute Physiology And
      Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) scale. Safety evaluations (incidence of adverse events,
      physical examinations, laboratory tests) are performed throughout the study. Blood samples
      are drawn from patients receiving levofloxacin to determine the concentration of levofloxacin
      in the blood. The study hypothesis is that levofloxacin is at least as effective as
      imipenem/cilastatin in treating hospital-acquired pneumonia and is generally well-tolerated.

      Levofloxacin 750 mg administered through a vein once daily or imipenem/cilastatin 500mg-1
      gram every 6-8 hours. Upon improvement, patients may transition to levofloxacin 750mg by
      mouth once daily or ciprofloxacin 750mg by mouth twice daily for 7-15 days.
    
  