
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

        -  To estimate the response rate to two initial courses of temsirolimus, temozolomide and
           irinotecan in previously untreated patients with high-risk Ewing sarcoma family of
           tumors (ESFT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To estimate the overall survival and progression-free survival in participants with ESFT
           treated with these approaches.

        -  To estimate the time to progression in participants with ESFT treated in Group B (high
           risk).

        -  To estimate the cumulative incidence of local failure following local control paradigm
           in this trial.

      Group A:

      Participants will receive interval compressed (every 2 weeks) alternating courses of
      chemotherapy with vincristine, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (VDC) and with ifosfamide
      and etoposide (IE). Doxorubicin will be omitted following a total cumulative dose of 375
      mg/m^2. Local control measures (surgery and/or radiation therapy) will be instituted after 6
      courses of chemotherapy. Total duration of treatment is approximately 29 weeks.

      Group B:

      Participants eligible for the window therapy will receive two courses (21 days duration each)
      of mTOR inhibitor, temsirolimus, in combination with temozolomide and irinotecan. Irinotecan
      (20 mg/m^2) will be administered IV on a protracted schedule of daily for 5 days, 2 days off,
      repeated daily x 5 [(qdx5)x2], temozolomide (100 mg/m^2) PO daily x 5 days and temsirolimus
      35 mg/m^2 IV weekly on day 1 and 8. Following window treatment (weeks 1 - 6), participants
      will proceed to induction chemotherapy (weeks 7 - 33) consisting of interval compressed
      (every 2 weeks) alternating courses of chemotherapy with vincristine, doxorubicin, and
      cyclophosphamide (VDC) with ifosfamide and etoposide (IE). Doxorubicin will be omitted
      following a total cumulative dose of 375 mg/m^2. Local control measures (surgery and/or
      radiation therapy) will be instituted after 6 courses of induction chemotherapy (week 19).
      Participants whose tumors respond to window therapy will receive temsirolimus, temozolomide
      and irinotecan at weeks 29 and 31 in place of ifosfamide and etoposide. Following induction
      therapy, participants will receive six 21-day courses of maintenance therapy consisting of
      bevacizumab IV on day 1 and daily oral sorafenib and low-dose cyclophosphamide day 1 through
      day 21.
    
  