
    
      Study Objectives

      This exploratory clinical trial is designed to assess tolerability of increasing doses of
      intranasally administered heparin sodium in saline solution. Baseline values for aPTT and
      complete blood count will be obtained from six subjects. Heparin will be administered in
      increasing concentrations using one 0.1 mL(millilitre) spray per nostril (0.2 ml total) on a
      daily basis. Major signs of toxicity will be clinically relevant changes in aPTT time,
      clinically relevant decrease in platelet count, signs of anosmia 30 minutes after
      administration, or epistaxis. Dosing will start at 1000 units of heparin administered (500
      units in each nostril) and then escalated to 2000 units. Should a clinically relevant aPTT
      prolongation (>50% increase from subject baseline) or decrease in platelet count (below
      clinical lab normal limit) be observed at either dose, the study will be halted and a series
      of lower doses evaluated.

      Study Overview

      Description of Design of Study

      This study is a single center, prospective, Phase 0 exploratory tolerability trial. A total
      of 6 healthy subjects (3 M and 3 F) will be enrolled into the study. This study will evaluate
      the acute and multi-day (14 days) tolerability of intranasally administered heparin.

      Test Article

      Investigational Product

      The study will assess the single and multi-dose tolerability of intranasal administration of
      an aliquot of an FDA-approved heparin sodium injection (5,000 USP units/mL or 10,000 USP
      units/mL) to deliver 1000U (units) or 2000U of heparin sodium. Doses will be prepared and
      administered as follows:

      1000 U = (2 x 0.1 mL(milliliter) of 5000U(units)/mL or one spray of 500 U in each nostril)
      2000 U = (2 x 0.1 mL of 10000U/mL or one spray of 1000 U in each nostril)

      The test article will be administered by transferring (4 mL) of sterile heparin sodium
      injection (5,000 USP units/mL or 10,000 USP units/mL) at ambient room temperature into
      intranasal spray bottles, one for each individual subject.

      The test article will be administered within 4 weeks of preparation, and the remainder
      discarded after study completion.

      Supplier The test article (Heparin Sodium USP) will be obtained from appropriate commercial
      sources.

      Safety Assessments

      Safety assessments will be completed as part of this single and multi-dose, pharmacokinetic
      study. Safety will be assessed prior to test article administration and at 24 post dose, in
      the acute phase. For safety assessments during the chronic phase, safety assessments will be
      assessed prior to test article administration , day 14 and day 15-post study. Test subject
      will be called every three (3) days for updates and subjective reports (adverse events),
      during 14 day, daily dose phase. Subject safety will be assessed by monitoring adverse
      events, clinical laboratory tests, vital signs, and physical examinations.

      Laboratory parameters will be evaluated during screening and daily, to include the following:

        -  Complete Blood Count (WBC, RBC(red blood cell count), Hematocrit, Hemoglobin, MCV (mean
           corpuscular volume), Platelet Count)

        -  PT(prothrombin time)/INR (international normalized ratio) Baseline and post study

        -  Serum/Urine hCG ( human chorionic gonadotropin)baseline and predose

        -  Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (aPTT)

      Clinical Adverse Events

      Clinical Adverse Events will be monitored throughout the study. However, such events are not
      anticipated during this trial due to the low systemic exposure of the test article being
      administered. However, local side effects of intranasal heparin, such as epistaxis or nasal
      congestion may result.

      For any abnormal lab values, test subjects will be evaluated for any sign and symptoms, and
      labs will be redrawn, until stabilized or returned to baseline. Subjects will be referred to
      the primary physician for any continued care required.
    
  