
    
      Oral health, specifically the retention of teeth, is inextricably and positively linked with
      nutritional status of an individual. The emerging inter-relationships among obesity, type II
      diabetes metabolic syndrome, acute coronary syndrome and/or breast cancer with the etiology
      of periodontal disease identify nutrition as having a unique role in potentially modulating
      these complex relationships. Some nutrients such as vitamin D and fatty acids have been
      studied more extensively than other nutrients. Cross-sectional studies using National Health
      and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) data or other cohorts have identified that
      individuals with higher intakes of vitamin D or omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids have a
      decreased risk of periodontal disease and tooth loss. One study has identified that
      individuals with better vitamin D status (measured as serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D) have better
      recovery after sanative therapy. Sanative therapy is a routine, first line cost-effective
      treatment to manage periodontal disease and thus prevent tooth loss. It is a non-surgical
      process involving mechanical debridement of bacterial biofilms on the roots of teeth, below
      the level of the gum line. Although one study has reported associations between vitamin D and
      outcomes after sanative therapy, the status of other nutrients or overall dietary patterns
      has not been assessed in relation to recovery from sanative therapy. The objective of this
      study was to determine if higher intakes of foods and nutrients with antioxidant or
      anti-inflammatory activity, including fruits, vegetables, β-carotene, vitamin C, vitamin D,
      vitamin E and omega-3 fatty acids were associated with reduced probing depth following
      sanative therapy.

      The study took place at a periodontal clinic in Southern Ontario, Canada. Prior to enrolment,
      patients attended a consultation where a baseline periodontal examination, including
      measurement of probing depth at six sites per tooth was completed. Patients with chronic
      generalized periodontitis who were then prescribed sanative therapy as part of their
      treatment plan were invited to participate in the study. The study was explained to them and
      they were presented with a letter of invitation. Written consent was then obtained from
      patients wishing to participate.

      Patients returned to the clinical approximately two months later for their sanative therapy
      appointment. Prior to meeting with the hygienist who performed sanative therapy, participants
      met with a study nurse. The nurse collected a venous blood sample, which was used for
      measurement of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations. The nurse also measured
      participant's height, weight, waist circumference and hip circumference. After sanative
      therapy was performed, participants were provided with the Block Food Frequency Questionnaire
      and a supplement use questionnaire to be completed at home. Participants then returned to the
      clinic 8 -16 weeks later for their routine follow-up examination, which included measurement
      of periodontal probing depth. Additionally, information including participants age, sex,
      health conditions, medications, allergies and smoking habits was recorded from the medical
      forms that were completed during their consultation visit.
    
  