
    
      The extent to which exercise training or long-term physical activity influences poorly
      regulated immune function in the elderly is unclear. Preliminary evidence suggests that
      exercise training may improve various immune function measures in older adults. Although such
      findings have the potential to be of substantial public health importance, the majority of
      studies have suffered from small sample sizes, inadequate measurement of physical fitness,
      and weak research designs.

      This study is designed to overcome these limitations by employing a longitudinal randomized
      controlled trial examining the effect of exercise training on clinically relevant immune
      function measures in older adults (65-80 years). Moreover, relationships between several
      factors known to be altered by exercise training and changes in immune function will be
      assessed. As such, there are two specific aims to be addressed. In Aim 1, a 10-month exercise
      trial will determine whether moderate intensity aerobic exercise training can improve immune
      function in previously sedentary older adults. In Aim 2, the role played by physiological,
      behavioral, and psychosocial factors in the relationship between exercise training and
      improved immune function will be examined.

      150 sedentary participants will be randomly assigned to either a 10-month moderate aerobic
      exercise training program or a sedentary control group. Clinically relevant measures of
      immune function including the delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response to a battery of
      antigens and the antibody response to tetanus toxoid and influenza virus vaccination will be
      assessed before, during and after the intervention. We hypothesize that exercise training
      will result in improved immune responses including higher peak antibody titers and DTH
      responses, and sustained levels of protective antibodies.
    
  