
    
      Rationale:

      Recent studies have shown the potential of a protoporphyrin IX-triple state lifetime
      technique to measure mitochondrial oxygen tension (mitoPO2) in vivo, which possibly is an
      early indicator of oxygen disbalance in the cell. With the advent of the COMET measurement
      system, steps have been made to determine the feasibility of this measurement method. The
      INOX ICU-2 study (parent study) aims to tailor transfusion therapies to individual intensive
      care unit (ICU) patients based on mitochondrial oxygen tension. In the pilot study of the
      INOX ICU-2 study, in which the COMET measurement system was used on critically ill patients
      receiving red blood cell transfusion, an increase in the between- and within-subject
      variability was observed over time. This deviation was not explored during the development of
      the COMET measurement system. Therefore, we aim to determine the between- and within-subject
      variability of this measurement in healthy subjects and in hemodynamically stable subjects at
      the intensive care unit.

      Main objectives:

      To describe the between- and within-subject variability of mitoPO2 measurements during a 24
      hour period after 5- aminolevulinic acid (ALA)-induction among healthy volunteers and among
      neurosurgical patients admitted postoperatively to the ICU or MC. Healthy subjects allow for
      the exploration of the effect of time-since-application of ALA-patch and neurosurgical
      patients allow for the exploration of a possible effect of ICU-admittance.

      Study design:

      Prospective cohort study.

      Study population:

      Healthy volunteers and neurosurgical patients admitted at the ICU or Medium Care(MC) of LUMC
      after surgery.

      Study procedure:

      MitoPO2 measurements will be taken in healthy volunteers using two ALA-patches offset to each
      other by 3 hours, this has been done to observe possible differences in measurements at
      different time-points after ALA-induction while maintaining other variables stable. Following
      the healthy volunteers, neurosurgical patients will be included. Patients will undergo
      neurosurgery as planned and common practice is that no major interventions are needed in the
      postoperative phase on the ICU/MC. At multiple predefined moments after surgery, mitoPO2
      measurements will take place, again using two ALA-patches with a 3 hour offset.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      The risks are small in this study with no serious adverse events (SAE) known. The burden for
      participants is small since it involves a non-invasive measurement. We will perform this
      study first in health volunteers. Following the healthy volunteers, neurosurgical patients
      will be included. Patients will undergo neurosurgery as planned and common practice is that
      no major interventions are needed in the postoperative phase on the ICU. Normal clinical
      practice will continue and will not be altered. These patients will allow for the exploration
      of a possible effect of ICU admittance.
    
  