
    
      1. collection of cases: This trail is approved by Hospital Ethics Committee, and patients
           who participated in the study signed the informed consent. The subject will select 150
           elder patients (age ≥65 years) routine tumor surgery, American Society of
           Anesthesiologists classification-Ⅲ. Preoperative liver and kidney function, blood
           electrolytes were in the normal range.

        2. Case group: Selected cases divided into the right dexmedetomidine group and control
           group by computer randomly, 75 patients in each group. Dexmedetomidine group (A group)
           analgesia pump formula is: fentanyl 100ug + dexmedetomidine 150 ug, with 0.9% saline
           diluted to 150ml. Control group (group C) postoperative analgesia formula is: fentanyl
           150ug, with 0.9% saline diluted to 150ml. Two group with the same anesthesia program.
           Venous blood serum is taken before surgery, at the before end of surgery and when
           postoperative analgesia medication runs out (postoperative day 4) to test apolipoprotein
           E, Amyloid-β1-42, Amyloid-β1-40, N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide.

        3. Post operative delirium and postoperative cognitive dysfunction diagnosis: Patients
           completed neuropsychological tests at entry to the study-generally the day before
           surgery-and at discharge from hospital or 1 week. The investigators assessed delirium by
           the Confusion Assessment Method for the intense care unit. The neuropsychological tests
           include Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised by China Visual Reproduction、Wechsler
           Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised by China Digit Span、Digit-Symbol Substitution Test、The
           Stroop Color-Word Test、Trail Making Test A and Trail Making Test B. Patients had
           cognitive dysfunction when two Z scores in individual tests or the combined Z score were
           1.96 or more.
    
  