
    
      Bariatric surgery patients may experience significant psychosocial changes after surgery, but
      little psychological support is available beyond support groups postoperatively. Psychosocial
      changes after surgery, including mood fluctuations, interpersonal issues and substance use,
      have the potential to lower quality of life and interfere with adherence to the postoperative
      diet and lifestyle, diminishing weight loss outcomes.

      This prospective randomized pilot trial will evaluate the effect of a postoperative support
      program targeting quality of life, psychosocial functioning and adherence to behavior change
      in Geisinger Health System (GHS) bariatric surgery patients.

      In this study there will be two arms. The intervention arm will include forty bariatric
      surgery patients (all procedure types) from the GHS Center for Nutrition and Weight
      Management (CNWM) who will participate in a four month bi-weekly postoperative behavioral
      support program to address psychosocial changes after surgery, strategies for postoperative
      diet and adherence and preventing weight regain. The control arm will include 40 usual care
      (UC) patients from the same center that completed bariatric surgery within one year.

      Both groups will complete two sets of surveys. The first set will be administered at study
      initiation. The second set will be administered upon completion of the 8 sessions for the
      intervention group. The control group will also complete surveys during this same timeframe
      (approximately 4-6 months after baseline survey completion).

      Upon study completion, control group members will be afforded an opportunity to participate
      in the same postoperative behavioral support program offered to the intervention group.

      The primary endpoint of this study will be quality of life with secondary endpoints including
      differences in psychosocial functioning (mood, eating behaviors) and adherence (diet,
      physical activity, appointments) as well as patient satisfaction, treatment feasibility and
      attrition.
    
  