
    
      High grade gliomas (HGGs) are rapidly progressive brain tumors resulting in death for most
      patients between 6 months and 2 years after diagnosis. Discussion and documentation of an
      advance care plan are needed to achieve end of life goals that are concordant with a
      patient's wishes. Early cognitive dysfunction in brain tumor patients can impede patients
      from making decisions about their own care. Patients with HGG, therefore require discussion
      and documentation of end of life goals early in their disease course, but implementation of
      this has been elusive.

      In this study, we will integrate an Early STructured Advanced care Referrals by Telehealth
      (Early START) visit into standard neuro-oncologic care prior to initiation of adjuvant
      chemotherapy in patients with HGG. Multi-disciplinary providers including physicians,
      advanced practice providers, and nurses will undergo an in-service by palliative care experts
      to perform Early START with a standardized checklist followed by periodic training sessions.
      Fifty patients with HGG will be enrolled over a 12-month period. They will receive a
      pre-visit educational guide to increase literacy regarding advance directives (AD) followed
      by a provider-led Early START visit that will be recorded. Post-visit assessments will
      address patient and caregiver perspectives on the intervention, patient and caregiver
      knowledge, patient satisfaction and patient-reported anxiety measures. A provider
      questionnaire will assess length of visit, adherence to the checklist and AD outcomes of the
      visit. Patients will be followed until death. End of life quality measures and concordance of
      death with goals of care will be assessed using a combination of caregiver surveys and the
      electronic medical record. These outcomes will be compared to historical controls treated at
      our center from 2010-2015.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1a. To determine the effectiveness of Early START as measured by AD documentation.

      Aim 1b. To determine the utility of Early START as measured by timing of hospice enrollment
      at the end of life and place of death concordant with the patient's goals.

      Hypothesis: As our primary aim, we hypothesize that Early START will increase the percentage
      of AD documentation by the 3rd oncology visit from 51% to 80%. As secondary outcomes, we
      hypothesize that it will decrease the percentage of AD that are completed by proxy from 45%
      to 25%, will improve end of life quality measures as compared to our published historical
      controls and that the majority of patients who undergo Early START will die in a setting of
      their choosing.

      Aim 2a. To demonstrate the feasibility of Early START as measured by the percent of visits
      completed prior to the third oncology visit, adherence to a pre-specified checklist, and
      length of time to complete the visit.

      Aim 2b. To optimize the Early START intervention by incorporating patient/caregiver and
      provider feedback.

      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that 80% of visits will be completed using telehealth by the 3rd
      oncology visit, 80% of providers will utilize the pre-specified checklist and that average
      visit duration will be less than one hour.
    
  