
    
      The number of children in the United States who are overweight or obese has increased
      steadily over the past several decades. Latino children are at particular risk of becoming
      overweight or obese. Children who are overweight or obese have an increased risk of high
      blood pressure, high cholesterol, heart disease, and diabetes. Parental behaviors are thought
      to be important influences on children's obesity, but previous studies have only examined a
      narrow range of parental behaviors, and few studies have specifically focused on Latino
      children. There is an urgent need for further research that examines the ways in which
      parental eating habits and behaviors affect the rising obesity rates among Latino children.
      This study will focus on Mexican Americans, which is the largest Latino group in the United
      States. The purpose of this study is to examine whether parental and extended family members'
      dietary-related behaviors predict children's dietary intake and weight gain. The effects of
      socioeconomic status and cultural factors on parental behaviors will also be examined.

      This study will enroll Mexican-American children and their parents. All study visits will
      occur at the participant's home. At a baseline visit, study staff will conduct a 1-hour
      interview with children and their parents to collect information on their thoughts about
      food, family eating habits, and how family members talk about food; children will also be
      asked about their physical development and physical activity level. Both parents and children
      will have their height, weight, waist, and hip circumference measured. Children will then
      wear an activity monitor for 3 days in the week following the baseline visit to measure
      physical activity levels. Two additional study visits will occur over the following 3 weeks.
      At the second visit, study staff will conduct 20-minute interviews with parents and children
      about their eating habits. At the third visit, study staff will videotape the child's evening
      meal, and additional interviews will occur. Follow-up visits will occur at Years 1 and 2. At
      both follow-up visits, repeat baseline interviews will occur, and children will wear the
      activity monitor for 3 days.
    
  