
    
      Pectus excavatum is a cartilaginous deformity that is the most common congenital anterior
      chest wall defect in children [1]. Children with this disease process often complain of
      dyspnea, decreased exercise tolerance, and shortness of breath implying a restrictive
      pulmonary deficit [2]. Besides the reported physical limitations, patients can also exhibit
      manifestations of psychological disturbances (poor body image and depression). Surgical
      repair has been correlated with enhanced quality of life and improvement in body image[3]
      with recent studies showing improved pulmonary function and cardiac output [4, 5]. Surgery
      initially introduced by Sauerbruch involved rib cartilage resection and sternal osteotomy.
      This open procedure was further modified and became [6] known as the Ravitch procedure. This
      was the mainstay for repair for over 40 years until the introduction of minimally invasive
      surgery without rib resection by Nuss and colleagues in 1987 [7]. The Nuss repair involves
      placing an intrathoracic brace through small lateral chest wall incisions aided by
      thoracoscopy. Similar to bracing the teeth, the Nuss procedure avoids osteotomy or rib
      cartilage resection [8]. The Nuss procedure is the most common minimally invasive procedure
      in use today to correct this condition and is the current standard of surgical practice.
      Complications from Nuss repair can range anywhere from 7% to 25% [9] and can occur for as
      long as the bar is in place. Pain control remains a major issue in the perioperative period
      as patients may require weeks to months of oral narcotics before becoming pain-free after
      correction of the pectus. A prospective multicenter study reported peak pain scores of 8 on a
      0-10 scale in the postoperative period and a mean score of 3 at discharge [4]. Postoperative
      pain after pectus repair has been managed with IV opioids administered by patient controlled
      analgesia (PCA) devices and by thoracic epidural infusions of combinations of local
      anesthetics and opioids. It is unclear from published data which method is superior and
      different tertiary care centers in the USA have a preference for different methods.
    
  