
    
      Study patients Consecutive patients with symptomatic proximal-vein thrombosis who have
      completed three months of anticoagulation will be eligible for the study. Patients with
      thrombosis occurring in association with recent (less than three months) trauma, surgical
      intervention or puerperium, prolonged (more than seven days) immobilization from any cause or
      use of hormonal treatment will be regarded as "secondary thrombosis". All other patients will
      defined as having idiopathic thrombosis.

      Study design and interventions The AESOPUS study is a randomized, multicenter, open trial,
      with independent and blinded assessment of study outcomes. The study is designed to evaluate
      the long-term clinical benefit and risk of adjusting the duration of oral anticoagulant
      therapy based on to the persistence or recanalization of venous thrombosis, as shown by
      repeated ultrasonography.

      Randomization is stratified for secondary versus idiopathic thrombosis and for center. After
      completing the first uneventful three months of anticoagulation, patients will be randomized
      to fixed durations of warfarin or to flexible durations. In the fixed duration group,
      patients with idiopathic deep-vein thrombosis will receive 3 additional months of treatment
      (for a total treatment duration of 6 months), and patients with secondary deep-vein
      thrombosis will discontinue treatment (for a total treatment duration of 3 months). In the
      flexible duration group, patients will have ultrasound at the time of randomization and then
      at 3, 9, 15 and 21 months if the index event is idiopathic or at 3 and 9 months if the index
      event is secondary. Anticoagulant therapy will be discontinued if the thrombosis has
      recanalized. If residual venous thrombosis is detected, treatment will be continued until the
      following ultrasound testing, and for a maximum of 9 months for secondary and 21 months for
      idiopathic venous thrombosis. In both groups, warfarin will be adjusted to a target
      international normalized ratio of 2.0 to 3.0.

      Ultrasound assessments of the common femoral and popliteal vein (transverse plane) will be
      done according to a standardized procedure by independent experts unaware of clinical details
      and of previous ultrasound findings. Vein diameters will be measured during maximal
      compression, and considered recanalized in case of a diameter < 2.0 millimeters in a single
      determination, or a diameter < 3.0 millimeters in two consecutive determinations.

      Follow-up, recurrent VTE and bleeding Patients will be followed-up for 33 months to document
      the incidence of symptomatic recurrent thromboembolism. Follow-up visits will be scheduled in
      all patients at 3, 9, 15, 21, and 33 months after randomization. Recurrent thromboembolism
      will be diagnosed by compression ultrasound, ventilation/perfusion scanning, or helical
      tomography as appropriate. If recurrent thrombosis is suspected in a previously unaffected
      leg, the sole diagnostic criterion will be incompressibility of a proximal vein. Ultrasound
      criteria for recurrent ipsilateral thrombosis will be incompressibility of a proximal vein
      segment initially free from thrombi and/or incompressibility of a proximal vein that has
      completely recanalized. Nonfatal pulmonary embolism will be defined by a (sub)segmental
      ventilation-perfusion mismatch on lung scanning or an intraluminal filling defect on spiral
      computed tomography of the chest. Fatal pulmonary embolism will be diagnosed if it is
      confirmed at autopsy, if it is anteceded in the immediate period before death by objectively
      confirmed pulmonary embolism or venous thrombosis, or if it is a sudden death that cannot be
      explained by a disease or condition other than pulmonary embolism.

      Bleeding will defined as major it is clinically overt and associated with a hemoglobin drop
      of at least 20 g/L or transfusion of al least two units of red cells, is retroperitoneal or
      intracranial. All outcome events will be reviewed by an independent adjudication committee
      whose members were unaware of the treatment assigned.
    
  