
    
      Background

      Subclinical hypothyroidism is a common condition among older adults, particularly above the
      age of 65 years, with a prevalence reaching 10 to 15% of the population. This condition has
      been associated with numerous adverse outcomes, such as cardiovascular disease, cognition
      disturbances and muscular problems. All of these potential outcomes will be assessed in the
      TRUST study. Subclinical hypothyroidism has also been associated with an increased risk of
      developing depression. It has been suggested that subclinical hypothyroidism may lower the
      threshold for the development of depression. The prevalence of depression among
      community-dwelling elderly ranges from 2 to 10%. Patients with depression have been shown to
      have a lower response to anti-depressive drugs when they have subclinical hypothyroidism.
      Only a few randomized studies in patients with subclinical hypothyroidism have studied the
      effect of thyroid hormone replacement on depression, with conflicting results: the studied
      populations were often small (maximal number of participants: 143), using different scales to
      measure the presence of depressive symptoms.

      Objective

      To investigate whether thyroid hormone replacement in older adults with subclinical
      hypothyroidism is associated with a decrease in the presence of depressive symptoms in a
      sub-study of the TRUST study.

      Methods Use of the 15-item Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS-15) to measure depressive symptoms
      in all 450 patients included in the TRUST study in Switzerland and the Netherlands, the most
      validated test for depression screening, with validity to measure longitudinal changes.
      GDS-15 will be applied at baseline and after 1 year to compare changes in depression scores
      between placebo and thyroxin arms. Power calculation (ANCOVA method) with 225 participants
      per treatment group, assuming a standard deviation of 3 and a baseline to follow up
      correlation of 0.7, results in 99.9% power for detecting a mean difference of 1.0 points at a
      two-sided alpha-level of 0.05. Depending on recruitment for the main trial
      (ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT01660126) in respective countries, a lower number of participants
      may be included, retaining a very large power for this continuous outcome.
    
  