
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the difference in overall survival of patients with clinically localized
           prostate cancer with unfavorable prognostic features between a) standard treatment
           (androgen-deprivation therapy [ADT] + radiotherapy) and b) standard treatment with the
           addition of 24 months of steroid 17alpha-monooxygenase TAK-700 (TAK-700).

      Secondary

        -  To characterize differences between the treatment groups with respect to incidence of
           unexpected grade ≥ 3 adverse events and/or clinically significant decrement in
           patient-reported quality of life (QOL) among subjects treated with TAK-700.

        -  To compare rates and cumulative incidence of biochemical control (freedom from PSA
           failure), local/regional progression, and distant metastases.

        -  To compare rate and cumulative incidence of clinical failure, defined as
           prostate-specific antigen (PSA) > 25 ng/mL, documented local disease progression,
           regional or distant metastasis, or initiation of ADT.

        -  To compare prostate cancer-specific survival and other-cause mortality.

        -  To compare the change in severity of fatigue as measured by the Patient-Reported Outcome
           Measurement Information System (PROMIS) fatigue short form.

        -  To compare changes in patient-reported QOL as measured by Expanded Prostate Cancer Index
           Composite (EPIC).

        -  To assess quality-adjusted survival using the EQ-5D.

        -  To compare nadir and average serum testosterone at 12 and 24 months during treatment.

        -  To compare changes in hemoglobin A1C, fasting glucose, and fasting insulin during 24
           months of systemic treatment and during the first three years of follow-up.

        -  To compare changes in fasting lipid levels during 24 months of treatment and during the
           first three years of follow-up.

        -  To compare changes in body mass index (BMI) during 24 months of treatment and during the
           first three years of follow-up.

        -  To compare the incidence of adverse events ascertained via CTCAE version 4.

        -  To compare the rate of recovery of testosterone to > 230 ng/dL (accepted threshold for
           supplementation) after 12 and 24 months of follow-up.

        -  To compare the median time to recovery of testosterone to > 230 ng/dL during the first
           five years of follow-up.

        -  To assess cumulative incidence of relevant clinical survivorship endpoints including new
           diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, stroke,
           pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, or osteoporotic fracture.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized study. Patients are stratified according to risk
      group (see Disease Characteristics) and type of radiation therapy (RT) boost
      (intensity-modulated RT (IMRT) vs brachytherapy). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive standard androgen suppression (AS) with a luteinizing
           hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist (such as leuprolide, goserelin, buserelin, or
           triptorelin) for 24 months from initiation and oral (PO) antiandrogen (such as flutamide
           or bicalutamide) beginning 2 months prior and for the duration of radiation therapy
           (RT).

        -  Arm II: Patients receive the same standard AS with LHRH agonist and oral antiandrogen as
           in arm 1. Patients also receive steroid 17alpha-monooxygenase TAK-700 (TAK-700) PO twice
           daily (BID) for 2 years.

      In both arms, patients undergo IMRT or 3D-conformal RT to the whole pelvis once daily, 5 days
      a week, for 6-8 weeks. Some patients also receive brachytherapy.

      Quality of life is assessed via the Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System
      (PROMIS) Fatigue Scale, the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26), and the
      EuroQol (EQ-5D) assessments at baseline and periodically during the study.

      Serum may be collected from some patients for correlative studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6
      months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.
    
  