
    
      In summary, participation will involve a screening period of approximately one week, six
      weeks of temporally aligned IC ("Integrated Care" - manualized smoking cessation treatment
      integrating components of behavioral treatment for PTSD) and behavioral sleep treatments
      (Cognitive-Behavioral Treatment for Insomnia or CBTI), and follow-up telephone interviews at
      two months and six months.

      Screening: Patients in the VA Palo Alto inpatient psychiatry and domiciliary programs
      indicating interest in quitting cigarette smoking will be pre-screened by the Medical
      Director to determine whether an individual's psychiatric conditions contraindicates use of
      bupropion or NRT (Nicoderm). Patients interested in quitting will be referred to the study
      coordinator. Coordinator will be notified whether medication or NRT is contraindicated for
      participant and/or of a diagnosed sleep disorder (treated or untreated) other than insomnia.

      Continuing participants will be consented and then complete 24 hours of cued symptom
      reporting using a personal digital assistant (PDA) to verify their capacity to adhere to this
      component of the study protocol. Continuing participants will undergo a research
      psychodiagnostic assessment followed by an ambulatory screening polysomnogram (PSG) to
      exclude undiagnosed sleep disorders. (Participants exhibiting evidence of sleep disorder will
      be referred for a clinical sleep study.) Screening assessments and psychodiagnostics have
      been sequenced with the aim of minimizing burden for those excluded.

      Participants meeting all inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomized to IC+CBTI or
      IC+Desensitization Treatment for Insomnia (DTI: a manualized placebo control intervention).
      They will meet twice with the IC therapist to complete IC sessions 1 and 2. Over the course
      of these sessions, they will negotiate a quit date at least three weeks from that time and at
      least four weeks prior to their projected discharge from inpatient treatment. (Inpatient
      stays in both of these programs average thirteen weeks.) IC sessions 3 and 4 will be evenly
      spaced between IC session 2 and the planned quit date. Three weeks prior to their quit date,
      they will initiate sleep treatment (sessions 1 and 2) and nightly mattress actigraphy. Two
      weeks prior to their quit date they will begin PDA-based EMA. One to two weeks prior to their
      quit date, they will commence bupropion and receive sleep treatment session 3. One week prior
      to their quit date they will receive sleep treatment session 4. On their quit date they will
      begin NRT. Thereafter, for weeks four through six, they will receive IC sessions five through
      eight and sleep treatment session five through seven, respectively. At the end of week six,
      they will receive IC session eight which will also serve as the 3 week assessment of smoking
      status (the primary outcome assessment of the study). (Note that the first planned assessment
      of cessation status will occur prior to the expected discharge date for all participants.)
      The final research interventions will be telephone interviews at two months and six months.
      Salivary cotinine samples will be obtained at the end of each post-quit week (only if the
      participant is not using NRT) the last corresponding to the primary outcome assessment, at
      both telephone follow-up smoking status assessments (by mail).
    
  