
    
      This is a multicenter, open-label, dose-titration, long-term study to evaluate the long-term
      safety of five dose levels of methylphenidate HCL extended-release tablets, 36 mg, 54 mg, 72
      mg (two 36 mg tablets), 90 mg (one 36 mg tablet plus one 54 mg tablet), and 108 mg (two 54 mg
      tablets) per day in adults with ADHD. At the baseline visit, all patients will initiate
      treatment with 36 mg of methylphenidate HCL extended-release tablets. The dose will be
      increased in 18 mg increments every seven days (+/-2 days) until an individualized dose is
      achieved. An individualized dose is achieved when there is at least a 30% improvement on the
      ADHD Investigator Symptoms Rating Scale (AISRS) and a Clinical Global Impression -
      Improvement (CGI-I) score of 1 or 2, or until the maximum dose of 108 mg is achieved. If a
      limiting adverse event occurs, the dose will be titrated downward by 18 mg. This dose is then
      the individualized dose. Once an individualized dose is achieved, patients will remain on
      that dose for approximately six months or one year, as assigned at the time of enrollment.
      Patients will be given a prescription for a one-month supply of drug and a pharmacy card at
      each visit. Safety assessments include monitoring adverse events, blood pressure, pulse,
      weight, and electrocardiograms (ECG) throughout the study. The study hypothesis is that
      methylphenidate HCL extended-release tablets in doses of 36 mg, 54 mg, 72 mg, 90 mg, and 108
      mg per day will have an acceptable safety profile for the management of ADHD in adults.

      Patients will start treatment with 36 mg extended-release tablets of methylphenidate HCL per
      day. The dose will be increased in 18 mg increments every 7 days (+/-2 days) until they
      achieve their individualized dose or reach a maximum dose of 108 mg daily. Following the
      patient's titration, the patient will remain on the individualized dose for approximately 6
      months or one year as determined at the time of enrollment.
    
  