
    
      The presence of major depression, with or without pre-existing coronary artery disease,
      predicts increased mortality from myocardial infarction (MI) and sudden cardiac death (SCD).
      Decreased parasympathetic vagal outflow, especially in the presence of elevated cardiac
      sympathetic tone, has been proposed as a mechanism for the increased risk of SCD. Multiple
      lines of evidence suggests that fronto-limbic areas are actively engaged in the robust
      optimization of autonomic balance between sympathetic and parasympathetic cardiac outflow
      over a broad range of cognitive and physical demands. We propose that dysfunction of these
      forebrain neurocardiac networks in MDD mediates maladaptive cardiac autonomic control and the
      increased risk of cardiovascular mortality. In this model, neurocardiac control networks
      exhibit a systemic bias toward increased sympathetic relative to parasympathetic outflow.
      Increased amygdalar activity in MDD will promote this imbalance. Additionally, dysfunction in
      posterior orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and ventral anterior cingulated cortex (ACC), areas
      associated with abnormal histopathological changes in MDD, will lead to reduced capacity for
      generating adaptive levels of cardioinhibitory, parasympathetic tone. This reduced capacity
      in depressives will be evidenced by abnormally large withdrawals of parasympathetic outflow,
      compared to healthy controls, as cognitive or physical demands increase. This dynamic model
      is potentially consistent with functional neuroimaging and post mortem histopathological
      findings in MDD and the knowledge gained through testing this protocol may ultimately
      elucidate how brain dysfunction in MDD mediates significantly increased clinical risk of
      spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death.

      We propose to combine H (2) (15) O positron emission tomography (PET) and analysis of heart
      rate variability (HRV) in order to study in vivo the neural structures underlying normal
      forebrain control of cardiac autonomic function. We further aim to show whether regional
      functional abnormalities in amygdala, ventral anterior cingulate cortex, and orbitofrontal
      cortex-areas in which functional abnormalities have been identified in previous neuroimaging
      studies of major depressives-are associated with impaired modulation of cardiac autonomic
      function during major depression.
    
  