
    
      Purpose:

      The principal aim of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of using Abdominal Functional
      Electrical Stimulation (AFES) to assist weaning from mechanical ventilator in acute
      ventilator dependent tetraplegic subjects.

      Participants:

      10 ventilator dependent tetraplegic participants in the acute stage of injury will be
      recruited while inpatients at the Queen Elizabeth National Spinal Injuries Unit (QENSIU),
      Southern General Hospital, Glasgow. The participants will be matched for injury level, age
      (+/5 years) and sex with a control obtained from historic records of previous patients in the
      QENSIU.

      Experimental Procedures:

      Each participant will take part in daily AFES-assisted Weaning sessions (5 times per week)
      during alternative weeks. Progress will be monitored during weekly Assessment sessions. The
      total duration of participation is 8 weeks.

      AFES-assisted Weaning sessions:

      The aim of the weaning sessions is to strengthen the abdominal muscles and to provide support
      for ventilator free breathing.

      The participant will receive AFES training once per day for a predetermined time (see below),
      5 days per week. Before the study begins and at the end of each week an assessment session
      will be conducted.

      AFES training sessions will continue throughout even if the patient is successfully weaned
      before the end of the 8 week period. All procedures will be carried out at the participant's
      bedside and during all procedures a clinician and the participant's nurse will be present.

      The duration of AFES training will initially be 20 minutes/day. This will be increased to 30
      minutes in week 3 and to 40 minutes during weeks 5 and 7. While the participant is still not
      able to breathe independently of the ventilator, AFES will be applied while the participant
      is connected to the ventilator. As weaning progresses, Spontaneous Breathing Trials (SBTs)
      will begin and AFES will be applied with the participant disconnected from the ventilator.
      While the participant is off the ventilator their oxygen saturation level (SaPO2) will be
      monitored and recorded every minute. Participant will be immediately reconnected to the
      ventilator if their SaPO2 falls below a clinically critical value of 92%.

      Assessment sessions:

      An initial assessment session will be conducted on day 1 of the study to provide a baseline
      measure of the participant's respiratory function. Assessment sessions will then be conducted
      once per week to assess weaning progress. The assessment sessions will be augmented with a
      period of AFES training to ensure that the prescribed period of AFES is achieved (see above).

      During the assessment sessions the participant's respiratory function (Secondary Outcome
      Measures) will be assessed.
    
  