
    
      Tics are unwanted, brief, repetitive, non-rhythmic movements or sounds that are classified as
      either simple or complex. Dependent on duration, tics are divided into transient tics and
      chronic tics. Tic disorders often have an early age of onset and may have a major impact on a
      young person's life. Treatment of a chronic tic disorder primarily comprises therapeutic
      intervention which consists of ERP (Exposure Response Prevention) and/or HRT (Habit Reversal
      Training).

      The purpose of the project is to

        -  Evaluate the treatment outcome of combined video consultation/participating in training
           sessions at the hospital and of combined self-instructed video training/participating in
           training sessions at the hospital.

        -  Compare the treatment outcome of supplementary virtual consultation and supplementary
           video training via an app with a previous study on the treatment outcome of attending
           individual therapy (NISSEN, 2018) by means of benchmarking.

        -  In addition, expound on the significance of sensory modulation (sensitivity),
           not-just-right experience and the child's perception with regard to the severity of
           chronic tics and treatment outcome. Also, to investigate whether insight, sensitivity
           and the not-just-right experience change during treatment.

        -  As the app is newly developed in relation to the present study, the investigators wish
           to clarify the participants' evaluation of the app using a newly developed questionnaire
           (designed for this project). For comparison, a questionnaire has been designed for
           evaluating the applicability of the supplementary video sessions.

      When patients are referred to the Tourette outpatient clinic, Aarhus University Hospital,
      Psychiatry, a comprehensive diagnostic assessment is carried out. The assessment is based on
      a modified version of the Schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia for school-age
      children - present and lifetime version (K-SADS-PL). The K-SADS-PL information is used for
      confirming the primary diagnosis of chronic tics and for ensuring that none of the exclusion
      criteria have been met.

      Inclusion criteria

      The inclusion criteria are defined based on the ICD-10 diagnosis (International
      Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems):

      Chronic motor/vocal tics (DF95.1) Tourette syndrome (DF95.2), Age spectrum: 9-17 years old

      Exclusion criteria

      The exclusion criteria are defined as follows:

      Patients with comorbidity such as mental retardation (IQ = 70 or less), psychosis, severe
      depression requiring treatment, suicidal behavior/threats or severe eating disorder.

      Participated in tics training based on HRT/ERP treatment within the last six months.

      Oral and written consent will be obtained from parents and children/adolescents (age 15 years
      and older).

      The study will be an open, randomized controlled clinical study for children and adolescents
      with chronic tics disorders. The participants will be randomized using computer-generated
      randomization based on age and sex.

      The participants will either be randomized for tics training with attendance combined with
      virtual training (group 1) or a combination of attendance and self-instructed training via
      videos on an app (group 2). Both settings are based on the "Niks til Tics" manual (NISSEN,
      2018) that describes training in Habit Reversal Training (HRT) and Exposure Response
      Prevention (ERP) over nine sessions. Thus, two treatment groups will be set up:

      Group 1 (treatment group 1) will consist of nine entire sessions (60 min each), but where
      four out of the nine sessions will be converted to video consultations. The content of the
      video consultations is comparable to the information and training the patients would have
      received if they attended at the clinic and which are defined in the "Niks til Tics" manual.

      Group 2 (treatment group 2) will comprise five entire sessions (60 min) with clinic
      attendance, but where sessions 1 and 2 will be combined into one session with a duration of
      120 min, session 4 will be held as usual with attendance after five weeks, session 8 will be
      held ten weeks after session 4, and session 9 will be held after two months. In addition,
      patients in group 2 will be given the opportunity to talk to the therapist on the phone. For
      the group 2 training sessions, an app has been developed for teaching patients the tics
      training method. A new app session will be released at each new treatment session, and the
      content of the app videos will follow the information and training, which the patients would
      have received if they had attended at the clinic and which are defined in the "Niks til Tics"
      manual.

      All tic training sessions will be individual. The primary outcome goal includes the Yale
      Global Tics Severity Scale (YGTSS) in session 8. In order to follow the treatment, a parent
      report questionnaire and a self-report questionnaire will be used and evaluated in accordance
      with YGTSS (Golden standard). The questionnaires are based on Parent Tic Questionnaire (PTQ).
      Secondary outcome measures are Screen for Child Anxiety Related Emotional Disorders (SCARED),
      the Mood and Feelings Questionnaire (MFQ), Premonitory Urge Scale (PUTS), Beliefs About Tics
      Scale (BATS), NJR-C (not just right experiences), CATS (thoughts about experiences children
      may be exposed to), W-tc (worrying thoughts) and motivation questionnaire, and the parents
      are asked to fill in CBCL, BQ (general information) as well as a sensory profile (about
      hypersensitivity).

      Statistical analyses The primary analysis will comprise a comparison of effect sizes within
      the treatment group, that is, an assessment of the reduction in tic intensity during the
      eight sessions. The difference in tic intensity between baseline and session 8 will be
      assessed at t-test. Effect sizes will be calculated by a ratio of the mean difference and the
      standard deviation of the difference between baseline and session 8 (SD diff). The confidence
      interval for effect sizes will be calculated using non-parametric bootstrap with 100
      replications. At group sizes of 30 with an expected uniform YGTSS baseline of 25 (randomized)
      and with an expected SD of 6.2 (from a previous study (NISSEN 2018)), and a strength of 0.8
      it should be possible to detect a decrease of point 3.4 (from baseline to session 8), which
      is statistically significant.

      Responder level will be defined as a 25% reduction of the YGTSS total tics score.

      The secondary analyses will study the reduction in tic intensity between the two treatment
      groups using unpaired t-test. At a group size of 30 and expected end YGTSS of 15 (SD 6.2) and
      strength of 0.80 (from a previous study (NISSEN 2018)), a difference of 4.6 between the two
      groups will be statistically significant.

      Predictor analysis: baseline characteristics and baseline tic severity between the two groups
      will be compared using univariate Chi test for categorical variables and t-tests for
      continuous variables.

      Tic severity will be assessed by independent raters.

      Using benchmarking, the results of this treatment study will be compared with the results
      from a previous treatment study on HRT/ERP (NISSEN, 2018).
    
  