
    
      In Finland fear of childbirth is one of the common reasons for consultation of obstetrician
      and mother´s demand on elective caesarean section. Approximately 5-8% of pregnant women
      suffer from severe fear of childbirth, which disturbs their family-life and working and
      prevents normal preparation to childbirth and parenthood.

      Listening or playing music is very common in all cultures. Even fetuses are able to hear and
      recognize music and babies are interested in voices and sounds of music.

      Music therapy has been used in other purposes widely. It is known that music stimulates the
      synthesis of dopamine in brain and it has been shown that music has an influence on
      hypertensive rats, lowering their blood pressure. In human beings there has been pleasurable
      responses to music correlate with activity in brain. It has also been shown that music
      listening enhances cognitive recovery and mood after middle cerebral artery stroke.

      A strong attachment between mother and infant is essential to child's normal developement.
      Mothers who suffer from very strong fear of childbirth often have difficulties in
      mother-infant relationship and pronounced risk of puerperal depression.

      Many features in listening and playing music have something to do in bonding together in
      societies. Lullabies are good example of communication between parent and infant.

      There has been some trials about music therapy and pregnancy but not systematic randomized
      trials about listening to music and its influence on pain experience, length of delivery or
      complications of delivery. Music has a relaxing influence on human beings and we assume that
      it has a positive influence on pregnant women also.

      We try to find out if active listening to music has any influence on physical and mental
      wellbeing of pregnant women or is there any influence on fear of childbirth, outcome of
      delivery or mother-baby relationship.

      Pregnant women referred to the outpatient clinic because of fear of childbirth have also
      normal appointments with obstetrician and/or midwife as needed and participating this trial
      has no influence on those appointments.
    
  