
    
      In medical practice, an ideal therapy should have maximal benefit with minimal risk. While
      considerable effort is being placed into discovering more effective pharmaceuticals, there is
      a growing field of interest in alternative therapies. In the 1970's, George Engle put forward
      the idea of the biopsychosocial response in which the patient's social and psychological
      factors can influence the body's biologic function and vice versa. One such potential therapy
      that could work by this mechanism is music. Advantages of music include low cost,
      availability, no required expertise, and minimal side effects. Studies have shown that music
      leads to reduced postoperative pain, anxiety, and analgesic needs in surgical patients. It
      has also been shown that patient selected music has greater outcomes than researcher selected
      music. While there is a significant body of literature on changes in clinical measurements,
      there are only two studies known to us which try to examine the effects of music on a
      molecular level, measuring cortisol and blood glucose respectively. Neither of these studies
      have been performed in patients undergoing surgery for breast cancer.

      On the other hand, considerable research is currently being conducted to determine biomarkers
      in the context of surgery that are associated with poor outcomes, especially in the context
      of breast surgery. Stress, usually associated with cortisol levels, has been associated with
      increased sleep disruption, increased metabolism, increased risk of thromboembolic events,
      and impaired wound healing in patients. In breast cancer patients, it has been found that
      C-reactive protein levels correlated in fatigue postoperatively and decreased diurnal
      variation in cortisol has been associated with depression. Melatonin, in general, is a marker
      for circadian rhythm and would also be representative of sleep disruption. C-reactive protein
      is primarily a marker of inflammation which in turn is associated with disease progression
      and poorer clinical outcomes in breast surgery patients.

      This study aims to determine both if music affects molecular mechanisms through measurement
      of clinical biomarkers as well as if there is an association with significant quality of life
      measures. A positive association could provide evidence into music being used as an adjunct
      therapy peri-operatively.
    
  