
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death among Latina women (LW) in the
      United States. Nursing knowledge in the area of CVD and Latina women is currently
      underdeveloped. Most studies have included Mexican women with limited information on how
      predictors such as resources, situational, personal, and demographic factors have an effect
      on the CVD-related dietary practices, physical activity, and exercise practices among Latina
      women subgroups such as Central American women.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      To conduct a cross-sectional and follow-up preliminary intervention study in order to
      describe and analyze the CVD-related diet, physical activity, and exercise practices
      predictors in 221 Mexican and Central American women recruited from six counties in Northern
      California. Face-to-face interviews were conducted with Mexican American and Central American
      women (ages 40-75) who had at least one risk factor for CVD to answer the following
      questions: What were the CVD-related risk factors, dietary practices, physical activity, and
      exercise behaviors in Mexican and Central American women who were 40 to 75 years and who had
      at least one risk factor for CVD? What was the relationship between predictor variables
      (resources, situational, personal, and demographic factors) with CVD-related diet practices,
      physical activity, and exercise behaviors (outcome variables)?, and what were the short and
      intermediate-term effects of a cardiovascular nursing intervention on diet, physical
      activity, and exercise? A sample of 221 women was targeted. Data were collected during the
      first two years of the project to provide substantial research-based information to develop a
      cardiovascular nursing intervention to support Latina women efforts to promote heart health
      and prevent CVD. Data were analyzed during the third year and the cardiovascular nursing
      intervention was developed to determine the short (3 months) and intermediate-term (6 months)
      effects in the outcome variables. A randomly selected sample of 60 women from the same cohort
      was randomly assigned to the developed intervention group (n=30 in each group) and to a
      delayed-intervention control group.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  