
    
      This was a prospective study performed between November 2011 and September 2013. All patients
      provided informed written consent prior to inclusion in the study. Inclusion criteria were
      deep S. epidermidis infections after fracture fixation or prosthetic joint surgery. Fracture
      fixation infections includes fractures involving the long bones as well as the pelvis and the
      spine. Bacterial growth at the site of interest in combination with either pseudarthrosis,
      implant-loosening/failure or local and systemic signs of surgical site infection were
      required for inclusion. Exclusion criteria included infections involving external fixation
      pins, infections without any implanted hardware and culture positive patients not displaying
      any clinical sign of infection.

      Upon entry into the study, the following surgical parameters were documented: affected bone
      or joint; type of implant; time between implantation of the device and onset of symptoms.
      Personal characteristics were also documented and included: gender; age; body mass index
      (BMI); smoker/non-smoker; overall medical condition (Charlson comorbidity index); and chronic
      immunosuppressive conditions (Diabetes mellitus, chronic alcoholism, Child's class C
      cirrhosis, neoplasia, transplantation, AIDS and steroid medication). Any revision surgeries
      involving the site of interest and all isolated pathogens were recorded throughout the course
      of treatment and follow-up.

      A follow up examination was performed an average of 26 months after discharge. Primary
      outcome at follow up was cure. Cure was define by the authors as: missing local (at site of
      interest) or systemic signs of infection and terminated surgical and systemic therapy.

      At the first surgical procedure after enrolment, at least four deep bone biopsies were taken
      from the interface between implant and affected bone. The tissue samples were placed in a
      sterile container with thioglycollate liquid medium (bioMérieux, Hazelwood, MO, USA). The
      samples were cultured for ten days at 37°C and examined each day macroscopically. Any growth
      was inoculated onto a blood agar plate (bioMérieux, Hazelwood, MO, USA) for further growth
      and subsequent identification. In all cases, additional swabs and soft tissue samples may
      have been taken as per clinical routine, however, only samples adjacent to the implant were
      used for diagnosis in this study.

      Identification and antibiotic susceptibility testing of all growth was performed using a
      Vitek2 (bioMerieux Vitek Inc, Hazelwood, MO, USA). Multi-drug-resistance (MDR) was defined
      according to the definitions of the European Committee of Antimicrobial Susceptibility
      Testing (EUCAST). Oxacillin resistance was used as an indicator for methicillin resistant S.
      epidermidis (MRSE).

      Biofilm formation was analysed and quantified in microtitre plate assays according to the
      well-established protocol of Stepanovic et al.(see references). This method traditionally
      assigns isolates to one of four categories: non-biofilm-formers and weak, moderate or strong
      biofilm-formers.

      The key variables with regards to bacterial phenotype were: biofilm formation; methicillin
      resistance; and multidrug resistance. The primary outcome measure was whether the infection
      was "cured" or not. Primary outcome parameters were calculated as a function of all patients
      for whom data was complete. Statistical comparison was restricted to the lower extremity
      cohort since the other patients are not scored for many of the functional outcome measures
      and as such incomplete.

      Univariate logistic regression models were used to determine the influence of each prognostic
      factor (obesity, smoking, diabetes mellitus, chronic immune suppression, open fracture
      (initially), early onset infection, biofilm formation, methicillin resistance, MDR and
      Charlson comorbidity index) on cure. P-values <0.05 were considered signiﬁcant. Statistical
      analyses were performed using SAS software (Version 9.2; Cary, NC, USA).
    
  