
    
      The BION™ is a novel implantable neuromuscular stimulator whose intended use in this study is
      to reanimate the shoulder muscles of stroke survivors with shoulder subluxation. Strokes are
      considered to be the most important cause of adult disability in North America, with 500,000
      new cases per year in the U.S. (National Stroke Association) and 45,000 in Canada
      (Langton-Hewer, 1990; Shuaib & Hachinski, 1991). Three-quarters of these patients survive and
      half of the survivors have substantial muscle weakness after 6 months (Gresham et al., 1979)
      with little chance of spontaneous recovery (Anderson, 1990; Bonita & Beaglehole, 1988). The
      most commonly affected region in the early phases of recovery is the shoulder; 80% of
      hemiplegic stroke patients suffer from shoulder subluxation and associated chronic pain
      (Smith et al., 1980). The shoulder muscles that are normally active tonically are flaccidly
      paralyzed; the weight of the pendant arm gradually stretches and damages the atrophic muscles
      and ligaments, allowing the head of the humerus to descend out of the glenoid fossa. This
      results in chronic shoulder pain that is difficult to treat and tends to obstruct physical
      therapy directed toward regaining some use of the paretic arm. Our hypothesis is that
      electrical stimulation delivered by the BIONs should be fundamentally equivalent to muscle
      activation achieved voluntarily or by transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), but
      that the BIONs will prove to be a more clinically acceptable and effective approach. The BION
      system consists of the BION implants themselves, a controller that is operated by the study
      participant, and fitting hardware and software used by the clinician to implant, test, and
      program BION function.

      In this study, the BION will be used to reanimate the shoulder muscles of stroke survivors
      experiencing shoulder subluxation. The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of intramuscular stimulation of BIONs to correct established, symptomatic shoulder
      subluxation in chronic stroke survivors. The results of intramuscular stimulation by BIONs
      will be compared with the results of treatment with conventional therapy: surface
      stimulation.

      Degree of shoulder subluxation will be the primary outcome measure for the study. We have
      included other (secondary) outcome measures (i.e., muscle strength, range of motion,
      functional activity, spasticity/tone, subject satisfaction and pain) which may reveal
      secondary benefits of treatment with BIONs. The investigation is expected to last up to 21
      weeks for each study participant. The study will be completed over a 5-year period.
    
  