
    
      This is a multicenter, open-label, parallel-group pharmacokinetic and safety study to assess
      the effect of varying degrees of renal impairment (mild, moderate, severe and end stage renal
      disease [ESRD])on the pharmacokinetics of the hydrocodone bitartrate extended-release tablet
      at a single dose of 45 mg as compared with subjects with normal renal function. The study
      consists of a screening visit within 28 days before study drug administration (visit 1),
      followed by a single-dose administration period including a 144-hour pharmacokinetic sampling
      period (visit 2) with a final assessment after the final pharmacokinetic sample is collected
      or upon early withdrawal, and a follow-up visit 48 to 72 hours after the last discharge from
      the study center (visit 3). Subjects will be categorized into either the control group with
      normal renal function or one of the four groups of subjects with varying degrees of renal
      impairment. Up to 12 subjects in each of the 4 renal impairment groups and up to 16 subjects
      with normal renal function will be enrolled to achieve the targeted minimum of 8 subjects in
      each renal impairment group and 10 subjects with normal renal function completing the study.
      Eligible subjects will check in to the study center on day -1. Subjects who continue to meet
      the criteria for enrollment will receive a single dose of the hydrocodone bitartrate
      extended-release tablet on day 1. Subjects will receive one 50-mg tablet of naltrexone
      hydrochloride to block opioid receptors and minimize opioid related adverse events
      approximately 15 and 3 hours before and approximately 9 and 21 hours after study drug
      administration. Blood and urine samples will be collected just before study drug
      administration and over a 144-hour period after study drug administration. Safety will be
      assessed throughout the study by monitoring the occurrence of adverse events, clinical
      laboratory test results, vital signs measurements,12-lead ECG findings, physical examination
      findings, SpO2 findings, and use of concomitant medications. Subjects who complete all
      scheduled visits will have final procedures and assessments performed prior to discharge from
      the study center after pharmacokinetic sampling is complete. All subjects will be asked to
      return for a follow-up visit.
    
  