
    
      Background: Advances in medical science and technologies have lead to more effective
      management of critically-ill patients with a subsequent improvement in ICU survival rates.
      Patients who survive their ICU stay are often left with post-ICU impairments including muscle
      weakness and functional limitations. Cardiac surgeries are commonly performed worldwide with
      the majority of patients requiring post-operative ICU care. In the past decade, patients who
      qualify for cardiac surgery tend to be older, have a great number of co-morbidities and are
      more likely to require a prolonged ICU stay. The effectiveness of physiotherapy and various
      rehabilitation modalities in patients both pre- and post cardiac surgery has been
      investigated. However, to date no study specifically addresses the feasibility and safety of
      in-bed cycling in patients undergoing cardiac surgery who require prolonged critical care.

      Principle Research Question: Is in-bed cycling a safe and feasible intervention in patients
      post cardiac surgery that require a prolonged stay in critical care?

      Methods: Adult patients post-cardiac surgery admitted to the cardiac surgery ICU who will
      remain intubated and ventilated for at least 72 hours will be eligible for enrollment.
      Participants will receive 20 minutes of in-bed cycling plus routine physiotherapy performed
      by critical care physiotherapists. Patients will be enrolled for 28 days or until they are
      able to ambulate.

      Primary Outcomes: Safety of bedside cycling will be evaluated by monitoring the number of
      adverse events that occur during each cycling session. Feasibility of implementing in-bed
      cycling into daily physiotherapy practice will be evaluated by determining if cycling
      sessions can be conducted at least eighty percent of the time that cycling is appropriate.

      Relevance: Before conducting a larger randomized controlled trial investigating the
      effectiveness of in-bed cycling in the critically-ill cardiac surgery population, the safety
      of this intervention needs to be determined. This will be the first study in a program of
      research evaluating bedside cycling in the cardiac surgical ICU.
    
  