
    
      Health news is an important way to communicate updated medical research to the public. News
      items reporting the results of medical research attract a large audience. However, the
      quality of reporting in health news is questionable. The merits of a wide range of treatments
      and tests are overplayed and harms are underplayed. Several studies have shown the presence
      of spin (i.e., distorted presentation of study results) in health news. Distorted facts can
      be misleading and can affect the behaviour of physicians, healthcare providers and patients.
      However, little research has assessed whether spin can affect readers' interpretation of
      health news items.

      Objective: To compare the interpretation of health news items reported with or without spin.
      News items reporting pre-clinical studies evaluating the effect of a pharmacological
      treatment that received high online public attention will be focused. "Spin" is defined as a
      misrepresentation of study results whatever the motive (intentionally or unintentionally) to
      highlight that the beneficial effect of the intervention in terms of efficacy and safety is
      greater than that shown by the results.

      Hypothesis: The hypothesis of this study is that the spin can influence the reader's
      interpretation of health news items reporting results of pre-clinical studies.

      Design: A randomized controlled trial

        1. Interventions: Health news items reporting results of pre-clinical studies with and
           without spin will be compared. A sample of health news items reporting the results of
           pre-clinical studies evaluating the effect of pharmacologic treatment and containing
           spin in the headline and text will be selected. Spin will be deleted in the selected
           news items and will be rewritten the news without spin.

        2. Participants: The participants will include French-speaking patients from COMPARE:
           French patient community.

        3. Sample size: For this RCT, the sample size will be 300 participants.

        4. Main outcome measures: The primary outcome will be participants' interpretation of the
           benefit of treatment after reading the news (What do you think is the probability that
           treatment X would be beneficial to patients? (scale, 0 [very unlikely] to 10 [very
           likely]).

           The primary outcome of our study is the perception of the benficial effect of treatment
           and involve human particpants who are patients.

           Previous studies have demonstrated that the perception of safety and beneficial effects
           of treatment in preclinical studies will have an impact on the future development of the
           drug, and then the possible use of the drug for patients. Therefore our primary outcome
           could be considered as a surrogate marker of health outcome.

        5. This study is approved by ethics review regulations by INSERM (CEEI-IRB): IRB00003888
    
  