
    
      Randomized prospective trial of minimally invasive surgery versus standard surgery for
      correction of hallux valgus.

      Introduction

      It is estimated that more than 200,000 hallux valgus surgeries are performed each year in the
      United States. [1] More than 100 procedures have been described for correction of hallux
      valgus.[2] Considerable controversy remains over the best technique.

      Recently, a number of minimally invasive techniques for correction of hallux valgus have been
      described. [3, 5, 6]. These minimally invasive techniques emphasize less traumatic surgical
      exposure and more limited dissection of the soft tissues. It has been proposed that minimally
      invasive procedures lead to less pain, decreased swelling, shorter recovery times and more
      rapid return to full weightbearing activities. Not all reports have been positive, and some
      authors report an increased number of complications, including loss of correction and
      malposition of the bones [7].

      Minimally invasive treatment of hallux valgus is becoming increasingly common in podiatric
      and orthopedic clinical practice, due to the theoretical advantages of more rapid recovery,
      more rapid return to full activities, and decreased pain. These techniques have the potential
      advantage of providing better clinical outcomes and having lower cost.

      An increasing number of research publications on this topic have appeared in recent years,
      which reflects both growing interest and development in this field amongst foot and ankle
      surgeons. However, despite the increasing interest, there are no high-quality studies of
      these procedures available. In a 2011 systematic review [8], 24 publications describing the
      outcomes of minimally invasive hallux valgus surgery were identified and analyzed. All the
      studies were level IV quality (case series, with the exception of two that were level III (a
      retrospective comparative studies). No randomized prospective controlled studies have been
      published, and validated disease-specific outcomes measures are seldom used [9].

      No high quality trials of any minimally invasive techniques have been published, and as a
      result, basic questions still remain unanswered: Do minimally invasive procedures have fewer
      complications than standard procedures? Are minimally invasive procedures associated with
      superior patient-based outcomes? Are the radiographic outcomes of minimally invasive
      techniques equivalent? Randomized, prospective clinical trials are required, utilizing
      validated outcomes measures.

      Study Objectives

      To compare the patient-based outcomes and radiographic outcomes of minimally invasive surgery
      versus standard surgery for correction of hallux valgus.

      Primary Outcomes Measure

      The primary outcomes measure is the Manchester-Oxford Foot Questionnaire Score (MOXFQ).
      Manchester-Oxford Foot Questionnaire' (MOXFQ), a 16 item patient-reported questionnaire
      consisting of three domains/scales: 'Walking/standing' (seven items), 'Pain' (five items) and
      'Social interaction' (four items). The MOXFQ is a validated disease-specific outcomes scale
      for foot and ankle surgery which has been shown to be responsive and reliable. In
      observational studies, minimal clinically important difference (MCID) for the various domains
      of the MOXFQ were 16, 12, and 24 for the MOXFQ Walking/standing, Pain, and Social Interaction
      domains, respectively. The MOXFQ has demonstrated good responsiveness when compared with the
      AOFAS forefoot score. Statistical analysis of the data will show if the null hypothesis that
      there are no statistically significant differences between groups with respect to the
      postoperative MOXFQ scores at 12 weeks, 1 year, 2 years and 3 years is rejected.

      Secondary outcome measures are preoperative to postoperative change in hallux valgus angle
      (HVA). Radiographic outcomes parameters will be measured using weight-bearing radiographs to
      analyze preoperative and postoperative hallux valgus angle, and the correction or
      normalization thereof. (Degrees of correction = preoperative HVA - 12 week postoperative
      HVA.)

      Statistical analysis of the data will show if the null hypothesis that there are will be no
      statistically significant differences between groups with respect to the degree of correction
      of the hallux valgus angle is rejected.

      Study Design

      Type

      Non-inferiority treatment study, open-label, randomized, prospective, controlled, parallel
      experimental design.

      Location

      Study-related patient visits will take place in the office of the principal investigator, Dr.
      Henry DeGroot, white 544, Newton Wellesley Hospital MOB Surgery will take place in the
      operating rooms at the Newton Wellesley Hospital. Post operative evaluations will take place
      in the office of the principal investigator and in the Newton Wellesley Hospital cast room.
      Preoperative and postoperative x-rays will take place in the radiology department of the
      Newton Wellesley Hospital.

      Duration

      Subjects will be enrolled until sufficient numbers have been achieved for the two groups,
      which is estimated to require 36 months. The time of active participation for each subject
      will be 12 weeks.

      The period of long-term follow-up for each subject will be 36 months, beginning from the date
      of surgery.

      Research Plan

      Study Intervention

      The study will compare two surgical techniques for correction of hallux valgus, which are
      detailed below. Other than the intraoperative surgical technique, the preoperative and
      postoperative treatment will be identical for all subjects. Radiographic examinations of the
      feet (x-rays) will be made preoperatively and at two weeks postoperative and 12 weeks
      postoperative, as per the usual and customary practice of the principal investigator.

      The conventional surgical technique is a Chevron-type distal metatarsal osteotomy, which is
      performed through a dorsomedial incision approximately 7 cm long. And osteotomy of the distal
      portion of the first metatarsal is made. The capital or distal fragment of the metatarsal is
      mobilized and displaced laterally an adequate amount to correct the hallux valgus deformity.
      The capital or distal fragment is stabilized in corrected position with screws. The internal
      fixation screws used in the conventional surgical technique do not require removal. Through
      the same incision, the contracted soft tissues on the lateral aspect of the
      metatarsophalangeal joint are released. Per the patient's request and consent, other planned
      bony or soft tissue pathology of the lesser toes that requires surgical correction (eg,
      hammer toes) will be treated in the same surgical session using standard techniques.

      The minimally invasive surgical technique is a transverse subcapital distal metatarsal
      osteotomy, which is performed through a direct medial incision approximately 1 cm long. The
      osteotomy of the distal portion of the first metatarsal is made using fluoroscopic image
      guidance. The capital or distal fragment of the metatarsal is mobilized and displaced
      laterally an adequate amount to correct the hallux valgus deformity. A 2.0 mm Kirschner wire
      is placed percutaneously in a position medial to the proximal phalanx, and advanced
      proximally using fluoroscopic guidance until the proximal end of the wire is located in a
      stable position within the medullary cavity of the first metatarsal (see figures) .The distal
      end of the Kirschner wire is left outside the skin where it is cut to length and covered. The
      Kirschner wire is removed after six weeks. The soft tissues on the lateral aspect of the
      joint are not released. Per the patient's request and consent, other planned bony or soft
      tissue pathology of the lesser toes that requires surgical correction (e.g., hammer toes)
      will be treated in the same surgical session using standard techniques.

      Postoperative Care -

        -  First post operative is: one week postoperative

        -  Second postoperative visit: two weeks postoperative

        -  Third postoperative visit: 6 weeks postoperative

        -  Last postoperative visit: 12 weeks postoperative

      Period of Long Term Follow Up

        -  1 year follow up - completion of questionnaire. This can be completed by email, regular
           mail, or in person, depending on the patients preference.

        -  2 year follow up - completion of questionnaire. This can be completed by email, regular
           mail, or in person, depending on the patients preference.

        -  3 year follow up - completion of questionnaire. This can be completed by email, regular
           mail, or in person, depending on the patients preference.

      Study Costs

      All costs associated with the usual and customary perioperative, operative, and postoperative
      care of the patients will be billed to the patient's medical insurance. Subjects will incur
      no costs that are solely for the purposes of research. Any study costs for the purposes of
      the research study will be supported by the principal investigator. These costs are not
      expected to be large. The main cost will be the time needed to inform the patient of the
      study process, obtain consent, gather the data and store it. The PI feels that unsupported
      research is a feasible and preferable alternative to industry funded studies, which have been
      shown to be much more likely to have significant bias.

      Randomization and Blinding

      After a study subject has been enrolled, they will be randomized to one of two treatment
      groups. All subjects will be randomized, 1:1 either to the conventional surgery group (group
      A) or the minimally invasive surgery (group B). Randomization will take place after
      enrollment via selection of a one of a multitude of envelopes containing a random number. A
      block randomization technique will be used with a block size of eight. Each random number
      will have been preassigned to either group A or group B.

      The envelope containing the patient's group assignment will be opened in the operating room
      immediately prior to commencing the surgery. Due to the nature of the surgery, neither the
      investigators nor the patients can be effectively blinded to the results of the group
      assignment. The patients will be made aware of the group assignment after the surgery.

      Primary outcomes measure and secondary outcomes measure

      The primary outcomes measure is the Manchester-Oxford Foot Questionnaire Score (MOXFQ).
      Manchester-Oxford Foot Questionnaire' (MOXFQ), a 16 item patient-reported questionnaire.

      Secondary outcome measures are preoperative to postoperative change in hallux valgus angle
      (HVA).

      Data Collection and Statistical Analysis

      The study documents will be labeled with the patients random number, and the data will be
      stored using only this unique random number identifier. The patient's name and group
      assignment will not appear on any study document. Data related to the MOXFQ will be recorded
      on a visit summary document bearing only the patient's random number, and later entered into
      a computerized spreadsheet using the patient's random number as a unique identifier. The
      patients personal data will not be stored along with the aggregate data. Data will be kept in
      a password secured computer in the office of the PI.

      Power Analysis

      Power analysis was performed using G*Power 3.0.10 (Department of Experimental Psychology
      Heinrich-Heine-University 40225 Düsseldorf Germany -
      http://www.psycho.uni-duesseldorf.de/aap/projects/gpower/). Power was calculated for the
      differences of two independent means (two groups). Given an estimated population effect size
      (d) of 0.65, a probability of alpha error (significance) of 0.05, and a required power (1-
      beta) of 0.80, the total required sample size would be 78 (two groups of 39). The two-tailed
      test is used because we cannot assume that the differences in the treatment effect in the two
      groups will be in one direction only, that is, we have assumed that the treatment effect may
      either be smaller or larger in the conventional surgery group than in the minimally invasive
      surgery group. Our goal is to enroll 80 patients in the trial. For independent samples, the
      Mann-Whitney test will be used to examine the difference between the two groups.

      Study Endpoints

      The study endpoint will occur when a sufficient number of patients have completed the 36
      month long term follow-up process. Our aim is to enroll a minimum of 60 and a maximum of 100
      patients. Once the last patient enrolled has completed the 36 month survey instrument, the
      data collection phase of the study will be completed.
    
  