
    
      Proteus syndrome is a rare segmental overgrowth disorder caused by a somatic gain of function
      mutation, c.49GA, p.Glu17Lys) in the oncogene AKT1, encoding the AKT1 kinase . The disorder
      is progressive, with high morbidity and mortality - there are very few living adults with
      this disease. Tissues and cell lines from patients with Proteus syndrome harbor admixtures of
      mutant alleles that ranged from <1% to approximately 50%. This mutation causes constitutive
      activation of AKT1, through Ser473 and Thr308 phosphorylation. This activation stimulates the
      AKT/PI3K pathway, mediating processes including increased cell proliferation and decreased
      apoptosis. The progressive nature of the disorder and the mechanism of disease (gain of
      function) make AKT1 an excellent target for therapeutics, specifically repression. The
      AKT/PI3K pathway is mutated in numerous cancers as well. Because it is commonly mutated in
      cancer, pharmaceutical companies are interested in targeting this molecule with inhibitors.
      Indeed, Proteus syndrome can be considered a simple model for cancer therapeutics, as these
      patients are known to harbor only a single activating mutation instead of the hundreds or
      thousands that are mutated in cancers. ArQule Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Merck & Co.,
      has developed a small molecule, miransertib (MK-7075) that effectively inhibits AKT, with the
      lowest IC50 for AKT1 (as compared to AKT2 or AKT3, and orders of magnitude lower for other
      kinases). This agent has undergone significant development with animal toxicity studies and
      is currently in phase I trials in patients with different types of cancer. In addition, we
      have performed in vitro testing with miransertib in cells from patients with Proteus syndrome
      and demonstrated reduction in AKT1 phosphorylation at doses in the range of achievable blood
      levels in humans with low toxicity. Because Proteus syndrome is a chronic disease, typical
      approaches to defining the recommended phase II dose by determining the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) are not appropriate it is unreasonable to propose that patients would tolerate
      significant side effects for prolonged time periods. As an initial trial for this disease, we
      propose a phase I study to determine a recommended dose for subsequent trials, which will
      determine the efficacy of miransertib in Proteus syndrome. The recommended phase II dose will
      be determined based on the tolerability of miransertib in children and adults with Proteus
      syndrome and measures of drug levels in plasma and affected tissues in patients with Proteus
      syndrome and measures of tissue phosphorylation of AKT1. We hypothesize that the recommended
      dose of miransertib will be substantially below that of doses used in patients with cancer
      and that this will lead to a highly favorable risk-benefit ratio on which we can base future
      efficacy studies.
    
  