
    
      The participant will be given a study drug-dosing diary to keep track of when they take the
      study drug. The participant will be taking the study drug once every day, for 14 - 28 days,
      prior to their surgery.

        -  Run-In Phase: The first 6-12 participants will receive high-dose vitamin D prior to
           surgery. The number of participants in this phase will be based on the results of the
           analyzed research samples.

        -  Randomized Phase: Because no one knows which of the study options is best, the
           participant will be "randomized" into one of the study groups: high dose vitamin D or
           standard dose vitamin D.

             -  48 Participants will be randomized to receive high-dose vitamin D or standard-dose
                vitamin D. Randomization means that the participants are put into a group by
                chance. Neither the participant nor the research doctor will choose what group the
                participant will be in. The participant will have an equal chance of getting
                assigned to each arm (like flipping a coin). The randomized phase will enroll to
                two groups at the same time:

                  -  Group A: 24 participants with a recent diagnosis of stage I, II or III colon
                     cancer will be randomized to receive high-dose vitamin D or standard-dose
                     vitamin D.

                  -  Group B: 24 participants with resectable liver metastases from colon cancer
                     will be randomized to receive high-dose vitamin D or standard-dose vitamin D.

      Additional research procedures to be performed on study:

        -  Blood samples will be collected for research purposes (a little more than 2 teaspoons of
           blood). The samples will be collected immediately prior to the participant's surgery and
           used to study the vitamin D receptor and pathway, as well as its relationship to colon
           cancer. Some of this blood will be stored to be used for future cancer research.

        -  Tumor tissue will be collected for research purposes at the time of the participant
           surgery. This tissue will also be used to study the vitamin D receptor and pathway, as
           well as its relationship to colon cancer. Some of the tumor tissue collected will be
           sent for use in a separate, but related study. In this study, the participant's tumor
           will be used to grow cell lines. This means the participant's tumor cells will be
           multiplied in the lab. These cell lines will be used to study the binding sites in the
           genes of participants and learn more about vitamin D's role in preventing colon cancer.
    
  