
    
      Cranial radiation therapy (RT), commonly used to treat benign and malignant brain tumors, can
      lead to cognitive impairments in domains not related to neuroanatomic structures directly
      impacted by the tumor. This suggests that off-target RT, even at low doses, may have a
      negative cognitive impact by affecting neuroanatomic targets proximal or distal to the tumor.
      While constraints to minimize brain necrosis, ototoxicity, and optic neuropathy are
      well-established, RT dose tolerances for cognitive changes in key domains (memory, attention,
      executive function, and processing speed) that occur in RT-treated patients are poorly
      characterized. There is accumulating evidence that consideration of neuroanatomic targets
      could better explain cranial RT-mediated cognitive change. Additionally, a recent cooperative
      group phase III trial has shown that conformal avoidance of the hippocampus with whole brain
      RT can reduce cognitive impairment. Unfortunately, 60% of patients still had cognitive
      impairment at 6 months even with hippocampal avoidance, implying that other structures and
      networks are involved in cognitive deficits from RT and efforts to identify those structures
      are warranted. A major obstacle in the field has been difficulty identifying sites of
      off-target tissue damage that could impact cognition after RT. Given the role of the limbic
      system in key cognitive functions affected by RT, the investigators have a particular
      interest in characterizing changes in limbic system and thalamus in relation to memory and
      related processes.

      The investigators plan to examine RT effects on neuroanatomic structures in the limbic system
      and thalamus as well as candidate structures identified systematically using magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI). The investigators propose to prospectively enroll 58 patients with
      benign and low-grade brain tumors who will undergo partial brain RT, either conventionally
      fractionated or hypofractionated.

      Neurocognitive testing will be obtained at baseline, 3, and 6 months after RT using a battery
      of tests to assess visual and verbal memory, attention, executive function, and processing
      speed. Brain MRI, including high resolution T1 images, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), and
      resting functional MRI (fMRI) sequences, will be evaluated at baseline and 6 months after RT.

      This pilot study will provide preliminary data to identify key areas impacted by RT that can
      be followed up in future research.

      Aim 1: To examine objective neurocognitive changes over time. Based on prior data, the
      investigators hypothesize that they will see RT-induced neurocognitive impairment in up to
      50% of patients after cranial RT. The investigators will evaluate neurocognitive testing
      changes using a composite global deficit z-score (primary endpoint) as well as z-score
      changes in cognitive domains of verbal and visual memory, attention, executive function and
      processing speed.

      Aim 2: To examine changes in brain tissue (via MRI) induced by off-target RT in patients with
      benign and low-grade brain tumors. The investigators hypothesize that a detailed brain tissue
      injury mapping of off-target RT doses from pre to post-RT and reconstructed structural and
      functional connectivity (DTI and fMRI) will provide data on the relationship between RT dose
      and MRI changes in specific structures. The investigators specifically hypothesize that
      co-mapping of RT dose and MRI changes in the thalamus and limbic system (i.e., thalamic
      nuclei, hippocampus, fornix, hypothalamus/mammillary bodies, limbic lobe, cingulum) will be
      most distorted by off-target RT.

      Aim 3: To examine the relationship between MRI changes for key neuroanatomic structures with
      neurocognitive testing. The investigators hypothesize that RT will impact several neuronal
      networks sub-serving multiple cognitive domains and cognitive decline (Aim 2) will be
      correlated with damage revealed by MRI to limbic and thalamic structures (Aim 1). This
      approach will allow identification of brain structures most associated with domain-specific
      cognitive impairment.

      There is critical need for well-designed longitudinal studies that examine the impact of RT
      on neuroanatomic structures. Many of the studies that evaluate cognition with RT do not take
      into account neuroanatomic dose distributions. Even within the literature that evaluates
      neuroanatomic targets, there has not been a systematic approach to evaluation of
      neuroanatomic targets by RT. This research will help to define which neuroanatomic structures
      are most at risk from RT-induced damage and will help ultimately establish new dose
      constraint guidelines for important structures to improve cognitive outcomes.
    
  