
    
      Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) continues to be the leading cause of cancer-related
      mortality worldwide. Even with adjustment for age NSCLC is responsible for almost 20% of
      cancer-related deaths. Recent years have brought tremendous progress in the understanding of
      the disease, its underlying biology and the development of effective therapies.
      Traditionally, NSCLC has been treated with surgery, platinum-based chemotherapy or
      radiotherapy alone or in combination, depending on tumour stage, tolerability of expected
      side effects and prognosis. Various strategies are currently being pursued in order to
      increase the patient population that may benefit from immunotherapy and to further improve
      the outcome of patients with NSCLC.

      The CHESS clinical trial is for patients with NSCLC that has progressed to a small number of
      other parts of the body (oligo-metastatic) and has not been previously treated, or after
      surgical resection of a single metastasis (central nervous system or adrenal). The trial aims
      to reduce the risk of systemic progression and thereby improve progression free survival.
      Participants will receive induction treatment consisting of immunotherapy combined with
      platinum-based doublet chemotherapy and stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) that will be
      given to all oligo-metastatic locations. SBRT started early and concurrently with
      immunotherapy aims at enhancing a postulated immune effect and simultaneously effectively
      control the macro-metastases.

      Preclinical data have shown a strong immune-enhancing effect of radiotherapy, especially when
      delivered to small volumes, in high-single fraction doses and over a short period of time.
      Consequently, stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) is currently being intensively
      investigated as a partner for systemic immunotherapy. Earlier clinical studies generated
      proof-of-principle data for the synergistic effects of combined radiotherapy and
      immunotherapy. Chemotherapy and high-dose radiotherapy are well known triggers of immunogenic
      cell death and are therefore highly promising partners for combination with immunotherapy.

      The sub-group of patients with "oligometastatic" disease was originally described by Hellman
      and Weichselbaum in 1995. In line with this concept, the current NCCN and ESMO guidelines
      describe that Stage IV NSCLC patients presenting with solitary metastases can be treated with
      curative intent using local surgery and/or radiotherapy. Local treatment for oligo-metastatic
      NSCLC has been adopted rapidly in the oncological community and one reason is the progress
      made in the fields of surgery and radiotherapy, both becoming less toxic (minimally invasive
      surgery) and simultaneously less toxic and more effective (precision radiotherapy),
      respectively. SBRT allows treatment of small peripheral primaries and metastases at virtually
      all anatomical locations with a favourable therapeutic ratio of local tumour control rates
      >90% and low rates of toxicity. Simultaneously, minimally invasive surgery for early and
      locally advanced NSCLC today achieves excellent local tumour control with low rates of
      toxicity.

      Patients with a limited number of metastases - oligometastatic disease - are currently
      treated with combined radical local treatment for all active lesions (locoregional primary
      and metastases) and their prognosis is better as compared to patients who receive systemic
      treatment only for widespread metastatic disease. However, the majority of patients still
      develop systemic disease progression indicating the urgent clinical need for more effective
      systemic treatment to control subclinical disease.

      All CHESS trial participants will receive induction treatment with the immunotherapy drug
      durvalumab, standard platinum-chemotherapy and radiation therapy of the lung cancer
      metastases (SBRT). Durvalumab is a human monoclonal antibody carefully engineered to attach
      to immune cells to stimulate their activity against cancer cells. There are now several
      approved antibodies for the treatment of cancer or other diseases. Standard
      platinum-chemotherapy includes treatment with carboplatin and paclitaxel.

      After three months of induction treatment the status of the lung cancer will be restaged. If
      the primary lung cancer is stable or has not increased in size it will be surgically removed
      if possible or, alternatively, treated with radiation therapy. Treatment with durvalumab will
      continue until the disease relapses or for a maximum of one year from the start of induction
      treatment. If the lung cancer has increased in size at the time of the three month restaging
      all trial treatment will stop and the study doctor will discuss other treatment options that
      are available.

      The efficacy, safety and tolerability of combining immunotherapy with standard
      platinum-chemotherapy and SBRT will be evaluated in the CHESS clinical trial.
    
  