
    
      Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in women worldwide but the commonest in
      developing countries. In Ethiopia, cervical cancer is the leading cause of morbidity and
      mortality from all cancers. The Human Papilloma Viruses (HPV) is a necessary cause for
      cervical cancer (CC). HPVs 16, 18, 31, 33, 35 and 39 are considered as high risk types which
      are mainly responsible in cervical carcinogenesis.

      In developing countries, including Ethiopia, almost all women with cancers present to health
      care facilities at late stages with advanced disease and poor prognosis. Unlike other
      reproductive health cancers, cervical cancer can be prevented and even possible to be cured
      if identified in its early stages. Currently cervical cancer screening by visual inspection
      with acetic acid (VIA) and immediate treatment with cryotherapy is recommended by World
      Health Organization(WHO) for low and middle income countries as this method does not require
      especially trained professionals and more resources and results are available immediately
      which reduces the attrition rate. However, yet accessing VIA is difficult for many rural
      women as the service is only available at least at district Hospital level in very few
      places. Although VIA is accepted by the government in many low income countries, training ,
      maintaining quality assurance, the invasiveness of a pelvic examination and user variability
      of the test remain critical barriers. Moreover, the short comings of this method includes
      having of low positive predictive value and lack of evidence on periodic screening
      performance.

      Detection of High risk Human Papilloma Viruses (HrHPV) in the cervix has been recommended in
      settings wherever possible. World Health Organization (WHO) primarily recommends the HPV test
      which is very sensitive and a convenient molecular test for cervical cancer screening. This
      approach is found to be less examiner-dependent, reduce the burden in health system, enhance
      the accuracy, efficiency and reduce cultural barriers. Therefore, HPV test might be a future
      option in low and middle income countries.

      In Ethiopia, screening with VIA followed by cryotherapy started in 2009 first for women with
      HIV in selected 14 hospitals and subsequently the service was expanded to 10 additional
      health institution. Currently the federal ministry of health in Ethiopia has scaled up the
      service to the general public into public health facilities. However, still majority of women
      in Ethiopia are residing in rural area where access to screening and treatment facilities is
      limited or lacking.

      So far few studies have been conducted in African settings for assessing the uptake and
      acceptability of independent screening approaches. Study in Sub Saharan Africa reported
      higher acceptance of HPV based cervical cancer screening than visual inspection with acetic
      acid. In Ethiopia there is no adequate information on women uptake, acceptability, adherence
      and potential barriers of cervical cancer screening for different screening modalities.
      Moreover, data on HPV prevalence and genotype distribution are rare.
    
  