
    
      Arm 1:The purpose of this arm of the study is to determine if foot muscle exercises change
      the function of the foot. Up to 25 people will be enrolled in this arm of the study at the
      University of Virginia.

      Arm 2: The purpose of this arm of the study is to determine if joint mobilization applied to
      the middle part of the foot will effect function in people who are healthy, have a history of
      lateral ankle sprains (LAS), or have chronic ankle instability (CAI) and have joint
      stiffness. Up to 125 people will be enrolled in this arm of the study at the University of
      Virginia. CAI is a condition where symptoms from an ankle sprain last longer than one year.
      These symptoms include a feeling of looseness, feelings that the participant may roll the
      ankle, or repeated ankle sprains. This study may help clinicians prescribe simple exercises
      at home to help treat CAI. The participants are being asked to be in this study, because they
      are physically active (participate in some form of physical activity for at least 20 minutes
      per day, three days per week) and are not currently seeking medical treatment/therapy for
      LAS/CAI. Joint mobilization is a commonly used clinical intervention used to decrease pain
      and increase joint range of motion. The home exercises employed for this study are commonly
      used clinically in the treatment of foot and ankle problems and include a foot and calf
      stretch and standing on one foot for 60 seconds. The participant will be asked to perform
      these exercises three times daily throughout the course of the day.

      The investigators hypothesize that joint mobilization will improve patient oriented outcomes
      and measures of joint mobility and excursion in individuals with impaired foot mobility
      immediately post intervention and at 1-week follow-up, but not at 4 weeks; and intrinsic foot
      strengthening will result in differences in morphologic measures and intrinsic muscle
      cross-section in healthy individuals following a 4 week home exercise program.
    
  