
    
      Adverse pregnancy outcomes are significant personal and public health issues in the United
      States where approximately 12% of all births are pre-term (<37 weeks gestation). Care for
      these neonates accounts for over 5 million neonatal intensive care hospital stays each year
      and close to $6 Billion in annual health care costs. Premature delivery and low birth weight
      (LBW) are leading determinates of neonatal mortality and serious morbidity often leading to
      neurological and developmental restrictions in early childhood. Concomitant to these data are
      significant social and psychological consequences related to maternal and family distress and
      the effects of personal loss.

      The role of maternal periodontitis as a potential stressor having detrimental effects on
      pregnancy outcomes is a relatively new area of investigation. Nevertheless, increasing
      evidence exists to support an association between maternal periodontal disease, a chronic
      anaerobic inflammatory condition of the oral cavity, and adverse pregnancy outcomes including
      pre-term birth (PTB) and fetal growth restriction. This is particularly true with very
      early-in-gestation delivery.

      After adjusting for age, race, smoking and parity, a prospective study of over one-thousand
      pregnant women conducted at the University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) demonstrated that
      periodontal disease is associated with an increased risk of pre-term birth (PTB) by an odds
      ratio 4-7, depending on disease severity. These data showed a 55% prevalence of periodontal
      disease among this cohort; a much higher prevalence than had been reported in national
      surveys.

      The mechanisms responsible for this association remain unclear. However, substantial data
      suggest that systemic inflammation, as measured by serum C-reactive protein and other
      inflammatory mediators may well underlie the observed associations.

      Investigators hypothesize that links between maternal infections and pre-term bith involve
      microbes and host response to microbes that enter the uterine cavity during pregnancy. In
      cases of remote infection, such as periodontitis, this may occur via a blood-bourne route
      which triggers an alteration in the normal cytokine and hormone regulatory gestation that can
      result in premature labor, early rupture of membranes and preterm birth.
    
  