
    
      Cetuximab is a drug that blocks epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). EGFR may be involved
      in certain types of cancer. When EGFR is stimulated, a series of chemical reactions starts
      that results in a tumor being "told" to grow. Cetuximab tries to stop these reactions by
      blocking EGFR. This may stop tumors from growing. Cetuximab has been shown to increase the
      effect of chemotherapy and of radiation therapy, both of which will also be given in this
      study.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a complete medical history and physical exam. Blood (about 2
      tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. Chest x-rays and computed
      tomography (CT) scans of the abdomen will be done. Women who are able to have children must
      have a negative urine pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will first receive cetuximab
      every 2 weeks for 8 weeks (4 doses). Cetuximab will be given every 2 weeks throughout the
      duration of the study. Cetuximab will be continued during the radiation and capecitabine
      combination, during the retesting stage and then during the chemotherapy that is given after
      radiation therapy. Cetuximab infusions will be given over approximately 2 hours. Gemcitabine
      and oxaliplatin chemotherapy will be given once every 2 weeks (4 doses) for 8 weeks. Both
      drugs are given through a central line and over about 2 hours. Cetuximab will be given first,
      followed by gemcitabine, and then followed by oxaliplatin. A CT scan and chest X-ray will be
      done 2 weeks after the last dose (at Week 10).

      As long as the tumor has not grown or spread, you will then receive cetuximab, capecitabine,
      and radiation therapy together. The Capecitabine will be given by mouth twice a day every day
      of radiation therapy (5 and 1/2 weeks). Radiation therapy will be given once a day for 5 days
      in a row. It will be given for 5 and 1/2 weeks or 28 treatments. The radiation will be given
      from 4 directions and focused on the tumor while you are lying on your back. You will
      continue to receive cetuximab by vein once every 2 weeks during capecitabine and radiation
      therapy.

      After radiotherapy, you will continue to take cetuximab by vein every 2 weeks. The effect of
      treatment will be evaluated 5-6 weeks after the completion of radiation therapy and
      capecitabine. A chest x-ray and CT scans will be performed, and about 2 tablespoons of blood
      will be drawn for routine testing. As long as the tumor has not grown or spread and the side
      effects are not too severe, you may continue to receive Cetuximab by vein once every 2 weeks
      . You will also receive Gemcitabine by vein in the same dose as before for 3 out of every 4
      weeks as long as the tumor does not grow and the side effects are not too severe. CT scans
      and chest x-rays will then be done every 2 months to evaluate the status of the tumor.

      During the study, you will have physical exams, including weekly blood tests (about 2
      tablespoons) each. The possible development of side effects will be closely monitored and
      could require extra blood and/or urine samples.

      You will be taken off study if your disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur. You
      may have surgery if at any time during therapy the tumor can be removed surgically. A
      separate consent form will be used for that situation.

      This is an investigational study. Capecitabine, oxaliplatin, and cetuximab are approved by
      the FDA for colon cancer but have not been approved by the FDA for pancreatic cancer. Up to
      69 patients will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 60 will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  