
    
      Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a highly heterogeneous subtype, which exhibits
      aggressive clinical behavior and generally carries a poor prognosis. As it lacks hormone
      receptors expression (estrogen and progesterone receptors) and amplification of the Human
      epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), targeted therapies are lacking. Thus, the
      identification of any modifiable factors which may influence the course of the disease is
      critical both in improving the quality of care and the patient's quality of life. In addition
      to lifestyle factors, such as diet and exercise habits, psychological factors, such as
      cumulative lifetime stress, coping response, perceived social support, and overall
      psychological well-being may also influence cancer progression.

      While it is known that stress can directly upregulate certain immune mechanisms, it is
      suspected that a patient's coping response, perceived social support, and general
      psychological well-being may have an indirect influence on cancer progression via altered
      health-related behaviors. For example, during stressful periods, alcohol consumption may
      rise, sleep quality may be diminished, nutritional needs may not be properly met, and
      exercise may be avoided. As a group, TNBC patients face additional challenges not experienced
      by other BC patients. Due to the disease's poor prognosis, its relatively new status as a BC
      subtype (first mention in 2005), and the lack of targeted treatments; patients may experience
      an increased stress-response following their diagnosis. For instance, it is known that an
      event induces a stress response when it involves novelty and unpredictability, a lack of
      sense of control, and threats to the sense of self; elements that are clearly emphasized in
      TNBC.

      To promote the development of psycho oncological strategies tailored towards women in this
      particular patient group, this study aims to explore any trends which might be indicative of
      an interaction between psychological aspects and the oncological outcomes of patients treated
      for TNBC between 01.01.2015-31.12.2019, at Pius Hospital, in Oldenburg, Germany. Because we
      intend to evaluate a retrospective cohort of patients, the psychological instruments were
      chosen and slightly adapted to target past events (stress across life span and social
      support) and stable traits (psychological well-being, coping).

      As there is an existing body of evidence supporting the relationship between stress and the
      immune system, we expect to see the poorest oncological outcomes in patients who 1) have had
      more adverse life events, and 2) those who present inadequate/inappropriate coping skills.
      Additionally, we intend to explore if other psychological variables mentioned in the
      literature, including perceived social support and psychological well-being, are also related
      to the oncological outcomes in our cohort of patients.

      This study combines prospective and retrospective approaches since the psychosociological
      data is to be collected prospectively from a single retrospective cohort of patients.
      Patients could not be randomized into groups, due to the retrospective nature of the study.
      Considering that all data derived from this study will be numerical, this will be a
      quantitative analysis. This research is comparative since the patients' clinical outcomes
      will be analyzed in terms of psychological measures. Lastly, the present study is exploratory
      as it aims to shed light on the interplay between psychological and clinical aspects in TNBC,
      as psycho-oncological studies are lacking for this BC subtype.

      A list of patient names will be obtained from the hospital's Tumor Documentation Office.
      Next, patient electronic medical records will be accessed through Pius-Hospital's Orbis
      Database program according to the name and date of birth of each patient. Demographic and
      clinical variables of interest will be collected from the clinical charts and recorded on the
      patient case report form (CRF).

      The psychological aspects of interest will be assessed through self-reported questionnaires.
      (1 computer-based and 3 paper-based questionnaires). Patients will fill out the surveys in a
      proper setting where privacy will be assured. Questionnaires will not include information
      which could be directly used to identify participants (i.e. name, DOB), but will instead
      contain a code which will allow the psychological data to be combined with the respective
      participant's demographic and clinical variables for the subsequent statistical analysis.
      After completion, participant's information (pseudonymized) will be transferred to the CRF,
      and subsequently case data will be transferred to SPSS (software version 26.0) for further
      statistical analysis.
    
  