
    
      A prospective, single-center, First-in-Man trial;

      Study population: 65 subjects.

      Phase 1: 45 subjects will be randomly assigned into two queues: queue 1(n=30), queue 2(n=15),
      Phase 2: 20 subjects will be assigned into queue 3(n=20)

      Note: Phase 1 study device：IBS V1.0; Phase 2 study device: IBS V1.1.

      IBS V1.0 is the first version in FIM Study, because the degradation curve is the best in
      porcine model, which is the commonly used model in the animal study for coronary stents.
      However, the degradation of IBS V1.0 is faster than expected in human bodies, and it was
      varied significantly from human coronary artery to porcine coronary artery.

      Study team think that fast degradation at 3~6 months (vessel healing period) after
      implantation might cause scaffold collapse and recoil leading to inadequate radial supporting
      and late lumen loss. Fast degradation might release more degradation products in unit time to
      stimulate the local tissue, causing neointima proliferation. And fast degradation might
      destroy the drug release profile, leading to less effective drug inhibition of the
      proliferation.

      The difference of IBS V1.0 and V1.1 is the PDLLA thickness of IBS V1.1 decrease ~7μm and the
      thinckness of backbone increase ~8μm, which slow down the degradation speed of IBS stent.
      However the total thickness of IBS does not change, for example the thickness of IBS size
      3.0x18mm is still 70μm.

      The clinical follow up will be performed in all subjects at 1 month, 6 months, 1 year, 2
      years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years post procedure;

      The Angiographic, Intra-Vascular Ultrasound (IVUS) and Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT)
      will be performed at 6 months and 2 years post procedure in queue 1 and 3. The Angiographic,
      IVUS and OCT will be performed at 1 year and 3 years post procedure in queue 2.

      The primary study endpoints:

        1. Target lesion failure (TLF) at 6 month post procedure

        2. Late Lumen Loss at 6 month post procedure
    
  