
    
      Background:

        -  Patients with recurrent or metastatic pediatric solid tumors experience low survival
           rates, but using current standard therapies, many patients with these diseases are
           rendered into a state of minimal residual disease associated with lymphopenia.

        -  Lymphopenic hosts show augmented immune reactivity, which may be favorable for inducing
           antitumor immune responses.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine whether Alpha cluster of differentiation 25 (CD25) and 8H9 depleted
           autologous lymphocytes plus tumor lysate/keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) pulsed
           dendritic cell vaccines plus or minus r-hIL7 (CYT107) can induce immune responses to
           tumor lysate in this patient population rendered lymphopenic by cytotoxic therapy.

        -  To assess the safety of administering lymphocytes depleted of cluster of differentiation
           4 (CD4) plus CD25plus suppressor T cells plus or minus r-hIL (CYT107 (interleukin 7)) to
           lymphopenic hosts.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with metastatic or recurrent pediatric solid tumors of the following
           histologies: Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors, rhabdomyosarcoma or neuroblastoma,
           synovial cell sarcoma, desmoplastic small round cell tumor, undifferentiated sarcoma,
           embryonal sarcoma.

        -  Patients must have sufficient accessible tumor for biopsy to generate tumor lysate.

        -  Patients must meet eligibility criteria upon enrollment and upon completion of standard
           therapy prior to administration of immunotherapy as significant time will have elapsed
           between the time points.

      Design:

        -  Immunotherapy consists of one autologous lymphocyte infusion depleted of CD25plus
           suppressive T cells and depleted of contaminating tumor cells plus 6 sequential tumor
           lysate/KLH pulsed dendritic cell vaccines. No cytokine is administered on Arm A and
           r-hIL7 (CYT107) is administered on Arm B.

        -  Patients will be evaluated for immune responses to tumor lysates using ex vivo assays
           and delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH).

        -  The trial uses a one-stage design targeting a response rate of 50 percent. Up to 47
           patients will be treated.

        -  Stopping rules will take effect if excessive toxicity is observed.
    
  