
    
      At present, the later-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) can bring
      benefits to subjects. However, the overall efficacy of treatment is still low. The programmed
      cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade alone in MSS/pMMR mCRC is inefficiency, highlighting a
      need for strategies that converse the immunity suppressive to immunity supportive
      microenvironment. Fruquitinib and regorafenib are multi-target TKI mainly for angiogenesis,
      which has the following characteristics: cause tumor necrosis and release a lot of new
      antigens, improve the microenvironment of immunosuppression, and induce tumor vascular
      normalization. In addition to killing tumor cells, fruquitinib and regorafenib could also
      converse the immunity suppressive to immunity supportive microenvironment, which could
      sensitize PD-1 blockade, ultimately improve the prognosis of patients with MSS/pMMR mCRC.

      This prospective study is a single-arm, multicenter phase II clinical study to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of fruquitinib or regorafenib in combination with anti-PD-1 antibody in
      TKI (fruquitinib or regorafenib)-responded MSS/pMMR metastatic colorectal cancer.

      In this prospective study, the 9-month PFS rate in subjects receiving TKI followed by TKI in
      combination with anti-PD-1 antibody, will be used as primary outcome measures and 53 subjects
      will be recruited.

      After fully informed and signed the informed consent, the subjects will receive one cycle of
      TKI (fruquitinib or regorafenib) treatment after enrollment. According to response to TKI,
      the subjects will be divided into three arms. The definition of response to TKI are as
      follows: (1) obvious response to TKI (arm A)：effective imaging changes, including reduction
      of target lesion diameter to CR, PR or shrunken SD (based on response evaluation criteria in
      solid tumors, RECIST v 1.1), or cavitation in metastatic lung lesions, or decrease in the
      density of liver metastatic target lesions ≥15%; (2) general response to TKI (arm B):
      enlarged SD (based on RECIST v 1.1); (3) poor response to TKI (arm C): PD (based on RECIST v
      1.1). TKI in combination with anti-PD-1 antibody will be administered in arm A. The subjects
      in arm C will exit the study. The subjects in arm B will continue to take TKI for another one
      cycle. After that, the obvious response subjects will be entered group A, the general
      response subjects will keep in arm B and continue the TKI monotherapy, and the poor response
      subjects will exit the study. The administration of arm A or B will be last until disease
      progression or intolerable toxicity，anti-PD-1 antibody can be applied for up to 2 years.

      The first two imaging evaluations would be performed every 4 weeks after the beginning of
      treatment to evaluate TKI response, and then once every 6 weeks, until the end of treatment,
      withdrawal of informed consent or death. The TKI response would be assessed according to
      RECIST v1.1 criteria and effective imaging changes (cavitation in metastatic lung lesions, or
      decrease in the density of liver metastatic target lesions ≥15%). The efficacy of TKI
      followed by TKI in combination with anti-PD-1 antibody would be evaluated based on
      immune-related RECIST (iRECIST) v1.1 criteria.

      PD-1/PD-L1 expression, T lymphocyte infiltration, T lymphocyte subsets in peripheral blood,
      granulocyte to lymphocyte ratio, tumor mutant burden (TMB), circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA),
      exosomes，etc.，will be measured and monitored during the treatment. In addition，the safety
      evaluation will be carried out according to the standard of adverse reaction classification
      (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, CTCAE v5.0)
    
  