
    
      Diabetic ketoacidosis accounts for 65% of hospitalizations in pediatric patients with type 1
      diabetes, and has a mortality rate between 0.15-0.31%. Children with established type 1
      diabetes have an 8% annualized risk of developing diabetic ketoacidosis, and this risk
      increases during adolescence. In addition, socioeconomic and racial disparities are
      associated with increased risks of poor glycemic control, hospitalization with diabetic
      ketoacidosis, and even severe hypoglycemia. All of these complications are associated with
      preventable harm, and lead to increased utilization of medical resources, both in the short-
      and long-term. Social determinants of health account for over 75% of health outcomes. Thus,
      it is not surprising that a disproportionate number of children with poor diabetes control
      and recurrent hospitalization in diabetic ketoacidosis come from vulnerable underserved
      populations.

      In this study, Investigators will study the effect of integrating a community-based
      healthcare worker into the healthcare team of children with poorly controlled type 1
      diabetes. Community Health Workers (CHW) are highly motivated, community members who do not
      necessarily have prior medical training, but rather they link with the healthcare team to
      identify and provide relevant social supports to the family. They receive specific training
      that focuses on issues relevant to improving health outcomes and adherence, by improving
      medication access, reducing food insecurity, and improving health literacy. The CHW are able
      to provide real-time assistance with navigating the healthcare and social services systems,
      reducing family stress and breaking down community barriers to positive health behavior. The
      CHW work with the family to develop goals and develop an individualized plan to reach these
      goals. The role of the CHW can include home visits, phone contacts, meeting with school
      representatives and accompanying patients to appointments.

      At the diabetes center at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP), the Community
      Health Worker will be assigned for one year to patients with high healthcare utilization and
      / or poorly controlled type 1 diabetes. The support provided for this year will be tailored
      to the patient's needs but may include problem solving surrounding issues related to
      work/education, accessing healthcare/medications, engagement with the healthcare team,
      transportation, housing or food insecurity. Interactions with patients will be through home
      visits, telephone encounters, text messaging or email. This will be added to their medical
      care and will be documented in the patient's medical record.
    
  