
    
      Reading is a complex function. It requires a proper retinal image that is received by the
      brain. There it is analyzed for letter and word recognition and then the semantics is
      detected. Reading speed slows down when letters are blurred, or do not have enough contrast
      or luminance or when binocular fusion is hampered. It also slows down when the understanding
      is difficult, which is why reading one's mother tongue generally is faster than reading a
      foreign language. Reading skill is therefore influenced by visuo-motor and cognitive (i.e.
      linguistic, personality, learning, ageing) factors. Reading ability is currently evaluated
      using various reading tests, which usually have long paragraphs with small print and shorter
      ones with larger print, to allow determination of reading acuity. To evaluate sustained
      reading performance, and reading speed, the International Reading Speed Texts (IReST) which
      contain longer paragraphs with continuous text of fixed size, have been developed. Although
      clinical reading tests are thoroughly standardized, a significant inter-individual variation
      in reading speed exists, as a result of the high influence of cognitive factors. When
      reading, sensorimotor coordination must happen to make a sequence of fixations and saccades
      so that new information falls onto the fovea. Eye movement efficiency develops almost in
      parallel with reading ability, in terms of speed and accuracy, as the child progresses from a
      beginner to a proficient adult reader. Less skilled readers (e.g. children with reading
      difficulties) typically make more fixations of longer duration and shorter saccades than
      skilled readers. For an adult reader mean fixation duration is around 220 to 250 ms. However,
      fixations of variable durations (from 100 ms to over 500 ms) are recorded during a reading
      session. Although the distribution of fixation durations varies among individuals, due to
      differences in reading skill, age and other cognitive factors, it is never normal; it always
      exhibits a pronounced right tail, i.e. an increased frequency of long fixations. Such
      distributions can be fitted with an ex-Gaussian function, a convolution of Gaussian (normal)
      and exponential functions, which could provide more efficient analysis. The team in
      university of Crete recently showed that pre-retinal factors (e.g. text contrast and
      luminance) influence the mean of the normal distribution, while cognitive factors affect the
      number of fixations and the mean of the exponential distribution of fixation duration, due to
      an increased frequency of long fixations. Moreover, inter-individual variation was
      significantly improved when analysis was performed separately for visuo-motor vs. cognitive
      components, with most of variability being attributed to the mean of the exponential
      distribution.

      To evaluate functional vision in "simultaneous-image' correction and more specifically visual
      performance at near, a functional outcome, such as reading speed and ocular fixation times
      during sustained reading, should be measured. Such recordings could then answer the question
      how the binocular improvement in reading depends on the difference in acuity between the eyes
      and the analysis suggested above could help us to distinguish sensory vs. motor components
      especially in patients with reduced contrast sensitivity.
    
  