
    
      The prevalence of opioid use disorder (OUD) during pregnancy has quadrupled over the past
      decade, as have maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality related to substance use.
      Medication assisted treatment (MAT) use during pregnancy reduces adverse outcomes and is the
      recommended, evidence-based practice (EBP) for OUD treatment during pregnancy. Despite this,
      40% of pregnant women with OUD do not receive MAT. Currently, there are no effective
      strategies to expand MAT access and availability for pregnant women, especially in rural,
      low-resource settings where maternal opioid use is disproportionately high. As an initial
      step to address this gap, the investigators engaged key stakeholders across a large health
      system in Pennsylvania to determine barriers and facilitators to expanding treatment services
      in high need, low-resource obstetric settings. The stakeholders identified a critical need
      for a women-centered, low resource, sustainable, provider-level intervention to facilitate
      the adoption of MAT in obstetric settings. Therefore, the investigators objective is to test
      the effectiveness of a prenatal provider education and training program designed to
      facilitate the adoption of EBP for OUD during pregnancy called Project STEPuP (Substance
      abuse Treatment and Education during Pregnancy and Postpartum). Project STEPuP, grounded in
      preliminary and pilot work conducted by the research team, has 4 components designed to
      address barriers to MAT and EBP adoption: 1) a "hub and spoke," remotely-supported provider
      education and training program, 2) addiction teleconsultation support, 3) case management and
      telepsychiatry support, and 4) a partnership with health system administrators and payers to
      address administrative and reimbursement related needs. To achieve this objective, the
      research team will conduct a cluster-randomized clinical trial across 12 obstetric sites in
      Pennsylvania and New York. Outcomes among 870 patients will be assessed during pregnancy, at
      delivery and through 1 year postpartum. The investigators central hypothesis is that Project
      STEPuP will facilitate EBP adoption, increase MAT utilization and improve health outcomes
      among pregnant and postpartum women with OUD and their children. Specifically, the
      investigators aim to: 1) Create organizational readiness to facilitate Project STEPuP
      implementation; 2) Assess the effect of Project STEPuP on provider adoption of EBP for OUD
      during pregnancy; and 3) Evaluate the effect of provider adoption of EBP on maternal and
      child health outcomes. The investigators research is significant by addressing the
      substantial knowledge gap of how to increase MAT use in pregnancy and innovative by examining
      the role that prenatal providers can play in expanding treatment access.
    
  