
    
      Advanced imaging techniques such as SpyGlass or pCLE (probe-based Confocal laser
      endomicroscopy) using Cellvizio probes enable high sensitive and specific diagnosis of
      strictures or tumors in bile and pancreatic ducts. However, advanced endoscopists have only
      recently started to employ such techniques for diagnostic purposes. Hence we lack enough data
      to evaluate the sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, technical feasibility and safety of such
      imaging devices. Evaluation of these factors would help us compare them to conventional
      diagnostic options; and consequently help us identify appropriate advanced imaging techniques
      for biliary and pancreatic disorders and improve clinical management of patients.

      The purpose of this registry is to record information and evaluate the impact of advanced
      imaging techniques on the management of pancreatico-biliary disorders. The registry will
      evaluate diagnostic performance and overall clinical management impacted by advanced imaging
      techniques.

      This multi-center registry has been initiated:

        -  To document the impact of advanced imaging techniques in pancreatico-biliary disorders
           on the clinical management of pancreatico-biliary disorders including malignancies.

        -  To assess the sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, technical feasibility and safety of
           advanced imaging techniques in pancreatico-biliary disorders.

      The registry will review and document:

        -  All patients who have had advanced imaging done for pancreatico-biliary disorders.

        -  No subject intervention is involved in this study. Subject contact is not needed for
           database review.

      Study Design at Secondary sites:

        -  Other sites must have either a database review protocol and/or a clinical trial that
           would collect data on advanced imaging done for pancreatico-biliary disorders prior to
           participating in the registry.

        -  These sites would have IRB approved protocols to collect and send advanced imaging
           procedure data to the primary site (WCMC). Additionally, the secondary study sites would
           mention WCMC as an entity that could receive PHI in their respective protocols and
           consent/HIPAA forms.

        -  All secondary study sites' IRB approvals will be sent to the primary/coordinating study
           center at WCMC. The primary center will then forward these IRB approvals to WCMC IRB as
           soon as they are received from the secondary study sites.

        -  Relevant IRB documentation will be maintained at both primary and secondary sites.
    
  