
    
      Most current massive transfusion protocols attempt to treat the early coagulopathic state
      induced by severe injury and hemorrhagic shock with transfusion of red blood cells, plasma,
      and platelets in a 1:1:1 ratio replicating whole blood. Civilian trauma centers have now
      begun to initiate resuscitation of adult male patients with stored whole blood as a standard
      of care, however.

      The main hypothesis behind this change in practice is that transfusion of whole blood (WB)
      rather than attempted reconstitution from its banked components is safer, more efficient and
      effective treatment of hemorrhagic shock following injury and will result in less frequent
      development of clinical coagulopathy and subsequent mortality. Whole blood offers the
      advantages of more precisely approximating shed blood; decreased volume of additives per
      unit; and exposure to a decreased number of donors for a patient undergoing massive
      transfusion. It remains to be seen whether this will translate into differences in
      coagulopathy, inflammation, and mortality. The purpose of this study is to investigate the
      feasibility of developing a system to collect, store, and deliver whole blood for trauma
      resuscitations in a civilian trauma center.

      The universal donor blood type for patients with unknown blood type is type O positive blood
      for males and O negative for females. Because O negative blood is rare the study will
      initiate the change in practice in adult male patients and later extend it to female patients
      if feasible. The study will determine the effects of WB transfusion in adult male patients
      compared to transfusion of PRBCS, plasma, and platelets in a 1:1:1 ratio in non adult male
      patients on markers of coagulation, fibrinolysis, and inflammation, as well as the
      development of complications and hospital mortality following severe injury.

      Specific aims are to:

        1. Determine the appropriate shelf life of WB that has been leukoreduced with a platelet
           sparing filter by measuring changes in levels of coagulation factors and global clotting
           potential of banked units over time. To accomplish this the investigators will measure
           variables known to reflect potential and actual clotting capacity including platelet
           function and overall clotting ability by thromboelastography (TEG) and thrombin
           generation analysis in whole blood up to 35 days.

        2. Prospectively determine the effectiveness of trauma resuscitation using WB compared to
           component therapy and its effects on variables known to reflect potential and actual
           clotting capacity including markers of coagulation, fibrinolysis, inflammation, platelet
           function and global hemostatic potential post transfusion, as well as hospital outcomes
           including development of coagulopathy, infection, venous thromboembolism (VTE), multiple
           organ failure (MOF), total transfusion requirements, and mortality.

        3. Test the feasibility and implementation of a system to provide WB for resuscitation of
           trauma patients in hemorrhagic shock in civilian trauma centers. This will be
           accomplished by monitoring cost, storage needs, frequency of blood collection, number of
           donors, inventory, utilization and wastage of unused units.
    
  