
    
      This is a single center, Phase I/II, open label single-arm exploratory study. The trial will
      primarily examine the safety and tolerability of clazakizumab given after consented and
      eligible patients begin desensitization therapy to achieve HLAi renal transplantation at
      Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. 20 subjects (ages 15 to 75) who are highly-HLA sensitized (HS)
      as determined by the cPRA ≥50% and are eligible for desensitization will be evaluated. All
      patients will be accrued from the renal transplant program at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.
      Once desensitization begins, anti-HLA antibodies will be assessed which are associated with
      ABMR and/or graft loss. HLA antibodies will be detected using solid phase assay systems
      currently utilized at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center HLA Laboratory. These anti-HLA
      antibodies may result naturally or from previous pregnancy, transfusions, or prior
      transplants. Patients treated with clazakizumab x 6 doses for desensitization will have blood
      sampling for HLA antibodies, and other monitoring blood samples as well as immunologic
      studies as outlined. If patients receive an HLAi transplant during the study, participants
      will receive the standard post-transplant immunosuppressive protocol, and clazakizumab 25 mg
      SC Q4W X 6 doses with immune monitoring as indicated.

      Immune monitoring in blood samples for Treg, Tfh, Th17 and B-cell subsets as well as IL-6 and
      CRP monitoring will be carried out at the Cedars-Sinai Transplant Immunology Laboratory.

      Patients identified as study participants will be HS and listed for HLAi renal
      transplantation at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. Cedars-Sinai is a major U.S. desensitization
      center and performs ~80 HLAi renal transplants per-year. ~ 100 new HS patients are referred
      to Cedars-Sinai each year as potential candidates for desensitization. Eligible patients
      entering the study will initially receive PLEX (5-7 sessions) + IVIG and receive clazakizumab
      25 mg SC one week post-IVIG. If no safety/tolerability/efficacy issues are observed after the
      initial dose, patients will receive 5 additional injections Q4W. If patients receive an HLAi
      transplant, clazakizumab will be continued for 6M post- transplant at 25mg SC Q4W for 6 doses
      (starting at Day 5 post-transplant). A protocol biopsy will be performed at 6M
      post-transplant to assess the allograft for evidence of ABMR, including C4d staining and TG
      using Banff 2015 criteria. Patients will continue another 6 doses over 6 months if
      improvements are seen after the 6th dose of clazakizumab. Patients who develop evidence of
      persistent allograft dysfunction may have non-protocol biopsies for cause. Patients who
      receive 12 doses of clazakizumab post-transplant will receive a 12M protocol biopsy. In the
      event a patient does not show improvement after receiving 6 doses of clazakizumab, no further
      treatment will be given and the patient will return at Day 365 for a final study visit. All
      subjects will be evaluated on an intent-to-treat basis. The subject accrual rate will be
      limited to no more than 1-2 subjects per month in the initial three months to assure safety
      to all subjects. Repeat laboratories will be performed at the completion of clazakizumab
      therapy to determine effect on levels and correlation with any potential events.

      The subjects will be followed to determine if the use of clazakizumab for desensitization in
      this high risk transplant population is safe and without infectious risks. In addition, the
      investigators will determine the effects of clazakizumab treatment on HLA antibodies in
      efforts to improve access to HLAi transplants for these individuals. The investigators have
      previously reported acceptance criteria for HLAi kidney transplants. Renal biopsy assessments
      will be performed at 6M (per protocol) and 12M (for those who received 12 doses of therapy).
      The investigators will assess the transplanted patients to determine the number who sustain a
      viable and functioning kidney allograft as well. All subjects will be evaluated on an
      intent-to-treat basis. The subject accrual rate will be limited to no more than 1-2 subjects
      per month in the initial three months to assure safety to all subjects.
    
  