
    
      A diverse array of chronic pain syndromes are refractory to almost all treatment but involve
      pathological activity in similar brain regions. This suggests therapeutic potential for deep
      brain stimulation (DBS) for refractory pain disorders, but despite early promise, long-term
      efficacy is lacking. Current DBS devices are limited in anatomical reach, targeting only a
      subset of the distinct brain regions known to be important. Further, DBS therapy is bluntly
      applied in an "open-loop," continuous fashion without regard to underlying physiology. As a
      result of these shortcomings, DBS for pain is often ineffective or shows diminished effect
      over time. Loss of therapeutic effect may be due to nervous system adaptation or a failure of
      stimulation to accommodate patient- specific dynamics of pain processing. DBS could be
      significantly improved by seeking individually optimized brain targets or by using neural
      biomarkers of pain to selectively control stimulation when it is needed ("closed-loop" DBS).
      Better brain targets would also address the different dimensions of pain such as
      somatosensory (location, intensity and duration), affective (mood and motivation) and
      cognitive (attention and memory). The main goal of this study is to test the feasibility of
      personalized targeting of brain regions that support multiple pain dimensions and to develop
      new technology for "closed-loop" DBS for pain. The study team will develop data-driven
      stimulation control algorithms to treat chronic pain using a novel device (Medtronic Summit
      RC+S) that allows longitudinal intracranial signal recording in an ambulatory setting. By
      building this technology in an implanted device, chronic pain DBS is tailored to each patient
      and will advance precision methods for DBS more generally.

      Beginning with an inpatient trial period, subjects with various refractory chronic pain
      syndromes will undergo bilateral surgical implant of temporary electrodes in the thalamus,
      anterior cingulate, prefrontal cortex, insula and amygdala. These regions have been
      implicated in the multiple dimensions of pain. The goal of the trial period is to identify
      candidate biomarkers of pain and optimal stimulation parameters for each individual, and to
      select subjects who show likelihood to benefit from the trial. A subgroup of 6 such patients
      will then proceed to chronic implantation of up to 3 "optimal" brain regions for long-term
      recording and stimulation. The invstigators will first validate biomarkers of low- and
      high-pain states to define neural signals for pain prediction in individuals (Aim 1). The
      investigators will then use these pain biomarkers to develop personalized closed-loop
      algorithms for DBS and test the feasibility of performing closed-loop DBS for chronic pain in
      weekly blocks (Aim 2). Finally, the investigators will assess efficacy of closed-loop DBS
      algorithms against traditional open-loop DBS or sham in a double-blinded crossover trial (Aim
      3) and measure mechanisms of DBS tolerance. Our main outcome measures will be a combination
      of pain, mood and functional scores together with quantitative sensory testing. Successful
      completion of this study would result in the first algorithms to predict real-time
      fluctuations in chronic pain states and development of a new therapy for currently
      untreatable diseases.
    
  