
    
      Lipoatrophic diabetes is a syndrome characterized by insulin resistance in association with a
      paucity of adipose tissue. Patients with severe lipoatrophy die prematurely, typically from
      the complications of diabetes or liver disease. Experiments with lipoatrophic mice suggest
      that the insulin resistance is caused by the lack of adipose tissue. Adipose tissue normally
      produces leptin, a hormone that increases insulin action. To what extent does leptin
      deficiency cause diabetes in lipoatrophic patients? In one mouse model of lipoatrophy, leptin
      administration reversed the diabetes and liver disease. In a different, more severely
      adipose-deficient mouse, the effects of leptin treatment were detectable, but more modest.

      In this protocol, to be carried out at both the NIH and the University of Texas in Dallas, we
      test the hypotheses that leptin can be safely administered to patients with lipoatrophic
      diabetes and they will benefit from treatment with A-100 (recombinant form of human leptin
      provided by Amgen). We will study patients with lipoatrophy, low leptin levels, and at least
      one of the following metabolic abnormalities: severe insulin resistance, diabetes, and/or
      hypertriglyceridemia.

      We will treat patients with A-100 injections for four months, with inpatient studies at
      baseline, 1, 2, and 4 months of treatment. In the core protocol, we will monitor metabolic
      control (e.g. glucose, insulin, free fatty acid, and triglyceride levels). Ancillary studies
      will evaluate the effect of A-100 on the gonadal axis and on liver pathology.

      After 8 months of treatment, we will offer a withdrawal study to the patient requiring an
      inpatient admission and controlled diet. Afterwards leptin therapy will resume in a long-term
      extension study with follow up visits every 6 months. Metabolic parameters will continue to
      be followed, along with body fat imaging studies, gonadotropin monitoring, and liver function
      analysis.
    
  