
    
      Spinal metastasis is the leading course of vertebral malignancy. It cause neoplastic spinal
      cord compression and neurological deficit. The treatment strategy depend on the pathological
      type, performance status, and life expectancy.(1, 2) The goal of treatment is to avoid
      neurological deterioration, to keep functional life, and to control bone pain. Because
      disease cure is rarely the treatment goal in the circumstance of metastatic disease, the
      treatment strategy involve multidisciplinary approaches. When evidence of neoplastic
      compression, local oncological treatment is often needed to preserve neurological function
      and to restore vertebral column stability. Radiation therapy can be applied for some
      radiosensitive tumour, but surgery is often required to meet above goal. Simple decompression
      and fixation is often applied, but the long-term control rate is suboptimal. Aggressive
      spinal surgery has relative longstanding effect to maintain neurological and oncological
      outcome in selective patients. (3)

      Aggressive spinal surgery, including extensive corpectomy, vertebrotrectomy, and even
      spondylectomy, however, is a massive procedure and may result in large amount, sometime
      life-threatening blood loss. To achieve better surgical outcome and decrease complication,
      preoperative evaluation needs understanding the detailed skeleton and vascular anatomy. The
      status of vertebral column stability, extent of tumour involvement, condition of neurological
      tissue, and vascularity of the tumoural tissue, are all important in determination of the
      surgical planning and outcome. In many circumstances, preoperative embolization is often
      required to control blood loss as well.(4, 5) Imaging plays major role in the above
      information related to the surgical decision and planning.

      Current preoperative imaging evaluation include MRI, angiography, bone scan and PET. (6) The
      MRI is paramount in the spinal imaging. It provides outstanding soft tissue differentiation,
      which usually depicting the abnormal tumoural tissue clearly. Therefore, MRI stands central
      role in the surgical evaluation. Nevertheless, in real world, many patients are frail to
      tolerate lengthy MRI study period, and the MR imaging quality is often suboptimal. For
      vascular survey, angiography is capable to demonstrate spinal artery and tumour vascularity.
      Since its relative invasiveness, it is only reserved for patients when preoperative
      embolization is required or detection of spinal artery is warranted. And because the
      angiography study for tumour involves selective catheterization of separate segmental artery,
      the global evaluation of tumoural tissue is not possible. As for nuclear medicine studies,
      including bone scan and PET, they are highly sensitive and very convenient in detecting
      multifocal disease. But they are relative non-specific for variable pathology and the spatial
      resolution is not adequate for surgical evaluation. Therefore, they provide less information
      when diagnosis has been established.

      CT is an important imaging tool for spinal disease. Because of its rapid acquisition,
      adequate resolution, and easy reformatting, it is optimal for intolerable patients. (7)
      Nevertheless, osseous structure is extremely radiopaque, evaluation of tumoural enhancement
      in vertebrae is not easy. It is reserved in special condition, such as detection of vascular
      structure for embolization and surgery. Recently commercialized dual-energy CT (DECT) can
      meet the prior result of conventional CT with added value. (8) It uses different energy level
      simultaneously to image the object. Therefore, optimal bony removal and contrast-noise-ratio
      can be expected.(9, 10) In spinal disease, it has been used in the detection of marrow edema
      and compression fracture. (9, 11) On the other hand, material-specific information can be
      obtained, quantitative evaluation of tumoural enhancement by contrast medium is possible.
      (12) Along with imaging post-processing technique, DECT can highlight the tumoural part in
      the background of hyperdense bone. (13) DECT is a promising tool to study the vascularity of
      the metastatic vertebral tumour. This information is valuable for the surgeon in the decision
      making and planning for the operation.

      We intend to use the dual energy CT in the preoperative evaluation of the vertebral
      metastasis before aggressive surgery. The research potential and purposes are manifold.
      First, we want to establish imaging biomarker for tumoural vascularity. Many different
      enhancement parameters as potential candidate will be measured. Second, we intend to
      establish one-stop imaging method; therefore, we will compare the diagnostic performance with
      other imaging modalities. Third, the optimal imaging parameter in the evaluation of bony
      lesion will be investigated, and many image technical condition will be studied.

      Purpose：

        1. To establish the quantitative imaging biomarker for vascularity in metastatic vertebral
           tumour

        2. To obtain the optimal DECT scanning parameter and reformatting method in vertebral
           osseous tumour

        3. To provide detailed anatomical information for embolization and surgery
    
  