
    
      Scoliosis is one of the most common back deformities in children. Idiopathic and functional
      (secondary) scoliosis are arguably the two most common types. The etiology of idiopathic
      scoliosis has been studied in many aspects such as genetic factors, skeletal muscle
      abnormalities, neurological mechanisms, and biomechanical factors, while the common causes of
      secondary or functional scoliosis are leg length inequality and muscle spasm. It is evident
      that biomechanical factors that involve the interactions of the musculoskeletal alignment and
      loading are closely associated with the development of both types of scoliosis.

      Leg length discrepancy (LLD) is defined as a condition in which paired limbs are unequal in
      length. It is now generally accepted that LLD can lead to lumbar scoliosis and it is assumed
      that scoliosis caused by LLD can be removed if LLD is eliminated. However, no study has
      documented the effects of the correction of LLD on the functional scoliotic spinal curve and
      motion during functional activity. Since spinal curve and motion have clear associations with
      leg length inequality, one would wonder whether idiopathic scoliosis without LLD can be
      improved by artificially creating a leg length difference with an orthosis when spine surgery
      is not considered or in a less severe condition. It has been shown that LLD and scoliosis
      have effects on pain, force transmission and performance of motion. Therefore, the
      artificially created leg length difference may have negative effects even though the
      scoliosis is improved. The benefits and disadvantages of using a foot orthosis to create
      artificial LLD in order to relieve idiopathic scoliosis require careful investigation.
      Although the biomechanics of the spine or the lower extremities have been studied separately
      in the literature, the biomechanical interactions between the spine and the lower limbs in
      scoliosis patients with or without LLD and the biomechanical effects of treatments using foot
      orthosis on these patients remain to be studied.

      Using motion analysis techniques, the present study aims:

        1. to study the biomechanical interactions between the spine and the lower limbs in
           scoliosis patients with or without LLD during activity;

        2. to investigate effects of correction of LLD using a foot orthosis on the functional
           scoliotic spinal curve and motion during functional activity; and

        3. to test whether idiopathic scoliosis without LLD can be improved by artificially
           creating a leg length discrepancy with a foot orthosis. The optimal heights of the foot
           orthosis for the later two objectives will also be determined. It is hoped that the
           present study will lead to a better understanding of the mechanical interactions between
           the spine and the lower extremities in functional and idiopathic scoliosis patients, and
           a better treatment for these patients.
    
  