
    
      Reactions to severe stress is one of the most common causes of sick leave in Sweden. Previous
      research has shown that compassion interventions for staff can affect work-related stress by
      increased self-care, better self-awareness and an increased healthy attitude, however,
      Swedish studies on the subject are scarce.

      Compassion is a motivation to reduce suffering in oneself and others characterized by a warm,
      understanding, and respectful attitude. In addition to beneficial effects for the staff, a
      compassion-oriented approach, has shown to improve the relationship between patient and
      staff, increase patient satisfaction with care and reduce patient anxiety and stress. As a
      result of the covid-19 pandemic, healthcare professionals have been exposed to difficult
      physical and mental work conditions that cause feelings of stress and inadequacy. In the long
      run, increased stress can cause fatigue and increased number of sick leaves. This can in turn
      contribute to increased stress for the staff who remain working and difficulties to recruit
      new staff, which make the situation worse. There is a lack of interventions for staff aimed
      at preventing stress-related health issues, enabling recovery and reduce mental suffering
      linked to a stressful work situations. The aim of this study is to find a method that help
      healthcare providers cope with stress of conscience in relation to stressful work situations,
      particularly during the current covid-19 pandemic. A five week internet-based compassion
      course of five modules will be conducted and evaluated with the aim of exploring whether the
      course contributes to reduce stress of conscience and work-related stress, and increases the
      levels of professional quality of life and self-compassion among healthcare professionals.
      The internet-based compassion course will be compared with: one group that is on a waiting
      list for ten weeks and then receives an internet-based general stress management course and
      one group that participate in the general stress management course.
    
  