
    
      Interested individuals will visit the ReFLECT Study website (www.reflectstudies.org) to learn
      more about the study and receive instructions on how to participate. Individuals will be
      instructed to create a username (email address) and password for BrainBaseline©
      (www.BrainBaseline.com; Digital Artefacts, Iowa City, IA). While BrainBaseline© is a
      commercially available mobile app, a version specifically tailored for this study will be
      used. The website directions will include information on how to download the BrainBaseline©
      iPad app (for ReFLECT) from the iTunes store. Each time a participant closes and reopens the
      iPad app, she will be required to enter her BrainBaseline© username and password. Upon
      opening the iPad app for the first time, the individual will be asked to confirm their
      eligibility for the study. If eligible, the individual will proceed to the consent form.
      Participants will electronically sign the Institutional Review Board-approved informed
      consent form before completing a battery of questionnaires assessing demographics, medical
      history, physical activity, sedentary behavior, sleep, fatigue, quality of life, satisfaction
      with life, depressive symptoms, and perceived memory. Individuals cannot view the
      questionnaires until they have electronically signed the consent form. Participants will also
      be asked to complete a set of ten evidence-based cognitive tests assessing attention, speed
      of processing, and executive function. Descriptions of the tests are available at
      www.BrainBaseline.com/assessments. The questionnaires are expected to take approximately 45
      minutes and the cognitive tests are expected to take approximately 60 minutes to complete.
      Participants will be instructed to complete the questionnaires and cognitive tests within two
      weeks of signing the consent form. The onscreen instructions and consent form will also
      notify participants that a) they do not have to complete either the questionnaires or the
      cognitive tests in one sitting, but can return to them during the course of the week, and b)
      they can move back and forth between the questionnaires and cognitive tests (i.e., do not
      need to finish one section before moving to the next). Reminder emails will be sent on days 7
      and 10 to remind participants to complete assessments.

      A subset of participants who volunteer to do so will also wear an accelerometer for 24 hours
      per day for 7 consecutive days to objectively measure activity levels and sleep quality.
      Individuals will be asked if they are willing to be contacted to wear the accelerometer via
      the consent form. Only those individuals who check the box agreeing to be contacted by the
      research team will be contacted to wear the accelerometer (see consent form). Participants
      will be contacted via email and instructed to reply to the researcher by phone or email with
      their mailing address. The accelerometer, instructions for wear, a Record of Use form, and a
      postage-paid return envelope will be mailed to participants who agree to wear the monitor.
      Mailing labels from postage-paid return envelopes will be disposed of after accelerometers
      have been returned and recorded. The accelerometer will be worn during women's daily life on
      a normal week; therefore, minimal additional time committed to research activities will be
      required of participants. No contact will be solicited with participants over the course of
      the 6-month study period.
    
  