
    
      Anemia is frequent after a surgical procedure. Postoperative anemia is associated with an
      increased incidence of transfusions and, probably, with an increased incidence of morbidity
      and mortality. However, the majority of studies evaluating the consequences of postoperative
      anemia are retrospective and, since anemic patients were transfused, they are unable to
      distinguish between the effects of anemia per se and those of transfusion. In orthopedic
      surgery, only two randomized controlled trials (RCT) have attempted to determine the benefits
      of transfusions in this patient population. The first evaluated the benefits of allogeneic
      transfusions in patients undergoing surgery for a fractured hip while the second evaluated
      autologous transfusions in patients undergoing total knee replacement. The small number of
      patients included in both studies did not allow definitive conclusions on the benefits (or
      lack thereof) of transfusions in orthopedic surgery.

      Traditionally, a transfusion trigger of 100 g/L has been recommended in the postoperative
      period, especially in older patients and in those with serious comorbidities. In the
      Transfusion Requirements in Critical Care trial, a much lower transfusion threshold (70 g/L)
      was adopted in the group of patients in whom transfusions were restricted. This prospective
      randomized trial that included 838 patients, is, to this day, the most important in the field
      and generated unexpected results. Serious morbidity (cardiac and respiratory in particular)
      and mortality were not increased by the adoption of a low transfusion trigger while the
      number of transfusions was decreased significantly.

      On the other hand, it is common to observe fatigue, decreased exercise capacity and muscle
      strength, and impaired performance of activities of daily life in the presence of anemia,
      especially when the hemoglobin concentration decreases below 90 - 100 g/L. In orthopedic
      surgery, a decrease in "postoperative vigor" can prevent patients from undertaking the
      rehabilitation program required to improve functional recovery after hip fracture repair.

      The objective of our research program is to determine the transfusion threshold required to
      maximize functional recovery after major orthopedic surgery (total hip/knee replacement) in
      these, most often, elderly patient with serious comorbidities.
    
  