
    
      Aphasia (difficulty speaking) is one of the most dreaded consequences of stroke. It is
      associated with high mortality and severe motor, social, and cognitive disability. During the
      past decade, therapies administered by stroke teams have made great strides in limiting the
      damage due to a stroke. Unfortunately, progress in aphasia rehabilitation has not experienced
      the same rapid advancement. Evidence suggests that the brain may have untapped potential for
      recovery of aphasia after stroke.

      Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), researchers now are able to examine the
      areas of the brain that are responsible for language recovery after stroke. Such data may
      explain how the brain recovers after stroke, and may lead to new therapies to help
      individuals who have suffered an aphasia-causing stroke.

      In this study, researchers will examine the changes the brain undergoes while recovering from
      an aphasia-causing stroke and the mechanisms that underlie such recovery, and test the
      effectiveness of a new and promising method of aphasia rehabilitation called
      constraint-induced aphasia therapy (CIAT). The scientists will perform fMRI studies of brain
      activation in people who have suffered an aphasia-causing stroke in order to better
      understand the underlying mechanisms of recovery from aphasia. Specifically the researchers
      will compare language activation between adults with stroke and children with perinatal and
      postnatal stroke (from previous studies); map changes in language activation, characterize
      the patterns of language reorganization that occur following stroke; and use the fMRI
      measures to assess recovery using CIAT.

      The study will last one year, during this time participants will have language testing to
      evaluate the degree of aphasia and its recovery; and five fMRI scans scheduled at 2 weeks, 6
      weeks, 12 weeks, 26 weeks, and 56 weeks. Participants with remaining moderate aphasia will be
      offered a chance to participate in an extension treatment study that will last up to 3 months
      (STUDY).

      A better understanding of brain changes during recovery from aphasia may help develop new
      methods to improve recovery.
    
  