
    
      In total, 355 COPD patients will be included prospectively to this study during a 3-week
      inpatient pulmonary rehabilitation programme at the Schoen Klinik Berchtesgadener Land,
      Schoenau am Koenigssee, (Germany). All patients will be closely monitored from admission to
      the study. Measures of lung function, blood samples, breath sampling, exercise tests,
      physical activity monitoring, cardiac parameters, quality of life and a symptom diary will be
      recorded regularly. Prior knowledge from this programme suggest that about 15% of patients
      will develop an AECOPD during this observational phase. If a patient develops an AECOPD there
      will be a comprehensive diagnostic assessment to differentiate between cardiac, pulmonary or
      cardio-pulmonary reasons for the AECOPD and to identify the type of exacerbation. The
      clinical diagnosis and management of an AECOPD will be determined by a pulmonologist
      according to criteria of international guidelines within the first 24h after the onset of
      clinical symptoms suggestive of an exacerbation. Collected clinical data from the days prior
      to AECOPD will be analyzed comprehensively to identify parameters with high prediction power
      for AECOPD. Furthermore, patients will perform follow-up measures at 6, 12 and 24 months
      following the initial observational phase (PR phase).

      A wide range of predictor screening methods will be applied to identify significant
      predictors including cross tabulation tables, correlations, generalized linear models, mixed
      models, generalized estimation equation models and various predictor screening methods based
      on variable selection algorithms.

      Study objectives Primary endpoint: To prospectively identify potential early, respiratory
      and/ or cardiac clinical predictors, laboratory parameters, breath print analyses and/ or
      changes in lung function and physical activity prior to an AECOPD in COPD patients.

      Secondary endpoint(s):

        1. To identify potential mechanisms explaining the nature and composition of an acute
           exacerbation in COPD patients

        2. To identify and differentiate patterns of acute COPD exacerbation versus cardiac failure
           in COPD patients

        3. To investigate the potential role of an electronic-nose to capture exhaled breath
           metabolomic profiles for the early detection of an acute exacerbation in COPD patients
           ("COPD pre exacerbation breath print")

        4. To identify parameters influencing mortality and other adverse events in the total study
           cohort at 6, 12 and 24 months follow up
    
  