
    
      Transient non-lethal ischemia followed by reperfusion activates a cell survival program
      resulting in increased tolerance to subsequent ischemic injury. This biological phenomenon is
      termed ischemic preconditioning and is a powerful cell survival program that is operational
      in the human heart. This program is triggered by signaling intermediates activated in
      response to the transient ischemia/hypoxia and reperfusion of preconditioning.
      Characterization of these signaling intermediates should enable us to identify therapeutic
      agents to augment tissue tolerance to ischemia.

      Interestingly, nitrite, which is an endogenous reservoir for nitric oxide (NO), undergoes
      bioconversion to NO via hypoxia-dependent signaling. Whether nitrite accumulation and
      bioconversion are components of the ischemic preconditioning program is unknown. Recently Dr.
      Gladwin and colleagues in the Vascular Medicine Branch unequivocally demonstrated that
      exogenous nitrite administration is cytoprotective against ischemia-reperfusion injury in
      murine liver and heart and in the canine heart. Establishing a mechanistic link between the
      ischemic preconditioning program and nitrite biology would promote nitrite as an attractive
      compound for future therapeutic interventions. To evaluate this link, we propose to use
      cardiac right atrial appendage tissue that is routinely excised to facilitate right atrial
      cannulation for heart-lung bypass. This excised tissue is then usually discarded as medical
      waste.

      We hypothesize that nitrite administration to atrial tissue in an ex-vivo study will
      demonstrate increased tolerance to ischemic stress compared to atrial tissue not exposed to
      nitrite. Furthermore, we propose that this cytoprotective effect of nitrite administration
      will demonstrate equivalency to cytoprotection in response to ischemic preconditioning.
      Finally, we would employ this tissue to identify nitrite mediated genomic, proteomic and
      metabolomic modifications in human myocardium, thereby identifying the biological programs
      orchestrating the cytoprotective properties of nitrite in the human heart.
    
  