
    
      Differences in structure of gene or non genetic factors such as nutrition/environmental
      factors may alter functional gene product: mRNA/protein which play crucial roles in immune
      system. This can lead developing defective immune responses, exacerbation of current
      inflammation and increased host susceptibility to inflammatory diseases. Monocyte functions
      can be critical with regard to getting individuals susceptible to periodontitis. Similarly
      Garrison and Nichols (1989) reported that hyper-inflammatory monocyte phenotype can be
      deterministic in periodontal destruction. For this reason, regulation of MCP-1 and CCR2
      expression, which have an essential role in defense system, may be a crucial step for
      managing inflammatory diseases as well as periodontitis.

      Because of complex genetic nature of periodontal disease, we hypothesized that gene
      polymorphisms of MCP-1 and CCR2 could be associated with AgP and could alter the production
      of functional proteins, as a result might influence the susceptibility. Therefore, the
      primary aim of this study was to estimate genetic impact of MCP-1 and its receptor CCR2
      polymorphisms on AgP patients among Turkish individuals and secondary outcome was whether
      MCP-1 genotype effects mRNA levels of PBML.

      A total of 215 Turkish subjects from inner Anatolia including, 108 Aggressive periodontitis
      (AgP) and 107 age, gender and ethnic matched periodontally healthy (H) controls were
      recruited in this cross-sectional case control study. The control group included
      periodontally healthy volunteers from staff and other subjects referring to the School of
      Dentistry. The diagnosis of subjects were established on the basis of clinical and
      radiographic examination. Periodontally H control group (n:107) had <3mm probing Depth (PD),
      <2 gingival Index (GI) and no signs of interproximal attachment loss and a history of
      periodontal disease. Patients with AgP (n:108) were diagnosed by the 1999 International World
      Workshop for a Classification of Periodontal Diseases and Conditions. The AgP group included
      individuals diagnosed with localized AgP (LAgP) or generalized AgP (GAgP) who were otherwise
      healthy. Periodontal attachment loss ≥4 mm not involving more than two permanent teeth, other
      than the first molars and incisors were diagnosed with LAgP (n: 43); patients with
      involvement of at least three teeth, other than the first molars and incisors with an
      attachment loss ≥4 mm were diagnosed with GAgP (n: 65) Genomic DNA was isolated from a
      peripheral blood sample obtained from each subject. Gene polymorphisms of MCP-1 -2518 A/G and
      CCR2 -190 G/A were analyzed by a standard polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment
      length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) assay. Gene expression levels were quantified in peripheral
      blood leukocytes from 25 AgP and 15 periodontally H controls by quantitative real-time PCR.
      Threshold cycles (Ct ) values obtained from the RT-PCR analysis based on SYBR Green detection
      and data was normalized via ΔC t .

      Sample size was determined by power analysis prior to study. According to this; an expected
      difference 20% in allele frequencies with 80% power, and % 95 confidence interval it was
      calculated that minimum of 102 patients were necessary in each group with a significance
      level of 0.05. ( ⃰ G. Power: 3.1.2). When comparing the numeric characteristics between H and
      AgP groups,non-parametric Mann-Whitney U test; between H, LAgP and GAgP groups then Kruskal
      Wallis with Bonferroni correction were calculated.

      Deviations from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium were assessed in the H and AgP groups based on
      genotype distribution for MCP-1 -2518 and CCR2 -190 by using a chi-squared test. The
      differences in genotype and allele frequencies between groups were also detected by the
      chi-square test. We used independent samples t-test for comparison of gene expression levels
      between groups and one way ANOVA was used to determine the effect of MCP-1 -2518 genotype on
      gene expression, based on log-transformed data. Significance level was P = 0.05.
    
  