
    
      The World Bank-supported Uttar Pradesh Health System Strengthening Project (UPHSSP) includes
      a component that calls for the implementation of social accountability (SA) interventions in
      UP, which aim to stimulate community action to demand better services, enhance positive
      health behavior and promote social audits of service delivery and resource allocation. Two
      key channels through which SA interventions operate are through (a) information provision and
      (b) fostering community engagement that enables grievance redressal. Prior to the
      implementation of SA interventions at scale in UP, this study aims to conduct rigorous impact
      evaluation of key components of SA interventions in order to learn about potential impact in
      the UP context and to learn about critical implementation issues regarding optimal methods to
      deliver information in the state with available technology and social networks.

      The evaluation's overarching research questions are whether SA interventions in UP improve
      (1) objective measures of health service quality in practice, (2) village-level satisfaction
      with health services, and (3) village-level health outcomes. Importantly, the evaluation will
      seek to identify whether the information provision that is a standard part of social
      accountability interventions has an independent effect on outcomes that is comparable to the
      effect of the combined information and community engagement components. The investigators
      also test the effectiveness of alternative models of delivering information in order to
      inform implementation of accountability interventions at large scale in public policy
      settings. Given that the community health workers targeted by the intervention focus on
      maternal and child health, our measures of health system performance along these three
      dimensions will also emphasize maternal and child health. Measures of health service quality
      include availability of services such as immunization and primary care services, distribution
      of food and nutritional supplementation as recommended in the national nutrition program, and
      provider absenteeism. Measures of satisfaction with local health services will include
      process measures including availability of service, waiting time for services and whether or
      not community members perceive that they are treated by providers with respect as well as
      general subjective assessments of satisfaction with services. Health outcome measures will
      include child anthropometrics (weight-for-age and weight-for-height), self-reported morbidity
      in the preceding two weeks (diarrhea, cough, fever, headache, days of usual activities lost
      due to illness), and neonatal (0-28 days), infant (under age one), and child (under age five)
      mortality as well as maternal health indicators such as percentage of facility deliveries
      among mothers who gave birth in the past year.

      Within the 2 study districts (Sultanpur and Fatehpur), in 120 villages that were selected at
      random, the SA interventions aim to distinguish the effect of provision of information and
      facilitated engagement of community members, from that of the effect of information alone.
      The 120 villages are randomized to either a control arm, or one of two treatment arms
      described below.

      TREATMENT ARM 1 - Information & Awareness:

      Community members will receive information about their rights, roles and responsibilities of
      healthcare providers, and also about health-related activities and programs taking place in
      their village. Importantly, besides assessing the effect of providing information on health
      service delivery and various health outcomes, our evaluation will also determine how best to
      provide the information.

      Another innovation in this project is to disseminate monthly information about health system
      related issues using interactive voice response messages (IVRs), phone calls, or home visits
      to households in the treatment villages. IVRs include a brief message about a health (or
      health system) indicator, or information regarding upcoming Village Health, Sanitation and
      Nutrition Committee (VHSNC) meetings or VHNDs, as well as a response option that can be used
      to collect data on what information households have received and about their participation in
      VHSNC meetings/VHNDs. These IVRs will be sent out over multiple months to cover approximately
      24,000 households in 80 treatment villages each time. During preparatory phase that was
      conducted in parallel with the baseline survey, detailed data on social networks was
      collected in each village and identified central individuals in the village.

      The investigators will use the data on networks in villages, combined with the information
      that is disseminated on a monthly basis to econometrically estimate how information
      dissemination within networks affects awareness and participation in social accountability
      activities as well as in utilization of health services.

      TREATMENT ARM 2 - Information PLUS Community Engagement:

      In addition to all the information interventions listed in treatment arm 1, community
      engagement will be facilitated in Arm 2 villages. The community engagement component aims to
      enhance the participation of the community in creating social accountability. The
      intervention will provide trained facilitators to help community members engage in a
      participatory process with Village Health, Sanitation, and Nutrition Committees (VHSNCs) and
      identify key deficiencies for improvement in health services that most concern community
      members. The facilitators are trained to help organize meetings and are provided a detailed
      checklist of activities that need to be undertaken prior to the day of the meetings such as
      inviting the block level officers and ensuring that logistics requirements for Village Health
      and Nutrition Days (VHNDs) are conveyed to VHSNC members in advance of the meetings. The
      facilitated meetings with healthcare providers and local and block level representatives aim
      to empower community members to demand better health services and convey these demands more
      effectively to providers and officials. The three key health workers at the village level
      (ASHA, ANM, and AWW) report to the local (village level) elected representatives and block
      level authorities, who receive feedback from the community in the accountability
      interventions. Moreover, through repeated community meetings village-level health workers are
      expected to respond to transparency and accountability innovations by improving quality of
      services delivered to their local constituents resulting in improvements in population health
      outcomes.

      These interventions will focus on services delivered by village-level health workers
      including those providing primary care and maternal and child health services. The households
      surveyed in the project will be those with children less than 5 years of age. The
      interventions will cover and include all population subgroups, castes, and religious
      minorities in the treatment villages, and also collect data on all of these subgroups.
    
  