
    
      Antimicrobial resistance is a global public health threat and the theme of the World Health
      Day 2011. While the issue in most cases (such as extensively-drug-resistant tuberculosis,
      antiviral-resistant human immunodeficiency virus and drug-resistant malaria) is the access to
      effective antimicrobial agents and/or the high cost of these drugs, for a small but
      increasing number of nosocomial drug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria, there is no safe and
      effective antibiotic available - not now nor in the next 10-year horizon, given the timeline
      of drug development. Extensively-drug-resistant Gram-negative bacilli (XDR-GNB) include the
      majority of the six organisms on the Infectious Disease Society of America's (IDSA's) watch
      list of global "bad bugs" for which the development of new drugs was urgently required. These
      Gram-negative bacilli are Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
      and Acinetobacter baumannii. The most frequently isolated of these organisms in the Singapore
      hospital setting is XDR-A. baumannii at this point in time.

      A. baumannii has swiftly emerged over the past three decades as a major nosocomial
      opportunistic pathogen, causing infections in debilitated patients especially in the
      intensive care unit (ICU) setting. It is the 10th most frequently isolated pathogen in US
      hospitals but ranks among the top 5 pathogens in tropical hospitals including Singapore,
      where the number of antibiotic-resistant A. baumannii infections exceeded 700 cases in 2006.
      The major issue with A. baumannii is that the organism has rapidly developed resistance to
      many antibiotics - as an example, within a single decade (1995 to 2004) in US hospitals,
      carbapenem resistance in A. baumannii increased from 9% to 40%. XDR-A. baumannii (defined as
      A. baumannii resistant to all antibiotics - including carbapenems,
      beta-lactam/beta-lactamase-inhibitors, cephalosporins, aminoglycosides, fluoroquinolones,
      tetracyclines and sulphonamides - with the exception of the polymyxins and tigecycline) has
      now been described causing infections in hospitals worldwide. Mortality associated with
      severe infections caused by multidrug-resistant A. baumannii and other XDR-GNB has ranged
      between 30% and 70% depending on the clinical setting and condition of the patients. Locally,
      the mortality from severe XDR-GNB infections is approximately 40%. From 2006 to 2010, there
      was an average of 140 cases of severe XDR-GNB infections in local hospitals each year,
      translating to approximately 56 deaths from infections attributable to this organism alone in
      Singapore every year. Other local XDR-GNB includes XDR-P. aeruginosa, and
      carbapenemase-producing E. coli and K. pneumoniae (carriage of New Delhi
      metallo-beta-lactmase-1 (NDM-1), OXA-48 and Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapnemase (KPC) genes).
      These remain relatively rare in Singapore, with fewer than 30 severe infections in local
      hospitals each year.

      Treatment of infections caused by XDR-GNB presents a considerable challenge for clinicians.
      Monotherapy polymyxins - commercially available as polymyxin B or polymyxin E (colistin) -
      are currently the gold standard of treatment for severe XDR-GNB infections. However, they are
      associated with significantly more adverse effects and may be less effective clinically
      compared to other antibiotics, such as the beta-lactams. In one tertiary center in Korea,
      retrospective analysis suggested that mortality of XDR-A. baumannii bacteremia was not
      reduced when colistin was used for treatment compared to other antibiotics (to which the
      organisms were resistant). Individual treatment failures with polymyxins have been reported,
      either due to the development of resistance in vivo or inherent heterogeneous polymyxin
      resistance - a phenomenon where many isolates that appear susceptible to the drug may
      actually harbor polymyxin-resistant subpopulations. Tigecycline susceptibility in XDR-GNB is
      variable and clinical failures have also been reported, particularly for bloodstream
      infections due to the low achievable concentrations of the drug in serum as well as the
      potential for development of resistance during treatment. This has led to some experts
      advocating combination antibiotic therapy as an alternative.

      In general, combination antibiotics have performed better than single agent polymyxin B in in
      vitro time-kill studies and animal models of infection. In accordance with other published
      reports, we have also shown that various antibiotic combinations demonstrated synergistic
      activity against XDR-GNB. The most effective in vitro combinations for local XDR-GNB isolates
      have been polymyxin B + rifampicin and polymyxin B + doripenem, with additive/synergistic
      effect in up to 50% of isolates without antagonism seen in the other isolates. However, it is
      uncertain if in vitro results in this particular instance directly predict clinical outcomes.
      No rigorous clinical trials have been completed to date and existing results based on case
      series and retrospective reviews are conflicting. Against local XDR-P. aeruginosa, however,
      dual antibiotic therapy appears to be less promising, with synergism achieved only when
      triple antibiotic combinations were tested.

      Other in vitro studies have suggested that triple antibiotic combinations may be more
      effective than dual antibiotic combinations. Nonetheless, this is difficult to recommend in
      clinical practice at the current time because of the very probable rise in adverse effects
      versus uncertain benefits.

      Because of the increasing number of XDR-GNB infections locally and worldwide, the
      questionable efficacy of the current gold standard monotherapy treatment, the paucity of
      novel and effective antibiotics against such infections for the foreseeable 10-year horizon,
      and the consistent reports of superiority in in vitro studies, it is critically important
      that combination therapy should be tested against polymyxin monotherapy in a rigorous
      clinical trial to ascertain if it represents a more effective treatment strategy. It is also
      important to determine if the results of multiple combinations bactericidal testing - like
      more standardized susceptibility testing for single antibiotics - will correlate well with
      clinical outcomes.
    
  