
    
      Gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GISTs) are rare mesenchymal neoplasms, mostly diagnosed
      between 55 and 60 years of age, which account for 5% of all sarcomas. Worldwide annual
      incidence is approximately 12 cases per million people, corresponding to approximately 800
      new cases per year in France.

      A large majority of GISTs harbour activating mutations in the proto-oncogenes KIT and/or
      PDGFRA, both coding cell-surface cytokine receptors with tyrosine-protein kinase activity.

      Imatinib mesilate (Glivec®, Novartis Pharma SAS) is a selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor,
      leading to inhibition of KIT and PDGFRA signalling pathways. The introduction of imatinib has
      revolutionised the therapeutic management of GIST patients and has provided an unprecedented
      demonstration of the clinical benefit of a targeted therapy for patients with
      advanced/metastatic solid tumors. First results from prospective trials conducted with
      imatinib in GIST patients have demonstrated a 300% increase in median overall survival, and a
      likely 100% increase in 5 and 10-year survival as compared to cytotoxic chemotherapy.

      The successful use of imatinib in the treatment of advanced GISTs and the significant risk of
      recurrence of advanced GISTs have prompted the investigation of the clinical benefit of
      imatinib as a post-operative adjuvant therapy. Two prospective randomized Phase III trials
      have demonstrated that adjuvant imatinib treatment significantly prolong overall survival
      (OS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) when given for 3 years. To date, imatinib is also
      indicated in the adjuvant setting after complete resection of primary, localized,
      KIT-positive GIST at high risk of recurrence. However, the optimal treatment duration remains
      unclear and it should be determined whether

        1. prolonged use of adjuvant imatinib beyond 3 years may enable to reduce the risk of GIST
           recurrence and to improve overall survival, and

        2. imatinib rechallenge is efficient for treating recurrence after completion of 3-year
           adjuvant imatinib therapy.

      This trial is an open-label, randomized, multicenter phase III study aiming to determine the
      clinical impact of maintaining imatinib treatment beyond 3 years in the adjuvant setting for
      patients with resected GISTs at high risk of recurrence according to the National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network Task Force on GIST (NCCN) risk classification.
    
  