
    
      Asthma is an obstructive pulmonary disease and thus it affects respiratory functions.
      Dyspnea, fatigue and bronchial hyperreactivity symptoms are commonly seen on patients with
      asthma. It is known that physical activity level of asthmatic patients is reduced. Few
      researches have investigated asthmatic patients' physical activity level and these researches
      mainly focused on self reported physical activity level. How differing maximal and submaximal
      exercise capacity of asthmatic patients is not well known. Because previous researches
      compared only different severity levels of the disease. It is reported that peripheral muscle
      strength of asthmatic patients is lower than healthy individuals' peripheral muscle strength.
      But evidences about this subject are insufficient. Asthmatic patients' respiratory muscle
      strength is lower than healthy individuals' respiratory muscle strength. But it is not clear
      if endurance is lower as respiratory muscle strength too, or not. It is reported that quality
      of life of asthmatic patients is worst than healthy individuals'. According to the sample
      size analysis 36 patients and 36 healthy individuals with similar demographic characteristics
      will be included the study. Patients and healthy individuals will be selected according to
      predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. The assessments will be completed in two
      days. Maximal exercise capacity will be assessed using cardiopulmonary exercise testing
      (CPET), functional exercise capacity using six minute stepper test, physical activity using
      multi-sensor activity monitor, pulmonary function using spirometry, respiratory muscle
      strength using mouth pressure device, peripheral muscle strength using hand held dynamometer,
      respiratory muscle endurance using incremental threshold loading test, depression using Beck
      Depression Inventory (Turkish version), anxiety using Beck Anxiety Inventory (Turkish
      version), disease specific quality of life using Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire
      (Turkish version) and St. George Respiratory Questionnaire (Turkish version), cough related
      quality of life using Leicester Cough Questionnaire (Turkish version), sleep related quality
      of life using Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (Turkish version), asthma control level using
      Asthma Control Test (Turkish version), disease management knowledge level using Asthma
      Self-Management Questionnaire (Turkish version).
    
  