
    
      This study will be a multi-center trial to be conducted in centers across Canada and
      approximately 80 patients will be enrolled. Participants will be recruited from both stroke
      prevention (N=40) and memory clinics (N=40). For comparison, we will access the
      publically-available data using a very similar protocol being collected from normal controls
      (N=250), MCI (N=250 early MCI, N=150 late MCI) and AD patients (N=150) without significant
      white matter disease, who are participating in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging
      Initiative (ADNI-GO and ADNI 2, N=800), to choose representative samples for comparison to
      those with scores ≤ 1 who represent the non-white matter disease group.

      Three imaging modalities will be used with each participant. 3 Telsa MRI scans will be
      acquired, using an ADNI based protocol, except for the addition of a PD/T2 interleved
      sequence. Participants will also undergo 18-fluoro PET with the AVID-45 ligand and
      18-fluorodeoxyglucose PET using the ADNI protocols.

      The primary objectives are to characterize at baseline and 2-year follow-up in patients with
      significant Periventricular White Matter Hyperintensities (pvWMH), presenting as transient
      cerebrovascular events or memory problems, patterns of: 1. Uptake of amyloid on Florbetapir
      F-18 PET/CT 2. Glucose uptake on 18F-FDG PET/CT 3. Volumetric measures of brain structure on
      MRI imaging 4. Performance on standard neuropsychological assessments, activities of daily
      living and gait speed.

      Secondary objectives are to: 1. Compare the relationship between amyloid brain uptake, pvWMH
      volumes, and cognitive scores in patients with significant pvWMH and a control group of
      individuals that are cognitively normal, MCI or AD, with mild pvWMH, identified from the ADNI
      database. 2. Examine the relationship between amyloid uptake, ApoE e4 genotype, and
      structural MRI volumes in patients with a high burden of pvWMH. 3. Evaluate the utility of
      baseline brain amyloid to predict cognitive decline and increases in pvWMH volume at 2 years
      follow up. 4. Evaluate the safety of a single intravenous dose of Florbetapir F 18 Injection
      (370 MBq +/- 10%) in subjects with significant pvWMH.
    
  