
    
      Over the last decade, the role of microorganisms residing in human intestines has been
      intensively studied. The intestinal microbiome includes bacteria, viruses, fungi and archaea.
      The importance of microbiome to human health is highlighted by the observation that dysbiotic
      shifts in these microbial communities have been associated with numerous human diseases,
      including obesity, inflammatory bowel disorders, autoimmune disease or gastrointestinal
      cancer. It is also clearly established that some of these microorganisms interact with the
      immune system and contribute to its development. The intestinal microbiome is established
      soon after birth, and its composition changes over the next several years toward a
      stereotypical 'adult-like' bacterial community structure. Epidemiological studies have
      demonstrated the importance of this period for a long-term health. It also has been shown
      that this process can be influenced by multiple interacting factors such as nutrition,
      antibiotic use and others environmental factors. Much less is known on the viral part of
      human microbiome. Most of them are phages (phageome) that are known to modulate microbial
      population through predation or transfer of genetic information between bacteria, and are
      likely to have important effects on intestinal microbiome establishment and, consequently,
      human physiology. MetaKids project aims at understanding how the gut phageome develops during
      the early human life and how it influences the composition of the bacterial microbiome. The
      investigators will carry a longitudinal study of 15-20 infants from 3-9 months till age 24-30
      months. By combining latest metagenomic methods, will be investigated: 1) the composition,
      evolution and dynamic of the phageome and bacterial microbiome over this critical period; 2)
      the interactions between phages and bacteria and their relationships; and 3) the impact of
      environmental factors, like vaccinations or antibiotics treatment on the phages populations.
      The project is based on the combination of innovative recent metagenomic techniques developed
      in the lab. DNA is an ubiquitous and stable molecule that can be used as a marker of
      "compartmentalization" at cellular and population levels, providing important information
      regarding the genomic structure of a mix of species. Therefore, by combining approaches like
      purification of virales particles and 3C related methods, the investigators propose to
      characterize infant gut microbiome establishment and decipher the relationships between the
      different genomic entities present during this period. This project will bring crucial data
      on the role of phages during early life of human intestinal tract. Intervention to
      modify/control intestinal population is a dynamic field and MetaKids project will bring new
      perspectives for this research area.
    
  