
    
      Proteinuria is an early and sensitive marker of kidney damage and a risk factor for chronic
      kidney disease (CKD) progression, cardiovascular disease and all-cause mortality. Several
      cross-sectional epidemiological studies have reported an association between sodium intake
      and albuminuria (majority of proteinuria) that is independent of blood pressure (BP). In
      addition, a handful of small clinical trials have suggested a reduction in dietary sodium
      intake may decrease albuminuria in patients with CKD. The overall goal of this randomized
      controlled trial is to study the effect of dietary sodium reduction on albuminuria in CKD
      patients with albuminuria. A total of 150 participants with CKD and albuminuria will be
      recruited and randomly assigned to either a 24-week intensive behavioral modification program
      designed to reduce dietary sodium intake to 2,300 mg/day or to usual care in a 1:1
      randomization ratio. The primary outcome will be the difference between the active
      intervention and control groups for change in urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio from
      baseline to 24 weeks of follow-up. Urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio will be assessed as
      the average of two 24-hour urine collections at each time point. Secondary outcomes will
      include estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), BP, and number of antihypertensive
      medications. Urinary sodium excretion will be used to measure the success of the
      intervention. Racial differences in albuminuria changes due to reduction in dietary sodium
      intake will be analyzed. The intervention program will be modeled on best practices derived
      from the investigators prior experience in conducting sodium reduction behavioral
      interventions. The intervention program will address individual barriers to long-term sodium
      reduction and generate collective enthusiasm and motivation for adherence to the program.
      Study staff will receive training and direct support from a consultant with extensive
      experience in successful implementation of behavioral and dietary modification interventions.
      Results from this study will clarify the role of dietary sodium reduction in management of
      CKD patients with albuminuria and its potential to halt the progression of CKD, a global
      public health concern. The study will also explore the interaction of race/ethnicity with
      dietary sodium reduction on albuminuria in CKD patients.
    
  