
    
      Controlled studies of the pharmacokinetics and safety of new drugs are critical to the
      development of alternative therapies for the prevention of perinatal transmission of HIV-1.
      The dosing regimen of RTV and ZDV used to treat pregnant women in this study has been shown
      to be safe and effective against HIV in adults. Little is known about the metabolism and
      tolerance of these drugs during pregnancy, and Phase I studies are needed to determine
      dosage, safety, and tolerance. Protease inhibitors in combination with other antiretroviral
      drugs may help reduce the rate of perinatal transmission of HIV-1.

      Pregnant women start with RTV (increasing gradually over a few days) plus 3TC plus ZDV until
      active labor. Intrapartum, women receive RTV plus 3TC plus ZDV, then postpartum (after cord
      clamped until 12 weeks postpartum), RTV plus 3TC plus ZDV. [AS PER AMENDMENT 2/9/99: For
      maternal dosing, one Combivir tablet (containing 3TC and ZDV) may be administered in place of
      the individual agents 3TC and ZDV. During the intrapartum period, Combivir is held and the
      patient follows intrapartum 3TC/ZDV dosing. During the intrapartum period, no RTV is given
      after the onset of active labor. During the postpartum period, RTV is begun as soon as oral
      intake is allowable following delivery. During the postpartum period, Combivir may be
      resumed. All subjects who prematurely discontinue study treatment should continue to be
      followed for the duration of the study.] [AS PER AMENDMENT 9/28/99: During the intrapartum
      period, RTV is given at the start of active labor.] Infants begin 3TC and ZDV as soon as oral
      intake is tolerated. Infants participate in one of two cohorts. The first four infants
      delivered (Cohort 1) receive RTV as a single dose between Days 8 and 12. The next six infants
      delivered (Cohort 2) start RTV at 2-3 days of life. The dosing schedule is based on Cohort 1
      drug pharmacokinetics data. [AS PER AMENDMENT 2/9/99: Cohort 1 is expanded to seven
      mother/infant pairs.] [AS PER AMENDMENT 9/28/99: Cohort 1 is expanded to eight mother/infant
      pairs.] Both maternal and infant blood is drawn to assess drug pharmacokinetics. Cervical
      secretions are collected to assess presence of virus. In addition, all placentas are examined
      by histopathology to determine the role of placenta on preterm delivery in women receiving
      combination antiretroviral therapy.
    
  