
    
      There are studies reporting that the long working time spent at the desk in office workers
      and working in a static position are the etiological factors of various problems in the upper
      and lower extremities.Office workers who are eligible for inclusion criteria and willing to
      participate in the study will be included.Participants will be randomly divided into two
      groups as functional exercise group and posture exercises group.

      Exercise program:

        1. st Group: Functional exercise group (20 people) The exercise program is planned as a
           function-oriented exercise program aimed at improving balance skills, increasing lower
           extremity muscle strength and functions. During all exercises, exercises will be done
           while maintaining postural smoothness. For the postural smoothness, feedback will be
           provided by the physiotherapist for orientation, correction and protection to the
           participants. The exercise program will be applied online, 2 days a week for 8 weeks. In
           the beginning, 3 sets of 10 repetitions will be progressed gradually as 3 sets of 15
           repetitions, 3 sets of 20 repetitions, according to the tolerance of the participant.
           Exercises will be progressed from simple to difficult. There will be a 2-minute rest
           period between sets. All 28 exercises defined in the functional exercise group will not
           be applied in one session. Exercise selection will be made according to the functional
           status of the participant.Exercises are planned to be performed in a chair supported,
           bipedal position, unipedal position, using weights, providing resistance with elastic
           band in various degrees of difficulty and in various positions. In the beginning, 6-7
           exercises, which are appropriate according to the evaluation results of the
           participants, will be selected according to the difficulty level and the exercises will
           be changed in the following weeks. The exercises will start with warm-up exercises and
           end with cooling exercises. Warm-up exercises and cool-down exercises will take 5
           minutes at the beginning and 5 minutes at the end, a total of 10 minutes.

        2. nd Group: Posture exercises group (20 people) The exercise program was planned by
           focusing on posture exercises in order to increase the postural smoothness of the
           participants. During all exercises, exercises will be done while maintaining postural
           smoothness. For the postural smoothness, feedback will be provided by the
           physiotherapist for orientation, correction and protection to the participants. The
           exercise program will be applied online, 2 days a week for 8 weeks. In the beginning,
           range of motion exercises will be progressed as 3 sets of 10 repetitions, then gradually
           as 3 sets of 15 repetitions and 3 sets of 20 repetitions, according to the tolerance of
           the participant. Stretching exercises will be done as 3 sets of 6-8 repetitions.
           Initially, 6-7 exercises will be selected according to the postural evaluation results
           of the participants.

      Exercises will be changed in the following weeks. Resistance will not be applied in the
      exercises, and the participants will be asked to maintain the specified exercise position for
      5-6 seconds for range of motion exercises and 20 30 seconds for stretching exercises.
    
  