
    
      Body mass (kg) and height (cm) is measured by the same person at the medical center using
      standardized equipment and the body mass index (BMI) is calculated in kg/m2.

      Computed randomization is used to divide conscripts into two groups; either the intervention
      group or the control group. Both types of capsules are administered once per day in the
      morning before breakfast for 7 months. Standardized coded packages (3 per conscript) and
      capsules (100 per package) are manufactured on a special order by Innopharma A/S (Denmark).
      No commercial sponsoring is involved.

      The key of the package code is stored in the computer database until unblinding of the
      results.

      Laboratory measurements Serum samples for clinical chemistry analysis are collected into
      serum clot activator tubes. Calcium measurements are performed using spectrophotometry
      method. Ionized calcium measurements are performed using ion selective electrodes. The direct
      chemiluminescent immunoassay method is used for measurement of PTH. 25(OH)D is measured using
      direct chemiluminescent immunoassay method.

      Power calculation The primary variable of the study is the level of 25 (OH)D in the serum. In
      the power analysis a difference of 20 nmol/L between the intervention and the control group
      is considered to be meaningful to detect. If the SD would be 25 nmol/L, then 26 participants
      would be needed in each group to reach a power of 80%.

      Statistical analysis The distribution of blood serum values in the study groups is described
      by means and standard deviations (SD). Differences in mean values of the variables of
      interest between the groups are evaluated using Welch t-test. The within group comparisons
      over time are performed using paired t-test with Bonferroni correction. Distributions of
      categorical variables are described by absolute numbers and percentages and compared between
      groups using the Fisher exact test. Statistical significance is set at the 0.05 probability
      level.
    
  