
    
      Background Atherosclerosis is a chronic, systemic and diffusely distributed disease causing
      focal complications in different vascular beds.

      Impaired endothelial function is the initial step in the progressive course of
      atherosclerosis . Endothelial dysfunction is considered a systemic process and both coronary
      and peripheral endothelial dysfunction have been shown to be independently associated with
      cardiovascular events .

      Percutanenous coronary intervention (PCI) with implantation of stent is the treatment of
      choice in symptomatic stenotic coronary artyery disease (CAD), but in-stent restenosis and
      progression of disease remains its main limitation. Early identification of patients at risk
      of restenosis after PCI would therefore be of clinical value. There is only limited
      prospective data on the role of peripheral endothelial dysfunction after PCI predicting
      restenosis and cardiovascular events , , .

      Furthermore, it is unknown if peripheral endothelial dysfunction is associated with increased
      levels of biomarkers of endothelial cell activation in this population.

      There are conflicting data on inflammatory markers as high-sensitivity CRP with regard to
      endothelial function.

      Low heart rate variability (HRV) predicts automic dysfunction and is a strong and independent
      predictor of mortality in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) . Clinical depression
      after myocardial infarction is associated with decreased HRV, linking depression to increased
      cardiac mortality in post-myocardial infarction patients . Whether decreased HRV is
      associated with endothelial dysfunction or restenosis is unknown.

      Objective The objective of this study is to evaluate whether impaired endothelial function
      and low HRV are associated with clinical restenosis.

      Furthermore, the study examines a potential correlation between biomarkers of endothelial
      cell activation and endothelial dysfunction.

      Another issue is depression after PCI and a potential association with impaired endothelial
      function and increased levels of makers for endothelial activation.

      Methods

      Subjects This prospective study includes consecutively patients with acute coronary syndromes
      undergoing PCI with stent implantation for significant single vessel disease at Stavanger
      University Hospital, Stavanger, Norway. Patients will be followed for at least 6 months.

      Exclusion criteria are multivessel disease, left ventricular dysfunction defined as ejection
      fraction (EF) < 50%, former aortocoronary bypass-surgery, systemic inflammatory diseases
      other than atherosclerosis, cognitive impairement, severe psychiatric disorder, renal failure
      (kreatinin > 250 mmol/l), refusion to participate.
    
  