
    
      Loving-kindness meditation (LKM) and mindfulness meditation, in which PAT is rooted, are
      derived from Buddhist practices that have been empirically shown to have applications in
      improving mental health. Throughout the 1990s and early 2000s, mindfulness based CBT was
      shown to decrease stress, negative affect, and chronic pain in both psychiatric and
      non-psychiatric subjects. Mindfulness-based therapy has since been shown to be effective for
      treating mood and anxiety disorders. Only recently has LKM been examined as an intervention
      for affective symptoms. This meditation practice seems to be particularly suited for reducing
      negative affect while also enhancing positive affect in individuals who show emotional
      dysregulation, such as people with dysthymic disorder. This notion is supported by
      experimental studies suggesting that LKM decreases anxiety and stress, positively influences
      emotional responses to neutral stimuli, and promotes positive emotions such as trust, love,
      hope, and compassion. Dr. Fredrickson, a prominent researcher and social psychologist who is
      the foremost expert in LKM will serve as an outside consultant for the development of the
      protocol. She is not listed as an official collaborator because she will not be in direct
      contact with the participant data that the investigators will collect.

      The intervention the investigators plan to develop, Positive Affect Training (PAT), combines
      mindfulness and LKM, with a strong emphasis on the latter. The investigators will adopt
      strategies that have been described in a previous LKM protocol for trauma victims. The
      investigators contacted Dr. Kearney who shared his manual with us. Given the impressive
      effect LKM seems to have on generating positive, and attenuating negative affect in
      experimental studies, the investigators plan to test PAT as a method of improving positive
      affect. The current study aims to test the initial efficacy of PAT in individuals who report
      experiencing a low mood. The investigators hypothesize significant improvement in subjects'
      self-reported ratings of negative and positive affect as a result of the intervention.
    
  