
    
      Motor vehicle crashes cause the death of an American child every 3 hours, more than any other
      cause. When installed correctly, car seats (also called "child restraints") reduce risk of
      serious injury and death to infants and young children roughly threefold. Unfortunately, a
      large portion of child restraints is installed incorrectly. A network of trained technicians,
      many affiliated with Safe Kids Worldwide, work across the country to assist parents in
      achieving correct use of child restraints through scheduled "car seat checks," where
      technicians work with parents to install restraints in their vehicles. Car seat checks are
      effective in reducing errors in child restraint installations. However, the services are
      highly underutilized due to barriers in access, scheduling complications, and resources to
      staff the car seat checks sufficiently to meet demand.

      The present study evaluates use of interactive virtual presence technology (also called
      interactive merged reality) - joint and simultaneous remote verbal and visual interaction and
      exposure to the same 3D stimuli - to remotely assist parents to install child restraints
      correctly into their vehicles. If effective, this technology could supplement or replace car
      seat checks, significantly reduce the number of errors made in car seat installations
      nationwide, and revolutionize how government, industry, and non-profit agencies help parents
      install restraints.

      Building from small pilot studies on the topic, the investigators propose a large randomized
      non-inferiority trial to evaluate whether parents, including especially underserved parents
      in rural areas and/or of underrepresented racial or ethnic minority background, who install
      child restraints while communicating with a remote expert technician via interactive virtual
      presence achieve installations and learning that are not inferior in their safety to parents
      who install restraints live with a remote technician onsite. Non-inferiority trials are a
      type of randomized trial whereby a novel treatment (in this case, interactive virtual
      presence to install child restraints) is compared to an existing treatment known to be
      effective (in this case, live one-on-one installation of restraints) to demonstrate the novel
      treatment does not perform inferiorly to the existing treatment known to be effective.

      To accomplish the study goals, the investigators will recruit 1476 parents at 7 Safe Kids
      locations nationwide and randomly assign consenting parents to install their child restraint
      either via interactive virtual presence or with a live technician. The correctness of
      installation safety will be assessed using objective checklists, both following installation
      and again four months later. The investigators aim to demonstrate that child restraint
      installation is accurate (>90% correct) when conducted remotely via interactive virtual
      presence, that such installations are not inferior to the accuracy of installation with a
      live on-site expert, and that parents learn and retain information about correct child
      restraint installation.
    
  