
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths. Screening for early detection of cancer at
      an early stage reduces cancer deaths and therefore improves prognosis. The National Lung
      Screening Trial (NLST), for instance, showed that CT screening increases the early detection
      rate, and reduces mortality. However, drawbacks include over-diagnosis, false-positive
      results, psychological distress and cost. Therefore, lung cancer screening is not recommended
      or available within the NHS.

      Diagnosis of lung cancer is currently based on a combination of scans and tissue biopsy. The
      invasive nature of current diagnostic procedures limits their application. To improve the
      efficacy and cost effectiveness of screening in early detection of lung cancer, additional,
      complementary and non-invasive methods, such as circulating biomarkers, should be evaluated.
      Our novel exosomal assay (taken from a blood sample) when combined with CT, may improve the
      current accuracy of lung cancer detection, especially that of a worse clinical prognosis.
      Improvement in the accuracy of detection and/or prediction of future disease by performing
      the combined imaging exosome test will cause a paradigm shift. Moving towards the
      identification of blood tests can help increase confidence about follow-up decisions and
      shorten the interval before biopsy.

      This prospective cohort study will recruit patients referred to secondary care for the
      investigation of clinical symptoms or signs suspicious of lung cancer.

      The study will run between 2020 and 2024 (two-year active recruitment and two-year follow
      up).

      Participants will have a single assay of blood taken on one occasion in the lung clinic by
      trained staff.

      Participants will have normal standard of care chest CT scans and this data will be used.

      All participants will be actively followed for 3 months and then those with nodules, revealed
      by CT Scan, at 3 monthly intervals. Longitudinal clinical data will be collected on the
      investigations, diagnoses and outcomes of all study patients.

      Data will be collected on date, type and results of imaging and biopsy investigations
      including nodule size and progression.

      For those diagnosed with lung cancer, data on tumour size, stage, type and other markers)
      will be recorded together with treatment response and date of death, where this occurs within
      the study.
    
  