
    
      The primary objective of the present study would be to determine the additive value on
      analgesic effectiveness of INF in children aged eight to 18 years with acute moderate to
      severe headaches. We would also aim to gather information on the safety and acceptability of
      INF for headaches. We believe that providing INF for moderate to severe headaches will
      decrease pain levels in children aged 8 to 18 years old.

      We will perform a prospective, double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial.

      The study setting will be a single center, urban, university-based, tertiary care pediatric
      university-affiliated hospital ED with an annual census of 75,000 patient visits. The study
      should be conducted between 2015-2018.

      Study population : Inclusion criteria will consist of children aged eight to 18 years who
      present to the pediatric ED with a chief complaint of headaches, regardless of the type, with
      a moderate or severe pain score. Pain was considered at least moderate if superior or equal
      to 36 mm on the VAS as demonstrated by Hirschfeld et. Al. This level have been chosen because
      it has been recognized that adequate sensitivity in analgesia trials for acute pain can only
      be obtained if patients experience at least moderate pain before administration of any
      treatment.

      Intervention: All patients will receive a 1.5 mcg⁄kg dose of fentanyl or an equivalent volume
      of similar looking placebo. This will be administered intranasally via a mucosal atomiser
      device (MAD) using 50 mcg/mL solution with a 2 mL syringe. Prior studies have shown that this
      dose is as effective as IV or IM morphine and provides a bioavailability which is 71% of the
      IV dose. The minimum dose prescribed will be 20 mcg, to ensure delivery of 15 mcg of fentanyl
      to a 10 kg child, allowing for the MAD dead space of 0.1 mL (5 mcg of fentanyl). For
      analgesic dose-volumes equal to and less than 0.5 mL, the entire dose will be administered in
      one nostril; doses above 0.5 mL will be divided equally and administered to both nostrils.
      Concentrated medications in a small volume (0.2-0.3 mL per nostril) are ideal, whereas
      volumes in excess of 1 mL per nostril are not reliably absorbed as a result of mucosal
      surface saturation and runoff from the nasal cavity. The maximum dose administered will be
      100 mcg due to volume constraints. The placebo solution will consist of normal saline that
      would be delivered via the proposed atomiser. The value administered will be adjusted to the
      patients weight as for the active study medication. No additional dose of either study
      medication would be provided. A MAD have been chosen because it is suggested to increase the
      mucosal coverage and absorption of the medication by atomizing particles and decreasing the
      amount of medication lost due to swallowing.

      Oral ibuprofen (10 mg/kg) (maximum dose of 600 mg) will also be administered within the first
      15 minutes of intranasal administration of the study medication unless it had been given in
      the previous 4 hours. It has been chosen over acetaminophen because a direct comparison has
      shown that complete pain relief after two hours is achieved twice as frequently with
      ibuprofen.

      The randomization process will occur at the local pharmacy and randomization allotment will
      be known only by a pharmacist who is not involved in the study. Therefore, all providers
      involved in the patient's care and patients will be blinded to group assignment until data
      analysis completion. The participant will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups as
      follows : 1) INF 1.5 mcg/kg and 2) placebo solution, given via an atomizer (MAD device: MAD
      Nasal, U.S. Patent #6,112,743, Wolfe-Tory Medical, Inc., 79 West 4500 South, Salt Lake City,
      Utah 84107).

      The study medications will be provided to the ED by the local pharmacy. For each randomized
      patient, a consecutive study medication package will be opened in the ED. Each study package
      will contain a study medication (either generic fentanyl bottle or saline bottle), a syringe
      and an atomizer for delivery. An on-site nurse will withdraw the study medication from the
      specific bottle provided in the package and will deliver the study medication to the patient.
      The study research assistant will remain blinded. At the pharmacy, the patient's
      identification will be coded so that only a user having the access code will be able to
      identify participants.

      Procedure : Every patient will be weighed in triage. Enrollment will be limited to times when
      a research assistant is available. A research assistant will recruit the patients after a
      pediatric ED physician has assessed them and once the symptoms of headaches are clearly
      established. The pain associated with headaches will be assessed by using the VAS, which has
      been validated for the use in children aged eight years and older across a variety of
      clinical settings and has an excellent interrater-reliability and validity in analgesia
      research.

      Once eligibility and exclusion criteria will be confirmed, caregivers will be given written
      and verbal study information. Written consent for enrolment will be gained from both the
      accompanying parent and the child, when appropriate. The research assistant will use timers
      to coordinate all the events. At baseline, before any intervention, the VAS score, baseline
      vital signs and sedation score (UMSS) will be recorded by the research assistant. For the
      assessment of the VAS score, the children will be asked to mark on a standardized data
      collection booklet, the level of their pain on a 100-mm non hatched VAS scale with at one end
      "no pain" and at the other "worst pain ever" with the following, verbatim: "Show me on the
      line the level of your pain: here is no pain; there is the worst possible pain." The patient
      will then cross a line to indicate his or her level of pain. All measurements will be
      recorded to the closest 1 mm.

      At time zero, the solution contained in a syringe will be administered by the on-site nurse
      to the anterior aspect of the participant's nasal cavity over few seconds. The dose (or half
      of it, if necessary) will be administered into one of the patient's nostrils with the MAD.
      The second half of the dose, if needed, will be administered in the contralateral nostril
      using the same MAD. Younger children will have the medication administered while sitting in
      the lap of a parent, with their heads reclined and necks hyperextended. Older children will
      receive the medication while lying in a semi recumbent position on the gurney. No additional
      dose would be provided. The research assistant will remain blinded to which medication the
      patient has received.

      At the fifteenth, thirtieth and sixtieth minute post-intervention, the research assistant
      will obtain a pain score via the VAS from the patient and ask for the change in their pain.
      They will be asked to give a verbal rating of their pain as 'a lot less', 'a little less',
      'the same', 'a little more' or 'a lot more' compared to the initial baseline, at time zero
      and reassess level of pain on the VAS as used previously. Children will not be permitted to
      refer to previous scales markings and will remain blinded to their prior scores. The sedation
      score will also be recorded using the University of Michigan Sedation Scale (UMSS) which
      overall validity was demonstrated and declared as a simple, valid and reliable tool that
      facilitates rapid and frequent assessment and documentation of depth of sedation in children.
      The vital signs will also be taken at these intervals.

      A detailed demographic and clinical data will also be collected after the study medication
      administration. A standardized questionnaire of the patient's present and past headaches,
      will be completed by the research assistant during their stay in the pediatric ED. The
      questionnaire will include questions on duration, location, description of pain, associated
      symptoms of the present headache and past medical history.

      No other meds, IV fluids, IV procedures or other painful procedures will be done during the
      study period unless the patient's condition changes or deteriorates. If any of these
      procedure is needed during the study period, the patient will be withdrawn from the study and
      will be treated according of his state of health.

      At the sixtieth minute of the study, marking the end of the study, patients who had assented
      to the study and parents will be asked to rate their satisfaction on the efficacy of the
      study medication on a Likert scale ('strongly disagree' 'disagree', 'neither agree nor
      disagree', 'agree', or 'strongly agree'). This satisfaction scale will be given to patients
      and parents after the last pain score was obtained. The study would be then completed, and
      further care will be at the discretion of the attending pediatric ED medical staff.

      A follow-up call by a research assistant will be done at 72 hours after discharge to assess
      headache recurrence, late medication side effects, and a return to another medical facility.
      All children hospitalized will also be reached.

      A chart review will be done by a member of the research team to collect final pediatric ED
      diagnosis as well as any additional investigations (e.g. CT scan, consultation with a
      neurologist, blood tests, TSH, etc.).

      Data will be collected using pediatric ED medical records of recruited patients and the
      sociodemographic questionnaire completed by a research assistant. The results of all other
      variables: VAS, UMSS and satisfaction score will be collected in real time by the research
      assistant during the pediatric ED stay.

      A data collection form will be used, and these forms will be later cross-referenced with the
      patient's clinical records by a member of the research team to verify correct documentation
      and eligibility.

      Sample size and statistics :

      This is the first study evaluating pain related to all types of headaches in children.
      Accordingly, no previous study perfectly matches our design to infer sample size. However,
      two previous studies evaluated an intervention provided to decrease acute pain secondary to
      migraine in children using the VAS. These studies reported a standard deviation of 18.5 and
      20 mm. Powell et al found the minimum clinically significant difference (MCSD) in VAS pain
      score for children aged 8 to 15 years (on a 100-mm VAS scale) to be 10 mm (95% confidence
      interval 7 to 12 mm). In studies of populations, differences of less than this amount, even
      if statistically significant, are unlikely to be of clinical significance. Previous research
      in adults has found the same MCSD in VAS pain scores and did not differ in adults with age,
      sex, or cause of pain. Based on these data, using an alpha value of 0,05 and a power of 80%,
      it was estimated that we need, 57 patients per group. Accounting to a maximal 5% drop-off
      rate, we inflated this number to 60 participants per group.

      All data will be entered in an excel database (Microsoft Inc., Richmond, WA) and will be
      analyzed with SPSS v21 (IBM Inc). The primary study analysis will be a Student's T-test to
      compare the mean differences in scores between the intervention group and the placebo group.
      An intention-to-treat approach will be used. Also, secondary analyses will be performed using
      a Student's T-test for continuous variables and a Pearson Chi-square test for categorical
      variables. The 95% confidence intervals will be measured for each result.
    
  