
    
      The study population will be volunteers with type 1 diabetes who are 21 years of age or
      older. The setting will be an outpatient environment in a three square-mile area on the
      Boston Peninsula (see Appendix A). Volunteers will stay in a hotel adjacent to the MGH campus
      at night and will have free activity during the day within the specified geographic area.
      They will determine the timing and nature of their meals from local restaurants, with food
      brought from home, or food kept in their hotel room, which will have a small refrigerator.
      They will have the opportunity to exercise as they wish in their choice of two gyms. There
      will be minimal scheduling constraints, limited only by an 11:00 PM curfew and morning
      departure time from the hotel of no earlier than 7:00 AM. They will be able to work if they
      wish as long as that can be done within the geographical constraints (e.g. if they work in
      the downtown Boston area or can "work from home" or have meetings at a conference room in the
      hotel or at a restaurant). During the entire experiment they will be closely monitored by
      study staff (RN, NP, or MD) around the clock. They will remain within direct line of sight
      and no more than a short distance away from study staff during the daytime for safety. During
      the night they will be continuously monitored via BG telemetry from a nearby hotel room and
      study staff will be able to enter their rooms quickly, should that become necessary. During
      the night, when volunteers will remain in their rooms, one study staff member will monitor up
      to two volunteers at a time.

      Capillary BG will be tested every two hours during the day using a highly accurate,
      laboratory equivalent meter (HemoCue, selected for maximum data integrity) and venous BG will
      be tested every 30 minutes overnight using an autosampling device (GlucoScout). Continuous
      glucose monitoring (Dexcom G4) will be done throughout the study period. Photos and menu
      information, if available, will be documented for each meal and snack by the escort and
      estimates of carbohydrate intake will be estimated later from this information by a
      nutritionist. The type and level of activity being performed by the volunteers (e.g. lying,
      sitting, standing, walking, running) will be documented in 15 minute intervals by the study
      staff escort. Additional data will be collected using an accelerometer. During exercise, the
      type and duration of exercise, and, depending on the kind of activity, the heart rate
      (recorded using a Polar heart rate monitor) will be documented every 15 minutes and
      point-of-care blood glucose will be documented every 30 minutes.
    
  