
    
      The investigators hypothesize that many individuals with needs for medicine intervention can
      be more compliant with their medicine regimen if prompts are provided at the right times and
      in the right context. They will validate the hypothesis by designing and evaluating machine
      learning-based software algorithms that recognize daily activities, provide activity-aware
      medicine reminder interventions and provide insights on intervention timings that yield
      successful compliance.

      The first aim of the project is to expand and validate software algorithms that recognize
      daily activities and activity transitions with mobile devices. The hypothesis is that daily
      behavior contexts can be characterized and tracked with minimal user input using machine
      learning combined with automated activity discovery. In earlier work, the investigators had
      demonstrated the success of our algorithms in smart homes. In this project, they propose to
      adapt the techniques for mobile devices.

      The second aim of the project is to develop activity-sensitive medicine prompting and assess
      the impact of activity-sensitive prompting on the primary outcome of medication adherence
      rates and the secondary outcome of quality of life. To this end, this goal can be decomposed
      into two tasks including (a) developing activity-sensitive prompting; (b) assessing the
      impact of activity-sensitive prompting on patient outcomes. The investigators will combine an
      activity prompting interface with activity recognition to deliver prompts in contexts with
      demonstrated success.

      Finally, in the third aim, the investigators design machine learning algorithms to analyze
      medicine reminder success and failure situations. They hypothesize that machine learning
      techniques can be used to automatically predict prompt compliance by using computer
      algorithms to learn how to distinguish successful from unsuccessful prompt situations. In
      their approach, the investigators utilize sensor data to analyze daily behavior and link
      behavior context with medicine adherence.
    
  