
    
      Patients who have attended an intensive treatment course at Scoliosis SOS Clinic in London
      will be included in the study. This will include patients finishing an intensive course after
      the start date of the study or patients who have completed an intensive course up to 11 years
      ago and are still attending check-up appointments at the clinic. After a patient has
      completed this intensive course or when they come back for their next check-up appointment
      after the start date of the study, each patient will be randomised in to one of three groups:
      1. Control group, 2. Diary group and 3. Mobile application group.

      The patients in the control group will be given their normal exercise schedule without any
      instruction to record their compliance at the time. The diary group will be given a diary
      with a specific layout and instructed to note their exercise compliance, including the date,
      the amount of time and the exercises completed. The mobile application group will be provided
      with a link to download the application onto their smart phone for free. This group will be
      instructed to use this application whenever they complete their exercises at home.

      The mobile application will include a copy of the patient's exercise schedule (they will also
      be provided with a hard copy of the exercise schedule), a picture list of all of the
      exercises present on their exercise schedule as well as a start/stop button which they will
      be advised to press once they begin their exercise and then again once they have finished
      exercising. This information will log on their profile, which can be accessed by the
      researcher.

      The patients will be enrolled on to the study on the day that they finish their intensive
      physiotherapy course or at their next check-up appointment after the study commences. The
      patient will be given a full informed consent form, detailing every aspect of the study. They
      will then be asked to sign the form as their way of agreeing to take part in the study. Data
      will then be collected from each patient on the patient's first and second check-up
      appointments which usually occur once every three months for children below the age of 18
      years old and once every six months for adults that are 18 years old and older. If the
      patient does not attend a check-up appointment within their recommended time period, they
      will be contacted via telephone or email to provide the details about their compliance.
    
  