
    
      1. Screening and Enrollment

             -  Informed consent will be signed and eligibility will be assessed

             -  History and physical examination

             -  HbA1c measurement

             -  Urine or serum pregnancy test (if applicable)

             -  Evaluation of Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM) and pump experience

        2. CGM and (Sensor Augmented Pump) SAP Training Period at Home All eligible participants
           will be assessed based on their CGM and pump experience to determine if the CGM Training
           Period, the SAP Training Period, or both are required.

             1. CGM Training Period (10-14 days): Participants currently using a CGM may skip the
                CGM Training Period per investigator discretion, generally requiring that CGM has
                been used on at least 85% of days during the prior 4 weeks.

             2. SAP Training Period (14-28 days): Participants currently using a Tandem pump
                concomitantly with a Dexcom CGM may skip both the CGM Training and the SAP Training
                periods per investigator discretion.

           i. The Tandem SAP pump will be used during the SAP Training Period and pump training
           will be customized based on prior pump experience

        3. PLGS Pilot Phase Prior to the initiation of the crossover trial, 10 adult participants
           will use the Tandem PLGS pump and CGM system in a 10-day Pilot Period. Data will be
           evaluated for system usability and predetermined safety metrics before participants ≥12
           years old can be randomized into the crossover trial.

        4. Randomized Crossover Trial The crossover trial will begin after the data from the Pilot
           Period have been reviewed. Enrollment of participants 6 to 11 years old will be deferred
           until data from 100 post-randomization PLGS participant-days have been evaluated from
           participants 12 to 17 years old and the same predetermined safety metrics used to
           evaluate the Pilot Period have been satisfied.

      At the Crossover Trial initiation visit, the following will be done:

        -  The clinician will confirm the participant's willingness to participate in the crossover
           trial

        -  The participant's HbA1c level will be measured

        -  Random assignment to Group A or Group B Group A: intervention period first (PLGS),
           control period second (SAP) Group B: control period first (SAP), intervention period
           second (PLGS)

      During each of the two 3-week periods, a phone, email, or text contact will occur at 2 and 14
      days, and a clinic visit at 7 and 21 days. HbA1c will be measured at the end of each period.
    
  