
    
      Reporting workbench will be used to generate a report from the EMR of all patients of
      consenting physicians prescribed a controlled substance, carisoprodol, or tramadol at least 3
      times in the past 6 months. This report will also include demographics, number of ED visits
      in the last 6 months, hospital admissions in the last 6 months, the number of telephone calls
      documented in the last 6 months, the number of clinic visits in the last 6 months, the number
      of missed clinic visits in the last 6 months, controlled substance prescribed, directions for
      use, number of tabs of medication prescribed, number of refills given, order date and date of
      completion of urine drug screen if in last 6 months, if chronic pain is listed as a medical
      problem, and if controlled substance treatment agreement has been signed and scanned into
      EMR. For each patient of the consenting physicians, the EMR will be reviewed to track next
      clinic visit date, urine toxicology screen results, and if there is documentation of an Ohio
      Automated Rx Reporting System (OARRS) review. The MED for each patient will be obtained from
      the OARRS report and included on the data collection form. For any patients taking opioid
      substances at MED ≥ 80 mg/day a review of the appropriateness of this medication and dose
      based on EMR documentation will be conducted by clinic physicians and/or pharmacists. This
      will all be done in order to make recommendations to the resident physician based on our best
      practice recommended controlled substance agreement.

      For all patients of the consenting physicians who have an upcoming office visit scheduled,
      any recommendations for improved adherence to the CSTA or change in controlled substance,
      carisoprodol, or tramadol prescribing based on EMR review findings will be given to the
      patient's physician prior to the office visit. Because this intervention is a quality
      improvement intervention and studies physician decision making but no direct interaction with
      the patient, the patient will not know this study is occurring. An EMR review after the
      patient's visit will be completed to track the acceptance of these recommendations leading to
      changes in the parameters listed in the data analysis section. Additionally, a second report
      will be generated from the reporting workbence 6 months after implementation of this workflow
      which includes all patients of the consenting physicians prescribed controlled substances,
      tramadol, and carisoprodol (including those on the initial report and those who are now new
      patients controlled substances since the time the report was generated) to characterize the
      improvement in these parameters for patients in clinic as a whole to track the improvement in
      adherence to a controlled substance treatment agreement. See study procedures in Figure 1.
      Data Collection will start on 8/1/14 and continue until 12/31/15.
    
  