
    
      1. 0 Background and Rationale: Despite the use of aggressive treatment protocols, less than
           10% of cancer patients with an advanced disease respond to the therapy. There is a
           variety of different cancer drug regimens, all of which have approximately the same
           probability of clinical effectiveness. Identification of those patients who will or will
           not respond to a specific chemotherapy is important for making decisions regarding
           chemotherapy regimens as well as alternative management approaches. A laboratory test
           that could help to determine the sensitivity of an individual patient's tumor cells to
           specific chemotherapeutic agents would be valuable in choosing the optimal chemotherapy
           regimen for that patient with an expectation of increasing the response rate to the
           therapy. Several types of in vitro assays that measure tumor cell survival following
           exposure to cytotoxic agents have been evaluated for their ability to predict
           chemotherapy outcomes. As a group, these assays are referred to as drug resistance
           assays. In a resistance assay, the surviving tumor cells can be detected directly by
           their exclusion or metabolism of specific dyes. Alternatively, since some of tumor cells
           are proliferating, their survival can be detected by measurement of DNA synthesis by
           radiolabeled precursor incorporation or demonstration of clonogenic potential by growth
           into colonies in semi-solid culture medium. In several clinical studies, these assays
           were useful in detecting drug resistance and in predicting a poor prognosis for cancer
           patients. However, these resistance assays cannot detect sensitivity of an individual
           patient's tumor cells to a specific drug. Therefore, new methods determining
           drug-sensitivity of the tumor cells of an individual patient and, thus, capable of both
           predicting a positive treatment outcome and guiding chemotherapy, would be of
           significant value.

      Recently, Dr. Kravtsov has developed an automated microculture kinetic (MiCK) assay for
      measuring drug induced apoptosis in tumor cells. Apoptosis is a distinct mode of cell death
      which occurs under physiological conditions and yet can be induced in malignant cells by
      chemical and physical factors including antitumor drugs. During the last decade, it has been
      recognized that chemotherapeutic agents exert their antitumor activity by triggering
      apoptosis in susceptible tumor cells. This implies that the MiCK assay for apoptosis provides
      a mechanism-based approach to studying effects of cytotoxic agents on tumor cells. Unlike
      "resistance" assays that measure a fraction of cells surviving drug exposure, the MiCK assay
      measures a fraction of tumor cells killed by a chemotherapeutic agent via mechanism of
      apoptosis. Therefore the MiCK assay determines drug sensitivity, rather than resistance.
      Recently the MiCK assay has been shown to predict complete remission rate and survival in
      acute myeloid leukemia patients better than clinical criteria did. In a limited study, the
      MiCK assay has been used to direct chemotherapy of the leukemia patients .

      The MiCK assay has also been used to study drug-induced apoptosis in solid tumors, including
      neuroblastoma and colon adenocarcinoma cell lines. More recent data accumulated by DiaTech
      has demonstrated that the MiCK assay can detect drug induced apoptosis in primary cultures of
      tumor cells isolated from patients with ovarian carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, metastatic
      breast cancer and high grade soft tissue sarcoma. Based on these data, we suggest that the
      MiCK assay may be used to detect drug sensitivity profiles of individual patients with
      various types of solid tumors. This, in turn, may provide a way to tailor chemotherapy to an
      individual patient's drug sensitivity profile, and, thus, improve treatment outcomes,
      decrease adverse effects of the chemotherapy, increase the quality of patient's life, and
      reduce the treatment cost.
    
  