
    
      The intraoperative recognition of target structures, which need to be preserved or
      selectively removed, is of paramount importance during surgical procedures. This task relies
      mainly on the anatomical knowledge and experience of the operator. In the setting of
      minimally invasive surgery, there is a reduced tactile feedback and the surgeon's vision is
      the only clue to discriminate the tissues. Misperception of the anatomy, due to
      patient-specific pathologic conditions and/or to the surgeon's inexperience, can lead to an
      increased risk of iatrogenic injury of critical anatomical structures and can have
      devastating consequences. Hyperspectral imaging (HSI) represents a promising technology that
      combines a photo camera to a spectrometer and that is able to perform a real-time optical
      scanning over a large area, in a contrast-free manner, providing both spatial and spectral
      information, generated by the tissue/light interaction. The technology is based on the use of
      reflectance spectroscopic imaging measurements. The measurement consists in the irradiation
      of white light on the area (normal halogen lamps, in non-harmful intensity) and the recording
      of the remitted spectral intensities from the area in the form of remission spectra. The
      optical interaction (scattering, absorption) of the incident light with the various
      components (including the depth) of the target material (e.g. biological tissues) alters the
      spectral distribution of light so that the remitted light carries information about the
      current material or tissue composition and physiology (e.g. perfusion). HSI is an already
      established method of objectively classifying image information in a number of scientific
      fields (e.g. remote sensing), which was first applied in the area of human medicine about 15
      years ago. Because of the intrinsic advantages of non-destructive sample collection,
      interfacing possibilities with common optical modalities (microscope, endoscope) and
      quantitative, examiner independent results, various approaches have been developed in the
      meantime to harness the potential of hyperspectral imaging in medicine.

      Its usefulness in the biomedical field has been already extensively prove. It has been
      previously applied in digestive surgery to quantify intestinal oxygenated hemoglobin during
      several procedures, or in case of mesenteric ischemia. A number of previous works focused
      successfully on the ability of HSI to discriminate between normal and tumor tissue, in
      prostate cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, glioblastoma, head and neck cancers. In
      the oncological field, the advances in hyperspectral features classification have been
      remarkable and lead to the successful use of sophisticated deep learning algorithms. In
      surgery, the usefulness of HSI camera has been studied to visualize the operative field under
      difficult bleeding or to detect tumor presence within the resection margins after surgical
      excision.

      A japanese group used an HSI system as additional visualization tool to detect intestinal
      ischemia and also to classify the intraabdominal anatomy. They identified a particular
      wavelength (756-830 nm) for the differentiation between healthy and less perfused bowel. They
      also demonstrated that the spleen, colon, small intestine, urinary bladder and peritoneum
      have different spectral features. This finding might enable in the future HSI-based
      navigation of the operation field. Our group recently employed HSI as intraoperative tool in
      the porcine model to quantify perfusion of the organs of the gastrointestinal tract against
      robust biological markers. Results showed that this technology is able to quantify bowel
      blood supply with a high degree of precision.

      Other groups previously attempted to discriminate bile duct from the vessels, esophagus from
      tracheal tissue, thyroid from parathyroid gland, nerve and ureter from the surrounding
      tissue. However, those previous works directed on recognizing key anatomical structures were
      conducted using either simple feature discrimination algorithms or band selection methods.
      The amount of information obtained after each acquisition, varies according to the camera
      resolution, but is quite large, therefore machine and deep learning techniques for data
      classification and feature extraction are required. In a set of controlled experiments in the
      porcine model, hyperspectral signatures have been successfully used, coupled to machine
      learning algorithms, to discriminate fine anatomical structures such as nerves or ureters
      intraoperatively (unpublished data).

      The i-EX-MACHYNA3 study aims at translating the HSI technology in combination with several
      deep learning algorithms to differentiate among different classes of human tissues (including
      key anatomical structures such as BD, nerves and ureters).
    
  