
    
      Eligible subjects with positive screening FIT test referred to the Department of
      Gastroenterology, Singapore General Hospital will be approached and recruited. The included
      patients will be randomised to either a) Group A- Chromoendoscopy or b) Group B- high
      definition white light based evaluation.

      Hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that application of non-absorbable dye during colonoscopy would
      enhance the mucosal contrast, delineate the border and surface patterns by accumulating in
      the innominate grooves and, thereby, enhance the detection of adenoma during colonoscopy

      Procedure:

      Pan-colonic chromoendoscopy and high-definition white light endoscopy will be performed by
      five experienced endoscopist, and hospital sedation guidelines will be followed. The
      colonoscopy will be performed using Olympus (CF-HQ190) or Fujifilm (EC-590) colonoscopies.
      Indigo carmine dye will be used for pan-colonic chromoendoscopy. Two ampules of Indigo
      carmine (0.8%, 5ml/ampule) will be dissolved in 250 ml of water and sprayed through the
      waterjet channel by using the auxiliary foot pump upon reaching the caecum.

      The colonoscopy insertion will be performed using high-definition white light, and the scope
      will be advanced till the caecum. The quality of the bowel preparation will be rated
      according to the validated Boston bowel preparation score. Participants with inadequate bowel
      preparation score (Score <6) will be excluded from the study. The fecal residue will be
      washed, suctioned and cleared during insertion to improve visibility. No special care will be
      taken to look for lesions during the insertion. Assessment for colonic lesions will only be
      performed during withdrawal of the endoscope. The minimum withdrawal time was set at 7
      minutes. Randomization: Once the caecum is intubated and if the bowel preparation is
      adequate, the participants will be randomized to pan-colonic chromoendoscopy based withdrawal
      or high-definition while light based withdrawal. In the pan-colonic chromoendoscopy group,
      the indigo carmine was sprayed by pressing the auxiliary foot pump, and dye was delivered
      systematically to coat the entire colonic mucosa. In both, the groups, the lesion size,
      number, location, morphology will be documented during withdrawal. The investigators
      characterized the morphology of the lesion according to the established Paris classification.
      The investigators characterized the lesion as flat neoplasm if the lesion project <2.5mm or
      polypoid lesion if lesion project >2.5mm into the lumen. The investigators measured the size
      of the lesions using an open biopsy forceps when needed.

      In both the groups, the identified polyps will be removed using the standard techniques, and
      the tissue will be placed in separate formalin bottles and sent for histology assessment. The
      histology of the polyps was assessed by dedicated pathologist trained in gastrointestinal
      pathology. Both the endoscopists and the pathologist will not be blinded to the study
      technique. The investigators defined advanced adenoma as any adenoma >10 mm in size or with
      >25% villous histology or high-grade dysplasia. The investigators classified hyperplastic
      polyps and sessile serrated polyps (SSA) as serrated lesions, The investigators excluded
      hyperplastic lesions in the rectum from the analysis as such lesions are frequently
      encountered in the rectum
    
  