
    
      This study was a randomized controlled open trial with two parallel groups.

      Study was conducted in only one center : the maternity of University Hospital of Caen
      (Normandy, France)

      Written informed consent was obtained from eligible subjects after the pre-anesthetic
      interview in the 8th month of pregnancy.

      Operators were medical interns or residents in anesthesiology. Before inclusion, they all
      spent an individual interview in the aim to practice ultrasound exam of lumbar spine.

      Eligible subjects were full-term parturients with pre-pregnancy BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2 undergoing
      vaginal delivery and receiving epidural labor analgesia. Exclusion criteria were usual
      contraindications for neuraxial anesthesia, marked spinal deformity, previous spinal surgery
      and emergency context.

      The study subjects were randomly assigned to palpation or ultrasound using sealed opaque
      envelopes containing group allocation.

      Standard monitors were applied and patients were positioned sitting during landmark
      identification and throughout the anesthetic procedure.

      In control group, needle-puncture site was determinate by the conventional technique of
      cutaneous palpation. Conventional palpation of the anatomical landmarks was performed and the
      intercristal line (Tuffier) was assumed to cross the spine at L4 spinous process or L3-L4
      interspace. The skin was marked with horizontal and vertical lines at the L3-L4 and L2-L3
      interspaces.

      In experimental group, ultrasound exam of lumbar spine allowed to determinate the puncture
      site. A systematic approach described by Balki [1] was performed, using a portative
      ultrasound device with a 5-2 MHz curved array probe (Samsung HM70A, Samsung medical France,
      St-Ouen, France).

      The epidural space was located using a midline approach with loss of resistance (saline
      solution) using and 18-gauge Tuohy needle. After successful identification of the epidural
      space, a 20-gauge multiorifice epidural catheter was inserted through the Tuohy needle up to
      5 cm into the epidural space.The epidural analgesia protocol was PCEA (Patient Controled
      Epidural Analgesia) using subsequent admixture : lévo-bupivacaïne (0,625 mg/ml), sufentanil
      (0,02 µ/ml), clonidine (37 µg/ml).

      The primary outcome was the rate of successful epidural space identification at the first
      needle pass (one skin puncture without redirection).

      Secondary outcomes are described further.

      Early procedural complications and delivery modalities (C-section, forceps) were notified.

      An interview was planned 48 hours after the procedure for each parturient in the aim to
      assess the maternal satisfaction and detect late procedure complications.

      Assuming α = 0.05 and β = 0.2 (80% power) risks and using the χ2 test, 28 patients were
      required in each group.
    
  