
    
      In areas co-endemic for falciparum and vivax malaria incorrect differential diagnosis is
      always a risk. Where the recommended treatment for the two diseases is the same this presents
      no problem for effective treatment or clinical cure of either species. Chloroquine remains an
      effective treatment of choice for vivax malaria in most settings, but with the spread of
      chloroquine-resistant falciparum malaria across Asia, many countries now use
      artemisinin-based combination therapy for this species of malaria. Differential diagnostic
      practices, have not improved in parallel. In Afghanistan the adoption of
      sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine plus artesunate (SP+AS) as first-line falciparum treatment raises
      the prospect of a significant proportion of vivax malaria being misdiagnosed and treated with
      the combination. SP is considered to have limited efficacy against vivax malaria and the
      efficacy of SP+AS against vivax has not been established in areas that have made the switch.
      A randomized, non-inferiority trial comparing SP+AS (1 day SP, 3 days AS) to chloroquine
      monotherapy was undertaken on 190 vivax patients in Eastern Afghanistan. A margin of
      equivalence of 14%, with 90% power and 95% CI (two-sided α = 0.05) was used. Standard WHO
      procedures for in vivo evaluation of antimalarial drugs were followed. 180 individuals
      completed the trial to day 42. The primary outcome was proportion of patients free from
      failure at day 28. Using a per protocol analysis both regimens resulted in ≥96% treatment
      success at 28 days, but significantly more cases failed in the CQ arm (46%) than in the SP+AS
      arm (24%) by day 42. Based on predetermined statistical criteria SP+AS was shown to be
      non-inferior to the standard chloroquine treatment. In areas where vivax infections might be
      misdiagnosed as falciparum infections and treated with SP+AS, patient management would be as
      good or better than with the standard CQ treatment.
    
  