
    
      There is a need for improved understanding of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) biology in order to
      characterise the mechanisms of metastatic progression, drug resistance, develop predictive &
      prognostic biomarkers and to identify novel therapeutic targets for this disease. The TRACERx
      consortium was established to achieve this using large longitudinal clinical studies, in
      collaboration with laboratory, advanced sequencing and informatics expertise to identify the
      relationships between intratumour heterogeneity and clinical outcome.

      Response and Resistance: TRACERx Renal is a prospective longitudinal cohort study. It will
      draw on the methodology already being used within the TRACERx Lung & (planned) Breast studies
      as part of the TRACERx consortium.

      Primary Endpoint

      • To validate ITH index and WGII as stage and grade independent prognostic markers of
      progression free survival in patients with ccRCC

      The Investigators plan to collect the following biological samples:

        -  Blood sample/s, urine and tumour biopsy tissue taken prior to any neoadjuvant treatment
           that might be administered.

        -  Blood sample/s, urine and tumour biopsy tissue taken prior to any ablative procedure

        -  Blood sample/s, urine and nephrectomy tissue taken at the time of nephrectomy.

        -  Blood sample/s, urine and tumour tissue taken at the time of palliative
           metastasectomy/surgery.

        -  Blood and urine sample/s taken at routine follow up.

        -  Blood sample/s, urine and tumour biopsy taken at time of disease progression.

        -  Blood sample/s and/or archival tissue specimens that are no longer required by the local
           pathologist for diagnostic purposes

        -  Blood sample/s and/or archival tissue specimens that are no longer required by the local
           pathologist for diagnostic purposes from study patient family members

      CAPTURE sub-study:

      There is an urgent need to quantify the risk of COVID-19 illness in patients with cancer and
      to understand what impact anti-cancer treatments have on the immune system's response to the
      SARS-CoV-2 virus. There is also a need to understand how the pandemic impacts Health Care
      Workers (HCWs) who may be exposed to the virus in the course of their clinical duties and who
      are at risk to transmit the virus to vulnerable patients and colleagues in the asymptomatic
      phase of infection.

      The CAPTURE study is a long-term study. We are establishing large observational cohorts with
      an intentionally broad inclusion of different tumour types and treatment schedules. In
      CAPTURE, we will enrol both patients infected and uninfected by the virus, and patients with
      all types of cancer (blood and solid cancers), and of all walks of the clinical journey (in
      remission, follow-up, having treatment or undergoing surgery). We also will enrol HCWs within
      the hospital from all sectors of care delivery - from nurses to doctors, administrative staff
      to catering staff, allied health and support workers.

      The study will enrol patients/participants into three groups:

      Group A: patients with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 and a history of cancer (n=200) Group
      B: patients without a history of COVID-19 infection and a history of cancer (n=1000) Group C:
      Hospital staff with or without a history of COVID-19 (n=200)

      Comprehensive, longitudinal clinical annotation, participant questionnaires, meticulous and
      frequent sampling and long-term follow-up of these groups will allow robust and rapid
      insights that are urgently needed to guide clinical and workforce management.

      This knowledge is required well beyond the current pandemic as cancer and SARSCo-V2 will
      coincide in the same patients, and especially given the uncertainty regarding the nature and
      duration of immunity in cancer patients who develop the illness and the effectiveness of
      vaccines in the cancer population. This study will provide us with detailed information on
      how to safely manage cancer patients by both minimising the risk of infection but maintaining
      their cancer treatment.
    
  