
    
      Women age 40 years and younger account for 5.4% of new breast cancer diagnoses in Canada, but
      suffer more negative impacts than older women, due to having a worse prognosis, more
      intensive treatment and greater physical, social, and emotional sequelae due to life-stage
      factors. Consequently, younger women experience poorer quality of life, more problematic
      psychosocial adjustment to breast cancer and report higher levels of emotional distress
      throughout the cancer trajectory. Physicians tend to recognize and address physical symptoms
      from cancer and its treatment, but emotional and psychological distress is addressed less
      well. Furthermore, breast cancer care and treatment is typically lengthy, complex and
      distributed across a wide range of service providers. Younger women with breast cancer report
      difficulty navigating the healthcare system and feel ill informed, unprepared and
      dissatisfied by the lack of continuity. While there are resources that can help women be
      better informed and to manage symptoms, women are rarely informed of them early in the breast
      cancer journey, when the need is greatest.There is an urgent need to identify solutions that
      can be implemented at a population level and that can be accommodated within limited
      healthcare budgets. Education and self-management approaches that help cancer patients access
      appropriate knowledge and supports, and that impart skills could make a significant
      contribution to improving their experience and quality of life. Internet-based resources are
      convenient, accessible and acceptable circumventing childcare and transportation issues
      making it an ideal modality for YWBC who are usually more familiar with electronic
      communication compared to older women with breast cancer.

      Active coping early in the breast cancer journey - in contrast to taking a passive stance -
      predicts better adjustment and quality of life years later. Access to relevant, credible and
      timely health information 'empowers' individuals to cope actively and better manage their own
      health. Over 60% of cancer patients report using the Internet for prognostic information, to
      identify alternative treatment options and for symptom management. Nonetheless, too much or
      low quality information leads to confusion and stress, and YWBC report being bombarded with
      information that is not relevant or timely, and lacks age-appropriate content. YWBC also
      report that Internet searching is exhausting and scary. Self management (SM) approaches in
      cancer care have the aim to empower patients by providing knowledge, and additionally,
      providing skills that help persons manage the physical and emotional impacts of their disease
      and treatment, as well as broader life challenges that living with a disease bring. SM
      approaches address issues such as problem solving, finding and using community resources
      effectively, working with the health care team, and learning how to initiate new health
      promotion behaviours. SM interventions have been shown to increase knowledge, reduce fatigue
      and distress, improve quality of life and improve lifestyle changes such as physical
      activity. A well-designed website with links and self-management tools could help YWBC by
      pointing them to the right information at the right time, by ensuring that content addresses
      the specific knowledge and support needs of younger women, and is based in current knowledge.
      We previously demonstrated that web-based professionally led support helped YWBC survivors
      who reported high levels of satisfaction and benefits including improved knowledge, mood,
      hope, and relief of burden. However, YWBC's needs were highest at the time of diagnosis, and
      they reported dissatisfaction with the lack of age-specific information.

      We propose to develop a supported self-management website that will orient newly diagnosed
      YWBC to the terrain ahead, and help them cope more skilfully and proactively. We will use a
      time series research design to test the hypothesis that access to this website reduces
      distress and enhances confidence in coping with breast cancer, in three samples of newly
      diagnosed YWBC.

      Objective 1: Develop a Supported Self-Management Website for YWBC We will develop a website
      that directs YWBC to the "right information at the right time" and additionally offers
      guidance, skills enactment and commentary that will help women be optimally active and
      effective. As an example, to encourage active participation in treatment decision-making
      which predicts later adjustment, the site will direct YWBC to the best sites for
      diagnostic/medical information, and to newly-developed resources including a video with peer
      modelling of a good doctor-patient interview, a tip sheet on effective communication with
      physicians, and an engaging presentation of the evidence-supported strategy of recording the
      consultation. We will develop engaging, age-appropriate tools include video interviews,
      frequently asked questions with embedded links to information and resources, and
      self-directed education presentations. Modules will include but not be limited to:
      communicating with physicians, friends and family; problem solving; assessing and managing
      symptoms of emotional distress and insomnia; education about the impact of hormonal changes
      and fertility preservation.

      Objective 2: Conduct an experiment to test the clinical promise of the website The study will
      be conducted at 3 sites (Women's College Hospital, Princess Margaret Hospital, and Calgary
      Breast Health Centre), selected among the 28 sites that are participating in the CYBCC cohort
      study. Prior to launching the website, a baseline comparison group of 100 newly diagnosed
      YWBC will be recruited. They will be assessed on a number of variables, including emotional
      distress and self-efficacy for coping with cancer. Four months later, emotional distress and
      self-efficacy will be assessed again. Following completion of the website, another cohort of
      100 patients will undergo the same procedure, however these participants will have the
      Internet website introduced to them. The two groups will then be compared to determine if
      access to the website reduces the traumatic stress associated with a breast cancer diagnosis
      and treatment, and improves coping confidence.
    
  