
    
      School nurses who perform the person-centered health dialogues with the students will have an
      education, which includes a various of lectures about person-centered health dialogues,
      stress/pain management and school nurses (over-)generalizations of gender. The project has a
      hybrid design, which means that outcomes of the intervention and the evaluation of the
      implementation are taking place in the same data collection.

      All students at the participating schools who fulfill the criteria of chronic pain that is
      mediated by stress, will be invited to participate in the intervention. The participants will
      be randomized to either group A or group B.

      Participants will once report frequency, duration and intensity of pain and they also fill in
      the questionnaire Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale for Children.

      In the first period of data collection, the group A will get four sessions of person-centered
      health dialogues. The sessions also include pain/stress management and education about stress
      and pain (the HOPE model that is an adolescent-centered school health prevention program when
      adolescents have chronic pain). Group B will be a control group.

      All participating school nurses and students will be interviewed about their experiences of
      the intervention.

      In the second period of data collection it will be the other way around, i.e., group B will
      will get four sessions of person-centered health dialogues. The sessions also include
      pain/stress management and education about stress and pain (the HOPE model that is an
      adolescent-centered school health prevention program when adolescents have chronic pain).
      Group A will be the control group.

      All participating school nurses and students will once again be interviewed about their
      experiences of the intervention.

      The primary outcome in the intervention is self-efficacy and this outcome will be measured
      before and after the intervention in both group A and group B. Secondary outcomes are
      self-rated health, quality of sleep, pain intensity, and school attendance and these outcomes
      will also be measured before and after the intervention in both group A and group B.
    
  