
    
      Pakistan is going through an epidemiological transition that subjects it to a dual burden of
      communicable and chronic diseases. According to WHO, Pakistan ranks seventh in diabetes
      prevalence and fifth amongst high TB burden countries. Pakistan faces challenges in
      controlling both these diseases with combine prevalence of 16%. This co-occurrence of DM and
      TB represents a big health risk in our population, as diabetes effects susceptibility to TB
      which makes more frequent treatment failure which could result in more community acquired TB
      infection. On the other hand, TB can worsen glycemic control in patients with diabetes.
      Moreover, overlapping of various drugs used in treatment might affect the glycemic control
      and pharmacokinetics of anti-TB treatment, resulting in the management of TB patients with DM
      more complex. Additionally, both DM and TB often coexist with micronutrients deficiencies
      like vitamin D and calcium. A vital role of vitamin D in immunity, insulin resistance and
      respiratory health has been suggested. Vitamin D and calcium deficiencies might adversely
      affect glycemic control, while combined supplementation with both of these micronutrients
      might be helpful in improving glucose metabolism which in turn will improve the treatment
      outcome for both these diseases. There is a suggestion that the combined supplementation with
      vitamin D and calcium might be beneficial in improving the glucose metabolism but the current
      knowledge is only limited to one randomized control trial in this co-morbid group carried out
      in India. Even in that trial independent effect of Vitamin D remain unknown as they used a
      combination therapy of calcium and vitamin D. Furthermore, that trial did not include
      radiological changes occurred during the follow-up period so that remains a major limitation.
      Therefore, this study will assess the role of supplementation with vitamin D and calcium in
      recovery (positive radiological changes, weight gain, sputum conversion, and glycemic
      control) of pulmonary TB patients with type 2 DM.The goal of our trial is to better
      understand the role of micro nutrients supplementation in among patients who have active TB
      and type 2 DM in their disease prognosis.

      The objectives are as follows:

        1. To determine the whether the 3 doses of vitamin D 600,000 IU at intervals of 4 weeks
           alone or in combination with calcium 1000mg for 3 months given with standard TB and type
           2 DM treatment makes more rapid improvement in clinical indicators that are weight and
           TB score among 30 to 60 years old patients of active pulmonary TB with type 2 DM
           attending Ojha Institute of Chest Disease (OICD).

        2. To determine the whether the mentioned doses of vitamin D and calcium with standard TB
           and type 2 DM treatments expedites radiological resolution and sputum conversion.

        3. To determine whether the mentioned doses of vitamin D and calcium with standard TB and
           type 2 DM treatments is efficacious on glycemic control among these patients.

        4. To guide future clinical treatment for such patients.

      Methods:

      Study Design and Setting:

      A double blind randomized placebo-controlled trial at Ojha Institute of Chest Disease (OICD).

      Duration of study: Three years after grant approval Sample size: We will require a sample
      size of 144 patients in each arm to measure an increase of ≥ 10% in weight gain and an
      improvement of 15% in chest radiograph among patients with combined supplementation of
      vitamin D and calcium as compared to placebo group. A total of 432 rounding off to 435
      patients will be required to reject the null hypothesis at 5% level of significance with 80%
      power and 15% loss of follow up.

      Sampling strategy:

      We will approach all patients coming to OICD with diagnosed active pulmonary TB and type 2
      DM, prior to commencement of anti-tuberculosis therapy (ATT). We will include both types of
      diabetic patients; either already diagnosed with type 2 DM or screened positive for type 2 DM
      after consenting for this study.

      Total number of visits 7 (at 0, 4, 8, 12, 16, 24 weeks and 1 follow up)

      Data collection Procedure Data will be collected by trained data collectors. Medical
      providers in the OICD OPDs would provide information about potential participants to data
      collectors, who would invite all patients initiating anti-TB treatment (ATT) to be considered
      enrolling in the study. On the basis of clinical history and records, and screening for type
      2 DM, patients would be enrolled in this study. A block randomization; computer generated,
      stratified, random assignment list, would be used to randomize eligible participants. The
      patients in 3 study arms would either receive ATT with 600,000 IU of intramuscular (I/M)
      vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) for 3 doses at 0, 4 and 12 weeks and color and taste matched
      placebo for calcium or ATT with 600,000 IU of (I/M) vitamin D3 for 3 doses at 0, 4 and 12
      weeks with daily 1000 mg calcium carbonate or ATT with placebo color matched for vitamin D
      and color and taste matched placebo for calcium. All patients would be adjusted for oral
      hypoglycemic agents and insulin for glycemic control.

      Chest radiographs, serum-25-(OH)D3 levels, serum calcium, Random Blood Sugar(RBS), Fasting
      Blood Sugar (FBS) and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) would be obtained at 0, 8, 16 and 24 weeks and
      sputum examination at 0, 4, 8, 12, 16 and 24 weeks of therapy. Clinical examination would be
      used to calculate a TB score for every visit. Weight would also be measured at all visits. At
      baseline other parameters including Complete Blood Count (CBC), Erythrocyte Sedimentation
      Rate (ESR), Liver Function Test (LFTs), lipid profile, serum albumin, and urine microalbumin
      would be tested. All blood test would be performed at Dow Diagnostic and Research Laboratory
      (DDRL) and Chest X-ray at Radiology department of DUHS Ojha campus. Consultant Radiologist
      will report on radiological finding and establishment of final diagnosis in outcome.
      Consultant Pulmonologist will select participant, follow up consultation, establishment of
      final diagnosis in outcome. All participants would be assured that no information regarding
      them would be shared to any one and that this information would be used only for research
      purpose. Pro forma, blood samples and chest x-ray would be marked by identification no.
      assigned to the participant. Data would be entered by data entry officer and then cleaned for
      any missing variables.

      Data collection tools:

      Pro forma would be used to collect basic demographic and clinical information. X-ray, sputum,
      blood and urine test from Radiology department of DUHS ojha campus and DDRL respectively.

      Data analysis Plan:

      Epi Data Entry software version 1.3 would be used for data entry. Data would be entered and
      cleaned for any missing entries. Data would be analyzed by 'intention-to-treat' analysis
      using software of SPSS version 16. Outcome variables would be reported by either by their
      means and standard deviations or percentages. Statistical comparisons at 0, 12 and 24 weeks
      would be performed using Pearson Chi-squared tests and Student's t-test for categorical and
      continuous variables respectively. A two-tailed p-value of < 0.05 would be considered
      significant.
    
  