
    
      This description is focused solely on the feasibility pilot test of ATTAIN in pediatric
      primary care.

      Phase 3. Conduct an open trial feasibility pilot test of ATTAIN (directly informed by
      adaptations identified earlier in the larger study) in pediatric primary care.

      Participants

      Providers: A total of 45 pediatric care providers and staff will be recruited for enrollment
      from primary care practices in the region. This targeted sample size was chosen based on
      sample sizes used within completed pilot studies focused on service interventions in
      pediatric care. Each provider and healthcare staff member will be asked to use or support use
      of ATTAIN with up to 5 eligible patients over four months.

      Families: Eligible pediatric patients must be: 1) English and/or Spanish-speaking, 2) between
      4-16 years of age and 3) have a documented ASD diagnosis in the electronic health record.
      After four months of ATTAIN use by their child's primary care provider, caregivers will be
      contacted by the research team to be invited to complete an online survey about their child's
      healthcare experiences over the past four months.

      Procedure Leadership at each primary care organization will be approached about their primary
      care practices participating in the pilot study. Primary care practices within each
      organization will be purposively selected for targeted recruitment of providers for ATTAIN
      implementation based on volume of patients with ASD. Members of the research team will
      request an invitation to present at regularly scheduled staff meetings to recruit primary
      care providers. Interested providers will be asked to complete a study interest form and
      indicate preferred times to attend a group meeting to review study participation details, the
      Study Information Sheet, and receive training in using the ATTAIN model. For some clinics,
      leadership may prefer that the recruitment and training be conducted during the same meeting
      for the purpose of reducing staff burden. At these meetings, the research team will provide a
      meal and refreshments. Subsequently, trained providers will be asked to use ATTAIN with up to
      5 eligible patients during any outpatient appointment (e.g., annual check-ups, drop-in
      appointments) to maximize early detection of mental health problems and opportunity to link
      to mental health services. Throughout the 4 months, we may ask providers and supporting staff
      to elaborate on their experiences using ATTAIN via e-mail or phone-call to understand
      challenges to implementation, recommendations for improving implementation or adaptations in
      implementing the ATTAIN model in their clinic. Time to complete these brief reflections will
      take no more than 5-10 minutes each. Quantitative data of ATTAIN use will be extracted from
      patient charts and de-identified data will be sent to the research team during the four month
      study period and at the end of 4 months. After 4 months of ATTAIN delivery, participating
      providers and caregivers of youth with ASD with whom providers used ATTAIN will be asked to
      complete a brief online survey regarding their experiences using ATTAIN. Providers and staff
      will be asked to attend a meeting, where food and light refreshments will be provided, to
      complete the survey. In addition, providers and staff will be invited to participate in a
      post-study interview that will be offered to be completed by phone or in-person. Caregivers
      will receive $20 for survey completion. The ATTAIN model was developed to be embedded within
      routine primary care settings and workflow so there are minimal risks to primary care
      providers, caregivers or children associated with participation.
    
  