
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of neoadjuvant interferon alfa 2b
      (IFN-A2b) administered with cisplatin in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma. II.
      Determine the MTD of IFN-A2b administered with radiation therapy and cisplatin after surgery
      in these patients. III. Determine the response rate and toxicity of induction therapy with
      IFN-A2b and cisplatin in these patients. IV. Determine the toxicity of concurrent radiation
      therapy, cisplatin, and IFN-A2b after surgery in these patients. V. Determine the local
      control rate, freedom from progression, median survival, and long term survival of these
      patients after combined modality therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study. Patients receive induction therapy consisting of
      cisplatin IV weekly and interferon alfa 2b (IFN-A2b) subcutaneously three times a week for 6
      weeks. Patients who experience at least 25% tumor shrinkage receive another 4 weeks of
      therapy. Patients then undergo debulking surgery to remove all gross tumor, if possible. If
      this resection is performed, then patients begin radiation therapy 2-6 weeks after surgery.
      Patients with unresectable tumors begin radiation therapy 2-4 weeks after the last course of
      induction chemotherapy. Patients undergo radiation therapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks.
      Concurrently, patients receive cisplatin IV weekly and IFN-A2b subcutaneously three times a
      week. Cohorts of 4 patients each receive escalated doses of IFN-A2b during induction
      chemotherapy. Once the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of IFN-A2b is established, one dose level
      below this dose is used for the beginning doses of IFN-A2b during adjuvant chemotherapy. If
      no unacceptable toxic effects occur, then the dose of IFN-A2b is escalated to the induction
      MTD. Patients are followed at 3-6 weeks after completing radiochemotherapy, then every 3
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25 patients will be accrued for this study within 2-3 years.
    
  