
    
      Forty volunteers pregnant women at the beginning of 3rd trimester participated in this study.
      They were selected randomly from the gynecological outpatient clinic, at Kasr El Eini
      Universal Hospital, their ages were ranged from 25 to 30 years and body mass index indices
      (BMI) were less than 30 kg/m2. All participants were pregnant woman at the beginning of the
      3rd trimester 12 weeks. Exclusion criteria of the study were as follows: Participant who had
      pulmonary diseases, cardiovascular diseases and psychiatric disorders.

      Participants were assigned randomly used sealed envelope into two groups (A&B) equally in
      number. Group (A): Consisted of twenty pregnant woman at the beginning of the 3rd trimester.
      They performed aerobic exercise training in the form of walking on treadmill for 20 min, 3
      times per week for 12 weeks. Then performed deep breathing exercises in form of diaphragmatic
      and lateral costal breathing. Group (B): Consisted of twenty pregnant woman at the beginning
      of the 3rd trimester who performed deep breathing exercises only in form of diaphragmatic and
      lateral costal breathing.

      Methods Before the start of the first session, each pregnant woman was informed about program
      of exercises and informed consent form was signed from each woman before participation in the
      study. This study was conducted at from January 2018 to September 2019.

      1-Aerobic exercises for all participants in group A: Women performed aerobic exercises in a
      form of walking for 20 min on treadmill 3 times per week for 12 weeks.

      Treadmill: (power 220-V., 50/60 Hz): its speed, inclination and timer are adjustable and it
      also provided with control plane to display the exercises parameters

      Intensity of exercises: The intensity of exercises was calculated as 60-75% of her target
      heart rate (THR) [11] (Q'Sullivan and Schmitz, 1999) as follow:

      THR= {60-75% (HR max - HR rest)} + HR rest.

      Where:

      HR rest: resting heart rate in beat minute. MRH (Maximum heart rate=220 - Age in years) [12]
    
  