
    
      Lung cancer is the second most common cause of cancer in the UK and the most common cause of
      cancer death. Surgery is currently the most effective treatment for curing lung cancer and it
      can be performed using open (thoracotomy) or minimally invasive techniques (Video Assisted
      Thoracic Surgery (VATS)). Despite VATS being associated with fewer postoperative
      complications (PPCs), faster recovery and better survival at 4 years compared to thoracotomy
      it is only used by 20-44% of thoracic surgeons in the UK and just 5% of surgeons in Europe
      report using minimally invasive techniques for lung resection. Rigid, restrictive instruments
      and suboptimal vision means a steep learning curve is necessary to conduct VATS successfully.
      RATS maybe a more attractive minimally invasive approach as it offers 3DHD vision, a 360
      degree view of the chest, and a fully articulated arm. JCUH and the Barts Hospital are two of
      the few centers in the UK performing RATS.

      Research on RATS has been largely limited to single retrospective case series reports
      focusing on safety (PPCs and mortality) and cost effectiveness outcomes. Little research has
      been conducted exploring the effect of RATS on patient-centered outcomes that are also
      important quality measures.

      To date, no studies have explored the impact of RATS on exercise capacity, yet investigators
      know that individuals who undergo a thoracotomy have a 16% reduction in exercise capacity at
      6 months follow up. Exercise capacity has been shown to be an important predictor for
      long-term prognosis and length of stay following thoracic surgery, which can have substantial
      implications for cost. Furthermore, percentage VO2 max has been shown to be the best
      predictor of PPCs within 30 days of undergoing a lung resection (predictive value 85.5%),
      which is an important indicator of patient safety.

      Two studies have looked at HRQOL post-RATS and compared it to an open technique. Balduyck and
      colleagues reported that whilst significant reductions from baseline were seen 1 month
      post-surgery in those who underwent an open procedure (sternotomy), HRQOL had returned to
      baseline values by 1 month post-surgery in those who underwent RATS. However, indicators of
      whether individuals received RATS or an open procedure were not controlled for which is
      likely to be important as individuals who have large tumors are not eligible to receive RATS.
      Instead RATS is usually assigned to older, frailer individuals. The second study did conduct
      between-groups comparisons between those who underwent a robotic lobectomy V those who
      received an open rib and nerve sparing lobectomy. The mental-component of the SF-12 was
      significantly higher in the robot group at 3 weeks post-surgery, indicating better mental
      quality of life, although there were no significant between-group differences detected for
      the physical-component. By 4 months follow up neither the mental nor the physical HRQOL
      scores differed between the two groups. The SF-12 in a general measure of health status and
      to date the impact of open surgery V RATS on disease-specific HRQOL has not been explored.

      Physical activity is associated with improved HRQOL in patients with lung cancer and
      increased survival post-diagnosis of cancer. However, 2 months following a lung resection,
      performed via a thoracotomy or VATS, physical activity levels were still reduced.
      Unfortunately comparisons between surgical groups were not possible in this study due to the
      small number of patients who underwent VATS (14), therefore postoperative physical activity
      in those who have undergone thoracotomy compared to minimally invasive surgery is still
      unknown.

      Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG) outcome indicator set 2015/16 includes enhancing quality
      of life and ensuring patients have a positive experience of care (NHS England, 2015). To
      date, no qualitative research exploring the patients' experience of RATS has been conducted
      and investigators have little understanding of patients' experience of thoracic surgery in
      general. Interestingly, a very recent study exploring preoperative nurses work experience
      with robotics found that feelings of uncertainty and concerns about safety were common due to
      a lack of education about the robot system. It is likely, these feelings of unease are
      translated to patients during their preoperative consultation leading to heightened anxiety.
      Furthermore, if nurses do not feel they have sufficient information about the robot system
      they are unlikely to be educating patients fully about their procedure. A study exploring the
      appraisals of patients' experience of RATS is important to identify ways in which both pre
      and postoperative care can be improved.

      It would seem literature is scare exploring the impact of RATS on outcomes that are likely to
      be meaningful to patients. Therefore the overall aim of this study is to examine the impact
      of RATS compared to thoracotomy on patient-centered outcomes and to explore the individuals'
      experience of undergoing RATS.

      Research strategy

      Study design

      A mixed-method, multi-center study will be undertaken, utilizing a prospective
      quasi-experimental study design and an interpretive phenomenological approach.

      Inclusion/exclusion criteria

      Individuals referred for a lung resection with a primary or secondary diagnosis of lung
      cancer will be eligible, although those with a tumor >7cm will be excluded. Individuals
      referred for a lung resection via thoracotomy will be recruited from James Cook University
      Hospital (JCUH), Middlesbrough and those referred for RATS will be recruited from JCUH or St
      Bartholomew's hospital, London (Barts).

      Recruitment

      Once a referral for a lung resection via thoracotomy or RATS is received a cover letter and
      information sheet, containing details of the study, will be mailed to patients along with
      their clinic appointment letter. Interested patients will be encouraged to contact a member
      of the research team, by telephone or email, to discuss the study in more detail. When
      patients attend their preoperative clinic a member of the clinical team will request
      permission for a member of the research team to approach them about participation in the
      study. If individuals would like to participate in the study informed consent will be
      obtained.

      Surgical care

      Prior to surgery all patients receive standard physiotherapy consisting of breathing
      exercises and advice on activities postoperatively.

      Three cardiothoracic surgeons, 2 at JCUH and 1 at Barts, will perform lung resections.

      Consistent with usual care at JCUH and Barts all individuals will be transferred to sitting
      at the bedside as soon as possible post-surgery and will be required to walk 150m before
      being discharged home. At JCUH patients are also required to complete a flight of stairs and
      cycle for five minutes (with no resistance).

      Data collection

      Demographic and anthropometric information will be collected at baseline at the preoperative
      clinic visit including; age, sex, BMI, lung function (forced expiratory volume in one second
      (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC)), smoking history, comorbidities, cancer stage and
      grade. Details of the operation (i.e. technique, time, surgeon, post-operative pain
      management) will be documented. Length of stay, readmissions and PPCs will be recorded at 3
      months follow-up. The same criteria will be used to define a PPC as applied by Brocki et al.
      PPCs will be classified as minor (a score of 1), medium (a score of two) or severe (a score
      of three). A PPC will be defined as clinically relevant if two or more items are graded as a
      minor complication (score of 1) or one item is graded as a medium or severe complication
      (scores ≥2).

      Quantitative phase

      Outcomes will be assessed at 4 time-points; at baseline in the preoperative clinic (1 day to
      2 weeks prior to surgery), day 3 post-surgery, at the follow up postoperative clinic visit
      (within 6 weeks post-surgery) and at an additional hospital visit which will take place at 3
      months. The time taken to complete each assessment will be recorded, we estimate no more than
      2 hours will be required to complete the outcome variables (ISWT, the European Organization
      for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ C30) and the
      EORTC Lung Cancer module (EORTC QLQ LC13)). Individuals will also be requested to wear an
      activity monitor Actigraph G3TX (Actigraph) immediately post-surgery until 1-week
      post-discharge. Data will be stored on the cardiothoracic database at JCUH or Barts and on an
      IBM SPSS statistics database at Teesside University.

      Qualitative phase

      An interpretive phenomenological approach (IPA) will be applied to the collection and
      analysis of the qualitative data. IPA aims to understand the lived experience of participants
      in response to a specific event (i.e. undergoing surgery). Analysis examines in detail how an
      event is experienced and what meaning is ascribed to that event.

      An informal interview schedule consisting of open-ended questions will be developed in
      conjunction with members of the cardiothoracic team. The questions will be developed to
      stimulate narratives focusing on the experience of undergoing RATS whilst also permitting
      other topics, important to the individuals, to be discussed.

      In-depth interviews will be conducted on up to 15 patients who underwent RATS. The interviews
      will be conducted at patient's homes one week following hospital discharge (at the same time
      the activity monitor is collected). Interviews will be largely patient led, allowing
      individuals to tell their own story in their own words and at their own pace.

      Sample Size and Analysis Plan

      Quantitative phase

      The primary endpoint is exercise capacity measured by the ISWT (m) completed at patients'
      6-week postoperative clinic. Based on the minimal clinically important difference (MCID)
      (48m) for the ISWT (Singh et al 2008), the between-subjects variability in the measure, and
      the variability in the change scores (the 7-week reliability). A conventional estimation with
      90% power and 2 p=0.05 returned a required sample size of 80 patients, 40 per group. This is
      based on an ANCOVA analysis model, where invetigators look at the differences in the change
      in ISWT between groups, adjusted for any imbalance between groups in ISWT performance at
      baseline

      Qualitative phase

      Analysis will involve conducting a close line-by-line analysis on each original transcript to
      explore the claims and understandings of the participants. A second researcher will review
      the original transcripts before the 'emerging themes' are agreed. Once agreed, 2 researchers
      will transfer the 'emerging themes' across the entire data set, thereafter referring to them
      as 'master themes' The final master themes will be presented to a third researcher and
      agreed. Thematic mapping will be used to develop the relationship between themes. Finally,
      the findings will be translated into a narrative account with verbatim extracts (quotes) to
      provide a means of validation.
    
  