
    
      Title: Serratus and Parasternal Infrapectoral block for breast reduction surgery. A
      randomized controlled double blinded study to measure impact on time to hospital discharge in
      an outpatient setting.

      Introduction

      1. Postoperative pain. The prevalence of severe acute postoperative pain after breast surgery
      is almost 60%. Inadequate pain control in the postoperative period can lead to acute
      physiological and psychological responses that negatively affect patient outcome and increase
      health care costs along with increased incidence of chronic pain. Effective peri-operative
      pain management, reduces the frequency of developing chronic pain in these patient cohort,
      improves the quality of their recovery, provides early hospital discharge thus reduction in
      over all health care cost. Several analgesic regimes are in use, which vary from regional
      analgesia techniques to opioid based analgesia. To offer an efficacious perioperative patient
      care, a multimodal analgesic technique in combination with regional anesthesia will be of
      benefit in providing excellent pain control and improve quality of recovery.

      Innervation of the breast and axilla and regional anesthesia. The skin and underlying
      subcutaneous tissue of the chest wall and the breast is innervated by cutaneous branches of
      the intercostal nerves. Anterior cutaneous branch of lateral cutaneous nerve ( sensory supply
      the lateral half of breast) and lateral branch of medial cutaneous nerve ( sensory supply of
      medial half of breast)originating from T2-T6 intercostal nerves are mainly responsible
      sensory supply of the breast tissue. The lateral branch innervates the medial half of the
      breast. Innervation of the axilla and the medial aspect of the proximal arm is provided by
      the intercostobrachial nerve which represents the lateral cutaneous branch of the intercostal
      nerve arising from the second thoracic spinal nerve (9-12). These intercostal nerves can be
      blocked within the plane between the rib, external intercostal muscle and the serratus muscle
      in the anterolateral chest wall. In the antero-medial chest wall( parasternal area) these
      intercostal nerves can be blocked between the rib, external intercostal muscle and pectoralis
      major muscle.

      Current analgesic strategies for breast surgery and their limitations. Regional analgesic
      techniques confer numerous advantages over standard parenteral opioid therapy such as
      superior pain relief, reduced opioid consumption with a reduction in opioid-related side
      effects, shorter time to meet post anesthesia care unit (PACU) discharge criteria and a
      reduced incidence of chronic pain syndromes . Paravertebral analgesia is highly effective for
      breast surgery analgesia . Paravertebral nerve blocks are achieved by injecting a local
      anesthetic into the paravertebral space. This is an anatomical compartment close to the
      vertebral bodies and in continuity with neighbouring vertebral levels containing the spinal
      nerves. However, there are some disadvantages related to paravertebral blockade which
      strongly limit its popularity among anesthesiologists: first, the sensory distribution of a
      single-shot paravertebral blockade is highly variable and unpredictable . Therefore, multiple
      injections are required to achieve a more reliable analgesic spread which may reduce patient
      acceptance. Next, in a significant number of cases, local anesthetics injected into the
      paravertebral space reach the epidural space which may result in an epidural blockade with
      potential hemodynamic consequences such as hypotension. Third, even in experienced hands,
      there is a failure rate of paravertebral blocks of up to 13% . Fourth, paravertebral blockade
      is associated with potentially disastrous risks such total spinal anesthesia, pleural
      puncture or pneumothorax . Finally, an increasing number of breast surgeries is performed on
      a day case surgery basis where accepting the mentioned risks is particularly not desirable.
      Therefore, regional analgesic techniques that are at least equally effective, reliable and
      entail significantly less serious risks compared to paravertebral blockade have to be
      established for breast surgery.

      Interfascial block techniques have become popular by the use of ultrasound in regional
      anesthesia. These techniques rely on the spread of the local anesthetic that has been
      injected into a neuro-fascial plane adjacent to a muscle or between two readily-discernable
      muscle layers. The local anesthetic will distribute within this plane and thereby eventually
      reach the nerves that are known to travel along or cross this plane. There are several
      potential advantages of interfascial blocks: most importantly, they are technically easy to
      perform. Rather than directly targeting the nerves which may require a considerable level of
      experience depending on the localization of the nerves to be blocked and the surrounding
      structures, interfascial plane blocks simply require deposition of the local anesthetic in a
      fascial plane that is often easy to identify. At the same time, the avoidance of directing
      the block needle in close proximity to the nerves increases the safety of these techniques.
      In addition, an interfascial plane block usually involves a single injection whereas many
      other nerve blocks require several redirections of the block needle or even multiple
      punctures, as it is the case with paravertebral blocks. Finally, interfascial blocks are
      performed at more superficial sites of the body and not close to neuraxial structures or
      vital organs such as the lung. With this rationale in mind and based on a good knowledge of
      the anatomy and innervation of the thoracic wall, several fascial plane blocks have recently
      been described.

      Serratus Anterior Plane block for breast surgery Serratus Plane Block is a newer fascial
      plane described by Blanco in 2013. Local anesthetic is injected below the serratus anterior
      muscle (interfascial plane between the serratus anterior and the external intercostal muscles
      and ribs) to target the cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves as described above.

      Our recently completed anatomical study clearly documented that a single injection at the
      midaxillary line is not adequate to provide analgesia for the whole breast at it covers only
      the antero-lateral part without much spread to the antero-medial aspect of the chest
      wall.Therefore we decided to add another injection at parasternal level below the pectoralis
      major muscle to achieve a complete sensory of the breast tissue.

      To date, there exists no randomized controlled trial (RCT) investigating the efficacy of the
      serratus block and parasterenal infrapectoral block as an analgesic efficacy, quality of
      recovery, hospital discharge in patients undergoing breast surgery.

      Questions and Hypothesis

        1. Primary Question Does the addition of serratus block and parasternal infrapectoral nerve
           block to general anesthesia result in an improved perioperative patient care resulting
           in early hospital discharge following breast reduction surgery procedure compared to
           patient undergoing general anesthesia with sham block ?

        2. Secondary Questions

      Does the addition of these blocks to general anesthesia result in other benefits such as:

      I. less post operative pain. II. less intraoperative opioid consumption. III. less
      postoperative opioid consumption. IV. less incidence of opioid-related side effects such as
      nausea, vomitus and pruritus.

      V. greater patient satisfaction with their pain relief improved. VI. greater quality of
      recovery after anesthesia. VII. shorter phase I (PACU) and phase II (surgical day care, SDC)
      recovery times).

      Project design, methodology and analysis

      Trial Design

      This will be a prospective, double-blinded, randomized and controlled trial conducted at
      Victoria Hospital, London, Ontario. The study will enroll 120 patients undergoing bilateral
      breast reduction surgery under general anesthesia. After obtaining written informed consent
      from eligible patients, study participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups:

        1. Study Group:

           Patients will receive preoperative ultrasound-guided bilateral serratus block with 20
           mls of 0.2% ropivacaine on each injections at anterior axillary line at 4th rib and
           bilateral ultrasound guided parasternal infrapectoral block at the level of 4th with
           20mls of 0.2% ropivacaine on each injection, 15 minutes prior to receiving general
           anesthesia for the surgery.

        2. Control group:

           Before general anesthesia, patients will receive a preoperative "sham injection" of
           similar volume of 0.9% saline instead of ropivacaine for bilateral serratus and
           parasternal infrapectoral nerve block.

        3. Randomization and Blinding

           Patients will be randomized to one of two groups by a computer-generated sequence.
           Investigators and participants will both be blinded to patient assignment at the time of
           randomization as well as throughout treatment and assessment. Randomization information
           will be kept in sealed individual envelopes that are opaque to light and sequentially
           numbered. Each envelope will only be opened after informed consent is given, and
           immediately prior to the commencement of the block procedure. The individual who
           generates the randomization schedule will not have contact with study patients. Patients
           who are randomized to the control group will receive equivalent volume of normal saline
           solutions for the bilateral blocks procedure in contrast to the patients in the
           intervention group who receive four injections of 20mls of 0.2% Ropivaciane for each
           injection. This is meant to maintain patient and investigator blinding. The
           anesthetist(s) performing the block will be blinded to the intervention along with the
           anesthetists performing the general anesthesia and the surgical team. Importantly, the
           intraoperative and postoperative opioids will be administered by anesthetists and
           nurses, respectively, who are blinded to group allocation. Furthermore, the research
           coordinator collecting all outcome data will also be blinded.

        4. Interventions

      4.1. Preoperative Management Standard monitoring (ECG, blood pressure and oxygen saturation
      monitoring) will be applied, an intravenous access will be established and patients will
      receive midazolam 1-2 mg IV for anxiolysis as required. They will be positioned supine for
      the block performance. The skin overlying the chest wall will be disinfected using a
      chlorhexidine solution and a high-frequency linear ultrasound transducer (6-13 MHz, Sonosite
      M-Turbo) will be covered with a sterile plastic sheath. The block will be performed under
      strictly aseptic conditions by a staff regional anesthetist, by two regional
      anesthesiologists specialized to perform this nerve block.

      4.2. Study Group (Serratus Block and Parasternal Infrapectoral with 0.2% Ropivaciane)
      Serratus Block The ultrasound transducer will be placed in a caudal to cranial orientation on
      the anterior axillary line at the level of the 4th rib. The target fascial plane between the
      serratus anterior (superficial) and the external intercostal (deep) muscles and the rib will
      be identified and the path of the block needle will be determined. After local anesthetic
      infiltration of the skin with 1% lidocaine, a 80 mm 22G block needle will be inserted at the
      caudal aspect of the ultrasound probe and advanced in-plane to target the fascial plane
      directly below the serratus muscle. Once the tip is verified in the correct position, 20 mls
      of 0.2% ropivacaine will be injected into the plane slowly in 5 ml aliquots under frequent
      aspiration and correct spread in the interfascial plane will be observed. After injection,
      patients will be closely monitored until they will be brought to the OR.

      Parasternal Infrapectoral Block The ultrasound transducer will be placed in a caudal to
      cranial orientation on the parasternal area in the anterior chest wall at the level of the
      4th intercostal space. The target fascial plane between the pectoralis major muscle
      (superficial) and the external intercostal (deep) muscles and ribs will be identified and the
      path of the block needle will be determined. After local anesthetic infiltration of the skin
      with 1% lidocaine, a 80 mm 22G block needle will be inserted at the caudal aspect of the
      ultrasound probe and advanced in-plane to target the fascial plane directly below the
      pectoralis major muscle. Once the tip is verified in the correct position, 20 mls of 0.2%
      ropivacaine will be injected into the plane slowly in 5 ml aliquots under frequent aspiration
      and correct spread in the interfascial plane will be observed. After injection, patients will
      be closely monitored until they will be brought to the OR.

      4.4. Control Group ((Serratus Block and Parasternal Infrapectoral with 0.9% saline) Before
      general anesthesia, patients will receive a preoperative 20 mls 0.9% saline injections (total
      4 injections) for ultrasound guided bilateral serratus plane and parasternal infrapectoral
      block with full asepsis and in exact similar fashion as mentioned above.

      4.5. Intraoperative Management All subjects will receive a standardized general anesthesia
      with a laryngeal mask airway or endotracheal intubation depending on the anesthesiologist
      looking after the patient for their surgery. They will receive intravenous induction using
      standard doses of fentanyl 1-2 mcg/kg, propofol 2-4 mg/kg and rocuronium 0.6mg/kg if needed.
      Anesthesia will be maintained with desflurane/sevoflurane (end-tidal concentration
      corresponding to 1-1.3 MAC, age-corrected) in a mixture of room air (50%) and oxygen (50%).
      Positive pressure ventilation will only be initiated when spontaneous ventilation cannot be
      maintained ( e.g. when muscle relaxant is used). Positive pressure support will be titrated
      to maintain an end-tidal CO2 value of 30-40 mmHg. As per routine practice, fentanyl 1 mcg/kg,
      morphine 0.05 - 0.1 mg/kg or hydromorphone 0.0075 - 0.015 mg/kg will be administered to treat
      hemodynamic increases of more than 25% above pre-induction baseline values. As per routine
      antiemetic prophylaxis, dexamethasone 0.1mg/kg at the beginning of surgery and ondansetron 4
      mg IV will be given 30 min before the anticipated end of surgery and dimenhydrinate (gravol)
      -0.5 mg/kg will only be reserved as a last-line therapy in PACU for otherwise not
      controllable PONV.

      Breast reduction surgery will be carried out by either Dr. Yazdani or Dr. DeLyzer. A standard
      surgical technique is used by both surgeons. Intraoperative tumescent solution containing
      saline and epinephrine (500 mls of normal saline and 1 mg epinephrine) will be used for
      injection at the beginning of the case containing saline and epinephrine and no additional
      local anesthesia will be used. Operative length is approximately 2 hours.

      4.6. Postoperative pain management As per routine practice, morphine 2 mg IV or hydromorphone
      0.4 mg IV every 5 min as needed will be administered to all patients with pain on a Numeric
      Rating Scale (NRS) ≥ 4 or after patient request. As soon as oral intake is started, patients
      will also have access to oxycodone 5 mg PO when needed. Upon discharge from hospital,
      patients will receive a prescription for Tylenol #3 (acetaminophen 300 mg/codeine 30 mg per
      tablet) 1-2 tablets every 4 h as needed or Percocet® (acetaminophen 325 mg/oxycodone HCl 5 mg
      per tablet) if intolerant to codeine. Patients will be contacted over the phone the following
      day inquiring about their quality of recovery based on the (QoR-15) questionnaire and will
      also be asked about their level of pain based on numerical analogue score, total and
      cumulative oral analgesic consumed since discharge from the hospital, opioid-related side
      effects (nausea, vomitus, pruritus), block-related side effects (numbness and/or weakness)
      and satisfaction with postoperative analgesia at postoperative days (POD) one.
    
  