
    
      1. Rationale:

           1.1 Men who have sex with men with antecedent diagnosis of another sexually transmitted
           infection, particularly syphilis, are at high risk for HIV infection.

           Men who have sex with men (MSM) continue to experience high rates of HIV incident
           infections in Canada and a disproportionately high burden of disease relative to the
           general population. In 2011, approximately 48% of new diagnoses occurred in MSM across
           Canada, a figure that has been relatively stable for the last decade. Within British
           Columbia (BC), although HIV new diagnosis rates overall have been declining over the
           last decade (dropping from a rate of 10.6 cases/100,000 in 2004 to 5.9 cases/100,000 in
           2013), MSM made up an increasing majority of new diagnoses (59%) within BC in 2013.
           Within Vancouver Coastal Health Authority (VCH), approximately 70% of all new HIV
           diagnoses annually from 2012-15 were amongst MSM.

           Targeting prevention interventions to MSM at highest risk is important when determining
           potential publicly funded biomedical interventions, particularly the use of HIV
           pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). Antecedent diagnosis of another sexually transmitted
           infection (STI) may serve as an entry point for biomedical prevention as these
           individuals are at highest risk for incident HIV. In an evaluation of HIV incidence
           following diagnosis of syphilis infection in New York City, the annual HIV incidence was
           3.6% (95% Confidence Interval [CI]: 3.27% - 3.97%), with overall HIV incidence amongst
           MSM of 5.56% (1). In those males with syphilis and a subsequent additional STI the HIV
           incidence was even greater at 7.89% (95% CI: 6.62% - 9.24%). A similar analysis of
           clients attending STI clinics in BC has revealed that antecedent STI is predictive of an
           elevated risk for subsequent HIV seroconversion with clients who ever had a diagnosis of
           syphilis having an HIV incidence of 3.6% person-years (95%CI: 2.5-4.9), gonorrhea (2.0%;
           95%CI: 1.6-2.5), rectal gonorrhea (4.5% person-years; 95%CI: 3.4-5.8), while individuals
           with rectal gonorrhea and syphilis had an incidence rate of 12.6 % person-years (95%CI:
           8.4-21.8).

           Evaluating the use of PrEP in MSM with antecedent STI is an important component to
           inform HIV prevention programs in BC and nationally. The STI clinics operated by the BC
           Centre for Disease Control are well-positioned for this evaluation as about 15 and 25%
           of all HIV diagnoses in BC and VCH, respectively are diagnosed at these clinics.

           1.2. STI prevention strategies may also benefit from biomedical prevention interventions

           Novel biomedical strategies have been shown to be effective in preventing acquisition of
           STI such as HIV, and are now considered to be standard of care for at-risk MSM in the
           United States. The use of the antiretroviral combination of tenofovir/emtricitabine has
           been shown to be associated with an overall 44% reduction in HIV acquisition in
           high-risk MSM when taken daily as PrEP. In those individuals with detectable drug
           levels, the benefit was as high as 90% risk reduction. In real-world evaluations of
           PrEP, high-risk sexual behaviour may continue as evidenced by high rates of intercurrent
           STI (50% of PrEP users after 12 months in a study of 657 PrEP initiators in San
           Francisco). As such, biomedical interventions that may offer additional reduction in
           acquisition of common sexually transmitted infections should be evaluated.

           Recently a small pilot study has demonstrated potential benefit from a similar strategy
           for syphilis prevention (2). In this study 30 MSM were randomized to receive either
           100mg doxycycline once daily or contingency management strategies linked to remaining
           free of sexually transmitted diseases at progressive study visits. Doxycycline 100mg
           daily was chosen based on prior studies indicating that doses as low as once weekly
           doxycycyline could serve as prophylaxis for leptospirosis, another spirochete infection.

           Overall, those receiving doxycycline were significantly less likely to be diagnosed with
           any STI during follow-up than those in the comparator arm (odds ratio [OR] 0.27; 95% CI
           0.09 - 0.83). Specific protection against syphilis infection was not seen during the
           on-treatment phase (OR 0.27; 95% CI 0.04 - 1.73), possibly reflecting the small sample
           size. During the study period, no change in sexual behaviours between arms was noted,
           supporting the potential role of doxycycline prophylaxis. A larger pilot evaluation of
           this strategy, in combination with HIV PrEP, would be a novel syndemic approach to
           addressing both the HIV and syphilis burden amongst the highest risk MSM.

           The investigators therefore propose to undertake a randomized trial of immediate vs.
           deferred doxycycline in conjunction with daily tenofovir/emtricitabine to determine the
           feasibility of combined HIV and syphilis pre-exposure prophylaxis amongst HIV-negative
           MSM with recent history of syphilis infection in Vancouver, Canada.

        2. Objectives:

      We propose to undertake a pilot trial of immediate vs. deferred doxycycline in conjunction
      with daily tenofovir/emtricitabine to determine the feasibility of combined HIV and syphilis
      pre-exposure prophylaxis amongst HIV-negative MSM with recent history of syphilis infection
      in Vancouver, Canada. We will meet this aim through the following objectives:

        1. To assess feasibility of using dual daily HIV and syphilis PrEP, as defined by:

           a. Evaluation of feasibility of recruitment for a larger study i. Proportion of
           participants approached for study who are eligible and agree to participate.

           b. Adherence to 6 or 12 months of tenofovir/emtricitabine and doxycycline i. Determine
           proportion of individuals with >95% adherence to dual therapy over 6 and 12 months ii.
           Proportion of individuals with detectable doxycycline plasma level at each study visit.

           Additional measures of feasibility will include the assessment of:

           c. Tolerability of dual PrEP i. Comparison of grade 3 or 4 adverse events in those
           receiving immediate vs. deferred PrEP

        2. To evaluate antimicrobial resistance over time.

           a. Change in proportion of participants with evidence of tetracycline class resistance
           in common flora, namely Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes and Streptococcus
           pneumoniae from baseline to 6 and 12 months.

           Secondary objectives will include:

        3. To evaluate changes in sexual activity reported by study participants over the study
           period.

        4. To compare syphilis incidence between those in the immediate vs. deferred doxycycline
           arms.

        5. To describe frequency of other STI's diagnosed in study participants over the study
           period.

           Exploratory objectives will include:

        6. To evaluate doxycycline resistance in individuals with documented T.pallidum infection.

        7. To evaluate HIV incidence and syphilis re-infection rates over a 12 month period.

        8. Characterize changes in the rectal microbiome from baseline to 6 and 12 months after
           initiation of doxycycline
    
  