
    
      METHODOLOGY:

      This study is planned as a placebo-controlled, interventional study of parallel groups with
      40 participants. Patients will be randomized to either treatment-first arm with 500 mg
      Rituximab i.v. (infusion 1) at 0 and again at 4 months (infusion 2), or placebo-first arm,
      receiving NaCl-infusion at 0 and at 4 months. Main evaluation will take place at eight
      months. The study arms are switched after eight months, i.e. patients starting in the
      treatment-first arm will receive placebo (NaCl) infusions at 8 months (infusion 3) and 12
      months (infusion 4), and patients in the placebo-first arm receive 500 mg-Rituximab infusions
      at these time points. Final evaluation is scheduled at 16 months. Before each infusion, all
      patients in the Rituximab and control groups are pre-treated with injection Solu-Medrol 125
      mg, i.v., tablet Paracetamol 1000 mg, p.o. and tablet Cetirizin 10 mg, orally.

      Patients will be monitored with psychiatric rating scales and blood samples at baseline and
      every four months. In addition, baseline (-1 months), main (8 months) and final evaluation
      (16 months) will encompass collection of CSF (lumbar puncture), psychologic testing and
      extended blood samples. Patient, nurse administering treatment and symptom evaluators are
      blinded to group randomization.

      INVESTIGATIONAL PRODUCT, DOSAGE AND MODE OF ADMINISTRATION:

        -  Treatment: Rituximab (Roche), 500 mg, dissolved in 250 ml NaCl 9 mg/ml, administered
           intravenously twice with 4 months interval.

        -  Placebo: 250 ml NaCl 9 mg/ml, administered intravenously twice with 4 months interval.

      Duration of treatment:

      Patients are observed over the course of 16 months. Main evaluation is conducted after 8
      months. Participants are randomized to either treatment-first (Rituximab infusion at 0 months
      and 4 months) or placebo-first (Rituximab infusion at 8 months and 12 months).

      SITE MONITORING AND SOURCE DATA VERIFICATION

      The Investigator(s)/institution(s) will permit study-related monitoring, audits, review and
      regulatory inspection(s), providing access to source data/hospital records. Sponsor verifies
      that each patient has consented in writing to direct access to the original source
      data/hospital records by the use of written patient information and signed Informed Consent.

      In accordance with the principles of Good Clinical Practice (GCP), monitoring of the study
      will be arranged by the Sponsor. During the study, the Monitor will have regular contacts
      with the study site(s), including visits to ensure that the study is conducted and documented
      properly in compliance with the protocol, GCP and applicable regulatory requirements.

      Prior to the start of the study, the monitor will review the protocol and CRFs with the
      investigator and his/her staff. The investigator will be visited by the monitor, who will
      check study procedures, including safety assessments, study medication handling, and data
      recording.

      To assure the accuracy and completeness of the data recorded in the trial, the monitor will
      compare Case Report Forms (CRFs) with medical records and other relevant documentation during
      the on-site monitoring visits (source data verification, SDV). The monitor will have direct
      access to all source data according to International Council for Harmonisation of Technical
      Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) GCP. Incorrect or missing entries into
      the CRFs will be queried and must be corrected. Any discrepancies of data will be documented
      and explained in the monitoring reports. Study monitoring will not jeopardize patient
      confidentiality.

      The study center may also be subject to inspection by the Swedish Medical Products Agency
      (MPA). The Investigator and other responsible personnel must be available during the
      monitoring visits and a possible inspection, and should devote sufficient time to these
      processes.

      DATA COLLECTION AND MANAGEMENT

      Data management and handling of data will be conducted according to the study specific Data
      Management Plan with ICH guidelines and an assigned CRO's standard operating procedures
      (SOPs). An electronic CRF (eCRF) system will be used to capture data from the study. Data
      entry will be performed by the study site personnel. Validation and data queries will be
      handled by the CRO's Data Management Team. The data will be subjected to validation according
      to the CRO's SOPs in order to ensure accuracy in the collected CRF data.The CRF will have an
      audit trail with appropriate functionality for data capture, tracking and documentation of
      any queries or changes. Electronic signatures will be used to lock the data and identify the
      person entering or changing the data.

      Before database closure a reconciliation will be performed between the Serious Adverse Events
      (SAEs) entered in the safety database and the study database. After database closure, the
      database will be exported as Statistical Analysis System (SAS®) data sets. Any discrepancies
      and additions from the process defined in the Data Management Plan, will be described in a
      study specific Data Management Report.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      The trial comprises a fully blinded randomized part, up to and including the 8 month visit,
      and a follow-up part, with preserved blinding but where it is known that the patient has
      received Rituximab treatment either in the fully blinded part of the trial or in the
      follow-up part. The main treatment comparisons will be based on the fully blinded 8 months of
      the trial, analyzed as a parallel group trial as described below. Data from the follow-up
      part will be presented descriptively and will be used for explorative modelling of treatment
      response and duration.

      ANALYSIS POPULATION:

      The full analysis set (FAS) will consist of all randomized patients that received at least
      one dose of investigational treatment, and will be used for all analyses unless specified.
      The number of patients with available data for each outcome analysis will be tabulated. In
      baseline-adjusted analyses, patients that lack baseline data will be excluded.

      DESCRIPTIVE STATISTICS:

      Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) score over time, for both parts of the trial, will be
      described using time series plots of individual data and randomized treatment arm mean
      values. BPRS and BPRS linear change from baseline at each time point will be described by
      randomized treatment using dot plots, scatter plots with baseline value on the x-axis, and
      tables of mean, standard deviation, median, min, max and quartiles.

      PRIMARY ANALYSIS:

      The primary outcome, BPRS at 8 months, will primarily be analyzed using a linear model with
      randomized treatment and baseline BPRS as covariates, and presented as the mean difference
      between the treatment groups with 95% confidence interval (CI) and two-sided p-value.
      Primarily the analysis will be based on observed cases, which gives unbiased estimation under
      a mechanism with random missingness conditional on baseline BPRS and treatment arm.

      SENSITIVITY ANALYSES:

        -  To address missing data,

             1. primary analysis with missing 8-month values imputed by the 4-month value when
                available, and the baseline value otherwise. Under a scenario of no increase in
                BPRS over time and drop-out mainly due to lack of effect, this analysis would be
                biased against superiority of the Rituximab treatment.

             2. analyses of a continuum of scenarios based on a model assuming a treatment group
                dependent missingness propensity estimated from the observed frequencies, and a
                treatment group dependent difference in baseline-adjusted mean BPRS between
                observed and missing outcomes. The results will be presented as contour plots of
                point estimates, lower and upper 95% CI limits, and 2-sided p-values, for each pair
                of treatment arm specific differences between observed and missing outcomes. The
                results will indicate what mean deviations from missing at random conditional on
                treatment and baseline BPRS would be necessary to affect the conclusions.

        -  To address model misspecification, supplemental comparison of linear change in BPRS from
           baseline between treatment groups using the using Wilcoxon's rank-sum test and the
           Hodges-Lehmann estimate of location change with 95% confidence interval. In addition,
           model assumptions will be assessed by residual plots. Deviations from assumptions are
           not assumed to increase the Type I error, but may affect the interpretation of the
           estimated treatment contrast.

        -  To address non-adherence and protocol deviations, supplemental analysis using the
           primary model, for patients with two doses of treatment and no major protocol deviations
           up to 8 months, as determined at data base lock before unblinding.

      BPRS at four months will be analyzed using the same method as for the primary time point,
      including sensitivity analyses. The main purpose of the four-month measurement is exploration
      of time to response.

      SECONDARY EFFICACY OUTCOMES:

      All analyses will be performed without formal multiplicity adjustment, for observed cases.

      CGI-S over time will be presented by individual time series plots, and for each visit by
      number and percentage of patients in each category, and of patients satisfying the criteria
      for response (at least 2-point reduction from baseline), partial response (a 1 point
      reduction from baseline), and remission (CGI-S score 1-3). The categorical outcome
      response/partial response/no response will be analysed using logistic regression with
      randomized treatment as the only factor and presented as the common odds ratio with 95% CI
      and 2-sided p-value, at 8 months (primary time point) and at 4 months. Remission at the same
      time points will be analysed using logistic regression and presented as odds ratios with 95%
      CI and 2-sided p-value.

      World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule (WHODAS) results will be presented
      as domain scores based on item response theory based scoring, and total disability score.
      Domain and total scores over time will be described using individual time series plots and
      mean value plots by randomized treatment. Domain and total scores, and linear change from
      baseline scores, at each time point will be described by randomized treatment using dot
      plots, scatter plots with baseline value on the x-axis, and tables of mean, standard
      deviation, median, min, max and quartiles. Total disability score at 8 months (primary) and 4
      months will be analysed using a linear model with randomized treatment and baseline score as
      covariates and presented as mean difference with 95% CI and 2-sided p-value.

      Yale Brown Obsessive Compulsion Scale (Y-BOCS) results will be presented and analyzed in the
      same way as WHODAS disability score. In addition, the number and proportion of patients with
      score 15 or below will be presented and analyzed in the same way as remission defined by
      CGI-S.

      Bush-Francis Catatonia Rating Scale (BFCRS) total score over time will be described using
      individual time series plots and mean value plots by randomized treatment. Domain and total
      scores, and linear change from baseline scores, at each time point will be described by
      randomized treatment using dot plots, scatter plots with baseline value on the x-axis, and
      tables of mean, standard deviation, median, min, max and quartiles.

      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) global sum will be tabulated descriptively by
      randomized treatment for each time point, using mean, standard deviation, median, quartiles,
      min and max, and number and percentage of patients with global sum 5 or higher.

      EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) domain scores will be presented for each time point using descriptive
      frequency tables and stacked bar charts by randomized treatment. EQ-5D Visual Analogue Scale
      (VAS) scale scores will be presented for each time point using descriptive tables of mean,
      standard deviation, median, min, max and quartiles.

      Mismatch Negativity (MMN) amplitude and latency will be measured as the most negative data
      point within the 80-130 ms latency window, post-stimulus onset and compared between time
      points.

      Biomarkers over time will be presented descriptively using individual time series plots and
      plots of geometric mean values over time by randomized treatment, and for each visit scatter
      plots with baseline on the x-axis and tables of geometric mean, geometric coefficient of
      variation (CV), median, quartiles, min and max, based on values over the limit of
      quantification, and number of observations under the limit of quantification. For infusion
      safety markers, the number and proportion of patients with values outside normal will also be
      tabulated. Biomarker concentrations at 8 months (primary) and 4 months will be analysed using
      a linear model for the log-transformed biomarker with randomized treatment and
      log-transformed baseline biomarker as covariates, and presented as the geometric mean ratio
      with 95% CI and two-sided p-value.

      DETERMINATION OF SAMPLE SIZE Within- and between-patient standard deviation was estimated to
      7.1 and 6.7 points respectively, from five case series with in total 35 measurements pre- and
      post-rituximab treatment, using a linear mixed-effect model with random intercept and
      rituximab treatment as a fixed factor.

      Power was estimated using simulation. Baseline and 8 months BPRS were simulated with a 7
      point standard deviation (SD) normally distributed random variation both within and between
      patients (corresponding to a total SD=9.8 points for a single measurement), and a homogenous
      treatment effect, using R v. 3.3.1. 40 patients, 20 patients per group, would give 81% power
      to detect an 8 point adjusted mean difference in BPRS between the rituximab and placebo
      groups, and 89% power to detect a difference of 9 points. Reasonable power would be retained
      under 5% random drop-out, with 79% power to detect an 8 point difference and 87% power to
      detect a 9 point difference between the groups. The power to detect a 9 point difference
      would still be 85% with 10% random drop-out.
    
  