
    
      The experiment illustrates the gender, age and estrogen influence the acute metabolic
      responses after meal consisting of mashed potatoes added different types of fat. The reason
      is that the distribution of macronutrients are often not equal to the ideal and fat intake in
      Western countries is well above the recommended maximum of 30%. A high fat intake -especially
      saturated fat -increases the risk of ischemic heart disease significantly and HDL cholesterol
      levels are determined by the postprandial lipid response. The negative correlation between
      HDL cholesterol and ischemic heart disease can apparently be attributed to a strong positive
      correlation between postprandial lipidemia and ischemic heart disease.

      Diet has an important role in both the development and treatment of diseases such as type 2
      diabetes, elevated blood cholesterol, and obesity. It is recommended today to eat a
      high-carbohydrate and low-fat diet with reduced energy in these patients. Postprandial lipid
      in the blood after fat meals expected to be gender-specific, since men's total and
      LDL-cholesterol and triglycerides are higher than in women of childbearing age. Menopause
      reduces women's estrogen levels and increase their risk of cardiovascular disease to men's
      level. This effect on morbidity and mortality is influenced probably by hormone replacement.
      What influence it has on the postprandial responses is uncertain. The haemostatic system
      plays an important role in the development of ischemic heart disease and in acute conditions
      such as acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, and sudden cardiac death. Fat-rich
      meals induces an acute activation of coagulation factors and postprandial lipid levels in the
      blood are essential to the development of atherosclerosis and coagulation activation 4 to 8
      hours after a meal. The influence of gender, age, estrogen and different fat types of these
      conditions are not yet fully elucidated. The investigators believe it is important to
      investigate the effect of addition of different types of fat to a starchy meal on blood
      glucose, insulin and lipid levels in healthy subjects, since the metabolic responses today
      considered closely associated to the development of atherosclerosis and type 2 diabetes.

      The investigators therefore wish to investigate the effect of hormones in postmenopausal
      women compared to men and to assess the effect of age in both sexes of acute metabolic
      responses by examining the age groups 45-55 (40 women in total in 5 different hormone
      treatments and 8 men) and 65-80 years (16 in total, 8 of each gender).

      The effect is assessed on glycemic response, insulin, triglyceride, total cholesterol, LDL
      and HDL cholesterol, apo-lipoprotein, free fatty acids and coagulation parameters (von
      Willebrand factor, Factor VII, Factor VIIa, Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, fibrinogen,
      tissue thromboplastin, fibrin).
    
  