
    
      Smokers hospitalized with Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) are at high risk for ischemic events
      or death. Over two thirds of patients continue to smoke after acute myocardial infarction.

      Study objectives will evaluate safety and efficacy of Varenicline vs. placebo in hospitalized
      ACS patients complemented by nurse-led support. Interventions will continue following
      discharge for the duration of 12 weeks.

      The primary efficacy outcome measure is continuous abstinence rate at 1 year after
      hospitalization as assessed by self-reporting and verified by CO breath test.

      The proposed study is a prospective, double blind, randomized, placebo controlled,
      multi-center study. Overall 300 patients will be recruited, randomly allocated to active and
      placebo treatment groups that will receive nurse-led support by trained staff.

      Hospitalized ACS smokers will be evaluated by the protocol inclusion/exclusion criteria.
      Patient's demographics, medical and laboratory data will be obtained including Fagestrom
      tobacco addiction questionnaire and digitally captured. Participants will be randomly
      allocated to study groups and will receive, Varenicline or placebo, which will be initiated
      on the last day of hospitalization and continued for 12 weeks after discharge. Additionally,
      a structured nurse-led behavioral support program for smoking cessation will be initiated
      during hospitalization, followed by telephone calls that will provide motivational support
      and an interview exploring protocol adherence, side effects, changes in health status and
      smoking status.

      All patients will be re-assessed at one, 3 and 12 -months post discharge. Follow-up visits
      will comprise of a physical examination, adverse event assessment and CO breath testing.

      Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death in Western countries, and cigarette
      smoking has a clear cause-and -effect relationship with atherosclerotic disease (1). Smokers
      hospitalized with Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) are at high risk for subsequent ischemic
      events and present 50% higher chance of death in the first 2 years (2). Nevertheless, over
      two thirds of patients continue to smoke after an acute myocardial infarction. Varenicline
      has been shown to be highly effective smoking cessation intervention (4), yet concerns have
      been raised regarding safety in coronary patients (5).

      A significant number of eligible patients do not receive structured smoking cessation
      interventions following ACS. Initiation of secondary prevention interventions during hospital
      stay has been shown to be highly effective for other key secondary prevention interventions
      (i.e. statins, beta blockers).

      Moreover, combination of Varenicline treatment with nurse-led hospital support, initiated
      early during hospitalization is expected to result in better adherence and better long-term
      abstinence rates in smokers with a recent ACS.

      This proposed study would be the first Israeli trial with Varenicline.
    
  