
    
      Maternal under nutrition has a critical role in etiology of poor perinatal outcomes like low
      birth weight (LBW), accounting for 60-80% of all neonatal deaths and impacting nearly 20
      million newborns overall. In Pakistan, nearly half of the households are food insecure with
      or without hunger. Great disparities exist between urban-rural and within urban disadvantaged
      populations living in the poorest of slums. In Sindh province alone, 72% of households are
      food insecure and 50% are with moderate to severe hunger. Around 18% of the married woman of
      reproductive age in Pakistan, are underweight and deficient of different micronutrients for
      example, 42% and 41% of women are Vitamin A and Zinc deficient, respectively.. This impacts
      childhood stunting, wasting, and underweight, prevalence of which, among under-five children
      is around 44%, 15% and 31%, respectively in Pakistan. WHO antenatal care (ANC) guidelines
      recommend the use of fortified balanced energy-protein supplements during pregnancy, but
      there is a lack of guidance on the best product/supplement for use in a particular setting.
      Until recently, the WHO ANC guidelines has made no recommendations on the use of these
      supplements in food insecure and undernourished settings. This is an area that required
      further research. Additionally, there is emerging literature on use of Choline and
      Nicotinamide during pregnancy and its potential additional impact on birth outcomes including
      growth and development after prenatal supplementation with Choline and Nicotinamide.

      Apart from nutrition supplement, the prophylaxis use of antibiotics, especially AZM is also
      under strong debate, as many studies have shown improvements in birth outcomes in low middle
      income settings. The possible mechanism of AZM may be explained through reduction in the risk
      of maternal infections during pregnancy. A systematic review showed that prophylaxis may
      reduce the risk of postpartum endometritis, preterm rupture of membranes and gonococcal
      infection when given routinely to all pregnant women With no effect on birth outcome but
      there were several biases reported such as high loss to follow-ups and limited numbers of
      included studies.. Therefore, robust evidence is needed via a field trial in the local
      context to evaluate the efficacy and effectiveness of the locally-produced, balanced
      energy-protein supplement alone or in combination with prophylaxis dose of AZM or balanced
      energy-protein supplement alone or in combination with Choline and Nicotinamide to pregnant
      woman on maternal and birth outcomes in low-income and food insecure settings. This could
      help to draw inferences for larger public health policy-making. This investment is
      specifically aiming to look at what impact a newly formulated nutritional supplement for
      pregnant and lactating women (PLW) can have on improving birth outcomes and as well as its
      potential to reduce wasting, stunting and underweight in infants.
    
  