
    
      This is an observational, multicenter, single-day, Phase 2 study. This study will include a
      14-day Screening Period and Study Day 1 clinic visit. Participants will be required to
      perform an activity to induce symptoms of PAH, and participants' severity of self-reported
      symptoms of PAH will be measured from pre-activity, immediately after the activity, and
      through the 30-minute recovery. Participants will be asked about their PAH symptoms using 3
      Patient Global Impression of Severity (PGI-S) questions that address their overall PAH
      symptoms, shortness of breath, and physical fatigue.

      PAH symptoms will be induced via the Incremental Shuttle Walk Test (ISWT). The ISWT used in
      this study required the participant to walk back and forth on a 10-meter course. The total
      number of shuttles completed by a participant during the Screening ISWT will be the maximum
      targeted for that participant during the remaining ISWTs in the study.

      After Screening, participants will be assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts based on PAH medications as
      prescribed by their physician: Cohort A will include participants who are currently
      prescribed and using inhaled treprostinil for the treatment of PAH and Cohort B will include
      participants who are taking other PAH medications (instead of inhaled treprostinil).

      The study also includes 2 periods. One period for participants in Cohort A (Treprostinil
      Users), included an ISWT initiated within 30 minutes of the previous dose (expected peak
      level) and the other period included an ISWT within 3 to 4 hours of the previous dose of
      inhaled treprostinil (expected trough level). Participants in Cohort B (Non-Treprostinil
      Users), an ISWT will be initiated approximately 4 hours after the morning dose of PAH
      medication (Period 1) and an ISWT initiated at least 1 hour following completion of the
      previous ISWT (Period 2). Participants will be provided at least a 1-hour period for rest
      between ISWTs (until participant feels they are rested enough to perform again at their
      baseline level) prior to Period 2 assessments.
    
  