
    
      In recent years, a new gluten- or wheat-related disease has emerged, a condition labelled
      "non-celiac gluten sensitivity" (NCGS) or "non-celiac wheat sensitivity" (NCWS). This is very
      often a self-reported condition, since patients refer to intestinal [mainly irritable bowel
      syndrome (IBS)-like] and/or extra-intestinal symptoms (i.e. fatigue, headache, anemia) caused
      by gluten or wheat ingestion, even though they do not suffer from celiac disease (CD) or
      wheat allergy (WA).

      There are conflicting data about the real mechanisms which induce symptoms in NCGS/NCWS
      patients after wheat ingestion. Some authors suggested a prevalent role for Fermentable
      Oligosaccharides-Disaccharides-Monosaccharides and Polyols (FODMAPs), rather than gluten in
      determining the symptoms. Other studies underlined the activation of mechanisms of both
      innate and acquired immunity in NCWS patients after wheat ingestion.

      Given the lack of a diagnostic biomarker, NCGS/NCWS mostly remains a diagnosis of exclusion,
      especially respect to CD and WA, so a confirmatory test is required. The "Salerno criteria"
      suggested the double-blind, placebo-controlled (DBPC), cross-over, gluten/wheat challenge as
      the gold standard test to discriminate true NCGS/NCWS patients.

      By definition, NCGS/NCWS symptoms generally occur after the ingestion of gluten/wheat,
      disappear within a few days of a gluten-free diet (GFD) and quickly reappear when
      gluten/wheat is, voluntarily or accidentally, reintroduced. However, GDF is very difficult
      and onerous from a social (presence of gluten in many industrial food products and
      "contamination", both domestic and extra-domestic), psychological (e.g. for adolescents,
      exclusion from the "peer group", with difficulty in accepting the diagnosis) and economic
      point of view.

      Among the extra-intestinal symptoms, several studies have shown, in patients with NCWS, the
      presence of anemia, generally mild, often with iron or folate deficiency characteristics, but
      no research has ever been planned with the specific intention of analyze this particular
      aspect of the disease.

      Therefore, the aim of the present multicentric research was to analyze, both retrospectively
      and prospectively, the laboratory data of NCWS patients, compared to CD and IBS controls, to
      identify: a) the presence, severity and morphologic characteristic of anemia; 2) possible
      pathogenic mechanisms, with particular attention to iron, vitamin B12 and folate metabolism,
      thyroid hormones, and autoimmune gastric involvement.
    
  