
    
      Results of epidemiologic studies and clinical trials indicate that moderate doses of n-3
      unsaturated fatty acids reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease(CVD) and may improve
      prognosis. N-3 fatty acids have several beneficial cardiovascular properties (1-3), including
      antiatherothrombotic, antiarrhythmic, and antihypertensive effects, and are especially noted
      for their triacylglycerol-reducing ability (3-7). These effects may translate into an
      improved clinical outcome in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) (8).

      The pronounced effect obtained of moderate doses of n-3 fatty acids supplementation may
      suggest an even stronger effect of pharmacologic doses.

      The object of this study was therefore to assess the effect of a high-dose ethylester
      concentrate of n-3 fatty acids as compared to corn oil administered early (4-8 days) after an
      acute myocardial infarction (MI), on fatal and non-fatal subsequent cardiac events (cardiac
      death, resuscitation, recurrent myocardial infarction (MI) or angina pectoris), during 2 ys
      follow-up (median 18 months). We hypothesized that a high-dose of n-3 fatty acids would
      improve serum lipids in this population, and beneficially influence several markers of
      coagulation, endothelial dysfunction and inflammation.

      Three hundred patients with an acute myocardial infarction (MI) were recruited at one
      hospital center (Central Hospital in Rogaland, Stavanger, Norway) from September 1995 until
      December 1996. All patients were included between the fourth and the eighth day after an
      acute myocardial infarction (MI). All patients were randomly assigned to receive 2 gelatin
      capsules of Omacor-R (Pronova AS, Oslo) or corn oil twice a day. Each capsule contained
      either 850-882 mg eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) as ethylesters
      in the average ratio of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) to docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) of 1:2 or
      the same amount of corn oil. α-Tocopherol (4 mg) was added to all capsules. The capsules were
      administered in a double-blind manner over 12-24 months. A detailed patient history was
      recorded and a clinical examination was performed. The electrocardiogram was scrutinized for
      infarct location. The recent injury was classified as an anterior or inferior Q-wave
      infarction or any non-Q-wave infarction. Treatment was initiated immediately after inclusion
      and collection of baseline blood samples. The study was approved by the Regional Ethics
      Committee for Western Norway.

      Clinical follow-up, including blood tests and electrocardiogram recordings, was repeated at 6
      wk, 6 mo, 1 y, 18 mo, and, for some patients, 2 ys after the start of treatment. A deviation
      of 2 wk at the first follow-up and ≤1 mo at later follow-ups was allowed. All cardiac events
      and ongoing medication were recorded. Cardiac events were defined as cardiac death,
      resuscitation, recurrent myocardial infarction (MI), and unstable angina. Revascularization
      and death from other causes were also recorded. The study was closed at the end of 1997. The
      median follow-up time (ignoring events except deaths) was 1.5 y.

      Analyses of serum triacylglycerols, total cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein
      (HDL)-cholesterol were performed at inclusion, 6 weeks, 6 and 12 months. In addition,
      analyses of markers of inflammation [high-sensitivity-C-reactive protein (CRP), CD-40 Ligand
      (CD40L)], coagulation [D-Dimer, fibrinogen, tissue factor, activated factor XII (FXIIa)],
      endothelial dysfunction [adhesion molecules such as E-selectin and Intra-Cellular Adhesion
      Molecule-1 (ICAM-1), homocysteine)], and Thiobarbituric Acid Reactive Substances (TBARS) as a
      marker of the oxidative burden of n-3 fatty acids, have been performed at different time
      points during follow-up, to evaluate the influence of n-3 fatty acids on these markers, and
      to assess their prognostic ability following a myocardial infarction (MI). Moreover,
      holo-transcobalamin (holoTC), methylmalonic acid (MMA), n-Terminal pro-Brain Natriuretic
      Peptide (NT-proBNP), matrix metalloproteinases-9 (MMP-9), Pregnancy-associated plasma protein
      A (PAPP-A), myeloperoxidase (MPO), and CD40 Ligand (CD40L) were measured also in order to
      evaluate their prognostic ability following a myocardial infarction (MI).

      After closure of the main study, the purpose was to evaluate the prognosis of the study
      subjects after a prolonged wash-out period.

      Publications from the study:

        1. Nilsen DWT, Albrektsen G, Landmark K, Moen S, Aarsland T, Woie L. Effects of a high-dose
           concentrate of n-3 fatty acids or corn oil introduced early after an acute myocardial
           infarction on serum triacylglycerol and HDL cholesterol. Am J Clin Nutr 2001;74:50-6.

        2. Grundt H, Nilsen DW, Mansoor MA, Hetland Ø, Nordøy A. Reduction in homocysteine by n-3
           polyunsaturated fatty acids after 1 year in a randomised double-blind study following an
           acute myocardial infarction: no effect on endothelial adhesion properties. Pathophysiol
           Haemost Thromb. 2003 Mar-Apr;33(2):88-95.

        3. Grundt H, Nilsen DW, Mansoor MA, Nordøy A. Increased lipid peroxidation during long-term
           intervention with high doses of n-3 fatty acids (PUFAs) following an acute myocardial
           infarction. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2003 Jun;57(6):793-800.

        4. Grundt H, Hetland Ø, Nilsen DW. Changes in tissue factor and activated factor XII
           following an acute myocardial infarction were uninfluenced by high doses of n-3
           polyunsaturated fatty acids. Thromb Haemost. 2003 Apr;89(4):752-9.

        5. Grundt H, Nilsen DW, Hetland Ø, Mansoor MA. Clinical outcome and atherothrombogenic risk
           profile after prolonged wash-out following long-term treatment with high doses of n-3
           PUFAs in patients with an acute myocardial infarction. Clin Nutr. 2004
           Aug;23(4):491-500.

        6. Grundt H, Nilsen DW, Hetland Ø, Valente E, Fagertun HE. Activated factor 12 (FXIIa)
           predicts recurrent coronary events after an acute myocardial infarction. Am Heart J.
           2004 Feb;147(2):260-6.

        7. Aarsetøy H, Brügger-Andersen T, Hetland Ø, Grundt H, Nilsen DW. Long term influence of
           regular intake of high dose n-3 fatty acids on CD40-ligand, pregnancy-associated plasma
           protein A and matrix metalloproteinase-9 following acute myocardial infarction. Thromb
           Haemost. 2006 Feb;95(2):329-36.

        8. Brügger-Andersen T, Aarsetøy H, Grundt H, Staines H, Nilsen DW. The long-term prognostic
           value of multiple biomarkers following a myocardial infarction.Thromb Res.
           2008;123(1):60-6.

        9. Aarsetøy H, Valente E, Reine A, Mansoor MA, Grundt H, Nilsen DW. Holotranscobalamin and
           methylmalonic acid as prognostic markers following an acute myocardial infarction. Eur J
           Clin Nutr. 2008 Mar;62(3):411-8. Epub 2007 Mar 7.
    
  