
    
      The objectives of this study are to: 1) examine the impact of exercise on sympathetic and
      vascular function during pregnancy; 2) examine the role of endothelial function on the
      vascular effects of exercise during pregnancy.

      Study design:

      100 women (>18yrs) will be recruited in the first or second trimester (<20 wks). Women with
      multiple pregnancies will be excluded. Eligible women will be randomized between an aerobic
      exercise intervention (EXER) or no intervention (CTRL).

      Initial testing will take place between 16-20 weeks of pregnancy. Following initial baseline
      testing, women will be randomly assigned to an exercise intervention or no intervention.
      Women will receive an opaque sequentially numbered envelop with their allocation. Allocation
      will be determined using a randomly generated allocation sequence by an individual not
      associated with the research study. The intervention will consist of aerobic exercise
      equivalent to 50-70% of heart rate reserve, 3-4 times per week until the end of the study
      (34-36 weeks). For initial baseline testing (16-20 weeks) and at the end of the intervention
      (34-36 weeks), participants will visit the laboratory twice

      On Day 1, participants will complete a peak exercise test on the treadmill or bike to
      volitional fatigue to measures fitness and cardiovascular/cerebrovascular responses to
      exercise.

      On Day 2 Participants will arrive fasted (12 hrs) and blood samples will be collected.
      Anthropometrics, personal/familial history of hypertension and pregnancy complications will
      be recorded. Following a standardized breakfast, participants will undergo an assessment of
      reflex neurovascular control including a cold pressor test, flow mediated dilation and end
      expiratory voluntary breath hold. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity, ultrasound (blood flow
      and diameter of brachial, femoral and carotid arteries), blood pressure, heart rate and
      respiratory variables will be measured.

      OUTCOME/IMPACT

      Pregnancy is a stress-test for life; with women who develop complications during pregnancy
      having a higher risk for cardiovascular disease later in life. Exercise is well known to
      prevent cardiovascular disease through improvements in endothelial function and the
      sympathetic nervous system. Whether this improvements is also seen in pregnancy remains to be
      seen.
    
  