
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease of aging, affecting
      an estimated 5.2 million Americans and predicted to increase to 13.8 million by 2050. AD
      affects both cognition and emotion. Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) in AD are a major cause
      of burden to patients, caregivers, and society and are near-universal at some point in the AD
      course with > 97% of AD patients having at least one symptom reported on the Neuropsychiatric
      Inventory (NPI).

      One of the most troubling of these symptoms is agitation (Agit-AD), typified by a variety of
      problem behaviors including combativeness, yelling, pacing, lack of cooperation with care,
      insomnia, and restlessness. In community-based samples, Agit-AD is common. Agit-AD is
      associated with greater caregiver burden and shorter time to institutionalization, and there
      is a particularly acute need for interventions for severe Agit-AD in advanced dementia.

      While there are currently no FDA approved medications for Agit-AD, psychotropic medications
      are widely prescribed "off-label" to treat Agit-AD. The most commonly used classes of
      medications prescribed for "off-label" treatment are antipsychotics and antidepressants. The
      evidence to date for efficacy remains mixed. Antipsychotics appear to have some degree of
      efficacy, but the effects are not highly replicable and their use is associated with
      increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia. Antidepressants (particularly
      selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, (SSRI)s) appear to have fewer and less severe
      adverse effects compared to antipsychotics, as well as no known mortality risks, but are not
      without limitation. Therefore, exploration of alternative treatments for Agit-AD,
      particularly severe cases, is timely and warranted.

      Dronabinol (Marinol®) is FDA-approved for the treatment of anorexia/weight loss in AIDS and
      for nausea/emesis associated with chemotherapy, which is now being used off-label for
      Agit-AD. Dronabinol is a synthetic oral formulation of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), a
      psychoactive constituent of the cannabis plant that acts as a partial agonist at the Type 1
      (CB1) and Type 2 (CB2) endocannabinoid receptors. This pharmacology is appropriate for
      targeting Agit-AD because CB1 receptor agonism can produce anxiolytic and antidepressant
      effects and CB2 receptor agonism can be anti-inflammatory.

      The mechanism by which dronabinol exerts its effects on agitation and aggression in patients
      with dementia may occur through its action at the CB1 and/or the CB2 receptor. Agonists at
      the CB1 receptor in the brain improve anxiety and depression in humans as well as animal
      models. Dronabinol is an effective agonist at the CB1 receptor, which is generally specific
      to neurons and localized predominantly on the presynaptic terminal where it inhibits
      glutamatergic, dopaminergic and other neurotransmitter release. The CB1 receptor effects has
      been observed to mediate the observed anxiolytic and antidepressant effects of THC.
      Dronabinol is also an agonist at CB2, a potent anti-inflammatory receptor localized on
      activated microglia. Patients with AD have increased central and peripheral inflammation,
      likely as a result of the accumulation of beta-amyloid. Increased inflammation may have a
      number of behavioral effects that could drive the agitation and aggression in dementia
      patients. Dronabinol's effects at the CB2 receptor therefore could also produce changes in
      behavior in AD patients by reducing inflammation.
    
  