
    
      Surgical site infections (SSIs) are a devastating and relatively common surgical
      complication, occurring in 2% to 5% of patients undergoing surgery in the United States. SSIs
      can significantly increase patient morbidity, hospital stay duration, healthcare costs, and
      patient mortality (Anderson 2011).

      Negative Pressure Wound Therapy (NPWT) with Vacuum-Assisted Closure (VAC) is an established
      adjunctive treatment option for open wounds that offers the ability to promote healing.
      However, there is limited evidence for its utility with active infections. Wounds that are
      acutely infected or that contain an adherent biofilm present a challenging problem (Kim et al
      2015).

      Wound VAC therapy involves cleaning the wound, applying a custom-fit foam to cover the wound,
      placing a transparent drape over the wound and adjacent skin, and attaching tubing to connect
      the foam to a VAC suction canister. NPWT is achieved with a pulling force supplied by the VAC
      suction canister. Typically, suction will remain at a constant pressure until the dressing is
      removed. Continuous VAC therapy was recently reported to be more effective than standard
      moist wound care in surgical site infection after ankle surgery (Zhou et al. 2015).

      VAC therapy with instillations is a novel treatment option that provides the combination of
      negative pressure with intermittent instillation of a solution. Polihexanide (Prontosan®) is
      a modern antiseptic that combines a broad antimicrobial spectrum with low toxicity, high
      tissue compatibility, no reported adsorption and good applicability as solution, gel,
      ointment, foam and in wound dressing. Unlike other antiseptics, the antimicrobial efficacy of
      Prontosan® is not impaired in human wound fluid, human tissue or by high loads of blood or
      albumin. Furthermore, Prontosan® blocks the microbial attachment to surfaces and has been
      shown to effectively remove biofilms in vitro and in vivo (Hubner et al 2010).
    
  