
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to test whether artificial intelligence (AI) will
      identify existing SARS-COV-2 in nasopharyngeal swab samples using multi-spectral technology.

      Multi spectral testing device called AP-23 offers a non-invasive system for the diagnosis of
      SARS-COV-2 as a solution. This approach makes multi-spectral diagnostic methods suitable for
      use by any end user and allows the establishment of Internet of Things systems.

      COVID-19 contagion, which began in the northern hemisphere, continues to affect human health
      and the world economy in tremendously. Early diagnosis of the disease and, accordingly, the
      breaking of the transmission chain through filiation studies is very important for public
      health until an effective and safe vaccine is found. PCR tests, which we currently use as the
      gold standard to prove the existence of the virus, have not been sufficient to prevent the
      pandemic for the following reasons;

        1. PCR tests should be performed in a hospital or clinical setting

        2. There is a need for a custom kit

        3. There is a need for trained individuals to perform the test

        4. Standardization is not ensured for the receipt of test sample

        5. With at least 30 minutes for receipt of the test results, it takes up to 3-day

        6. testing is expensive and is usually applied to people who have symptoms and thus
           asymptomatic carriers are missed.

      The primary purpose of this study is to test whether SARS-COV-2 can be detected in
      nasopharyngeal swab samples using multi-spectral spectroscopy. Multi-spectral spectroscopy
      techniques are based on phenomena related to absorption, excitation and propagation of
      biomolecules. In short, by irradiating the sample with electromagnetic energy, some molecules
      absorb and re-emit less energetic radiation. This phenomenon is called radiation, and the
      radiated spectrum is a function of certain molecules that combine microorganisms / viruses.

      At this point, FableCorp's AP-23 system uses data from a minimally invasive or non-invasive
      simple measurement based on multi-spectral spectroscopy to calculate the presence or
      concentration of the desired product in a biological liquid as the solution to be used.

      The most unique approach of the FableCorp system, is to use the A.I. to detect the desired
      biochemical / cell / virus is to scan appropriate multi-spectral spectroscopy inputs. Data
      mining tools, where it simultaneously eliminates noise in raw data generated from various
      multi-spectral spectroscopy inputs, give very clear results. This approach makes
      multi-spectral spectroscopy methods suitable for use as point-of-care systems for any end
      user, and also leads to the realization of full automation (Internet of Things) systems.

      A.I. the base solution for Pointer signal detection / processing eliminates biochemical
      additives (kits) and specialized personnel.

      AI's evaluation of data takes place within 15-30 seconds. If the effectiveness of this
      application is proven in the diagnosis of SARS-COV-2, many more people will be able to be
      screened in a much faster time, much cheaper, and filiation will be applied to the necessary
      people much faster.

      Study Design Stage 1: Nasopharyngeal samples taken from COVID-19 suspected individuals will
      be given to artificial intelligence to learn positive and negative cases, and the learning
      results will be calculated as the learning accuracy for negative and positive samples.
      (n=4000, 2000 positive and 2000 negative)

      Stage 1, Output Parameters (Evaluation of Learning Performance of Artificial Intelligence):

      PCR results and AP-23 results obtained as a result of comparison; PCR Accordance, PCR
      Accordance for Negative Samples, PCR Accordance for Positive Samples.

      Stage 2: Based on the Artificial Intelligence Learning accuracy rate second stage of the
      study will be initiated. At this stage, Nasopharyngeal swab samples will be tested by PCR,
      AP-23, and the results will be tested and be compared and the sensitivity of detection
      compared with results obtained by (n=400, 200 positive and 200 negative)

      Stage 2, Output Parameters (Evaluation of Test Performance of Artificial Intelligence):

      Nasopharyngeal swab obtained by comparison with PCR and AP-23 results in samples;
      Sensitivity, Specificity, Negative Prediction Value, Positive Prediction Value.
    
  