
    
      The Health Teams Advancing Patient Experience: Strengthening Quality (Health TAPESTRY)
      involves recording a person's life and health goals, screening for health risks and needs,
      and then initiating a plan that supports achievement of those goals and address risks and
      needs. It includes four parts:

        1. Trained volunteers connect with clients (patients) in their home to gather health and
           social information and discuss and record life and health goals

        2. Interprofessional health care teams provide health care services to the client and
           focuses on a plan to support them on meeting their health goals

        3. Technology is used to collect and share information

        4. Community engagement connects clients with resources and supports in the community

      Initial findings from Implementation Phase I: 6-month unblinded delayed intervention
      pragmatic randomized controlled trial that took place in Hamilton, ON (HiREB File #14-726,
      Clinical Trials.gov NCT02283723) showed significant differences between the intervention and
      control group. Specifically, at 6-months the it was found:

        -  a reduction in the intervention group versus control group in self-reported time sitting

        -  an increase in minutes walking in the intervention group versus the control group

        -  an increase in number of primary care visits in the intervention group versus the
           control group

        -  a reduction in odds of people experiencing 1 or more hospitalizations in the
           intervention group versus the control group

      Understanding the feasibility of implementing Health TAPESTRY in other primary care sites is
      important to evaluate its potential as an approach. Replication of these initial findings are
      critical in terms of empirical support for the approach as well as spread and scalability in
      the wider primary health care system.

      Six sites have been identified as Health TAPESTRY-Ontario implementation sites. It should be
      noted that all appropriate site approvals will be obtained prior to implementation.

        1. Niagara North Family Health Team (Niagara-on-the-Lake) (Mary Keith, executive Lead; Dr.
           Karen Berti, family health team lead)

        2. McMaster Family Health Team (Hamilton) (Doug Oliver, family health team lead)

        3. Superior Family Health Team (Sault Ste Marie) (Michelle Brisbois, executive lead, Dr.
           Sarah White, family health team lead)

        4. Dufferin and Area Family Health Team (Dufferin County) (Lianne Barbour, executive Lead,
           Dr. Mercedes Rodriguez, family health team lead)

        5. Windsor Family Health Team (Windsor and surrounding area) (Sara Dalo, executive lead)

        6. Harrow Family Health Team (Harrow and surrounding communities) (Margo Reilly, executive
           lead, Dr. Alexandra Lindberg, family health team lead)

      A broad alliance between Canadian Red Cross and the Department of Family Medicine has been
      made, with Health TAPESTRY being a part of that alliance. As part of this partnership, the
      Canadian Red Cross partner will recruit, train, schedule, and retain community volunteers to
      operate in the 6 sites.
    
  