
    
      PART I

      Standard therapy for men presenting with metastatic prostate cancer is initiation of androgen
      suppression, whereas radiotherapy or surgery are currently used only in palliative efforts to
      relieve symptoms of bleeding, pain, or obstruction. The integration of radiation to the
      prostate has not been prospectively explored in the metastatic setting.

      Although there is no study evidence on the effect of local therapy on outcomes in metastatic
      prostate cancer, there are hypotheses-generating data that support this concept as an
      appropriate question to be answered in the context of a randomized trial. Prospective data
      show improved outcomes for men with locally advanced prostate cancer undergoing multimodality
      therapy with androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) or radiation therapy (RT) compared to
      systemic monotherapy alone . Continuing on the spectrum of the disease, recent data presented
      at the 2014 European Society for Medical Oncology Annual Meeting showed improved failure-free
      survival in men with clinically positive lymph nodes receiving combination ADT and RT versus
      ADT alone.

      Several population-based studies have shown improved overall survival in men with metastatic
      disease undergoing combination local and systemic therapy versus standard-of-care systemic
      therapy alone .

      Previous studies showed that initial event at a metastatic site is not the arrival of tumor
      cells but rather the clustering of bone marrow-derived cells . This cells make the local
      microenvironment of the secondary organ more receptive to tumor cell colonization and are
      stimulated by endocrine factors released by the primary tumor . According to this, local
      treatment of the primary tumor could postpone the formation and the growth of distant
      metastases; metastatic prostate cancer may represent a heterogeneous population and the
      impact of local treatment on disease progression on survival might be influenced by primary
      tumor characteristics.

      Many studies support the importance of integrins in prostate cancer development and
      progression by promoting proliferation, invasion and metastasis. Targeting specific integrins
      and their matrix interaction may provide a way to prevent metastatic bone prostate cancer.

      Serotonin or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is a well-known neurotransmitter that mediates a wide
      variety of physiological effects. An increase in the number of 5-HT-releasing neuroendocrine
      (NE) cells has been correlated with prostate tumor progression. However, it is particularly
      unclear whether released 5-HT or the release of 5-HT has a role in tumor cell growth .

      Serotonin is a well-known mitogen which mediates a wide variety of physiological effects via
      multiple receptors, of which receptor subtype 1 (5-HTR1) has been identified in prostate
      cancer (PC) cell lines. Recently, 5-HT has been found to show growth-promoting activity and
      to be functionally related to oncogenes .

      Previous studies showed that 5-HT stimulated the proliferation of prostate cancer cells
      mediated by 5-HT receptors 5-HTR1A and R1B and the secretion system of prostate NE cells is
      capable of 5-HT synthesis and metabolism plays a significant role in prostate tumor
      generation and progression. These findings are crucial for the development of potential drugs
      to slow prostate tumor progression.

      PART II

      Genomic alternations leading to development of metastasis, treatment resistance and ultimate
      disease progression include multistep mutational events on androgen signalling axis, in tumor
      suppressor genes and oncogenes and finally DNA repair defects which are currently being
      intensively studied using large multinational collaborative efforts (Robinson Cell 2015, PCF
      Stand up to Cancer West Coast Dream Team). Despite this growing body of data on biology
      behind the different phenotypes of metastatic prostate cancer seen in clinic, little is known
      on how discovery of specific gene/pathway involved in multi-step process of disease
      progression impact clinical decisions, especially in limited resource setting. Furthermore,
      there is a knowledge gap addressing the impact of ADT, which is mainstay of the treatment of
      metastatic prostate cancer, on mutational landscape in the context of hormone sensitive
      disease. For programs starting to embrace personalised treatment paradigm it is essential to
      gain insight how to integrate genomic data in the clinic and even more, to test whether
      genomic testing in the course of disease of patient with metastatic prostate cancer is
      feasible.

      Primary goal of this PART II study is to assess feasibility of genomic testing in the pilot
      group of five patients with prostate cancer who develop metastases from the large pool of
      patients with prostate cancer followed prospectively in our multidisciplinary clinic.
      Secondary goal is to determine level of genomic instability and principal mutational events
      in the metastases as opposed to the primary tumor, with addition of differentiating genomic
      outlook of metastases before and after emergence of castrate resistant disease.

      (i) Aims 1, 2, 3: To assess feasibility of genomic testing in the critical steps in
      management of the patient with metastatic prostate cancer and to characterise genomic
      signature of progressive metastatic prostate cancer

      In prospectively followed cohort of participants with prostate cancer, participants who
      develop metastatic disease will be identified, and approached for genomic testing before
      initiation of ADT. The investigators plan to characterize the genomics of metastatic prostate
      cancer using whole exome sequencing for single nucleotide variations (SNVs), gene
      rearrangements (GRs) and copy number variants/alternations (CNVs). Eligible participants are
      those who develop measurable and biopsiable metastatic disease (i.e. lymph nodes or bone
      lesion) that is detected using classical radiological staging methods (bone scan,
      computerized tomography) regardless of underwent primary treatment method (radical
      prostatectomy or radiotherapy). DNA will be extracted from archived tissue (formalin-fixed
      paraffin embedded - FFPE) for all biological specimens - either in dominant lesion in radical
      prostatectomy or diagnostic prostate biopsy and metastasis, using approved protocol for
      nucleic acid extraction. Availability of radical prostatectomy specimen and largest
      metastasis would allow for significant amounts of tissue for initial whole exome sequencing
      (WES) of the primary tumor and metastasis (200x deep sequencing relative to 30x normal blood
      DNA sequencing). The plan is to obtain tissue from the same metastasis after onset of
      castrate resistance (if clinically available) as well. Bioinformatics analyses will be
      performed to obtain panel of genomic changes encompassing whole disease spectrum. The
      investigators will then compare all these clonal signals to determine if these metastatic
      clones were present in primary tumor at the time of the initial diagnosis, prior to any
      treatment and if treatment-resistant clones were present early, before initiation of therapy
      for metastatic disease. This will test the concept of treatment (ADT)-induced selection
      versus adaptation during a course of ADT and develop novel signatures of SNV, CNV and GRs
      within two levels of metastases that have not yet been clearly defined.

      (ii) Aim 4, 5: Comparative analysis between DNA profile of primary tumor and metastases, so
      this project might augment knowledge on site-specific signature(s) predictive for this
      outcome in highly heterogeneous population of prostate cancer patients.

      Translational relevance

      The results generated from the proposed work might be relevant in the push towards
      personalised therapies in prostate cancer patient's management. Currently, there is no
      personalized approach in this area as all patients are being treated in the same manner
      regardless of underlying biology of the disease. In the case example of metastatic prostate
      cancer where ADT is primary treatment modality, there is a potential for clinical utility of
      genomic signature that predicts failure to hormonal therapy and gives insight of driving
      mutations of disease progression, from primary tumor to metastases. Finally, relevant data
      will be gathered on feasibility of genomic testing in the multimodal management of patients
      with metastatic prostate cancer for the first time in Croatia. There is also a point of
      assessing utility of obtained genetic information for presumable use of targeted therapies
      and making treatment decisions in the real-world clinical setting in transitional eastern
      European country with emerging pharmaceutical market.
    
  