
    
      Histological inflammation in patients with Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) appears to
      predict clinical progression and ultimate long-term response to various medical therapies,
      including finasteride. Discovery of a urine or serum marker of prostate inflammation will be
      an invaluable clinical tool to predict a man's risk of BPH progression and the efficacy of
      various medical therapies to reduce that risk.

      Specific Aim:

      We plan to determine if urokinase plasminogen activators (and/or other inflammatory markers)
      in serum, urine and tissue of patients can predict prostatic inflammation

      Background:

      Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) and Inflammation

      BPH is a common disorder of the prostate causing significant lower urinary tract symptoms and
      negatively affects the quality of life in a substantial proportion of men in North America.
      According to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), BPH affects more than 50% of men over
      age 60 and as many as 90% of men over the age of 70. Although there are numerous genetic and
      epigenetic changes associated with the progression of normal prostatic glandular formation to
      BPH, as early as 1994 our group suggested that the presence of prostatic inflammation could
      be associated with pathogenesis and progression of both histological and clinical BPH. We
      have demonstrated that histological prostate inflammation is very common in patients with BPH
      as well as patients who are both symptomatic and not symptomatic. Our local research group
      spearheaded an international consensus classification system for prostatic inflammation that
      we have subsequently employed in our ongoing study of over 8,000 men undergoing 3 serial
      biopsies over a 4 year period of time. The MTOPS BPH study data base subanalyses of the more
      than 1,000 men who underwent baseline biopsies strongly suggested that prostatic inflammation
      appears to be the strongest and most robust predictor of symptomatic progression as well as
      response to drug therapy. An analyses T-cell phenotypes, cytokine expression patterns and
      cellular cross talk in BPH tissues of 101 BPH patients and prostatic cell cultures showed
      that chronic inflammation triggers histological and clinical progression. The search for
      urine or serum biomarkers of prostatic inflammation is highly relevant to better target
      therapies for men with this common condition.

      Urokinase Plasminogen Activator System

      Proteolytic enzymes are required to mediate inflammatory cell infiltration in tissues, a
      process highly regulated by the cell surface-specific receptor (uPAR) a binding partner for
      the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA). Numerous previous clinical investigations
      have indicated that serum levels of the plasminogen activation system are an effective marker
      of inflammation in several disease processes including CNS inflammation, asthma, metabolic
      syndrome and pre-eclampsia. Very little data is available regarding the plasma levels of
      soluble uPAR in benign prostatic diseases, although one previous report suggested higher
      average levels of soluble uPAR in patients with lower urinary tract symptoms. Theses authors
      reported a wide variation of uPAR in BPH patients with some having greatly elevated levels
      while others had undetectable levels. However, the author's did not have pathological
      confirmation of their findings and could not quantify the level of inflammation in the
      prostatic tissue. We hypothesize that the absolute or relative serum levels of the urokinase
      plasminogen activator system, including uPA, uPAR and PAI-1,2 (inhibitors of the uPAR/uPA
      complex), are associated with inflammation in prostatic tissue.
    
  