
    
      Persistent poor outcomes for individuals with ADHD make it imperative to explore intervention
      approaches beyond medication, particularly interventions that could provide sustained
      improvements in control of hyperactive, impulsive and distractible behavior. Two lines of
      evidence converge to support a movement-based mindfulness training intervention as a
      potential stand-alone or adjunct treatment for the treatment of ADHD symptoms. First, decades
      of research, including from the CNIR, has established that many children with ADHD show
      impairments in motor control that parallel impairments in behavioral and cognitive control.
      Second, there is mounting evidence that movement-based mindfulness interventions are
      effective for enhancing behavioral control in adults, although there has been limited
      examination in children. Pediatric applications of mindful movement training remain
      under-utilized and under-investigated. Critically, there is currently no solid evidence
      regarding the long-term effects of mindfulness-based approaches for children with
      developmental challenges. By engaging in extended practice, the investigators expect to
      effect more readily quantified changes in motor system targets that mediate changes in
      cognitive ADHD symptoms. These lines of evidence suggest an outstanding opportunity for
      development of long-term novel treatment approaches for ADHD through engagement of the motor
      system.

      In this application the investigators propose to examine the efficacy of a specific
      movement-based mindfulness intervention for children with ADHD - Tai Chi. This approach was
      chosen for a number of reasons: 1) extensive documentation in the research literature, 2)
      engagement afforded by a martial approach to mindful movement, and 3) scalability given the
      existing availability of Tai Chi instruction in the United States and the ease of performing
      gentle Tai Chi movements even in the presence of physical limitation. The CNIR has evaluated
      the impact of Tai Chi training on specific motor behavioral (e.g., motor overflow, motor
      impersistence) and physiologic (TMS assessment of SICI) measures, as well as direct measures
      of clinical severity. Interestingly, while robust changes in ADHD symptoms have been
      observed, motor system targets have proven more challenging to characterize via laboratory
      methods in spite of obvious development of proficiency in tai chi movement skills. The
      investigators will therefore engage in a follow-on intervention of greater duration that may
      help elucidate changes that were difficult to detect following an initial 8-week tai chi
      intervention. By extending the intervention, markers useful in targeting and monitoring
      intervention may be better identified, with the overarching long-term goal of optimal use of
      Tai Chi and other movement-based approaches to help children with ADHD gain increased control
      of impulsive, hyperactive, and distractible behavior. The results of this investigation will
      lay the groundwork for future clinical trials evaluating movement training as an effective
      intervention for ADHD that could bolster (supplement) or even replace current standard
      treatments.

      Overview of intervention

      Tai Chi is a form of exercise with a variety of components and a strong cultural tradition.
      In consultation with experienced teachers of Tai Chi, the investigators have received
      consistent feedback that "martial applications," and specifically push hands, will likely be
      a valuable component of training for children with high distractibility. Central to the
      martial practice of Tai Chi is a collaborative game called "Push Hands," in which partners
      attempt to push one another off balance without the use of strong effort. Push hands, and
      other Tai Chi inspired "games" will be used to motivate engagement in slower, more focused
      movement training: Tai Chi warm-up, postural and breathing exercises, and a section of a Tai
      Chi form. These components are expected to collectively drive learning and development of
      behavioral control in the motor domain, with high potential for impact on other features of
      ADHD.

      The mindful movement instructors have extensive experience with youth instruction, as well as
      a keen understanding of the relationships between Tai Chi and other mindful movement
      practices (i.e. yoga). An assistant instructor will additionally be engaged to assist with
      maintaining class focus. All instructors will be certified for ethical treatment of human
      subjects, as well as standards for youth physical education. Sessions will be held in an
      athletic facility on the Kennedy Krieger Institute (KKI) Greenspring campus. The athletic
      facility was designed and equipped for children with a range of abilities as part of the LEAP
      Program (Life-skills and Education for Students with Autism and other Pervasive Behavioral
      Challenges). It is advantageously located on a campus that is very convenient for most
      Baltimore area families. The facility moreover has a high-impact floating rubber floor. This
      environmentally friendly and slip-resistant flooring provides cushioning, which reduces
      fatigue and potential for injury to the participants during physical activities.

      Recruitment and testing

      Participants will be recruited on a continuous and ongoing basis. During the intervention
      training, children will participate in the movement-based Tai Chi training for one hour twice
      a week. Up to ten students will participate per class. Students' families will be allowed to
      participate in the Tai Chi training & will therefore cap the total amount of people at each
      class at 20. It is expected that some students will be unable to successfully complete the
      study. Enrollment procedures will be adapted if necessary. As per the "intent to treat"
      approach, children will be included in primary analyses irrespective of adherence to protocol
      (i.e., attendance). However, children may be requested to leave the class if their absence
      becomes disruptive.

      Pre-intervention data collection will occur at the start of participation in the
      intervention. Further data collection will continue on a rolling basis with expected data
      collection every six months following at a Kennedy Krieger Institute facility. In total, it
      is anticipated that 50 participants complete the training and data collection.
    
  