
    
      The ICU Recovery program will measure psychological, functional and cognitive function and
      quality of life with health economic outcomes in critically ill patients 6 months after ICU
      admission. The initial pilot study will determine feasibility of the patient outcomes and
      measurement methods used. The study will consist of patients from three (3) Monash Partners
      ICUs (2 public and 1 private) as well as The Austin Hospital ICU. 10,000 ICU patients are
      managed by Monash Partners Academic Health Science Centre (MPAHSC) public and private
      hospitals each year, of which in the region of 8,500 patients survive. These patients add to
      the community burden and also influence community and rehabilitation costs. Ultimately, our
      goal is to establish a national National Health & Medical Research Council (NHMRC) -funded
      interventional study, led by Monash Partners. Our aim is to improve long-term patient
      outcomes through: improving sedation practices, delirium prevention, neurocognitive
      stimulation, early mobilisation, post-ICU follow-up, and functional and psychological
      rehabilitation. This study is required for the evaluation of hospital and post-ICU
      rehabilitation practice as there is insufficient evidence to alter current clinical practice.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary Aim:

      To determine the feasibility of the multi-centre ICU Recovery study using telephone follow-up
      to assess quality of life, global, psychological, cognitive and physical outcomes at six
      months following ICU admission.

      Secondary Aims

        1. To determine the recovery of ICU patients ventilated >24 hours at 6 months after ICU
           admission

        2. To identify risk factors for poor recovery in ICU patients

      Tertiary Aims

        1. To establish the likely recruitment rate for future studies of long-term outcomes

        2. To establish the resource requirements for long term follow-up (including staff,
           equipment and time taken for survey completion)
    
  