
    
      MolecuLight Inc. (Toronto, Canada) has recently introduced to the Canadian market an
      innovative imaging device, the MolecuLight i:X™ Imaging Device, that offers real-time
      detection of important biological and molecular information of a chronic wound, and could
      have significant impact on improving conventional wound care and management. The MolecuLight
      i:X Imaging Device is intended to assist clinicians during care and management of patients
      with chronic wounds by screening for the presence of potentially harmful bacteria levels. The
      device can capture and document either an image or video of the chronic wound where the
      presence of fluorescent bacteria appears under violet light illumination. This information
      can be used to guide a clinician to inspect, sample, debride or further evaluate areas within
      or around a wound where fluorescent bacteria are present. Though the MolecuLight i:X Imaging
      Device has been shown to be effective in controlled settings, this study is deploying the
      device in a larger population and evaluating the ability of the MolecuLight i:X device to
      positively predict the presence of bacteria in chronic wounds.

      The overall objective of this work is to evaluate the MolecuLight i:X Imaging Device in
      screening of chronic wounds for the presence of bacteria. The device is intended to guide the
      clinician to inspect, sample, debride or further evaluate areas within or around a wound
      where fluorescent bacteria are present.

      All imaging will be performed with the MolecuLight i:X Imaging Device at an appropriate
      distance from the wound of interest (8 - 12 cm), which is indicated by the range finder LED.
      Illumination is provided by two violet (405 nm) LEDs that produce a bright, but clinically
      safe, uniform illumination. Fluorescence imaging is performed on the camera in real-time
      while the device is in fluorescence mode and the room lights are turned off. If room ambient
      light cannot be eliminated to an acceptable level (indicated by the ambient light sensor),
      the MolecuLight drape must be used to achieve a dark environment. A standard measurement
      sticker will be placed adjacent to the wound within the field of view to act as a reference
      for size.

      All microbiological analysis will be performed as per clinic standard practice. Tissue
      samples will be analyzed for culture and sensitivity, yielding the species of bacteria
      present in the sample (if any), the susceptibility to various antibiotics and a measure of
      the bacterial load.
    
  