
    
      Exercise is a time- and cost-efficient alternative to other evidence-based treatments for
      anxiety (e.g., psychotherapy, pharmaceutical) that also is associated with physical health
      benefits. Exercise protocols such as resistance training (RT) are efficacious at reducing
      symptoms of anxiety-related disorders (ARDs); however, there are challenges associated with
      effectively implementing such protocols, most notably, that people with ARDs may avoid
      physical activity, including exercise. Emerging research suggests that people with ARDs
      experience exercise-specific anxiety (e.g., exercise-related worries, fear of physical
      sensations associated with exercise) and identify this exercise anxiety as a major
      contributor to their exercise avoidance. Consequently, exercise interventions for people with
      ARDs may need to target exercise anxiety to support long-term exercise engagement.
      Evidence-based cognitive-behavioural techniques (CBT), such as cognitive restructuring, and
      exposure, can alter maladaptive thinking and behavioural patterns associated with anxiety.
      Teaching people with ARDs how to apply CBT techniques to exercise anxiety could help increase
      and support their exercise behaviour; however, research has not been conducted to test this
      hypothesis. The primary purpose of this proposed randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to
      examine whether adding a form of CBT (i.e., the Unified Protocol) to a program for people
      with ARDs is associated with superior exercise engagement as compared to groups that do not
      receive this intervention. This proposed RCT will also evaluate potential predictors of
      exercise frequency for people with ARDs, such as exercise knowledge, exercise self-efficacy,
      and exercise motivation. A total of 90 physically inactive participants with ARDs will be
      randomized into a month of one of the following conditions: Unified Protocol + RT, RT, or
      waitlist (WL). All participants (except WL) will receive and follow a comprehensive
      instructional exercise program, consisting of three weekly full body RT workouts.
      Participants in both RT groups will also receive the guidance of a personal trainer during
      their first month of following this program. Participants in both RT groups will complete
      three exercise sessions each week for 4 weeks and these sessions will be composed of personal
      trainer and independent exercise. Participants in the Unified Protocol +RT condition will
      also receive four weekly individual CBT sessions designed to support adherence to the
      exercise sessions. Exercise frequency will be measured using the number of recorded exercise
      sessions (at least 30 minutes in length) and physical activity will be measured using the
      International Physical Activity Questionnaire-Short Form. Presence and severity of ARDs will
      be assessed using the Structured Clinical Administered Interview for the Diagnostic
      Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-5 (SCID-5) as well as disorder-specific self-report
      measures. Exercise anxiety will also be measured using a questionnaire designed for this
      study. Exercise frequency, anxiety disorder-specific severity, and exercise anxiety will be
      measured at baseline, weekly during the first month of exercise, and at follow-up at 1-week,
      1-month, and 3-months. Diagnostic status will be evaluated at baseline and at 1-week
      follow-up. Exercise knowledge, exercise self-efficacy, exercise motivation, and physical
      activity, will be measured at baseline, 1-week-, 1-month-, and 3-month follow-ups. Multilevel
      modelling will compare exercise frequency and anxiety symptoms, across groups, at each time
      point. This RCT will be the first to evaluate whether the Unified Protocol can support people
      with ARDs to increase their exercise engagement. If the Unified Protocol does increase
      engagement, the Unified Protocol could be used by researchers and clinicians alike to support
      individuals with ARDs interested in using exercise to manage their anxiety, but who are
      experiencing difficulty maintaining an exercise regime.
    
  