
    
      Several Surgical site infection (SSI) prevention guidelines have been published over the last
      10 years. Topical prophylaxis of the surgical wound with antibiotics or antiseptics is one of
      the most controversial measures proposed for SSI prevention. Two guidelines (British, Spanish
      Ministry of Health) explicitly recommend not irrigating surgical wounds with any product. The
      World Health Organization considers irrigation with antibiotics as an unresolved issue and,
      together with the Centers for Disease Control, recommends irrigation with a solution of
      povidone iodine. The other four guides do not mention the measure. In Catalonia, a SSI
      prevention bundle recommends wound irrigation with saline, with a low level of
      recommendation.

      Therefore, topical prophylaxis with operational wound washings with different solutions has
      been poorly studied, evokes contradictory recommendations and is not included in the majority
      of clinical practice guidelines for SSI prevention.

      However, there we detected a high level of use of wound irrigation at the end of an
      intervention in actual clinical practice. In a survey conducted by 2017 by our group and
      answered by 845 general surgeons of the Spanish Association of Surgeons, before closing the
      skin, most surgeons (80.6%) irrigate the subcutaneous layer of the wound, either with saline
      (51.2%), an antiseptic solution (23.8%) or an antibiotic solution (1.5%). Only 19.4% of
      respondents do not irrigate. In another survey in 2018, focused on colorectal surgeons of two
      Spanish associations, similar rates of irrigation with saline, antiseptic or antibiotic were
      used (55%, 28.9% and 2.2%, respectively) The hypothesis of the study is that topical
      prophylaxis of the surgical wound with irrigation with an antibiotic solution decreases the
      rate of postoperative infection in patients undergoing abdominal surgery with different
      levels of contamination.

      The study will compare the efficacy of topical prophylaxis in the surgical wound with an
      irrigation with an antibiotic solution in the incidence of SSI in abdominal surgery.

      It is a randomized, controlled, multicenter, blind study by observer and patient, with two
      parallel study groups, phase IV.

      Design of studies The project includes several prospective comparative studies on the effect
      of irrigation of surgical wounds with an antibiotic solution on the incisional SSI rate in
      abdominal surgery. The studies share a unique methodology applied to various types of
      abdominal surgery with different expected SSI rates and different risk factors.

      In the trials, the irrigation of the wound with 0.9% physiological serum will be compared
      with the irrigation with an active principle solution of a pharmaceutical specialty of proven
      efficacy by parenteral route, administered topically and dissolved in physiological serum.

      Four studies on different types of operations are defined according to the risk of infection:

        -  Study 1. Complex abdominal wall surgery

        -  Study 2. Cesarean section

        -  Study 3. Colorectal elective surgery

        -  Study 4. Emergency abdominal surgery For each study two groups will be formed, the study
           group (irrigation with antibiotic solution) and the control group (irrigation with
           saline).

      The project has received the Spanish Drug Agency authorization as a low intervention study, a
      grant from the Spanish Ministry of Health and the Ethics Committee authorization of the
      Hospital General of Granollers.
    
  