
    
      Hypothesis and Significance: Specific and consistent fluid dynamic patterns and drag forces
      magnitude and distribution can be identified in the PLZs of the aortic arch providing
      valuable insights for proper PLZ and stent-graft selection during TEVAR planning.

      Specific Aim: 1) To assess the drag forces acting on different PLZs of the aortic arch by
      means of Computed Fluid Dynamic (CFD) analysis of preoperative phase contrast-Magnetic
      Resonance (pc-MRI) and Computed Tomography Angiography (CTA) images. The specific goal is to
      identify the correlation between different magnitude and direction of migration forces and
      geometrical patterns of the arch to identify suboptimal landing zones for stent-graft
      deployment. 2) To develop and perform in-silico simulations of the deployment of different
      commercially available endografts with patient specific boundary conditions. The exact goal
      is to assess the impact of the mechanical characteristics of a specific device on the vessel
      wall by structural finite element analysis (FEA), and on the drag forces in different landing
      zones by CFD, to identify the more suitable endograft. 3) To assess the drag forces exerted
      postoperatively on the endograft by means of CFD analysis based on follow-up images (i.e.,
      pc-MRI and CTA). The specific goal is to evaluate the predictive value of the drag forces
      measured preoperatively in the PLZs, and validate the results from in-silico simulations.

      Experimental Design Aim 1: Preoperative medical images acquisition: CTA will be performed
      using a 16-slice unit (150 mAs, 110 kVp; acquisition thickness 5 mm, pitch 1.5;
      reconstruction thickness 1.2 mm), before and after intravenous administration of 100 mL of
      iodinated contrast material. MRI will be performed using a 1.5-T unit with 40-mT/m gradient
      power (Magneton Sonata Maestro Class, Siemens, Erlangen, Germany) and a four-channel
      cardio-thoracic coil. ECG-triggered, free-breathing through plane, and in-plane pc-MRI
      sequences will be performed for phase-velocity mapping of aortic and branches flow with the
      following technical parameters: TR/TE = 4/3.2 ms, thickness 5 mm, velocity encoding from 150
      to 350 ms, and temporal resolution 41 ms.

      Medical images processing: Ad hoc processing of preoperative CTAs, based on 3D multiplanar
      reconstruction, will be performed with 3Mensio Vascular software 8.0® (3Mensio Medical
      Imaging B.V.), which provides specific functions for automatic measurements. Patients will be
      stratified according to Aortic Arches Classification (AAC). Radius of curvature, PLZs
      angulation (tangent angle function) and tortuosity (tortuosity angle function) will be
      calculated. 3D segmentation of CTA, aimed for in-silico simulation purposes, will be
      performed by the software Mimics v18.0 (Materialise, Belgium). The 3D model of the aortic
      lumen in stl format will be used to create CFD suitable computational domain, called mesh by
      vmtk toolkit (www.vmtk.org). In-silico simulations: State-of-the-art CFD simulations for
      aortic hemodynamics will be performed by the CFD solver developed by the project EmPaTHIC
      (Emory Pavia Testing Hemodynamics) that updates LifeV Application Blood Flow through the
      collaboration among Emory University, Atlanta,Georgia,USA (Prof. A. Veneziani) and University
      of Pavia (UniPV) (Prof. F. Auricchio). The analysis will run on the cluster available at
      UniPV Nume-Lab. The project foresees to increase the computational power by adding another
      node to the available UniPV cluster and also the set-up of a server at Policlinico San Donato
      (PSD) dedicated to data storage and visualization of the results. Computation of drag forces:
      The post-processing of the simulations will be performed by python-scripts based on
      Visualization Toolkit (VTK) libraries and ParaView software (Kitware® Inc., France). Such an
      analysis aims at computing semi-automatically the aortic centerline, splitting the aortic
      arch in four regions (i.e., landing zones), and calculating the magnitude and direction of
      the drag forces in each zone, through the whole cardiac cycle. Preliminary analysis will be
      performed to assess if the systolic peak is the most relevant time instant for our purposes,
      in order to possibly reduce the post-processing efforts.

      Experimental Design Aim 2: Medical images acquisition: The pre-operative images acquired for
      Aim 1 will be used. Medical images processing: The 3D models of the aortic lumen derived from
      the processing performed for Aim 1 will be used. In-silico simulations, Two types of analysis
      will be performed: 1) Simulation of TEVAR by FEA to predict endograft apposition; 2) CFD
      analysis to compute post-TEVAR hemodynamics. These simulations will be performed in a serial
      manner defining a computational framework, which is already developed and tested. FEA of
      TEVAR: As previously reported by our Group, the geometrical models of the implanted
      endografts resemble the main features of real endografts samples; mechanical properties are
      derived from available literature. ABAQUSv16 (Simulia, Dassault Systèmes®, FR) is used as FEA
      solver. CFD for post- TEVAR hemodynamics: Starting from the configuration of the endograft
      predicted by the FEA, the computational domain, resembling the aorta with the endovascular
      implant, is build using image-distance technique. The analysis is then run as described in
      Aim 1. Computation of drag forces: As described in Aim 1, the developed post-processing tool
      will be used to compute the magnitude and direction of the drag forces along the arch, and
      also on the inner surface of the deployed endograft.

      Experimental Design Aim 3: Postoperative medical images acquisition: CTA and MRI studies and
      ad-hoc analysis of the images will be performed at 6-month follow-up in recruited patients as
      described in Aim 1. In-silico simulations: CFD analyses will be performed as described in Aim
      1. Medical images processing: The same approach and the same tools proposed in Aim 1 will be
      used. Segmentation of post-operative CTA will be performed to reconstruct a 3D model of the
      aortic lumen and of the struts of the deployed endografts. Computation of drag forces and
      validation: As in Aim 1, 3D segmentation of post-operative CTA combined with flow data from
      pc-MRI will be used to run CFD analysis in order to: 1) Assess the predictive value of the
      drag forces measured preoperatively (Aim 1); 2) Validate the results from in-silico
      simulations (Aim 2).
    
  