
    
      Omega-3 fatty acids reduce triglycerides (TG) in a manner similar to fibric acids by lowering
      hepatic TG release, reducing VLDL production, stimulating lipoprotein lipase and enhancing TG
      clearance. Although statins are widely utilized among DH patients, our overall population,
      even those with CHD, have fairly low levels of LDL-cholesterol (Krantz et al, 2004). This
      likely reflects our population that is predominantly Latino with a high incidence of
      metabolic syndrome. Among our patients, we often achieve LDL-c NCEP targets, yet secondary
      goals for non-HDL, HDL, and TG are rarely achieved. This is an unmet opportunity given the
      strong independent contribution of non-HDL (McQueen et al, 2008), HDL (D'Agostino et al,
      2008) and TG (Nordestgaard et al, 2007, Tirosh et al, 2007) to CHD risk, which may be
      particularly important in Latino populations.

      The study drug (LOVAZA) improves the TC/HDL ratio which is the strongest predictor of CHD
      events based on the ~30,000 patient Interheart study noted above. LOVAZA has no hepatic P450
      effects and for that matter no meaningful clinical adverse effects, making it advantageous
      for use in a population with multiple co-morbidities who are at risk for drug-drug
      interactions and have difficulty with medication adherence. Given the high incidence of
      insulin resistance among DH's predominately Latino CHD population, and strong lipid (Harris
      et al, 1997; Davidson et al 2007) as well outcome data in CHD (GISSI investigators, 1999)
      this agent has potential clinical utility in our population.

      To date, improved outcomes in non-CHD populations have not been demonstrated prospectively
      with LOVAZA. Although recent data suggest promising effects on inflammatory makers such as
      LpPLA2, the impact of LOVAZA on pre-clinical markers of atherosclerosis such as BAR and CIMT
      have not been well characterized particularly among Latinos. Moreover, changes in
      inflammatory markers have been limited and more expansive evaluations are currently
      available. Against this background we assessed whether LOVAZA might improve atherosclerotic
      risk via improvement in flow mediated dilation of the brachial artery as well as through
      reduction in a comprehensive inflammatory marker panel.
    
  