
    
      INTRODUCTION

      The Echolaser system (ELS - Elesta SpA. 50041, Calenzano (FI), Italy ), which consists of
      Echolaser X4 plus Echolaser Smart Interface is a new device for minimal invasive procedures.
      The system induces tissue coagulation thru a continuous 1064 nm laser wave. Light tissue
      interaction is reliable, reproducible, and safe. The laser fiber tip induces necrosis near
      the tip and coagulative effects deeper in tissues thru heat ablation. The body cleans up
      treated tissue over time. Much experience is gained with laser application in different
      organs. A preliminary study conducted in Europe by the investigators showed promising results
      (1)

      About 4 out 5 men experience bothersome alterations in their voiding pattern. This pervasive
      condition usually begins in the 5th decade of life. These patients usually express complaints
      of Urinary urgency, frequency and nocturia as the sensation of incomplete voiding and
      decrease in the force of stream leading to stranguria. Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms (LUTS) is
      the common term that represents constellation of these symptoms, most triggered by prostate
      enlargement, commonly referred as Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH). Today management of BPH
      may call for medications such as alpha-blockers, 5 alpha reductase inhibitors,
      phosphodiesterase inhibitors or combination of them. In addition, there surgical approaches
      to improve BPH, they are based on cytodestruction or excision of prostate tissue. These
      surgical approaches range from office based minimally invasive to hospital based robotically
      conducted. Office based minimally invasive approaches are favored by patients given their
      low-risk nature, safety profile and avoidance of general or spinal anesthesia. Furthermore,
      minimally invasive approaches aim to preserve the bladder neck, this avoids alterations in
      sexual function such as retrograde ejaculation. Excision or resection of the bladder neck is
      a major step of definitive invasive approaches such as transurethral resection of prostate or
      surgical excision of prostate - robotic or open. Bladder neck resection portends a
      significant and noticeable change on a male lifestyle, represented by absence of antegrade
      ejaculation. This is a tradeoff that evokes hesitation in many men to resolve their BPH.
      Minimally invasive procedures have emerged aiming to relieve BPH without sacrificing the
      bladder neck. They carry two major advantages: preservation of ejaculation and absence of
      major anesthesia requirements, thus amenable to office setting execution. The latter provides
      significant saving to the health system and decreases post-operatory risks of adverse events
      in a not insignificant manner. The fundamental question raised to minimal invasive procedures
      relates to degree of subjective and objective response, durability of BPH relief, ability to
      wean off from medications and impact on quality of life, from a two domain - urinary and
      sexual perspective.

      The ELS is a novel disruptive approach that allows a transperineal approach and provides for
      a safe and simultaneous multiple laser fiber energy delivery that translated in expediency
      and decreased procedure times. ELS has been safely conducted in men with BPH in the
      ambulatory setting, as a procedure called SoracteLiteTM transperineal laser ablation (TPLA),
      performed in men with LUTS due to BPH that were suboptimal candidates for surgery, they
      exhibited good tolerability with minimal adverse event profiles. To the investigators
      knowledge, there is no data or evaluation of its safety profile if/when conducted in an
      office setting under local anesthesia. Therefore, in this study the investigators aim to
      assess efficacy, tolerability, response and safety profile of SoracteLite™ TPLA conducted in
      men with LUTS due to BPH in the office setting.

      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to assess efficacy, tolerability, short
      term response and safety profile of SoracteLite™ TPLA for LUTS due to BPH in healthy men. The
      secondary objectives are to evaluate quality of life changes in erectile and sexual function
      as the well as imaging volumetric changes in prostate size.

      Study design: This study is set up as prospective, single center, interventional study.

      Study population: The study will be offered to men ≥ 40 years of age, with moderate or severe
      international prostate symptoms scores and concomitant objective decrease in flow studies of
      at 30% consistent with bladder outlet obstruction (Qmax of 5 - 15 mL/sec, Elevated voiding
      pressures consistent with bladder outlet obstruction) Study Intervention Upon meeting
      inclusion and exclusion criteria, subjects will undergo prostate transperineal laser ablation
      planning and execution under local anesthesia using the ELS. Planning and execution will aim
      to destroy the prostate adenoma or transitional-anterior zones while sparing critical
      structures such as the urethra, neurovascular bundles, and bladder neck. The investigators
      anticipate between one and four laser fibers would be placed in the prostate to induce the
      laser coagulative necrosis required to achieve desired response.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Fundamental study parameters are efficacy and safety.

      Efficacy will be measured in changes- improvement in IPSS score and uroflowmetry parameter as
      Qmax and Post void volume profile of the procedures measured by successfully completed
      SoracteLiteTM TPLA procedures. For safety, the main study parameter is the number of grade 3
      or worse adverse events based on the CTCAE v5.0 within 30 days post procedure.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The risks for participation in this study are related to the SoracteLiteTM TPLA
      procedure. Laser fibers are introduced in the prostate by needles and these could injure and
      damage surrounding tissues. For example, plausibly, perforation of the urethra could lead to
      hematuria, clot retention and urinary tract infections. The laser energy delivery could
      damage vessels and nerves evoking erection changes, even loss. Thermal injuries from the
      laser could lead to communication with rectum leading to infections and fistulas.
      Furthermore, the prostatic tissue may become quite edematous triggering urinary retention
      that would require an indwelling catheter for several days or the weeks and may even trigger
      a need for of transurethral resection.

      Granted, several precaution actions will be undertaken to reduce the patients' risk, such as:

        1. Patients will be instructed to self-administer a fleet enema, the evening before and
           morning of the procedure.

        2. The procedure will be performed under local anesthesia; thus, patient will be awake and
           able to provide feedback while it takes placed.

        3. Single dose intravenous antibiotic prophylaxis with either cefuroxime or gentamicin will
           be provided.

        4. Echolaser Smart Interface will be used for the planning of the treatment taking care of
           the safety distance in longitudinal and transversal US planes.

        5. The laser fibers will be placed following the plan under live co-registered ultrasound
           guidance.

        6. Laser ablation will be monitored in real time and restricted to the safety margins
           established on the plans, thus other critical anatomic areas will be spared.

        7. Patients will be transferred to a recovery room and be discharge when subjectively they
           feel better and objectively have stable vital signs and full respiratory, cardiac,
           neurological and musculoskeletal capacities.

      The following represent advantages of SoracteLiteTM TPLA: minimal invasive procedure;
      performance under local anesthesia; the intent is to treat transition-anterior zone, so
      called surgical capsule; urethral sparring, preservation of bladder neck and antegrade
      ejaculation, limited to absent need of indwelling catheterization.

      The investigators aim to streamline the follow up following standard of care. Patients will
      be instructed to call if they perceive any adverse event. Patients will be contacted 30 days
      after procedure and an adverse event questionnaire will be administered. Subjective quality
      of life survey instruments will be administered 6 weeks and 3, 6 and 12 months from procedure
      date. Flow and volumetric studies will be conducted 3 months from procedure date.

      In Conclusion, SoracteLiteTM TPLA will expose patients to intervention risks. However, is the
      investigators estimation and bias these will be favorable or equal to those observed with
      compared available standard minimal invasive treatment approaches. The burden is in our
      opinion acceptable.
    
  