
    
      CLINICAL APPOINTMENT A linked anonymised Case Report Form will be completed using participant
      answers and relevant aspects of their electronic care record. This will involve questions
      about the patient's demographics, chemotherapy history, cardiac symptoms, past medical
      history, medication history and family history.

      Consenting patients will then have

        -  height, weight and blood pressure taken

        -  cardiovascular and respiratory examination Participants will then undergo

        -  SF36 quality of life questionnaire

        -  6 minute walk test

        -  Electrocardiogram by a trained researcher

        -  Venesection- 40ml blood sample from a peripheral vein by the trained researcher

      INVESTIGATIONS

      Participants will be invited for:

        1. 24 hour holter monitor- arrhythmia assessment

        2. Echocardiogram- diastolic and systolic function assessment, valvular analysis, global
           longitudinal strain

        3. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the heart- volumetric analysis, late gadolinium
           enhancement and STIR imaging assessments. As part of the scan the patient will require a
           venflon to be inserted into a peripheral vein for gadolinium injection. A safety
           questionnaire will be sent to the patient prior to attendance as part of standard MRI
           procedure. All safety aspects will be re-assessed on the day of attendance by a trained
           radiographer

      BLOOD SAMPLE ANALYSIS Blood samples will be sent for standard of care and cardiovascular risk
      assessment. Tests include a full blood picture, urea and electrolytes, C-reactive protein,
      iron profile, B12 and folate, lipid profile, HbA1c, NT-proBNP and high sensitivity troponin.

      Additional disease associated biomarkers for example sST2, MPO, and IL6 will be quantified
      using immunoassays. Biomarker discovery, including transcriptomics and proteomics will be
      carried out to identify signatures that could predict cardiotoxicity, subclinical
      dysfunction, and cardiomyopathy.
    
  