
    
      This is a quality improvement project aimed at building upon prior telephone-based patient
      follow-up. The research team will be launching a text messaging interface to collect and
      describe patient pain, functional status, and opioid usage with patients undergoing elective
      surgical procedures within the departments of orthopaedics and sports medicine, as well as
      patients treated in neurosurgery, general surgery, and the ED who own a mobile phone and can
      receive SMS text messaging (as measured by pain scale, patient reported functional status,
      and proportion of opioids used). Additionally, this project aims to evaluate the current
      standard of care of prescribing opioids to patients among orthopedic surgeons and emergency
      medicine providers for acute pain.

      BACKGROUND

      The study team has shown the ability of gathering patient level data from telephone follow up
      to guide physician behavior. In recent work, providing orthopaedic surgeons with data on
      patients' unused prescribed opioids has changed practice - patients now reporting a change
      from twenty unused pills down to seven unused pills.

      Though effective, telephone follow up is laborious and time consuming. The researchers seek
      to test an alternative approach for a rapid, scalable means of engaging patients and
      gathering patient level data to help inform provider practice.

      Text messaging offers a unique opportunity to quickly capture, analyze, and understand the
      patient experience. The research team has demonstrated the successes of communicating with
      patients via text-messaging by guiding patients through pre- and postoperative recovery via
      the program "Engaged Recovery at Penn" (ERAP). This program has enrolled over 900 patients
      across surgical specialties with automated text-based reminders. The researchers will
      investigate the intersection of digital patient centered communication, acute pain, and
      consumption of prescribed opioids to ultimately help inform providers and health systems.

      METHODS

      The study team will contact adult patients (age ≥18) undergoing elective surgical procedures
      within the departments of orthopaedics, sports medicine, and neurosurgery, as well as
      patients undergoing procedures in general surgery and the ED who own a mobile phone and can
      receive SMS text messaging at the University of Pennsylvania or Penn Presbyterian Medical
      Center. The researchers will build upon previous work by Dr. Delgado in which patients were
      approached for follow up data collection via telephone communication and translate the
      telephone script into a functional and approachable text messaging script. The researchers
      will work to build an automated bi-directional text script hosted on a secure web portal. The
      research team will test the ability to engage patients in these departments, gather data, and
      measure satisfaction with the automated text-messaging system.

      Data collected through the online texting portal will be used to demonstrate the ability of
      bi-directional texting to enhance data collection and then the researchers will utilize this
      data to develop, implement, and evaluate the use of EMR defaults for opioid prescribing for
      specific surgical procedures or acute painful conditions.

      In addition, the study team will build and deploy an online survey containing the script
      questions in order to test an alternative to capturing patient data. Using block
      randomization, a subset of patients will receive either 1) a link to the online survey or 2)
      the bidirectional text messing script. Patient questions will not change but the method of
      data collection will test which approach yields a higher response rate. The study team will
      collect both response and completion rates and evaluate which data collection method is more
      effective for gathering data using an automated system. Insights gained from this comparison
      will be used to develop the automated text system and methodology.
    
  