
    
      Methods and procedures

      Study design:

      We conducted a prospective study in obesity WHO III° with consecutive enrollment. The study
      protocol was approved by the local ethics committee. Patients were recruited within an
      integrated concept designed for individuals seeking weight reduction. This network
      encompassed a complex approach by nutrition specialists, bariatric surgeons,
      endocrinologists, ENT specialists and psychologists. Patients could present themselves at any
      of the aforementioned specialists for study inclusion. Those who consented were followed,
      after conventional weight loss (diet, activity) or bariatric surgery 1 year later.

      Evaluation:

      Using a standardized form, we evaluated the medical and obesity history as well as associated
      metabolic complications (impaired glucose metabolism, elevated Cholesterol and NASH). We
      further inquired about regular medication, related diseases and classic cardiovascular risk
      factors (Framingham risk score: cardiovascular disease, family history of cardiovascular
      disease, nicotine abuse and arterial hypertension).

      Anthropometry - Subsequently, a complete physical examination was conducted, taking into
      consideration the use of an adequate cuff to measure blood pressure. We further recorded
      circumferences of the neck, arm and waist (midway between the lower rib margin and iliac
      crest, with a measuring tape at the end of gentle expiration). Body weight and height were
      determined by calibrated scales to the nearest 0.1kg and cm, respectively.

      Metabolism - Metabolic analysis was performed after an overnight fast. Baseline measurements
      included blood glucose, insulin, cholesterol, HDL, LDL, triglycerides and liver enzymes.
      Every individual without known diabetes was screened for the presence of impaired glucose
      metabolism by means of an OGTT. To exclude endocrine obesity we measured TSH levels and
      performed a one mg dexamethasone suppression test.

      Intima media thickness (IMT) - Measurement of the intima media thickness of the right carotid
      artery was performed in order to detect subclinical vascular disease. Imaging protocol was
      executed according to the consensus statement of the American Society of Echocardiography
      (5).

      Structural and functional endothelial dysfunction: Arterial and venous ratio (AVR) and
      flicker reaction - DVA was used for digital fundus imaging as well as conventional fundus
      examinations and retinal vessel analysis (RVA, imedos, Jena, Germany). Structural endothelial
      dysfunction was determined by arterial-venous ratio (AVR). After mydriasis with phenylephrine
      10% and tropicamide 1%, images centred on the macula, the inferior arcade and the optic disc
      were recorded in both eyes. AVR was calculated by software after marking arteries and veins
      within two diameters of the optic disc (RVA, imedos, Jena, Germany).

      Functional endothelial dysfunction was measured by flicker reaction of retinal vessels. This
      technique records dilatation of retinal vessels during and after exposure to flickering
      light. We used 1.5 mm segments of vessels within two disc diameters, which showed no crossing
      or bifurcation, and had a tortuosity < 30°. After baseline calibration, flickering light was
      shown for 20 seconds via interruption of continuous light at 12.5 Hz. During this period and
      for further 80 seconds, vessel diameter was continuously measured. To achieve higher
      reliability, this procedure was performed three times. Flicker of the artery and vein was
      expressed as the maximum in percent of the baseline diameter. Adjustment for eye movement was
      performed automatically by software. Details of this technique were published elsewhere
      (6-7).

      BIA - Body composition was determined preoperatively by BIA. All patients were required to
      rest for 30 minutes, after which BIA was performed by applying 4 silver electrodes, with 2
      detecting electrodes placed at the ulnar aspect of the right wrist and the right medial
      malleolus. After connecting the electrodes to the multiple-frequency BIA instrument (BIA
      2000, Data Input, Darmstadt, Germany), measurements were recorded in real time via computer.
      The calculations for BCM, ECM, ECM/BCM, fat and TBW were performed using Nutri 2000 software
      (Data Input, Darmstadt, Germany).

      Endpoints - The endpoint of our study was the identification of cardiovascular risk and
      metabolic complications or factors representing these risks in a population with obesity WHO.
      Therefore, we measured parameters of the metabolic syndrome, endothelial dysfunction and
      subclinical atherosclerosis. Patients, who gave informed consent, are followed after
      conventional weight loss (diet, activity) or bariatric surgery yearly. The decision for the
      type of intervention is connected to a complex process. According to the German obesity
      society subjects with more than 40 kg/m2 and patients with a BMI > 35 kg/m2 with obesity
      associated disease have the indication for bariatric surgery. After drafting of an expert's
      opinion for coverage of the costs by the health insurance patients may attend bariatric
      surgery. Because of the noncommittal character of the guideline of the German obesity society
      to health insurances not all patients will be able to get coverage for their surgery costs.
      Patients who are not able to get cost coverage or refuse surgery represent the conservative
      treatment (activity, diet). The interventional group will be treated by bariatric surgery
      (sleeve gastrectomy, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass). Therefore, the study has observational
      character.
    
  