
    
      The prevalence of preoperative anxiety in adults is estimated between 60 and 80% and prevents
      a good integration of the information delivered, while seeking more attention from
      caregivers. In addition, anxious patients require the administration of higher doses of
      hypnotics at anesthetic induction. The pain expressed in the postoperative period is
      proportional to preoperative anxiety, with a slower recovery kinetics responsible for
      prolonged stay in the recovery room. Finally, the incidence of chronic pain is correlated
      with the intensity of preoperative anxiety.

      While the recommendations of the European Anesthesia Society (ESA) emphasize the importance
      of managing preoperative anxiety, this dimension is often overlooked and existing methods of
      assessment are time consuming and sometime inaccurate.

      Objective screening with dynamic monitoring of the level of anxiety in real time is the
      necessary step to ensure accurate detection and personalized management of the emotional
      state of patients before performing an invasive procedure.

      Anxiety is an emotional state reflecting an imbalance of cortico-frontal regulation on the
      limbic system. The interaction between these two neuronal systems is expressed in particular
      by the intensity of the vagal tone and the autonomic nervous system. Exploring the balance
      between sympathetic and parasympathetic systems is a promising avenue of exploration for
      identifying, predicting, and treating anxiety.

      Two reliable and easy-to-use devices analyzing the expression of the autonomic nervous system
      validated in the analysis of nociception in the awake patient or under general anesthesia are
      marketed:

      A. Analgesia Nociception Index (ANI) (MDoloris Medical Systems) analyzing oscillatory changes
      in heart rate as a function of respiratory time, namely the heart rate variability (HRV) B.
      Algiscan (IDMed) analyzing pupil responsiveness to nociception

      The use of these devices in conscious pre-operative patients could allow a reliable and
      objective detection of anxiety while following its kinetic evolution over time. The purpose
      of this project is to evaluate the validity of these two devices in the context of
      preoperative anxiety. After receiving clear information and giving their written agreement,
      patients will be included in the study by the anesthetist physician. During the anesthesia
      consultation, the included patients will be subjected to a self-assessment Hospital Anxiety
      Depression Scale (HADS) questionnaire of level of anxiety.
    
  