
    
      Parabolic flights make it possible to produce a reduced gravity environment on Earth. With
      the specially adapted A310 Zero-G, each parable produces a period of zero gravity ("0g"). The
      duration of the periods of reduced gravity is about 21 seconds. Each parable begins and ends
      with a resource (hyper-gravity) at 1.8 g; each resource lasts about 20 seconds. A typical
      flight lasts from two to three hours and includes 30 parabolic maneuvers, usually all in
      weightlessness.

      Participants will arrive at Novespace, at Bordeaux-Mérignac Airport, no later than 2 pm the
      day before the first flight of the campaign in order to participate in the security briefing.
      A delay of at least 2 hours will be granted before collection of their written consent.

      Before the flight, the participants will necessarily participate in the safety briefing (2h,
      organized by the Flight Manager (Novespace) and will meet the research team to become
      familiar with the procedures and devices that will be used during the experiment.

      On the day of the flight, the participants will have to arrive at the premises of Novespace
      before 7.30am.

      Before the flight, they will be prepared for flight recordings. Seven self-adhesive
      electrodes will be placed on the chest to measure the electrical activity of the heart and
      the blood volume in the chest.

      A venous blood test to measure blood markers of oxidative stress will be performed by a
      doctor or a registered nurse.

      Doppler and ultrasound operators will make blood flow measurements in the vertebral, internal
      carotid, posterior cerebral and anterior cerebral arteries) using an echo-doppler device.
      These measures are strictly non-invasive and painless. Participants can take medication
      against motion sickness under the supervision of the flight doctor. The duration of the study
      is a little less than 6 hours (2 hours before the flight, 3 hours flight, 30 minutes after
      the flight).

      Preparation before parables, in the plane. In addition to the participant, two other subjects
      will be the participants of the flight, one will also be a subject, and the third will be a
      rescue participant who will be tested in case the subject or his partner falls ill during the
      flight. The flight includes 31 parables, but the first participant will be subject only for
      16 parables and the second for 15.

      When it is not subject, the participant is rid of equipment and can join the so-called "free
      floating" area to enjoy the sensations of weightlessness.

      After takeoff, but before the first parable the subject (or the other participant) will sit
      on a chair built for the flight. His pelvis will be immobilized by restraints to prevent him
      from floating freely during the weightlessness.

      It will be connected to different measuring equipment, all non-invasive:

      An arterial pressure sensor on the finger. Electrotrocardiogram (connected to 3 self-adhesive
      electrodes) Thoracic impedance meter (connected to 4 self-adhesive electrodes) An oxygen
      scope (for measuring the expired CO2).

      During the flight During each phase of weightlessness, an operator will apply on the neck or
      skull of the subject an ultrasound measurement probe (as on the ground). We recommend that
      participants do not move their head, especially during periods of hypergravity, to prevent
      motion sickness.

      Except in exceptional circumstances, the aircraft normally completes the mission, but it must
      be clear that the subject is free to withdraw his consent and participation in the experiment
      at any time, without prejudice to him or to any other reason, without justification,
      including during the flight.

      After the flight Following the flight, a second venous sample will be made to determine the
      effects of weightlessness on the markers of oxidative stress.
    
  