
    
      HIV infected individuals are at increased risk for developing atherosclerosis, which is a
      build-up of plaque within the arteries and which may lead to various forms of heart disease.
      It is unknown, however, why individuals with HIV are more susceptible to heart disease
      compared to others. Atherosclerosis may develop more rapidly due to HIV infection, the use of
      antiretroviral medications, or a combination of the two. HIV lipodystrophy syndrome, in which
      body fat distribution is altered, may also be a risk factor. If heart disease is not properly
      treated, individuals place themselves at risk for heart attacks, strokes, or organ failure.
      In previous studies involving HIV and heart disease, women have been under-represented. This
      study will examine a group of women participating in the Women's Interagency HIV Study
      (WIHS), which is examining the impact of HIV infection and its clinical, laboratory, and
      psychosocial effects in women. By using ultrasound imaging, the progression of subclinical
      atherosclerosis will be assessed. WIHS study data will then be used to examine possible
      relationships between atherosclerosis and factors associated with HIV infection in women. The
      results of this study will have major implications for the development of strategies to
      predict, prevent, or reverse atherosclerosis and heart disease in HIV infected individuals.

      This 4-year study will enroll 750 HIV infected women and 250 HIV uninfected women who are
      participating in the WIHS study. Participants will undergo an initial ultrasound imaging of
      the neck to measure the size and thickness of the arteries. They will return for a repeat
      ultrasound at Years 2, 3, and 4 to assess any progression of atherosclerosis. Data from the
      participants' biannual WIHS study visits, including HIV medication usage, viral load and CD4
      test results, and occurrence of AIDS and other illnesses, will be reviewed. Results of
      participant's inflammation marker tests, which may indicate the presence of atherosclerosis,
      including white blood cell count, C-reactive protein, E-selectin, and intercellular adhesion
      molecule 1, will also be reviewed.
    
  