
    
      Children with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) have been shown in many studies to have reduced
      muscle mass, strength and function. This could potentially contribute to the fatigue and low
      quality of life reported in these children. However, to date interventions to improve muscle
      mass, strength and function in these children have not been established. Whole body vibration
      (WBV) has been demonstrated to improve walking speed and distance, muscle mass and strength,
      spasticity and balance in children with other neuromuscular conditions.

      In this proposed preliminary matched-pairs interventional trial, the investigators aim to
      identify whether a home-based WBV therapy programme (9 minutes twice daily for 5 days per
      week) in addition to standard daily muscle-strengthening exercises improves muscle mass,
      strength and function over a six month period in children with NF1 aged 6-16 years, compared
      to daily muscle-strengthening exercises alone. Participants must have evidence of poor muscle
      strength, with grip force used to assess for this. Key exclusion criteria include significant
      learning difficulty or autistic spectrum disorder which would create difficulty in use of the
      WBV device, focal skeletal abnormalities and contraindications to WBV therapy.

      The primary outcome measure will be dynamic muscle function using mechanography to measure
      peak power per kilogram on single two-legged jump.

      Secondary/exploratory outcome measures include the 6-minute walk test (to assess lower limb
      muscle function and mobility), accelerometer data (as a surrogate marker of type and duration
      of physical activity), hand-held dynamometry (to assess upper limb grip force and endurance),
      measures on mechanography other than jumping power (to further assess dynamic muscle
      function), MRI for muscle cross-sectional area and signal intensity, fatigue and general
      well-being questionnaires and parental reports of attention and cognition.

      These measures will be undertaken at baseline, on completion of intervention at 6 months, and
      again 3 months after to identify whether there is any sustained effect of the intervention
      following removal. Halfway through the intervention period (3 months), participants will also
      be invited just to complete the primary outcome of single two-legged jump on ground reaction
      force plate, as an interim measure.

      The investigators hypothesise that WBV therapy will result in increased muscle mass and
      passive muscle strengthening of the lower limbs, which will translate into better muscle
      function in the lower limbs compared to baseline data and control group. As it is
      hypothesised that muscle weakness contributes to the fatigue demonstrated in children with
      NF1, the investigators would expect to see an improvement in their fatigue scores, which,
      combined with greater muscle strength, will translate into greater physical activity. The
      investigators hypothesise that WBV may also have an impact on muscle function in the upper
      limbs through central sensory stimulation and neuronal rewiring. Many children with NF1 have
      evidence of attention problems, and the investigators hypothesise that this may improve with
      WBV, again through central neuronal rewiring.

      The trial will be conducted in compliance with this protocol, Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
      and applicable regulatory requirements.
    
  