
    
      Prematurity is the leading cause for mortality and morbidity in newborns with very low birth
      weight (VLBW) infants (< 1500g birth weight) at highest risk. Ten to thirty percent of VLBW
      infants are also born too small for their gestational age defined by a birth weight below the
      10th percentile. In daily neonatal intensive care, consequential long term-follow up and most
      studies all growth restricted premature infants are treated the same, importantly this
      includes the nutritional management after birth. However, different groups of patients with
      different causal pathologies are subsumed under the definition growth restriction or born too
      small. One group of growth restricted patients refers to the infants born constitutionally
      small or small for gestational age (SGA). The other group refers to infants with an
      intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) caused by a complex antenatal pathology. Consequently,
      the nutritional management after birth is very important to minimize the potential risk for
      developing obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases later in life and to achieve optimal
      growth. So far we do not consider the different underlying pathomechanisms of growth
      restriction in our nutritional concepts for preterm infants and therefore cause long-term
      consequences. The European society of pediatric gastroenterology, hematology and nutrition
      (ESPGHAN) recommends to feed enhanced nutrients up to 52nd week of gestation in all growth
      restricted preterm infants- regardless if they are SGA or IUGR premature. Actually, reliable
      data guaranteeing that the recommended "enhanced nutrients strategy" providing extra
      nutrients up to 52 weeks for SGA and IUGR infants is safe and effective for both groups in
      terms of long-term growth and metabolic programming are lacking.

      A total of 348 preterm infants born and discharged below the 10th percentile at term will be
      included in the study and stratified according to SGA or IUGR by a combination of antenatal
      ultrasound parameters and growth parameters (including 10% screening failures and 20% drop
      out. Furthermore IUGR and SGA growth restricted preterm infants will be stratified according
      to breastfeeding or formula feeding and randomized in one of the following groups: Standard
      nutrients group (breastfeeding or starter formula) or Enhanced nutrients group (fortified
      breast milk or post-discharge formula. Body composition measurements will be performed by air
      displacement plethysmography - a non-invasive method. Anthropometric measurements will be
      performed by measuring weight, height and head circumference. Furthermore, parameters of
      metabolic programming, metabolomics, the stool microbiome and neurodevelopmental outcome will
      be determined. Additionally, the stool microbiome will be characterized from infant stool
      samples and compared between the two groups. After an interventional period of three months
      infants will be followed up until 2 years of age.
    
  