
    
      Methodology Sample Is a prospective longitudinal. Forty patients with COPD to moderate to
      very severe obstruction (ratio [FEV1/FVC] <70%) and FEV1 <80% predicted (RABE et al., 2008),
      age ranging from 50 to 80 years old, both sexes will be assessed and treated. All subjects
      carry out spirometry before and after bronchodilator (BD) under medical supervision.

      Experimental Procedure Patients with COPD will undergo a physical assessment of general and
      specific respiratory system and receive guidance on the tests and treatments proposed in this
      study. All of them will be instructed to maintain the medication prescribed.

      The evaluation will include the following tests: medical history, St George's Respiratory
      Questionnaire, Medical Research Council (MRC), assessing the strength and endurance of
      respiratory muscle, spirometry, maximal exercise testing endurance test of the lower limbs,
      the Six Minute Walk Test and plethysmography of inductance.

      Assessment of respiratory muscle strength The assessment of respiratory muscle strength will
      consist of measures of maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximal expiratory pressure
      (MEP), performed according to Black and Hyatt (1969). The measures will be carried out using
      a manometer scaled in cmH2O (Ger-Ar) fitted with an adapter nozzle, which contains a hole two
      millimeters in diameter to eliminate the pressures of facial muscles. The subjects carry out
      the measures in standing posture using a nose clip. The MIP will be measured by a maximal
      inspiration, preceded by a maximal expiration starting from residual volume, and MEP will be
      measured by a maximal expiration, preceded by a maximal inspiration based on the total lung
      capacity. The inspiratory and expiratory must be maintained for at least one second. Will be
      performed at least three and maximum five measures will be considered acceptable if there is
      a difference of 10% or less between them. The highest value will be used for statistical
      analysis. The patients will be allowed a one-minute rest between measurements.

      Assessment of respiratory muscle endurance Incremental and constant tests After measurements
      of MIP the endurance of the inspiratory muscles using the PowerBreathe® will be evaluate.

      The test starts with incremental 10cmH2O (which is the minimum load of the unit) and every
      two minutes there will be an increase 10cmH2O, and conducted a further minute before
      increasing the load. The biggest load you can sustain for at least one minute is the maximum
      that will be considered. The test will be held constant at 80% of the pressure in the
      incremental test, to determine the time limit for implementation, considering 30 minutes as
      the maximum time (FIZ et al., 1998; RAMIREZ-SARMIENTO et al., 2002).

      In both tests the breathing pattern will be free and the breathing frequency will be noted.
      Besides the pressure generated will be monitored by a manometer attached to PowerBreathe® .

      Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT) 6MWT will be performed on a track 30 meters long and 1.5 wide,
      with markings every 2 feet. Tests will be conducted in accordance with the standards of the
      ATS (2002). Every two minutes will be checked the oxygen saturation (SpO2), heart rate (HR),
      the sensation of dyspnea and fatigue of the lower limbs by Borg CR10 scale. These measures
      associated with the measurement of blood pressure (BP) will be checked before, immediately
      after the test and after six minutes. It will be two tests on the same day, at intervals of
      30 minutes, to avoid the effect of learning on test performance. It will be considered the
      greatest distance for statistical analysis.

      Maximum Exercise Testing To perform this test will be followed by the Standardization of
      techniques and equipment for exams exercise testing and spirometry (2003), and will be
      conducted in a room properly heated, keeping the temperature around 18 ° C and 22 ° C and
      relative humidity air between 50% and 70%.

      It will be performed by a cardiologist on a treadmill using modified Bruce protocol, which is
      a good option for those patients with low functional capacity, such as the elderly and people
      with respiratory and cardiovascular disease. This is a protocol in which both the speed and
      the incline of the treadmill are increased every three minutes and modified. The two earlier
      stages have lower velocities and inclination (SAMORA e VERSIANI, 2008; NEDER e NERY, 2003).

      In addition, to monitoring the continuous ECG tracing at rest and at each stage are checked
      the values of SpO2, dyspnea and fatigue of the lower limbs by Borg CR10 scale and BP.

      The criteria for interrupting the test are: elevated blood pressure (DBP) to 120 mmHg,
      sustained drop in systolic blood pressure (SBP), marked elevation of SBP 260mmHg up, reaching
      the maximum HR (HRmax) provided by age, fall in SpO2 below 80%, ECG abnormalities, the
      patient's request due to physical exhaustion, dyspnea disproportionate to the exercise
      intensity, pain in lower limbs, dizziness or chest discomfort; failure of monitoring systems
      and / or record.

      Test of endurance of the lower limbs This test will be conducted on a treadmill for up to 30
      minutes at an intensity of 80% of the speed and slope obtained at maximal exercise testing.

      Inductance plethysmography For this test it will use a system of respiratory inductive
      plethysmography (LifeShirt; Vivo Metrics; Ventura, CA), whose sensors are two electrical
      conductors sewn to a sleeveless vest, and stay in the region of the nipples and the umbilical
      region. There are three electrodes placed in predetermined areas and connected for a
      portable, battery, which records the SpO2, electrocardiogram (ECG) and body movements in
      three axes (CLARENBACH et al., 2005).

      This is a highly reliable instrument used to monitor the volume and time components of
      breathing pattern and thoracoabdominal configuration. It is based on changes in
      cross-sectional area that occur in the compartments of the chest and abdomen. The method is
      minimally invasive, requires no mouthpiece or nose clip (except for calibration), and there
      is therefore need for direct contact with air. The accuracy of plethysmography to provide
      tidal volume values is satisfactory and depends on an initial calibration and proper
      maintenance of the same body position. The equipment will be calibrated in advance the
      measures according to the instructions of the device in all subjects. In this study, the
      following variables will be analyzed by plethysmography, tidal volume (Vt), respiratory rate
      (RR), minute ventilation (VE), the ratio between time to reach peak inspiratory flow and
      inspiratory time (PIFT / Ti), flow mean inspiratory (Vt/Ti), percent rib cage contribution to
      tidal volume (%RC/Vt) and phase angle (PhAng) (CLARENBACH et al., 2005; PARREIRA et al,
      2005).

      These measures will be carried out at 90 degrees sitting and standing, resting and doing
      exercises with their arms, and walking, to see whether dyssynchrony occurs. The signal
      acquisition will total duration of 30 minutes.

      Perception of dyspnea assessed by different scales and questionnaires. It will perform a set
      of ADL tasks (making bed, taking shower, putting on clothes, brushing teeth and combing hair,
      lifting containers on a shelf at eye level and lifting and lowering containers on a shelf
      above the scapular waist) patients will evaluate by Borg scale for dyspnea and a portable
      system will be used to assess ventilator parameters, oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide
      production and heart rate during standardized: wake up and making bed, taking shower and
      washing one's back, putting on clothes, brushing teeth and combing hair, lifting and lowering
      containers on a shelf at eye level, lifting and lowering containers on a shelf above the
      scapular waist and hanging. No specific amount of time is stipulated; the patient is only
      instructed to complete the task. During the set of ADL a metabolic system (MedGraphics VO2000
      St. Paul MN, USA) is used. In addition, these patients will self-report the MRC, LCADL scale
      and PFSDQ-M, before the start of the protocol to investigate the difference and the
      correlation between these instruments.

      Training Program After testing and pre-experimental tests, subjects will be randomly divided
      into two groups. The treatment program will consist of sessions with duration of about 1 hour
      or 1 hour and 30 minutes depending on the training, three times per week on alternate days
      for 16 consecutive weeks, totaling 48 sessions.

      Before the beginning and end of the sessions will be verified measures of blood pressure
      (BP), SpO2, HR. Measures of HR, SpO2 and BP will be obtained during the session for
      monitoring.

      All patients will undergo a general physical training. In this training will be conducted
      stretches of upper and lower limbs, treadmill exercise with HR between 70-80% HR max obtained
      at maximum exercise test, which could be carried out continuously or with intervals, up to a
      maximum of 30 minutes, and resistance exercises to LL, using free weights, with progressive
      increases of ½ kg each month to reach 2 kg in the last month.

      A group will be associated with inspiratory muscle training (GTMI). The inspiratory muscle
      strength training will be done in the POWERbreathe ®, and the patient will breathe for two
      minutes, seven times with one minute rest between them, with 15% MIP, the first week, then,
      increased 5-10% to reach 60% of the initial MIP after four weeks. After the first month,
      every fifteen days the charge will be adjusted to 60% of the new value of MIP. The breathing
      pattern will remain free, but the patient will be instructed to release all the air, not to
      hyperventilate (HILL et al, 2007).

      In other group of patients will be associated a specific exercise program for mobility and
      biomechanics of the rib cage, called respiratory exercise group (GCR), as exercises of the
      trunk and upper limbs, and stretching of large muscle groups of the trunk.

      Upon completion of the protocol will all be assessed.
    
  