
    
      Publicly available outcome assessments for transplant programs do not make salient that some
      programs tend to reject many of the hearts they are offered, whereas other programs accept a
      broader range of donor offers. The investigators use empirical studies to test whether
      transplant center performance data (i.e. transplant and waitlist outcome statistics) that
      reflect center donor acceptance rates influence laypersons to evaluate centers with high
      organ decline rates less favorably than centers with low organ decline rates. 1000 lay
      participants will be recruited from Amazon Mechanical Turk and randomized to one of five
      different information presentation conditions:

        1. Condition 1 ("baseline" condition): view only combined transplant survival (e.g.
           transplant survival rate not stratified by number and quality of donor hearts accepted
           at each center)

        2. Condition 2: view combined transplant survival + total survival (e.g. overall survival
           rate at each center, computed from survival rates of both transplant and waitlist
           patients)

        3. Condition 3: view only stratified transplant survival (e.g. transplant survival rate
           stratified into patients who received excellent donor organs and patients who received
           less than optimal donor organs)

        4. Condition 4: view stratified transplant survival + total survival

        5. Condition 5: view only total survival

      Participants will be given an introduction to the donor organ match process, then asked to
      view the table of transplant outcomes corresponding to the condition they were randomized to.
      Each participant is asked to choose between two hospitals: one hospital with an
      non-selective, "accepting" strategy (takes all donor heart offers), and one hospital with a
      more selective, "cherrypicking" strategy (tends to reject donor offers that are less than
      "excellent" quality). In order to identify the decision process that underlies this choice
      pattern, the investigators will examine a putative mediator. Specifically, participants will
      be asked to rate the extent to which they considered patients' chances of getting an
      excellent heart, avoiding a less-than-optimal heart, and getting any type of heart when
      making their choice between the two hospitals.
    
  