
    
      Most bladder cancer patients (74%) present with NMIBC where the cancer is limited to the
      lining or support layer of the bladder. High-grade NMIBC is treated initially with endoscopic
      resection and intravesical immunotherapy, followed by bladder instillations of BCG. Most
      patients with high-risk, high-grade NMIBC are able to retain their bladders and avoid more
      invasive treatments. However, 24-61% of patients will have their cancers recur within 12
      months of treatment with BCG (BCG failures), and they have limited treatment options.
      National guidelines recommend consideration between two alternatives: additional medical
      management and radical cystectomy (removal of the bladder). Selecting between these options
      involves weighing the risk of progression of bladder cancer and loss of a window of potential
      cure versus the risk of morbidity and loss of quality of life (QOL) with bladder removal.
      This complex decision-making engages patients and their caregivers, who may be impacted by
      the urinary, sexual, and bowel dysfunctions that can occur with NMIBC treatment.

      The investigators will evaluate this research question on a large scale in real world
      practice settings including academic and community-based practices and examine
      patient-centered outcomes. The investigators have engaged stakeholders with diverse
      perspectives relevant to this research question, including patients, caregivers, national
      patient advocacy organizations, national medical specialty organizations, guideline
      developers, health care payers, and industry. By engaging broad expertise relevant to this
      research question, the investigators will ensure that the study results will help NMIBC
      patients whose cancer recurs after BCG treatment make more informed decisions that improve
      the health outcomes that are important to them.

      CISTO is an observational study that will not affect the treatment that patients chose.
      Patient surveys will occur at study entry and at follow-up assessments for up to four years.
      There will also be a qualitative sub-study that will include interviews of approximately 50
      patients and 25 caregivers recruited from the observational cohort study.
    
  