
    
      As the burden of liver disease reaches epidemic levels, there is a high unmet medical need to
      develop robust, accurate and reproducible non-invasive methods to quantify liver tissue
      characteristics for use in clinical development and ultimately in clinical practice.
      Repeatability and reproducibility validation studies are important in evaluating metrics,
      such that any changes can be confidently attributed to disease progression or regression,
      rather than inter-examination variability in the instrument.

      Magnetic resonance (MR) techniques offer an attractive non-invasive option for liver
      assessment. Multiparametric MRI is a safe and non-invasive method for quantification of liver
      tissue characteristics. Images for quantification of hepatic fat from proton density fat
      fraction (PDFF) maps, T2*, and iron-corrected T1 (cT1) can be rapidly obtained during
      abdominal breath-hold acquisitions without the need for contrast agents or additional
      external hardware. Iron correction of T1 is necessary to address the confounding effects of
      excess iron, which is common in chronic liver disease. LiverMultiScan™ (LMS, Perspectum
      Diagnostics, Oxford, UK) is a software application that can be used with supported MR-systems
      to correct T1 for the effects of excess iron, and thus, to calculate cT1 from T1 and T2*
      maps, and standardise to a 3T field strength.

      This method has been shown to have high diagnostic accuracy for the assessment of liver
      fibrosis compared to histology, predict clinical outcomes in patients with mixed liver
      disease aetiology, stratify patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and cirrhosis,
      reliably exclude clinically significant liver disease and is cost-effective in diagnosing
      NAFLD.

      In addition to demonstrating accuracy, imaging biomarker validation requires precision and
      repeatability (US Department of Health and Human Services, 2015). From a clinical
      perspective, it is essential to ensure that there is good inter-examination repeatability, so
      that any changes seen can be correctly attributed to disease progression or regression,
      rather than inter-examination variability. This is tested by examining the closeness of
      repeated measurements made in different MR examinations (with both subject and coil
      repositioning) over a time frame in which physiologic conditions are assumed constant.

      This study aims to systematically test the repeatability and reproducibility of each
      multiparametric MRI measurement, cT1, T2* and PDFF, corresponding to hepatic
      fibro-inflammation, iron and fat respectively, across scanner field strength, manufacturer
      and model in human participants and phantoms.
    
  