
    
      The cytogenetic hallmark of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is the reciprocal translocation
      between chromosomes 9 and 22 creating the Philadelphia (Ph(1)) chromosome. The BCRABL1 fusion
      gene is the result of this translocation and encodes for a constitutively active tyrosine
      kinase responsible for the development of CML. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting
      the protein product of this aberrant gene, the BCRABL-1 protein, have revolutionized the
      therapeutic approach to chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Treatment with the first FDA approved
      TKI, imatinib mesylate (Gleevec, Novartis), in chronic phase CML results in a projected 8
      year overall survival of 85%. Recently, two second generation TKIs, Dasatinib and Nilotinib,
      have been approved for use in newly diagnosed chronic phase CML, as a result of studies
      showing improved molecular and cytogenetic outcomes. Importantly, in each of the above
      studies there was a substantial number of dropouts due to drug intolerance and resistance,
      among other reasons. In a prospective observational study of 169 CML patients, only 14% of
      patients were fully adherent with prescribed imatinib. Moreover, one third of patients were
      considered to be non-adherent, which is similar to the proportion of dropouts in the landmark
      studies on TKIs in CML. Thus, it is clear that there is a subgroup of patients who do not
      properly adhere to treatment. This is especially significant because the contemporary
      approach to CML in complete cytogenetic remission (CCyR) and major molecular remission (MMR)
      necessitates long-term, chronic treatment with TKIs.

      Therefore, although hematologists have the luxury of an armamentarium of highly effective
      drugs, one of the most challenging aspects of treating CML is the management of
      non-compliance to TKI treatment. TKI-induced adverse effects are only one of a wide spectrum
      of reasons for non-adherence to TKI treatment.

      Recently several studies have demonstrated the prognostic importance of adhering to imatinib
      treatment. In a pivotal study of 87 chronic phase CML (CP-CML) patients in CCyR, an adherence
      rate of > 90% strongly correlated with the 6 year probability of achieving MMR (94.5% vs.
      28.4% when adherence rates were ≤ 90%). Non-adherence to imatinib treatment also adversely
      affects event free survival and is associated with loss of CCyR in patients on long term
      treatment. These data support the intuitive concept that CML can be effectively treated with
      the drugs currently available, as long as patients adhere to treatment. Moreover,
      non-adherence to imatinib treatment has been associated with increased economic burden and
      healthcare costs. Consequently, TKI adherence is an attractive potential target for
      intervention.

      Non-adherence to medication is an intricate problem that is influenced by the physician, the
      healthcare system, and economic and social factors. Other medical disciplines have assessed
      various modes of improving adherence to therapeutic regimens, with varying success. A recent
      study assessing adherence-related behavior among CML patients, demonstrated that among a
      multitude of reasons for non-adherence, patient forgetfulness and drug side effects were the
      most common causes of unintentional and intentional non-adherence, respectively. Several
      methods of improving adherence among patients with CML were retrospectively assessed by Moon
      et al. Subjects in the intervention arm were more likely to receive prescriptions for
      imatinib than those receiving standard care (98.2 ± 0.03% vs. 79.3 ± 0.16%). Although there
      was no difference in adherence to prescribed treatment between the two groups, the overall
      compliance, a composite endpoint of the above two outcomes, was markedly improved in the
      intervention group ((93.0 ± 2.3% vs. 76.2 ± 7.4%, P = 0.001). Recently, Gater et al conceived
      a conceptual model aimed at improving adherence in CML patients treated with 1st and 2nd
      generation TKIs, based on a systematic review of the literature. However, there are currently
      no prospective data evaluating whether adherence in CML can be influenced by active
      intervention.

      Study Hypothesis:

      Adherence to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) is associated with improved outcomes in
      chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients. Hence, improved adherence might improve CML
      patients' prognosis.

      The investigators hypothesize that adherence-encouraging interventions improve adherence to
      TKIs in CML patients.

      Study Objective:

        1. Primary Objective: By means of a prospective before-after study, the investigators aim
           to assess whether specific adherence-encouraging interventions improve TKI adherence in
           patients with CP-CML treated by these agents. The investigators will target previously
           documented reasons for non-adherence 11 with interventions that were selected based on
           prior experience in other medical disciplines and will evaluate their contribution to
           patients' adherence to treatment.

        2. To better understand non-adherence in CML and pinpoint independent risk factors for
           non-adherence

        3. To validate questionnaires assessing adherence, and evaluate whether they could be of
           use in indentifying patients at risk for non-adherence

        4. To compare adherence to second generation TKIs with adherence to imatinib

        5. To assess the role of a clinical pharmacist in preventing potential drug interactions

        6. To determine whether the intervention has a long term effect on adherence during one
           year of post-intervention follow up

        7. To estimate long term effects of adherence on clinical, cytogenetic and molecular
           outcomes
    
  