
    
      The Pelvic Mass study is a prospective, multi-center, double blind, statistically powered
      clinical trial that will enroll female subjects ≥18 years of age presenting to a gynecologist
      or gynecological oncologist with a pelvic mass (defined as a simple, complex or a solid
      ovarian cyst / pelvic mass) who are scheduled to undergo surgery.

      The serum tumor marker CA125 has been the most widely used marker in ovarian cancer, however,
      it is not sufficiently sensitive or specific for the detection of early stage disease. The
      levels of soluble mesothelin related peptides (SMRP) and HE4 have also recently been found to
      be elevated in women with ovarian cancer. The results of a pilot study suggest that the use
      of HE4 may improve the sensitivity of CA125 and provide for stratification of patients
      presenting with a pelvic mass into high, intermediate and low risk groups.

      HE4 and CA125 serum levels will be evaluated in this study for their ability to stratify
      patients presenting with a pelvic mass into risk groups with low, intermediate or high
      probabilities of harboring an ovarian cancer at the time of initial presentation. The
      algorithm using these two serum markers to stratify patients that was developed using pilot
      study data will be evaluated in this prospective multicenter pelvic mass study. We will also
      evaluate the inclusion of additional biomarkers and risk factors, such as ultrasound score,
      age, and menopausal status, into the algorithm to see if there is any improvement in the
      stratification of patients into the risk groups.

      The primary objective of the study is to estimate the risk of finding ovarian cancer at the
      time of surgery in pre- and post-menopausal women presenting with pelvic mass. Multiple serum
      biomarkers (CA125 and HE4) will be evaluated to estimate the risk that the patient is
      harboring an ovarian cancer at the time of presentation.

      The secondary objective of the study is to develop a multivariate predictive algorithm
      combining CA125 and HE4 with radiological imaging results, and patient risk factors (such as
      age, menopausal status and ethnicity) to estimate the risk of ovarian cancer, including low
      malignant potential (LMP) / borderline tumors, at the time of surgery in patients presenting
      with a pelvic mass.

      The exploratory endpoints will include the evaluation of serum, plasma and/or urine levels of
      CA125, HE4 and other additional novel biomarkers such as SMRP, alone and in combination with
      radiological imaging results and subject risk factors to determine their ability to estimate
      the risk of cancer at the time of surgery in patients presenting with a pelvic mass.
    
  