
    
      The (SARS CoV-2) virus is spreading globally, threatening all healthcare systems. Many
      healthcare systems and organizations are using different protocols and measures to fight the
      COVID-19. Hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir and other antiviral medications are currently under
      research investigations. Natural honey has been well known for its high health properties in
      diabetes, nutrition, dyslipidemia, skin lesions and it got FDA approval for topical wound
      treatment in 2007 as the most potent antimicrobial agent. Honey has been previously
      considered as an alternative for acyclovir in the treatment of herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1)
      and it also demonstrated for its significant antiviral effect against varicella zoster virus
      (VZV). Many studies have demonstrated the broad spectrum antimicrobial effect of honey as an
      antibacterial, anti fungal, antiviral and antimycobacterial. The National Institute for
      Health and Care Excellence (NICE) and the Public Health England (PHE) guidelines recommended
      honey as a first line of treatment for acute cough caused by upper respiratory tract
      infection which is currently a cornerstone symptom in COVID-19 infectious disease. Moreover,
      natural honey should no longer be used as "alternative" and deserves to gain more attention
      by scientists and researchers. The aim of this trial is to study the efficacy of natural
      honey in treatment of patients infected with COVID-19 in comparison with current standard
      care.

      Methods:

      This will be a randomized , multi center, double armed clinical trial, patients will be
      randomly assigned to two groups on 1:1 basis. Natural honey group will include patients
      receiving standard care and added intervention in the form of natural honey in a dose of
      1gm/kg/day (previously used safely in small studies) divided into 2 to 3 doses for continuous
      14 days. The other arm is the arm receiving the standard care according to the center
      protocol.

      Our primary outcome is days for recovery using the parameters: turning from positive to
      negative swaps, days from fever to no fever and lung inflammation recovery in x ray or CT,
      our secondary outcome is the 30 days mortality rate. Data will be collected and statistically
      managed using STATA blindly from who received the intervention.
    
  