
    
      Primary Objective:

      To determine whether the administration of a B2 agonist by metered dose inhaler with spacer
      is as effective as the administration of B2 agonist by nebulizer for the treatment of an
      acute asthmatic episode in children seeking medical care in the Pediatric Emergency
      Department of Suez Canal University Hospital.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Comparison of patients' visit duration in the ER room between the two groups.

        2. Comparison of hospitalization rate between the two groups.

        3. Comparison of parent/patient satisfaction between the two groups. Study design
           Single-blinded randomized control trial.

      Study location This study will be conducted in the Pediatric Emergency Department in Suez
      Canal University Hospital.

      Study population This study will include patients presenting with an acute exacerbation of
      asthma at the Pediatric Emergency Department in Suez Canal University Hospital starting July
      2017 until our sample size is fulfilled.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Children ranging from 2 - 14 years old. Both genders will be included. Patients with an acute
      exacerbation of asthma.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Patients with arrhythmia and cardiac diseases. Patients with thyroid diseases. Patients with
      bronchiolitis, pneumonia. Patients with status asthmaticus requiring immediate pediatric
      intensive care unit hospitalization.

      Sampling All children fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be included consecutively until
      the calculated sample size has been reached.

      Sample size

      The sample size will be calculated using the following formula:

      (Dawson & Trapp, 2004)

      Where:

      n= sample size Zα/2 = 1.96 (The critical value that divides the central 95% of the Z
      distribution from the 5% in the tail) Zβ = 0.84 (The critical value that separates the lower
      20% of the Z distribution from the upper 80%) σ = the estimate of the standard deviation =
      1.5 (Rubilar et al., 2000) µ1 = mean in the nebulizer group = 4.4 (Rubilar et al., 2000) µ2 =
      mean in the metered-dose inhaler group = 3.3 (Rubilar et al., 2000) So, by calculation, the
      sample size will be equal to 30 cases per group, giving a total sample size of 60 cases.

      Methods of data collection

      Infants and children known to have asthma coming to the Pediatric Emergency Department of
      Suez Canal University Hospital and fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be assessed
      according to the following clinical respiratory score:

      (Mild 0-3 moderate 4-7 severe 8-12)17

      The target population is patients who presented with moderate to severe wheezing (score
      4-12).

      Randomization will take place through an online program for randomization of clinical trials.
      The patients will be divided into two groups, one of them treated by the available nebulizer
      and the other by MDI with spacer. The investigators cannot blind patients to the treatment as
      there is an obvious difference between the two modalities.

      However, the assessment of the respiratory score before and after the treatment will be
      performed by an independent physician who will not be involved in the decision-making and
      randomization of treatment. This physician will be asked to assess initially and then
      reassess after the equipment has been removed to avoid any bias.

      Dosage and administration:

      The nebulizer group will receive salbutamol aerosol solution (0.25 mg/kg weight, up to a
      maximum of 5 mg in 3.5 mL of normal saline solution. Aerosols will be generated by jet
      nebulizers powered by oxygen and delivered via a face mask for 7 min every 20 min during the
      first hour (a total of three nebulizations/hr.). A flow rate of 7 L/min will be used.

      The metered dose inhaler with spacer group will receive two puffs of salbutamol (100
      mcg/puff) every 10 min 5 times over 1 hr. (a total of 10 puffs/hr.), using a spacer device
      with a face mask. Following each puff, the children will take breaths for a full minute from
      the spacer device held in place.

      Assessment:

      Patients will be reassessed after one hour and score <4 is considered a success while score>4
      is failure of therapy.

      Patients of same degree of severity of the attack will be compared together according to the
      following characteristics: duration of treatment preparation and delivery, clinical outcome,
      patient satisfaction after use and hospitalization rate.

      Each patient will have a form: Page 1 will be an informed consent to be signed before
      randomization of treatment. Page 2 will include the following items

        1. personal data (name, age, address, telephone number to be in contact with the patient
           and know if there were repeated visits after this attack within the same week). In
           addition, the researcher's phone number will be accessible to the patients.

        2. Medical history (other illnesses, medications, degree of asthma either intermittent or
           persistent)

        3. Clinical assessment (clinical respiratory score before and after treatment)

        4. Patient satisfaction with given modality on a Likert scale from 1-5. This will be asked
           by the blinded assessor and will include questions regarding:

             -  Comfort with modality used

             -  Duration of modality used

             -  Ease of administration

             -  Confidence in repeating treatment on their own at home if required
    
  