
    
      Project Background: PTSD is associated with deficits in cognitive functioning including
      memory, learning, processing speed, concentration, attention, and executive functioning.
      Though many Veterans benefit from evidence-based psychotherapy (EBP) for PTSD, many Veterans
      have cognitive functioning deficits even after completing EBP for PTSD. There are no
      evidence-based treatments for these Veterans. Compensatory Cognitive Training (CCT) is
      improves cognitive functioning in Veterans with brain injury history, but is not yet tested
      in Veterans with PTSD.

      Project Aims: This study will evaluate feasibility, acceptability, and participant
      characteristics, and estimate effect sizes, in a pilot test of CCT for Veterans with
      PTSD-related cognitive problems. Data from this study will form the basis for a future, fully
      powered trial testing the effectiveness of CCT for cognitive problems in Veterans with PTSD.

      Project Methods: The investigators will recruit Veterans from local VA mental health clinics,
      using the VA's Corporate Data Warehouse (CDW) to identify potentially eligible Veterans if
      needed. The investigators will compare CCT vs. treatment as usual for 36 Veterans with
      PTSD-related cognitive functioning deficits. The investigators will calculate rates of
      recruitment, retention, and intervention participation. Statistical significance will be
      examined, though the investigators' focus will be on effect size estimates, score ranges, and
      variability to plan for a follow-up, fully powered RCT.

      Anticipated Impact: PTSD-related cognitive functioning deficits are a significant problem for
      many Veterans. CCT is an effective cognitive rehabilitation intervention for Veterans with a
      history of brain injury, but VA clinicians need data on its effectiveness for Veterans with
      PTSD-related cognitive functioning deficits. These studies will provide the data necessary
      for a larger scale RCT proposal if results show that CCT is as promising as expected for
      Veterans with PTSD.
    
  