
    
      The majority of physiological parameters of the patient in a critical care setting today are
      electronically monitored. Automation of these parameters not only reduces workload and human
      error, but also may provide alarms and warnings when these parameters fall below a pre-set
      range. Currently, urine output may be the most relevant physiological parameter that still
      involves manual recordings in the critical care setting.

      In 2004, The Acute Dialysis Quality Initiative (ADQI), a group of experts in kidney
      dysfunction, proposed the RIFLE criteria for acute kidney injury (AKI). They describe Risk,
      Injury and Failure severity classes and Loss and End stage Kidney Disease outcome classes.
      The severity grades are based on serum creatinine, urinary output or both. More recently the
      Acute Kidney Injury Network (AKIN) stages for kidney injury added smaller relative increases
      in serum creatinine levels to classify patients at risk. Since the classification has been
      proposed, tens of thousands of patients have been involved in studies validating the RIFLE
      and AKIN criteria as a classification system for AKI. The 2012 Kidney Disease Improving
      Global Outcomes (KDIGO) AKI clinical practice guideline published in 2012 adopted modified
      RIFLE/AKIN criteria for classification of AKI. Studies using these criteria report kidney
      injury in Intensive Care Units at incidences of 50-70%.

      Serum creatinine is considered a gold standard for measurement of kidney function; however,
      increases in its levels are seen only after there is approximately 50% loss of renal
      function, hindering early and sensitive detection of kidney injury and thus appropriate
      treatment. Many individual factors of the hospitalized patient can also interfere with the
      accuracy of changes in levels of serum creatinine, making this a less than ideal marker for
      kidney injury.

      While urine output is an easily available biomarker of kidney function, only a small
      percentage of current studies that incorporate RIFLE and AKIN criteria utilize urinary output
      as a diagnostic criterion for AKI. Fluid overload has been shown to be a factor of increased
      mortality and further AKI. Sodium and water overload are common complications of fluid
      resuscitation, an initial treatment in many cases of AKI. Studies have shown that oliguria
      for three or more days, and a higher percentage of days with fluid overload after an initial
      AKI diagnosis is made, are two proven independent predictors for the development of sepsis
      post-AKI. In a recent study of periods of oliguria as a predictor of higher mortality in
      critically ill patients the authors note "treating urine flow as a continuous physiological
      variable instead of an interval parameter that is currently a challenge to measure accurately
      would provide more time points for the detection of AKI… in clinical practice, the hourly
      urine flow provides more precision for risk assessment and establishes early time for
      interventions." Current practice for measuring urine output in most hospitals worldwide
      involves manual recording on an hourly basis at best, and often one or two times per shift.
      It is essential to develop updated easy-to use- tools and systems for monitoring and managing
      patient fluid balance, for prevention and treatment of acute kidney injury and for patient
      survival. RenalSense has developed such a technology to enable online continuous monitoring
      of urine output and kidney function.

      The current standard of care for urine output monitoring is the "manual" urometer. This
      approach is labor intensive, and prone to measurement error. An automated system would likely
      improve accuracy and reduce work load.
    
  