
    
      Objectives:

      The objectives of this research project is to assess the relative effectiveness of MCT and CR
      at treating the persistent positive symptoms of schizophrenia in a stable patient population.
      Specifically, we will use verified measures to examine the impact of these interventions on
      delusion conviction and severity, as well as on other features of interest, including insight
      and specific cognitive biases. We will use functional neuroimaging, both
      electroencephalography (EEG) and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI), to measure the
      changes in the neural responses while subjects are performing various cognitive tasks. It is
      expected that improvements in cognitive performance and function seen with MCT and CR
      correlate with select improvements in efficiency of particular brain networks. We anticipate
      a double dissociation, in that subjects with decreased positive symptoms following MCT may
      present with different patterns of activation than those with improved neurocognitive
      function following CR.

      Procedures:

      Recruitment will be done through inpatient and outpatient departments in Vancouver, British
      Columbia, Canada. Diagnosis of schizophrenia spectrum disorder will be confirmed using the
      MINI (Sheehan, 1998). Both inpatients and outpatients will be recruited; patients must be
      identified as suitable, as determined by their treating psychiatric team. This will suffice
      to obtain 50 subjects per condition over 5 years.

      Participants who complete the screening and baseline (pre-treatment) assessments will be
      randomly assigned to one of 3 conditions: 1) MCT, 2) CR, or 3) TAU. Randomization of subjects
      will occur as they complete their baseline assessments, and entry into the groups will
      involve a rolling intake model. Interventions will be administered twice weekly for 8 weeks.
      The groups will be run by Clinical Psychologists and PhD level psychology students. Allied
      health professionals, such as Occupational Therapists or Social Workers, may co-facilitate
      groups.

      Baseline (pre-treatment), midpoint, and post-treatment assessments will include symptom and
      cognitive assessment, as well as self-reported measures, as outlined above. Patients who are
      willing and eligible will also be involved in three tasks in which we will record both fMRI
      data and EEG data.

      fMRI scanning:

      Participants will be prepared for EEG by trained graduate students, research staff, and fMRI
      technicians. Once in the scanner, the subject will perform three cognitive tasks which have
      been used extensively in previous research.

      EEG recording:

      Participants will be prepared for EEG by trained graduate students and research staff. The
      subjects will perform the same cognitive tasks as the fMRI procedure.

      Measurements:

      Symptom Ratings:

      General psychopathology will be assessed using the Scale for the Assessment of Negative
      Symptoms (SANS; Andreasen, 1984) and the Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms (SAPS;
      Andreasen, 1984). Delusion severity will be measured using the Delusions Scale of the
      Psychotic Symptom Rating Scales (PSYRATS; Haddock, McCarron, Tarrier, & Faragher, 1999). All
      symptom rating scales will be administered by trained raters blinded to the treatment
      allocations of subjects.

      Self-Report Measures:

      Patient depressive symptoms will be measured using the Beck Depression Inventory, Second
      Edition (BDI-II, Beck, 1996). Patient perception of their quality of life will be measured
      using the World Health Organisation Quality of Life scale (WHOQoL). Patient perception of
      stigma and its impact on their quality of life will be measured using the Internalized Stigma
      of Mental Illness scale (ISMI; Ritsher et al., 2003). Patient perceptions of self and
      self-esteem will be measured using the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES; Rosenberg, 1965).

      Cognitive Biases

      MCT for psychosis is fundamentally concerned with dysfunctional thinking in psychotic
      illnesses and it directly targets cognitive biases known to be involved in delusional
      thinking including the jumping to conclusions bias, the attributional bias, and the bias
      against disconfirmatory evidence. Two cognitive biases commonly seen in schizophrenia will be
      evaluated using the "jumping to conclusions (JTC) task" (also known as the "fisherman" task)
      and the "bias against disconfirmatory evidence (BADE)" task. These tasks were developed, in
      part, by the Principal Investigator and have been described in previous research (Lecomte &
      Woodward, 2005; Woodward 2006a; Woodward 2006b; Woodward 2007; Moritz & Woodward 2005;
      Woodward 2009).

      The test of Premorbid Function (ToPF) is a word-reading task that will be used to estimate
      the premorbid intelligence (IQ) of the individual (Wechsler, 2011). The Wechsler Abbreviated
      Scale of Intelligence, Second Edition (WASI-II; Wechsler, 2011) will provide a measure of
      current intelligence (IQ). The Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological
      Status (RBANS; Randolph, 1998) will be used to review neurocognitive function of the
      individual, including attention, processing speed, working memory, verbal and visual memory.
      The trailmaking test will provide measures of basic attention, speed of processing, mental
      flexibility, and executive functioning (Reitan, 1992). The Controlled Oral Word Association
      test (COWAT; Benton et al., 1994) is a verbal fluency task that measures executive
      functioning.

      Insight

      The Beck Cognitive Insight Scale (BCIS; Beck, Baruch, Balter, Steer, & Warman, 2004) will be
      administered to evaluate patients' degree of insight into cognitive biases and limitations.

      Functional Neuroimaging and Electroencephalography

      Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) and Electroencephalography (EEG) will be used to
      assess the relative involvement and activation of different neural networks. The Sternberg
      Working Memory Task will be used in order to quantify the level of efficiency of the neural
      networks responsible for working memory (Metzak et al., 2012). Two Evidence Matching Tasks
      (e.g., the "fish task" and the "bias against discomfirmatory evidence (BADE) task") will be
      used in order to quantify the reactivity of the neural networks responsible for evidence
      matching (e.g., anterior-cingulate-based network; Woodward et al., 2008).

      Feedback from Participants

      After the final session in active treatment conditions, patients will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire comprising 10 questions on acceptance and subjective efficacy (Moritz &
      Woodward 2007a). Data accumulated therein will be used together with frequency of unattended
      sessions to establish acceptability and feasibility of the various treatment conditions.

      Statistical Analysis

      Rolling group intake and facilitation will allow for two to four, two-month cycles of each
      condition per year for 5 years, which should allow us to obtain 50 subjects per condition
      (MCT, CR, TAU), which is sufficient to produce a power of 0.8 to detect a large effect in a
      three group means comparison design (Cohen 1992) using p=0.05 as the cutoff for significance.
    
  