
    
      Fractured neck of femur is a common cause of admission to hospital in elderly patients and
      requires operative fixation. The recommended anaesthetic technique for these cases is spinal
      anaesthesia, which is performed with the patient in lateral decubitus. Positioning the
      patient prior to administering spinal anaesthesia is the most painful manouvre due to the
      movement of the fractured bone.

      Regional anaesthesia is effective in alleviating pain due to trauma, and it has the advantage
      of producing localized but complete pain relief (1). Femoral nerve blockade prior to
      positioning for spinal anaesthesia provides excellent pain relief and is a well tolerated
      procedure (2-5).

      Using ultrasound guided femoral nerve block is a relative new method to improving the block
      success rate. It is widely used in our hospital. In a recent study Casati and al. showed a 42
      % decrease of ED50% using ultrasound for localization of the femoral nerve (6). In a recent
      editorial by Brian D. Sites was mentioned that the positioning of the local anaesthetic in
      ultrasound guided blocks is unclear (7). We currently follow different patterns in relation
      to injection of the local anaesthetic solution around the femoral nerve. One of them is a
      circumferencial spread around the nerve. This, however, needs several needle passes which are
      likely to be painful for the patient. Another option is injecting the local anaesthetic on
      one side, above or below the nerve without changing the position of the tip of the needle,
      avoiding patient discomfort. Whether this results in a comparable quality of sensory block is
      unknown. The femoral nerve is separated in branches at this level and we assume that the
      spread of local anaesthetic may influence the quality and the distribution of the block. We
      propose to study the characteristics of femoral nerve block in relation to different patterns
      of local anaesthetic injection (circumferencial, inferior or superior).
    
  