
    
      1. Provide the scientific background, rationale and relevance of this project. The
      microcirculation plays a fundamental role in gas and nutrient exchange; it must constantly
      adapt by controlling vascular tone and regional blood flow. In disease states, increased
      permeability may be necessary to produce the inflammatory response. The assessment and
      quantification of the macrovascular hemodynamics and the assumption that it is reflective of
      microvascular change is fundamentally flawed. Even when global hemodynamic variables are
      corrected, many patients with circulatory failure will develop multi organ failure and
      ultimately die. The recent advent of in vivo microcirculation monitoring has begun to improve
      our understanding of the relationships between surgery, anesthetic management, and regulation
      of the microcirculation.

      Microcirculatory alteration also occurs in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Bauer et al
      first reported that microcirculatory perfusion was transiently altered in humans after
      cardiopulmonary bypass. Similar findings were reported more recently by other groups. , More
      importantly, these alterations can also be observed in patients who undergo surgery without
      cardiopulmonary bypass.3 Furthermore the sublingual microcirculation was still slightly
      abnormal up to 24 h after surgery in these patients. As in non-cardiac surgery, the severity
      of perioperative microvascular alterations correlated with peak lactate levels and severity
      of organ dysfunction after surgery.iii High-risk surgery is a new area in which in vivo
      microcirculatory alterations have been observed. In patients undergoing high-risk non-cardiac
      surgery, Jhanji et al observed that the density and proportion of perfused capillaries was
      lower in the 14 patients who subsequently developed postoperative complications than in the
      11 patients with an uneventful postoperative course. Subcutaneous tissue PO2 and laser
      Doppler cutaneous blood flow did not differ between the groups, further highlighting the lack
      of sensitivity of these methods to detect heterogeneous perfusion. Interestingly, there was
      no significant difference in global O2 delivery between the groups.

      Non-cardiac thoracic surgeries comprise a subgroup of high risk surgical procedures which
      have the potential to significantly affect and impair microcirculatory function. A study of
      patients undergoing esophagectomy demonstrated significant impairment of sublingual
      microcirculation relative to pancreaticoduodenectomy patients. Esophagectomy surgery produces
      a profound systemic inflammatory response which correlates to a number of adverse outcomes.
      Interestingly, the time course of microcirculatory impairment and recovery appears to
      parallel the SIRS typically seen in surgeries of this type. Transthoracic esophagectomy is
      typically facilitated by one lung ventilation (OLV) in an effort to optimize surgical
      exposure to the operative hemithorax. The institution of OLV has the potential to
      dramatically impair tissue oxygen supply demand relationships via adverse effects on systemic
      oxygen desaturation, as a result of an increased venous admixture from right to left
      intrapulmonary shunting, as well as decrements in cardiac output. Cerebral oxygen
      desaturation accompanying OLV is also well described, though the pathophysiology is not well
      understood. It is likely, though unproven, that microcirculatory derangements may underly
      these phenomena. Though the study of microcirculatory dysfunction in thoracic surgery is in
      its infancy, the body of available evidence at this point supports the following hypotheses;
      that microcirculatory derangements and dysfunction 1) occur during major surgeries including
      transthoracic esophagectomy 2) may be related to SIRS, OLV or both, 3) may predict adverse
      outcomes, and 4) may be amenable to modification via specific therapies.

      This is a feasibility study to see if the changes in microcirculatory parameters as observed
      by the SDF device can accurately diagnose anastomotic and other complications for the purpose
      of leading to a wider study of microcirculatory derangements as an indicator of risk of
      surgical complications.

      Hypothesis to be Tested:

      i. Microcirculatory derangements, as indicated by changes in microcirculation of sublingual
      tissue, serosa tunica near the surgical division, or the mucosal lining of the stomach near
      the surgical division, occur during transthoracic esophagectomy and in the perioperative
      period.

      ii. Changes in microcirculation predicts post-operative anastomotic complications iii.
      Changes in microcirculation predicts post-operative complications

      Specific Aims

        1. Determine whether microcirculatory derangements, as indicated by changes in
           microcirculation of sublingual tissue, serosa tunica near the surgical division, or the
           mucosal lining of the stomach near the surgical division, occur during transthoracic
           esophagectomy involving one lung ventilation (OLV), using a side stream dark field (SDF)
           imaging system.

           1.1. This aim will include measurements of microcirculatory parameters at multiple time
           points within the perioperative period.

        2. Determine the temporal relationship of microcirculatory dysfunction and recovery, if
           any, at the initiation of OLV, reestablishment of two lung ventilation, and cessation of
           surgery.

           2.1. This aim will include measurements of microcirculatory parameters at multiple time
           points within the perioperative period.

        3. Determine whether observed changes in microcirculation is predictive of postoperative
           organ dysfunction, and perioperative complications.
    
  