
    
      There are several devices for treating bowel incontinence. However, available devices have
      limited success. Sphincter bulking agents and electrical stimulation did not demonstrate
      effectiveness in clinical studies. Anal plugs did show some effectiveness but are associated
      with discomfort and pain. Hence, patients prefer not to use them.

      The main reason for pain and discomfort with the current available anal plugs is the plug
      location within the anus below the dentate line. This part of the anus which is highly
      sensitive it causes discomfort and pain to the user. The advantage of the ForConti device is
      that it is designed to be located at a more inner section of the anal canal, above the
      dentate line, which is much less sensitive thus does not cause discomfort to the user.

      This is a prospective, feasibility, non-randomized, single-arm, self-controlled study for
      preliminary safety and effectiveness. Total duration of the study for each patient will be 8
      weeks, including follow-up.

      The study will be conducted on up to 20 patients suffering from accidental bowel leakage due
      to bowel incontinence and who meet all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion
      criteria. Following first 5 cases, interim preliminary safety analysis was conducted and a
      report submitted to Ministry of Health for approval to continue the study. Approval was
      granted.

      Primary Safety: No device related serious adverse events. Secondary Safety: Minimal rate of
      device or procedure related adverse events (intra and post-operative complications) in the
      treatment or in the follow-up periods.

      Effectiveness:

      Demonstrate the effectiveness of the system by:

      A Relative Percentage Change in Episodes of Accidental Bowel Leakage (ABL, FI episodes)
      Determined by Comparing Active Weeks to Control Weeks Results as measured by Daily Diary
      Recordings.

      Active Weeks are the 3rd and 4th week of study treatment period and the Control Weeks are the
      baseline 2 weeks assessment period before starting treatment.

      Other Measurements:

      Usability: Evaluation of SUS Scores Quality of Life: Recording and Evaluation of a validated
      symptom-specific Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life (FIQoL) Questionnaire Number of
      incontinence days while using the device during the two-week assessment period, as compared
      to the baseline two-week assessment period.

      The ForConti FIMS includes 2 main parts: the inserted part and the insertion system. The
      inserted part includes a balloon and a pulling string and the insertion system includes the
      applicator, plunger and the inflator. The balloon is a flexible biocompatible,
      silicone-based, oval-shaped, furled component. It is designed to be located in the rectum by
      an applicator and to be filled with a pre-determined amount of air to gain its final shape.
      The silicone surface is equipped with silicone gags which provide better sustainability in
      the rectum.
    
  