
    
      This is a cross sectional and prospective study where both the application of the index and
      reference instruments will be performed after the complete planning of the study.

      Sample size was calculated assuming 90% sensitivity and 80% specificity of the WAI, based on
      experience with a similar instrument prior to WAI and on which WAI is built, which was used
      at the Hospital del Trabajador. For an absolute precision of 5%, the necessary sample size of
      people who actually have a work-related illness and those who do not actually have that
      origin should be 246. If 6% preciiosion is accepted that sample size should be 171.

      Prevalence of ULMD qualified as from occupational origin is under 10% among patients who
      consult at the centers of the Metropolitan Region, according to the ACHS. Thus, the
      calculated final sample was approximately 1700 patients.

      According to the project's budget, 900 applications of the WAI are to be planned.

      The study will successively recruit patients: up to 246 true positives or 900 patients
      (whichever is reached first).

      It is estimated that 75 WAI evaluations could be performed per month, with an average of 3.4
      per day. Consequently, the sample of 900 would be achieved after 12 months.

      FLOW OF PATIENTS Patients will be recruited in an ad hoc facility at the Hospital del
      Trabajador located in the Metropolitan Region.

      Entry of a participant:

      Each worker / patient who consults the facility or an emergency center of the ACHS agencies
      with a claim of professional illness involving a musculoskeletal disorder of the upper
      extremity (ULMD), within a pre-established range of time in a day and on pre-established days
      of the week, will be recruited for the study. The worker must voluntarily file a claim.

      Derivation All consecutive workers with a suspicion of ULMD should be referred to the study.
      Once the attending physician verifies the patient meets the inclusion criteria, he or she
      will immediately refer the patient to the WAI evaluation without previously providing any
      information about the purpose of the study.

      If for work reasons or force majeure the worker cannot immediately go to the place where the
      WAI evaluator is, an appointment will be made for another day according to the worker's
      availability. The rest of the medical treatment and other referrals will be indicated
      according to the regular medical procedure, thus preventing this new evaluation (WAI) from
      interfering with the patient's usual treatment.

      Informed consent process:

      Informed consent will be asked by the same evaluator. The process will be carried out in a
      room designated by the ACHS protecting the privacy of the participant. In this contact, the
      evaluator will spend approximately 10 minutes explaining the study objectives and asking for
      consent. Afterwards, the patient must read the informed consent document and he may refuse,
      doubt or accept to participate. In case of doubt the evaluator will inform the patient that
      one of the researchers will contact him or her within the next 24 hours and, if necessary,
      another appointment will be scheduled.

      If the patient accepts immediately, he or she must sign the informed consent form and the
      evaluator will then proceed to the application of the WAI.

      Evaluators:

      For this study external personnel to the ACHS (evaluators) will be contracted and supervised
      by Medwave Estudios Limitada, and trained by the ACHS. Hired evaluators must be titled
      Kinesiologists with postgraduate experience in Ergonomics or Occupational Health.

      Application of the instrument:

      The WAI will be applied in the office designated by the ACHS. The evaluator will have
      approximately 30-45 minutes for this interview, in which he must collect all the necessary
      information. Application of the instrument will be done in accordance with the WAI manual
      prepared by the ACHS Workforce Survey team of evaluators.

      Equipment and materials The room where the WAI is applied must be provided with a table and
      at least one chair with enough comfort for the patient to be seated during the duration of
      the interview and for the interviewer to ask the questions, listen to the answers and
      translate them into the document form which must be available in digital format.

      MEASUREMENTS The general background of the worker and his place of work will be evaluated, as
      well as the worker´s sociodemographic characteristics. For the description of his work the
      occupational history and the type of work that he carries out will be evaluated emphasizing
      about schedules and rest arrangements. Job description will emerge from the detailed
      interview, considering tasks and times of effective and total work, breaks and overtime. The
      evaluator must not make a diagnostic hypothesis about the occupational origin of the illness.

      WAI INTERPRETATION Once the WAI evaluation is obtained, it should be sent in the
      pre-established digital format to the ACHS office where it will be reviewed by a professional
      evaluator from the ACHS staff who must not be part of the final Qualification committee.

      It is very important for a diagnostic accuracy study to preserve the masking of people who
      apply or interpret the instruments of the study in each stage of its conduction. The ACHS
      will have special responsibility in helping to maintain the masking.

      The final professional evaluator (ACHS) must issue an opinion with three possibilities: 1)
      possible occupational origin, 2) discarded occupational origin and 3) doubtful. This final
      result of the WAI must be available not later than 15 business days, always before the result
      of the final evaluation (gold standard). Once the opinion is issued, each WAI will be sent to
      the Medwave Estudios Limitada headquarters for data processing and analysis.

      TRAINING Training on the use of the WAI will be carried out by ACHS staff, led by the
      kinesiologist Patricia Ferreira. They were in charge of the preparation of the WAI and its
      manual. This training will take place during the month of April.

      PILOT Once the approval of the Ethics Committee is obtained, and the WAI evaluators trained,
      we will proceed to perform the pilot phase whose objective will be to gauge all the
      inconveniences that emerge during the application of the instrument. The pilot will be
      carried out in the same facilities prepared for the study. Patients will meet the same
      inclusion criteria as those to be used in the study.

      ABOUT THE GOLD STANDARD (WORKPLACE STUDY AND QUALIFICATION COMMITTEE) Patients who arrive for
      consultation with ACHS physicians for ULMD with a claim of work origin must undergo a
      "qualification process that includes several activities that the governing bodies must
      fulfill in order to determine the occupational or common origin of the diseases allegedly of
      professional origin" as set out in Circular 3241 of the Superintendence of Social Security,
      Chile, dated July 27, 2016. This circular:" instructs the administering agencies of Law
      Insurance 16744 on the protocol of minimum standards of evaluation that must be complied in
      the process of qualifying the origin of the diseases denounced as professionals ".

      The qualification process will begin with the presentation of an individual claim of
      Professional Illness by the employer, the worker, their beneficiaries or others consigned in
      the circular. It includes a specific study of the workplace and must end with the final
      result given by a Qualification Committee which must determine the common or labor origin of
      the condition.

      All evaluations must be carried out by professionals with specific competencies. - The study
      of workplace consists of the detailed analysis by observation in the field, the
      characteristics and environmental conditions in which a particular worker performs his job
      and the activities, tasks or operations that he performs. The qualification process must be
      concluded in full within a maximum period of 30 calendar days from the submission of the
      Individual Claim for Occupational Disease.

      All of the above means that for each subject evaluated by the WAI, the final opinion of the
      Qualification Committee would have a maximum of 30 days.

      The opinion of the Qualification Committee is the gold standard of the study for the
      definition of whether or not it is a pathology of possible occupational origin.

      Once obtained the opinion of the Qualification Committee, the counterpart of the ACHS,
      coordinated in this case by Patricia Ferreira, will be in charge of weekly reports to the
      central office of data analysis located in Medwave Estudios. In this office, the data will be
      received by Matías Goyenechea, or whom he appoints. If, after a week has elapsed, no
      information has been received, the reception manager will monitor what happened during that
      time.

      Data processing includes a database with all relevant data obtained from the WAI and the
      final result. Statistical analysis comprises the estimation of sensitivity, specificity and
      predictive values with their corresponding confidence intervals. Estimations will be made for
      the final diagnosis (occupational origin or not) as a whole and for each of the upper limbs
      segments considered where possible.
    
  