
    
      Smoking during pregnancy remains a major public health problem as at least 12% of pregnant
      women cannot quit smoking during pregnancy. This addiction is the largest preventable cause
      of childhood respiratory illness, including asthma, and children whose mothers smoked during
      pregnancy show lifetime decreases in pulmonary function. Smoking is a unique morbidity in
      that it is addictive, heavily advertised and recent genome studies show there are genotypes
      that significantly increase the likelihood of being unable to quit. Teen pregnancy, low
      income, low education, and living with another smoker are important factors increasing the
      odds of smoking during pregnancy. Pulmonary function tests done shortly after birth in babies
      born to mothers who smoked during pregnancy show decreased pulmonary function as measured by
      decreased respiratory flows and respiratory compliance and altered tidal breathing patterns.
      These changes can still be measured even after the infants have reached adulthood. Multiple
      epidemiologic studies show that these decreases in pulmonary function lead to increased
      respiratory disease and costs of hundreds of millions of dollars per year.

      The primary aim of this double-blind, placebo controlled, randomized, multi-site study is to
      demonstrate improved pulmonary function testing at 3 months of age, in infants delivered to
      smoking mothers who are randomized to 500 mg/day of supplemental vitamin C versus placebo at
      less than or equal to 22 weeks of pregnancy. We will recruit 278 smoking pregnant women into
      the study. Patients will meet with research personnel at each prenatal visit and smoking
      cessation will be actively encouraged. Patients will be monitored with a set of serial
      biomarkers to assess smoking and medication compliance, including urine cotinine levels,
      smoking questionnaires, pill counts and fasting plasma ascorbic acid levels. Pulmonary
      function tests will be done at 3 months of age and will measure forced expiratory flows. The
      infants will also be followed through one year of age with monthly validated respiratory
      questionnaires and a follow-up pulmonary function test at 12 months of age. Success of this
      study is supported by strong pilot data showing statistically significant improvements at
      about 48 hours of age in pulmonary function tests in infants born to smoking mothers who
      received vitamin C versus placebo, and preliminary data showing a lower incidence of wheezing
      at 12 months of age in these infants. Key genetic polymorphisms shown to increase sensitivity
      to in-utero smoke exposure will also be measured. The success of this study is also supported
      by animal models showing the effectiveness of vitamin C to preserve pulmonary function and
      genetic and epidemiologic studies linking the effects of smoking during pregnancy to oxidant
      mechanisms. The secondary aims of the study include: 1) to demonstrate a decreased incidence
      of wheezing through 12 months of age in infants delivered to smoking mothers who are
      randomized to 500mg/day of supplemental vitamin C versus placebo during pregnancy; 2) to
      demonstrate improved pulmonary function tests at 12 months of age in these infants.
    
  