
    
      Objectives

      To investigate the efficacy of intrauterine balloon (IUB) dilatation therapy in the
      prevention of adhesion formation after transcervical resection of submucous myomas (TCRM).

      Patients

      The patients will be recruited from two centers, namely, the Hysterscopy Center of the Fuxing
      Hospital and TianTan Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. Before the surgery
      all patients with suspected submucous myomas will undergo preoperative evaluations including
      trans-vaginal ultrasonography. The inclusion criteria include [1] women aged 18-45 years with
      regular 25-35 days cycles ; [2] no evidence of intrauterine adhesions at the time of surgery;
      [3] written consent obtained; and [4] agreement to have second-look hysteroscopy; [5] had
      more than one fibroids removed at the time of hysteroscopic surgery. The exclusion criteria
      include women who are already postmenopausal or women who have evidence of intrauterine
      adhesions at the time of surgery.

      Study Design

      After the completion of transcervical resection of submucous myomas (TCRM), recruited
      patients will be randomized to one of the two treatment groups by computer-generated numbers:
      [1] study group will have Foley-catheter intrauterine balloon dilatation therapy 2 weeks and
      4 weeks after hysteroscopic myomectomy; [2] the control group will not receiveany balloon
      therapy. A second-look hysteroscopy will be carried out around 6 weeks after the surgery.

      Procedure

      Surgical procedure

      The surgery will be carried out by an experienced hysteroscopic surgeons with the use of a
      8.5 mm rigid hysteroscope with under 100-120 mm Hg pressure. The procedure will be performed
      under general anesthesia in a day surgery unit under ultrasonographic guidance. Once the type
      and number of myomas have been verified, the myoma will be then be bluntly dissected from the
      muscular layer with the tip of the resectoscope. After the myomas have been dissected from
      the muscular layer, they will be shaved into pieces to reduce the volume and then be
      retrieved from the uterine cavity with a myoma grasper.

      Postoperative treatments

      All patients will be treated with oral antibiotics for 3-5 days in line with local practice.
      Second-look hysteroscopy will be carried out 6 weeks after the initial operation. After
      assessment of the extent and severity of any newly formed adhesion, hysteroscopic
      adhesiolysis, if needed, will be carried out at the time of the second-look procedure.
      Immediately prior to second look hysteroscopy, a swab will be taken from the endo-cervical
      canal for routine bacteriological study; At the conclusion of the second look hysteroscopy,
      an endometrial sample will be obtained for histological study &immune histochemical analysis
      including evidence of chronic endometrtitis(CD138 staining). The surgeons who perform the
      second-look will be blinded to the randomization.

      IUB dilatation therapy

      IUB dilatation therapy will be performed according to the methodology published in the
      literature. In brief, a Foley catheter (size 12-14fr) will be prepared by cutting the excess
      catheter tip protruding beyond the balloon. Once the catheter has reached the fundus, 3-5mls
      of saline will be slowly introduced into the balloon under ultrasound guidance, in order to
      directly visualize the distention of the cavity and stretching and blunt dissection of any
      intrauterine adhesions, if present.

      Statistical Analysis

      The efficacy of treating the intrauterine adhesions in the two groups will be compared using
      the χ2 test. The AFS score in the two groups will be compared using the Mann-Whitney U test.
      A p value of < 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. All statistical analysis
      will be carried out with the use of SPSS 21.0.

      Power calculation

      On the basis of the investigators own internal audit and the results of the two published
      retrospective cohort studies analysing the prevalence of intrauterine adhesion (IUA)
      formation in women undergoing transcervical resection of multiple submucousmyomas (TCRM),the
      investigators estimated that the adhesion formation rate in the control group to be 25% and
      the treatment group (balloon group) to be 5%; accepting a type 1 error of 0.05, and a type 2
      error of 0.10, the number of subjects required in each arm of the randomized controlled trial
      would be 51. Assuming that the drop-out rate to be 10%, the total number of subject to be
      recruited would be 56 in each arm, that is a total of 112.

      Outcome measures

      The primary outcome measure will be the amount of intrauterine adhesions as measured
      according to the AFS score at follow-up. The secondary outcome measures will include any
      complications including any clinical infection and change of menstrual pattern after surgery
      and the need for re-operation.

      Data processing and analysis

      The researchers will ensure the confidentiality of sensitive data by minimizing the number of
      personnel who handle subject data. In addition, computer data will be encrypted as required
      to maximize security, while paper documents will be locked in filing cabinets, with only
      authorized personnel having access to the information.

      Ethical considerations

      IUB dilatation has been published as a novel technique with no untoward complications
      identified to date. The procedure will be performed according to the methodology available in
      the literature and the study has gained approval from the local ethical committee (Approval
      Notice Number:2016FXHEC-KY005).

      Consent

      All subjects will be given a detailed explanation of the study and sufficient time to
      consider participants. A written consent form will be signed by the patient and retained in
      the investigators confidential records.
    
  