
    
      In the UK, it is already common practice to reimburse out-of-pocket expenses eg travelling
      expenses and parking charges to patients participating in clinical research studies, but not
      to give any other incentives. This contrasts with healthy volunteer studies where financial
      payments are often made to encourage participation in studies.

      There are few data on how payments to patients in the UK would influence the recruitment and
      demographic structure of patients recruited to clinical research studies.

      The single biggest cost of clinical trials in the UK is the cost of recruiting suitable
      subjects. The Academy of Medical Sciences report on the UK clinical trials environment, "A
      new pathway for the regulation and governance of health research", provided a comprehensive
      review of the barriers faced in running clinical trials . However, other barriers to
      recruitment exist after these hurdles have been overcome. Importantly, in our experience, of
      100 suitable subjects identified as suitable to be entered into a study only about 14% are
      actually randomised. Most of the identified suitable subjects do not reply to invitation
      letters from their doctor and some patients who do reply decline the invitation to
      participate. Campaigns to engage the public on the importance of research have had modest
      effects on improving the awareness about trials but no measurable effect on willingness to
      participate .

      An important finding is that those subjects who do participate in clinical trials usually
      have much lower rates of events than predicted from observational data. This is probably
      because trials attract subjects who care about their own health and the health of others and
      these subjects exhibit good 'health behaviour'. Those subjects with less good health
      behaviour and who constitute the subjects who suffer more consequences from their disorders
      in the real world, do not participate in trials as readily. The result is that trial
      participants tend to be middle class, middle aged, low risk subjects. These subjects are
      unrepresentative of the population at large or the population who will eventually get most of
      the prescribing (lower class, elderly and high risk). In addition, including only low risk
      subjects may result in studies being abandoned because the low event rates make achieving a
      statistically reliable result futile.

      How can we address this issue within an ethical framework?

      The findings from one trial currently running casts some light on this issue. The Streamlined
      Celecoxib versus standard therapy Outcome Trial (SCOT) is currently running in both the UK
      and Denmark. Trial recruitment in Denmark is significantly better than in the Scotland. We
      think that this is because in Denmark, all patients pay the full price for their medications
      and trial participation means that they get their medication free. In Scotland where
      recruitment is lower, all prescriptions are free anyway so there is no such incentive. Thus
      there appears to be a financial incentive for Danish patients to participate.

      The present proposal seeks to study the effect of payments on recruitment.
    
  