
    
      Tissue Collection and Imaging:

      If participant is found to be eligible to take part in this study, during their
      standard-of-care hysterectomy, a tissue sample will be collected. This sample will be used
      for research and routine testing. Participant will sign a separate consent form for the
      hysterectomy.

      During the hysterectomy, photographs of the tissue will be taken. Participant's private areas
      will be covered (as much as possible), and a picture of their face will not be taken.

      A hysteroscopy will also be performed during participant's surgery. Participant's doctor will
      discuss the risks of the hysteroscopy with participant and they will be asked to sign a
      separate consent form. A hysteroscopy allows the doctor to look inside the uterus to see the
      tissue that is going to be collected for research imaging. This procedure is done with a tool
      called a hysteroscope, a long thin tube with a camera and a light. The hysteroscope will be
      inserted though the vagina and up into the uterus. An image will be displayed on a computer
      screen that is attached to the hysteroscope. The study doctor will use the image on the
      screen to look at different areas of the uterus to find the location and size of the
      tumor(s). This image may be recorded for future reference.

      After the hysteroscopy, the study doctor will inject a contrast dye (Proflavine Hemisulfate)
      into participant's uterus to help the doctor see the lesions. A camera will then be used to
      photograph images of the uterus.

      The tissue collection and the imaging will add about 45 minutes to participant's hysterectomy
      procedure.

      Length of Study:

      Patient's active participation in this study will be over after surgery.

      Follow-Up Call:

      About 30 days (+/-7 days) after the surgery, participant will be called and asked how they
      are doing.

      This is an investigational study. The hysteroscope is commercially available and FDA approved
      for laparoscopic procedures. The use of the hysteroscope in this study is for research
      purposes only.

      Proflavine Hemisulfate (contrast dye) is commercially available and FDA approved for treating
      umbilical cord stumps. Its use in this study is considered investigational.

      Up to 20 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  