
    
      BACKGROUND:

      -This study represents a progression from findings in four previous National Cancer Institute
      (NCI) Radiation Oncology Branch (RO)B protocols (02-C-0167A, 02-C-0207E, 03-C-0190B,
      04-C-0171). In these previous works we have begun to develop techniques to obtain magnetic
      resonance (MR) biological images and co-register tissue in prostate cancer patients.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  The scientific objective of this protocol is to determine the maximum tolerated dose
           (MTD) of external beam radiation to regions of interest within the prostate based acute
           toxicity.

        -  Secondary objectives of this study are to relate patterns in gene and protein expression
           to response and toxicity and to evaluate the frequency of late term toxicity.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      -Patients with prostate cancer without evidence of metastasis will be eligible for this
      study.

      DESIGN:

        -  This phase I trial will use intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) to deliver
           escalating doses of external beam radiation to regions of histologically confirmed
           prostate cancer. The study will be conducted using a standard 3-6 dose-escalation with
           an initial 3 patients in each dose cohort and the potential expansion of the cohort to 6
           patients.

        -  Anatomic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and MR biological images, such as magnetic
           resonance spectroscopy (MRS), will be obtained Tissue will be acquired from sites of
           interest, with biopsy locations precisely translated (co-registered) to an MR image of
           reference. Tissue samples will be processed for complementary deoxyribonucleic acid
           (cDNA) microarray testing and stored for future analysis in the Radiation Oncology
           Branch, NCI. A gold seed will be left at the biopsy site as a fiducial marker to direct
           future radiation therapy. If necessary, additional fiducial markers will be placed for
           target localization during treatment.

        -  Once MR guided biopsies are obtained and fiducial markers placed, the patient will
           undergo a standard computed tomography (CT) simulation for radiation therapy treatment
           planning. The MR and CT images will be fused. Areas of pathologically confirmed
           malignancy will undergo dose escalation as described below. Areas of image abnormality
           that could not be biopsied or were without definite pathologic evidence of malignancy
           will be given intermediate doses. The remainder of the prostate gland will receive
           standard dose (7560 centigray (cGy)).

        -  The trial will accrue 18 to 36 patients with an anticipated accrual period of 2 years.
    
  