
    
      Urinary tract infections (UTI) are the most common hospital-acquired infections, accounting
      for nearly 30% of cases of nosocomial infections and affecting nearly 1 million people per
      year.

      Following pelvic reconstructive and urinary incontinence surgery, UTIs are one of the most
      common complications with a risk between 8.9%-34%. The baseline risk of UTI associated with
      pelvic floor surgery ranges between 5-35%, increasing greatly with catheterization.

      Postoperative voiding dysfunction and incomplete bladder emptying is common following pelvic
      reconstructive and incontinence surgeries, with incidence ranging from 2.5 % to 31%. As a
      result, these women may have additional catheterization for a short period of time, which
      increases the risk of UTI. There is a 15-20% risk of developing a postoperative UTI with
      short-term catheterization, even if the catheter remains in place for merely 24 hours. The
      risk of UTI increases 5-10% each day the catheter is left in place.

      Numerous studies have been conducted to evaluate different prophylactic antibiotic regimens
      to help decrease the rate of postoperative catheter-associated UTIs. Many of these studies
      have shown precedent for the use of antibiotic prophylaxis.

      Nitrofurantoin has been evaluated as a prophylactic regimen for use during short-term
      catheterization. These studies had favorable results, decreasing the incidence of UTI
      postoperatively.

      Although there are a few studies showing favorable results for the use of prophylactic
      nitrofurantoin during catheterization after pelvic surgery, the optimal timing of antibiotic
      administration and length of dosing regimen is not well defined. The American Urological
      Association (AUA) recommends empiric antibiotic treatment at the time of external urinary
      catheter removal in patients with risk factors, such as tobacco use, advanced age, and
      anatomic abnormalities of the urinary tract. The AUA Panel does cite that bacteriuria in the
      setting of noninfectious urinary tract disease is a risk factor for bacteremia, and, thus,
      prophylactic antibiotic treatment at time the of catheter removal may be indicated. The AUA
      does recommend empiric antibiotic treatment at the removal of an external urinary catheter in
      patients with risk factors. However, there is no standardization concerning the type of
      antibiotic to be used or treatment duration.

      Although there are a few studies showing favorable results for use of nitrofurantoin during
      catheterization after pelvic surgery, there are no clearly defined recommendations regarding
      its use for urinary tract infection prevention after catheter removal. Therefore, the
      objective of our study is to examine the effects of administration of nitrofurantoin therapy
      at the time of Foley catheter removal for the prevention of catheter-associated UTI in
      patients undergoing POP and/or urinary incontinence surgery.

      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate the efficacy of administration of nitrofurantoin prophylaxis after catheter
      discontinuation for the prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infections in
      patients with postoperative short-term catheterization following pelvic reconstructive
      surgery. The primary outcome will be the treatment of clinically suspected and/or
      culture-proven UTI within 30 days of surgery.

      Secondary Objective:

      To evaluate adverse outcomes related to study medications in each group and to evaluate
      medication compliance

      Null Hypothesis:

      The null hypothesis is that the administration of nitrofurantoin will not reduce the rate of
      UTI compared with placebo.
    
  