
    
      Over the last few decades there has been an increased use of Warfarin in the pediatric
      population stemming from the use of mechanical heart valves and palliative surgical
      procedures requiring anticoagulation therapy. Other patients with enzymatic deficiency within
      the coagulation cascade may develop thrombosis treated with anticoagulation, i.e. factor V
      Leiden deficiency. Prevention of poor outcome from thrombosis has required closer monitoring
      in the pediatric patient. In addition, absorption of Warfarin in the pediatric population is
      highly variable and depends on the child's age, weight, diet, and concurrent use of other
      medications (Desai, 2000). This makes achieving anticoagulation very difficult. "Because of
      the intrinsic differences in the coagulation systems in children and adults, guidelines for
      antithrombotic therapy in adults cannot be extrapolated to pediatrics" (Desai, 2000).
      Therefore, pediatric patients on anticoagulation therapy require frequent lab work to monitor
      their prothrombin time and international ratios (PT/INR).

      There are a number of barriers to care when discussing anticoagulation therapy for pediatric
      patients. Frequent venous blood draws represent a painful procedure that elicit anxiety and
      fear which leads to noncompliance. In addition, children are more difficult to obtain blood
      samples because of smaller vessels, patient movement during procedure, and the volume of
      blood that is required for the test. Other barriers include the time delay from when the
      patient has the lab work drawn, to when the result get to the provider for any patient care
      decisions to be made.

      There are a number of Point of Care devices available for near-patient testing of the
      PT/InR's that requires only a finger stick. These monitors have been validated against
      standardized laboratory testing, in order for the monitor to be certified by the FDA. Similar
      studies to validate finger stick methods in pediatric patients have not been completed. The
      aim of this project is to validate the accuracy of Hemosense, a point of care device, to
      venous blood PT/InR level in the pediatric population.
    
  