
    
      Hypothesis In comparison to conventional hemodialysis, regulation of ultrafiltration and
      dialysate conductivity (UCR) and/or regulation of ultrafiltration and temperature (UTR) will
      decrease intra- and postdialytic complications when ultrafiltration volumes are
      systematically increased in fluid overloaded hemodialysis patients.

      Objectives and Outcome Measures The primary objective is to demonstrate superiority of
      ultrafiltration and dialysate conductivity regulation (UCR) and/or ultrafiltration and
      temperature regulation (UTR) over conventional hemodialysis, in preventing intra- and
      postdialytic complications, when fluid overloaded hemodialysis patients receive systematic
      fluid reduction, to reach a final dry weight of 7% ECW postdialysis. The primary outcome
      measure is the total number of hemodialysis sessions per patient that were accompanied,
      intra- or postdialytically, by at least one symptom most likely related to fluid withdrawal
      (as specified in Table 1), divided by the number of hemodialysis sessions at risk (as by
      study protocol: 12 sessions per patient in study phase 1). Both groups, UCR and UTR, will be
      compared against the conventional hemodialysis group, and afterwards against one another,
      using the two-sided Student's t-test.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. To demonstrate superiority of ultrafiltration and dialysate conductivity regulation
           (UCR) and/or ultrafiltration and temperature regulation (UTR) over conventional
           hemodialysis, in preventing specific intradialytic complications:

             1. intradialytic cramping

             2. clinically asymptomatic, intradialytic hypotension (>40 mmHg drop in systolic blood
                pressure within 30 minutes)

             3. clinically symptomatic, intradialytic hypotension (>40 mmHg drop in systolic blood
                pressure within 30 minutes)

             4. clinically symptomatic, intradialytic hypotension (even if it is not possible to
                identify a sudden drop in blood pressure, e.g. patients may slowly move towards low
                blood pressure values [f. ex. below 100 mmHg systolic blood pressure], and report
                symptoms)

             5. unspecified intradialytic symptoms or events, which are most likely related to
                fluid withdrawal

             6. patient-reported postdialysis complication, most likely related to fluid withdrawal

           when fluid overloaded hemodialysis patients receive systematic fluid reduction, to reach
           a final dry weight of -7% ECW postdialysis. The secondary outcome measure for objective
           [a] is the total number of hemodialysis sessions per patient which were accompanied by
           the respective symptom most likely related to fluid withdrawal (1 to 6), divided by the
           number of hemodialysis sessions at risk (as by study protocol: 12 sessions per patient
           in study phase 1). Both groups, UCR and UTR, will be compared against the conventional
           hemodialysis group, and afterwards against one another, using the two-sided Student's
           t-test.

        2. To demonstrate superiority of UCR and/or UTR over conventional hemodialysis in allowing
           patients to reach a lower body weight, relative to his/her postdialysis weight at the
           beginning of study phase 1 (time zero). The secondary outcome measure for objective [b]
           is the difference in postdialysis body weight from time zero to the end of study phase
           1, divided by the postdialysis body weight at time zero.

           Example: If a patient has a postdialysis body weight of 65 kg at time zero (the last
           hemodialysis session before the first dry weight reduction), and reaches a postdialysis
           body weight of 62 kg at the end of the first study phase, his difference in body weight
           will be 65 kg - 62 kg =3 kg. Relative to this patient's postdialysis body weight at time
           zero, weight reduction from beginning to end of study phase 1 will be 3/65*100=4.61%.

           The relative weight reduction in both groups, UCR and UTR, will be compared against the
           conventional hemodialysis group, and afterwards against one another, using the two-sided
           Student's t-test.

        3. To assess if stricter volume control in fluid overloaded patients (using UCR, UTR or
           conventional hemodialysis) diminishes residual renal function. The secondary outcome
           measure for objective [c] is the difference in 24h urine volume from time zero to the
           end of study phase 1, divided by the urine volume at time zero. The relative urine
           reduction in both groups, UCR and UTR, will be compared against the conventional
           hemodialysis group, and afterwards against one another, using the two-sided Student's
           t-test.

        4. To assess the amount of sodium transferred to the patient or withdrawn from the patient
           during conventional hemodialysis, UCR and UTR.

           The amount of sodium removed during hemodialysis is a function of the ultrafiltration
           volume, the effective diffusion gradient for sodium, and diffusive sodium clearance. The
           effective diffusion gradient depends on the plasma water - dialysate sodium (DNa)
           difference, and the Gibbs-Donnan coefficient, the latter being a function of the plasma
           protein concentration but also being influenced by other ions in the dialysate. The
           assumption that sodium removal by ultrafiltration is equal to the plasma water sodium
           concentration, multiplied by the ultrafiltration volume, is a simplification.
           Electrolyte balances may also be influenced by the membrane charge. Therefore, the
           amount of sodium transferred will be measured on the dialysate side. Sodium transfer
           will be calculated from the difference between the mean sodium concentration in
           partially collected, used dialysate and the fresh DNa concentration, multiplied by the
           total amount of dialysate used. Results will be compared to a two pool sodium model and
           parameters of the model will be adjusted using the measured transfer data.

           The above described method is not applicable to the UCR group because the sodium
           concentration of fresh dialysate is not kept constant during treatment. In order to
           establish the model, we will measure at least 10 patients during 3 hemodialysis
           sessions, and due to the formerly stated, we can only use the dialysate from patients in
           the conventional hemodialysis group and in the UTR group.

           However, after having established this model, sodium transfer for all patients -
           conventional, UTR, and UCR - can be calculated using this very model.

           The amount of sodium transferred to or withdrawn from the patient will be calculated for
           each patient, according to the model established in the way stated here above. The
           secondary outcome measure for objective [d], e.g. the sodium transferred in both groups,
           UCR and UTR, will be compared against the conventional hemodialysis group, and
           afterwards against one another, using the two-sided Student's t-test.

        5. To assess if stricter volume control by conventional hemodialysis, UCR and/or UTR
           influences predialysis serum concentrations of (1) C-reactive protein, (2) D-dimer, (3)
           fibrinogen, (4) troponin T, (5) N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide. These
           proteins are used as read-outs for inflammation (1, 2, 3), coagulation (2, 3), and
           cardiac function (4, 5) and are routinely determined at all three participating centers.
           The secondary outcome measure for objective [e], e.g. the concentrations of the
           indicated laboratory parameters in both groups, UCR and UTR, at time zero and at the end
           of study phase 1, will be compared against the conventional hemodialysis group, and
           afterwards against one another, using the two-sided Student's t-test. The individual
           change in these parameters, from time zero to the end of study phase 1, will be compared
           likewise.

        6. To assess if stricter volume control in fluid overloaded patients (using UCR, UTR or
           conventional hemodialysis) affects the concentration of various proteins that might
           serve as novel biomarkers (including high density lipoprotein [HDL]-associated
           surfactant protein B, HDL-associated serum amyloid A, HDL-associated apoC-II, plasma
           tryptophan, plasma choline, plasma trimethylanine-N-oxide; plasma endotoxin).

           We have recently discovered that various proteins, including those mentioned here above,
           may render HDL dysfunctional, in hemodialysis patients. Especially with surfactant, we
           suspect an association with fluid overload. Moreover, plasma tryptophan, plasma choline,
           and plasma trimethylanine-N-oxide are markers of end stage renal disease. Since one or
           several of these proteins or molecules might serve as novel biomarkers, we would like to
           use the context of the present trial to establish diagnostic assays and analyze
           potential changes in the serum concentration of these proteins, before and after fluid
           removal.

           Endotoxin, found in the cell membranes of gram-negative bacteria, is a biomarker
           representing the gut flora. Endotoxin has been shown to be associated with inflammation,
           nutritional status and even mortality in hemodialysis patients. An incremental rise in
           endotoxin levels has been shown along with the progression of chronic kidney disease,
           and especially initiation of hemodialysis. It has been suggested that hemodialysis
           patients might have high endotoxin levels in the blood due to repeated bacterial
           translocation from the gut during hemodialysis, secondary to intradialytic changes in
           blood pressure and/or tissue perfusion. An association with chronic fluid overload has
           not yet been established, but might be suspected, as a consequence of higher
           ultrafiltration rates and thus decreased intradialytic stability. Here we will measure
           endotoxin levels with an amebocyte limulus assay in all study patients, at time zero and
           at the end of study phase 1.

           The secondary outcome measure for objective [f], for example HDL-associated serum
           amyloid A in both groups, UCR and UTR, at time zero and at the end of study phase 1,
           will be compared against the conventional hemodialysis group, and afterwards against one
           another, using the two-sided Student's t-test. The individual change in these
           parameters, from time zero to the end of study phase 1, will be compared likewise. The
           results of this secondary endpoint analysis will be published separately from the
           clinical results of the present study.

        7. To assess if stricter volume control in fluid overloaded patients (using UCR, UTR or
           conventional hemodialysis) affects quality of life measures. The secondary outcome
           measures for objective [g] are the mental component summary (MCS) and physical component
           summary (PCS) derived from the Kidney Disease Quality of Life Short Form (KDQoL-SFTM).
           The scale of both summary scores is 0-100 (higher indicating better quality of life).
           MCS and PCS in both groups, UCR and UTR, at time zero and at the end of study phase 1,
           will be compared against the conventional hemodialysis group, and afterwards against one
           another, using the two-sided Student's t-test. The individual change in these
           parameters, from time zero to the end of study phase 1, will be compared likewise.

        8. To demonstrate superiority of UCR and/or UTR over conventional hemodialysis in reducing
           dialysis complications when previously fluid overloaded patients are entering phase 2
           and phase 3 of the presented study. In study phases 2 and 3, patients either have to
           reduce their dry weight further, or else have to maintain their newly reached dry
           weight. The secondary outcome measures for objective [h] are potentially all of the
           items described here above, and will be compared against the conventional hemodialysis
           group, and afterwards against one another, in the same fashion as described here above.

        9. To assess which hemodialysis treatment modality will be chosen by the patients at the
           end of the study. The choice of treatment will be compared as follows: (1) number of
           patients choosing UCR-treatment against number of patients choosing conventional
           treatment; (2) number of patients choosing UTR-treatment against number of patients
           choosing conventional treatment; (3) number of patients choosing UCR-treatment against
           number of patients choosing UTR-treatment. The statistical test for analyses (1), (2)
           and (3) will be the two-sided chi square test, for each analysis.

      Superiority definition For all objectives listed, superiority will be assumed if a
      statistically significant difference between one group versus another group can be
      determined. With regards to the primary endpoint, according to our sample size calculation
      (see below), this study is suited to detect a minimal difference of 10% between groups.
    
  