
    
      The purpose of this study is to see if intestinal bacteria plays a role in choline metabolism
      (a form of choline monitored in this study is called phosphatidylcholine, also known as
      lecithin). This study will help to determine if choline metabolism is affected by short-term
      antibiotic therapy, and/or can be altered by probiotic therapy (e.g. in the form of eating
      yogurt).

      Metabolism is a process that turns foods we eat into fuel for our bodies. Choline is nutrient
      found in a type of fat commonly found in foods. There is evidence that choline metabolism by
      bacteria in the intestines may be linked to cardiac risk.

      The purpose of this study is to see if intestinal bacteria plays a role in choline metabolism
      (a form of choline monitored in this study is called phosphatidylcholine, also known as
      lecithin). This study will help to determine if choline metabolism is affected by short-term
      antibiotic therapy, and/or can be altered by probiotic therapy (e.g. in the form of eating
      yogurt).

      This single center study will randomize 30 normal, healthy volunteers to 1 of 3 groups:

      Group 1: antibiotics for 1 week, followed by probiotics for 3 weeks; Group 2: antibiotics for
      1 week, followed by no probiotics for 3 weeks. Group 3: no antibiotics for 1 week, followed
      by probiotics for 3 weeks.

      The antibiotics to be used will be metronidazole (500 mg twice daily) and ciprofloxacin (500
      mg daily) for one week. The probiotics to be used will be one serving size of standard
      flavored yogurt (approximately 170 g) twice daily for up to three weeks.

      Study visits will occur at baseline, 1 week, and 4 weeks. Blood and urine samples will be
      collected at the start of each visit. Subjects will then eat 2 hard boiled eggs and be given
      a standard medical isotope. Additional blood samples will be obtained at 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6
      hours, and a urine sample will be collected at 6 hours. Samples will be analyzed for choline
      levels, its byproducts, and isotope levels.
    
  