
    
      This study were to establish the relationships of visual perception, visual motor
      integration, and motor coordination of handwriting performance in children with TD in Taiwan,
      to establish the norms of handwriting performance in children with TD in Taiwan, to compare
      handwriting performance in children with CP and children with TD, to clarify the relationship
      of visual perception function and handwriting performance in children with CP in the first
      phase, and to examine the effectiveness of interactive computerized handwriting training
      program (ICHTP) via a randomized controlled study in children with CP in the second phase.The
      subjects are ninety children with typical development aged between 6-12 years from elementary
      school and forty-eight children with CP aged between 6-12 years from Chang Gung Memorial
      Hospital (Taipei branch, Linkou branch, Taoyuan branch, Kaohsiung branch), Far Eastern
      Memorial Hospital, Taipei Veterans General Hospital and Buddhist Tzu Chi General Hospital
      (Taipei branch)etc.Experimental design In first phase, we establish the relationships of
      visual perception, visual motor integration, and motor coordination of handwriting
      performance in children with TD in Taiwan, to establish the norms of handwriting performance
      in children with TD among different age groups in Taiwan, a comparison designed study to
      compare the handwriting performance among 2 CP groups and TD groups. All children were
      assigned into diplegia group, hemiplegia group, and typical development (TD) group. Then we
      will assessment the fine motor skill, visual perception and handwriting performance by
      occupational therapist.

      Experimental procedures:

      All children were assessed with clinical assessments and the Chinese handwriting assessment
      tool (CHAT). Clinical assessments included Manual Ability Classification System (MACS),
      Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency-second edition (BOT-II), the Test of
      Visual-Perceptual Skills Revised (TVPS-R), Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor
      Integration (Berry VMI) and comprehensive test of basic reading and writing. Evaluations were
      performed in about 1.5-2 hours in a silent and restful room, eliminating factors such as
      fatigue and distraction of attention and concentration, which could have an impact on the
      results. All the tests used in the study were individually administered to all children. The
      performance of all children was videotaped for later scoring.

      In second phase, all CP children were randomized assigned into ICHTP group or THTP group. All
      participations will received clinical and CHAT assessments before and after intervention.
      Clinical assessments included Manual Ability Classification System (MACS),
      Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency-second edition (BOT-II), the Test of
      Visual-Perceptual Skills Revised (TVPS-R), Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor
      Integration (Berry VMI) and comprehensive test of basic reading and writing. Evaluations were
      performed in about 2 hours in a silent and restful room, eliminating factors such as fatigue
      and distraction of attention and concentration, which could have an impact on the results.
      All the tests used in the study were individually administered to all children. The
      performance of all children was videotaped for later scoring. The intervention consisted of
      ICHTP and THTP training programs, which is 45 min/once, three times/one week, and sustain
      four weeks.
    
  