
    
      Background: Alcohol use disorder (AUD) and heavy drinking are common among Veterans with
      42.2% of Veterans having a life-time history of AUD and 14.8% screening positive for
      past-year probable AUD. Although treatments for AUD have improved over the past several
      decades, more effective interventions are needed. Pioglitazone is an FDA approved medication
      used to treat diabetes. Pioglitazone is a PPAR agonist and has been reported to decrease
      voluntary alcohol consumption of a 10% alcohol solution in rats genetically selected for high
      alcohol consumption. In addition, when rats had to perform an operant task to receive
      alcohol, pioglitazone reduced alcohol self-administration but not saccharin intake. These
      data suggest that pioglitazone reduces the motivation to consume alcohol. No clinical studies
      of pioglitazone are available in patients with AUD only. This proposed research study is a
      double-blind controlled clinical trial of 200 Veterans with AUD randomized to either
      pioglitazone or placebo. The primary hypothesis is that Veterans with AUD who are currently
      drinking alcohol will have a greater reduction in heavy drinking days per week compared to
      those who receive placebo.

      Methods: Male and Female Veterans who are above 18 years old, who are not seeking intensive
      outpatient alcohol treatment will be recruited from the Minneapolis and Long Beach VA Health
      Care Service's for the study. After screening visits and informed consent, participants who
      meet all inclusion and exclusion criteria and who sign the informed consent will be given a
      breathalyzer test and the following measures: The Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5
      (SCID), Obsessive Compulsive Drinking Scale (OCDS), Timeline Followback (TLFB), Beck
      Depression Inventory-2nd edition (BDI-II) and the PTSD Checklist (PCL-5). Participants will
      also provide a urine sample for a urine drug screen, Ethyl Glucuronide (EtG), and Ethyl
      Sulfate (EtS), and blood samples for ALT, AST and BNP (B-type natriuretic peptide). Women of
      childbearing potential will provide a urine sample for Beta-Human chorionic gonadotropin (
      -HCG). Participants will then be randomized to receive either pioglitazone or placebo. The
      participants will be seen weekly for the first 4 weeks (visits 1,2,3,4- baseline or
      randomization visit will be visit 0) then every 2 weeks until the end of the study (week 6 or
      visit 5, week 8 or visit 6, week 10 or visit 7, week 12 or visit 8, and week 14 or visit 9)
      for a maximum of 12 visits (including the screening visit, baseline visit, and closeout
      visit). At week 16, there will be a termination or closeout visit after study medications
      have been tapered. During the first 2 weeks of the study, each subject will have their dose
      of pioglitazone (or placebo) increased to a dose of 45mg per day. In addition to the
      medication (pioglitazone or placebo all participants will receive Brief Behavioral Compliance
      Enhancement Treatment (BBCET) as their psychosocial treatment. This is a standardized
      15-minute intervention that emphasizes medication adherence as a crucial element to change
      alcohol use behavior.

      Alcohol use will be measured by the Timeline Follow-back method and biomarkers of alcohol use
      will also be measured to determine whether a reduction in alcohol correlates with reduced
      markers of alcohol use. In addition, the impact of pioglitazone on rumination and safety will
      be assessed with a variety of measures.

      Relevance to Veterans Health: Veterans have high rates of AUD with significant impact on
      health, quality of life and mortality. In addition, the direct and indirect cost of AUD are
      high. Current medication treatment approaches are infrequently used and of only small to
      modest benefit. Pioglitazone has shown promise in several pre-clinical studies but no AUD
      clinically focused studies are available. If pioglitazone is found to be useful in reducing
      or eliminating alcohol use in Veterans it could be easily and rapidly repurposed to treat
      AUD, as it is already an FDA approved medication. Pioglitazone, given its unique mechanism of
      action, may offer an innovative approach to treating Veterans with AUD and thus help reduce
      the impact of this costly and difficult problem.
    
  