
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Percentage of women experiencing aromatase inhibitor associated musculoskeletal symptoms
      (AIMSS) at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after bisphosphonate therapy, as compared to historical
      controls.

      II. Change in Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index (HAQ-DI) score and 1, 3, 6 and
      12 months, from baseline, among those receiving bisphosphonate, as compared to historical
      controls.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Change in pain scores on visual analog scale (VAS) at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months, from
      baseline, compared to historical controls.

      II. Change in amount and/or frequency of oral analgesic use at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months from
      baseline among those receiving bisphosphonate therapy, as compared to historical controls.

      III. Number of patients who discontinue or change aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy.

      IV. Change in menopausal symptoms (NSABP-revised), hot flash frequency (HFRDIS),sleep quality
      (PSQI), depression score (CESD) and overall quality of life (EuroQOL) in patients at 1, 3, 6
      and 12 months from baseline, among those receiving bisphosphonate therapy, as compared to
      historical controls.

      V. Changes in plasma estrogen concentrations at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months from baseline, among
      those receiving bisphosphonate therapy, as compared to historical controls.

      VI. Change in bone mineral density (DEXA scan) at 12 months from baseline, among those
      receiving bisphosphonate therapy, as compared to historical controls.

      VII. Change in bone turn over markers (serum-C telopeptide, bone-specific alkaline
      phosphatase, osteocalcin and urinary N-telopeptide) at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months from baseline,
      among those receiving bisphosphonate therapy, as compared to historical controls.

      VIII. Change in inflammatory markers (ESR, CRP, IL-1, IL-6, IL-8) at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months
      from baseline, among those receiving bisphosphonate therapy, as compared to historical
      controls.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive zoledronic acid intravenously (IV) at months 1 and 6. Beginning 14
      days after first zoledronic acid infusion, patients receive oral letrozole once daily for 12
      months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  