
    
      This five-year application is concerned with preventing substance abuse, comorbid mental and
      behavioral disorders, and school failure. We will direct an integrated set of previously
      tested preventive first-grade interventions at two correlated and confirmed early
      antecedents: early aggressive, disruptive behavior and poor achievement. The interventions we
      propose to integrate and test are directed at improving: 1) teacher's classroom behavior
      management; 2) family/classroom partnerships regarding homework and discipline; and 3)
      teacher's instructional practices regarding academic subjects, particularly reading. The
      combined preventive and educational intervention strategy will be a single Whole Day (WD)
      first-grade classroom program, built on the empirically determined recognition of the
      interdependence of these risk factors across substance abuse and educational failure. As in
      our past Baltimore preventive trials, we propose to test the effectiveness of WD in a
      developmental epidemiological design in which children and teachers are randomly assigned to
      intervention and standard setting conditions (controls; SC). A special aspect of this
      proposal is that in the same design we propose laying a foundation for moving what we have
      learned into policy and practice. While following the first-grade children as far as the end
      of third grade, we will follow their first grade teachers over two subsequent cohorts of
      first graders, to test whether the support and training structure sustains high levels of WD
      practice. We will also test whether the support and training structure is successful in
      training non-WD teachers, as far as the trial results warrant. This prevention services aim
      will be augmented by an economic analysis of the costs and effectiveness of the WD program.
      The research on effectiveness combined with research on moving from effectiveness to practice
      should increase the efficiency of developing evidence-based programs faster and earlier in
      both the prevention and education fields.

      This grant would set the foundation for grants for following the cohort of study children and
      teachers periodically to assess the preventive impact of the interventions on later substance
      abuse and on extending teachers' use of WD practices. This prevention research in Baltimore
      continues under the aegis of our Community and Institutional Board (see letters of support).
      This proposal involves a close institutional collaboration among the American Institutes for
      Research (AIR); Baltimore City Public School System (BCPSS); Morgan State University (MSU);
      the Oregon Social Learning Center (OSLC); the Prevention Science and Methodology Group
      (PSMG); the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health; and the Center for Academic and
      Reading Skills at the University of Texas-Houston.

      The aims of our proposed work are to

        1. Implement and evaluate the effectiveness of a whole-day preventive intervention program
           for first grade (WD) directed at reducing the antecedent risk factors for later
           substance abuse, comorbid mental and behavioral disorders, and school failure.

        2. Measure the variation in the impact of WD owing to variation in the experimentally
           manipulated quality of teachers' specific WD practices around classroom behavior
           management, family/classroom partnership, and quality of instruction, particularly
           regarding reading. These analyses will include other sources of variation as well, in
           the child and in the social contexts of family, classroom and school, peers, and
           community.

        3. Test the effectiveness of the support and training structure required to develop and
           maintain high-quality implementation of WD a) during the effectiveness trial; then b) as
           the results warrant, sustaining high-quality WD in consecutive cohorts of first graders;
           and then c) extending the hypothesized higher quality of WD to other than WD teachers.

        4. Carry out economic analyses of the costs of implementing WD and their cost-effectiveness
           compared with SC with respect to reductions in risk factors for illicit substance abuse,
           as well as tobacco, HIV, school failure, and comorbid mental and behavioral disorders.

      B. Background and Significance Over the past three decades, evidence from developmental
      epidemiological studies has consistently identified specific antecedent risk factors at least
      as early as first grade as predictive of later substance abuse and comorbid mental and
      behavioral disorders during the middle school years and beyond (Cairns, Cairns, & Neckerman,
      1995; Farrington, 1995; Hawkins, Catalano, & Miller, 1992; Hawkins, Doueck, & Lishner, 1988;
      Kellam, Brown, Rubin, & Ensminger, 1983; Reid, 1993; Reid & Eddy, 1997). Many of these
      antecedents are exhibited in the school setting, such as aggressive, disruptive behavior in
      first grade and its strong correlate, poor academic achievement. These early risk factors can
      lead to later substance abuse and school dropout, which have considerable economic, social,
      and psychological consequences (Dishion, Capaldi, & Yoerger, 1999; Eddy, Reid, & Fetrow,
      2000; Hawkins et al., 1992; Kellam et al., 1983; Kellam, Mayer, Rebok, & Hawkins, 1998;
      Maguin & Loeber, 1996; Mrazek & Haggerty, 1994; Reid, Eddy, Fetrow, & Stoolmiller, 1999 [see
      Appendix-1 for paper]). These risk factors are also strongly related to a host of other risk
      factors that separately or together are predictive during adolescence and young adulthood of
      not only drug abuse, but also conduct disorders and violence, depression, school drop out,
      and high-risk sexual behaviors. Ineffective parenting around discipline and homework;
      classrooms with high levels of aggressive, disruptive behavior; antisocial classmates and
      peers; poverty at the family level and at the school and community levels, and individual
      differences such as sensation seeking (Wills, Sandy, & Yaeger, 2000; Palmgreen, Donohew,
      Lorch, Hoyle, & Stephenson, 2001)-all have been found to increase the risk of drug abuse and
      related comorbid problems (Ary et al., 1999; Dishion et al., 1999; Kellam, Ling, Meriska,
      Brown, & Ialongo, 1998 [see Appendix-2 for paper]; Reid, Patterson, & Snyder, in press).

      In Baltimore, in Oregon, and elsewhere, rigorous, developmental, epidemiologically based,
      randomized field trials have directed interventions at decreasing the early risk factors in
      the classroom, family, and peer-group settings. These trials indicate that school-based
      universal interventions (i.e., those addressing all children, not merely those at higher
      risk) can have short-term beneficial effects on aggressive behavior and achievement (Dolan et
      al., 1993; Ialongo et al., 1999; Reid, et al., 1999), off-task behavior (Brown, 1994a,
      1993b), and depressive symptoms (Kellam, Rebok, Mayer, Ialongo, & Kalodner, 1994). Impact
      from first grade interventions to reduced aggression in middle school has been reported
      (Kellam, Rebok, Ialongo, & Mayer [see Appendix-3 for paper], 1994; Kellam, Ling et al.,
      1998), and delinquency (Eddy et al., 2000). Longer-term effects on illicit drug use have been
      observed in the Baltimore work (see Figure 1). Reductions in the initiation of tobacco use
      have been shown as a result of the Baltimore first grade preventive interventions in three
      separate cohorts (Kellam & Anthony, 1998 [see Appendix-4 for paper]; Storr, Ialongo, Kellam,
      & Anthony, in press). Longer-term impact has been reported in meta-analyses on illicit drug
      use by Nan Tobler and colleagues (1986; 2000; Tobler et al., 2000) plus other meta-analyses
      (Derzon & Lipsey, 1999; Gorman, 1995). Higher-fidelity implementation of the interventions
      also led to higher impact (Ialongo et al., 1999 [see Appendix-5 for paper], Ialongo, Poduska,
      Werthamer, & Kellam, 2001 [see Appendix-6 for paper]). Further, we have found compelling
      evidence that these universal interventions often have the greatest impact on those at
      highest risk of substance abuse and aggression (Brown & Liao, 1999 [see Appendix-7 for
      paper]; Curran & Muthèn, 1999; Muthèn & Curran, 1997; Muthèn et al., submitted; Stoolmiller,
      Eddy, & Reid, 2000 [see Appendix-8 for paper]).
    
  