
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) is the first-choice for the
      treatment of renal stone ≥20 mm with high stone free rate (SFR). However, there are some
      sever complications such as bleeding. Severe bleeding needs arterial embolization, which
      might impair the renal function. The size of percutaneous access tract has been proven to be
      closely related to the risk of bleeding complications. Mini-PCNL was firstly introduced by
      Jackman in 1998 to treat pediatric renal stone with the aim to lower the morbidity. Mini-PCNL
      was gradually applied to adults. In recent years, urologists were still attempting to reduce
      size of the sheath and modify the sheath. They aimed to reduce the risk of bleeding. The
      first generation SMP consists of a 10-14 F access sheath with a suction-evacuation function
      and a 7-F nephroscope with enhanced irrigation was introduced by Guohua Zeng's group in 2014.
      In 2016, Guohua Zeng's group continued to introduce a modified SMP technique and system. The
      most remarkable feature of the new generation super-mini percutaneous nephrolithotomy
      (New-SMP) was metal irrigation-suction sheath which made the new system have higher
      efficiency than the old one. With the modified SMP technique and system, SMP was performed to
      treat large renal stone. (≥2cm). Moreover, SMP with an irrigation-suction sheath obviously
      improved the efficiency of removing the fragments and lower the intrapelvic pressure.

      Although miniaturized techniques decreased the bleeding-related morbidity and have a similar
      SFR, they seemed to take a longer operating time and have risk of getting infectious
      complications. However, till now, no high quality of evidence demonstrated that what size of
      tract is the best for the treatment of ≥2 cm renal stone. Perhaps the investigators should
      find out a subgroup suitable for standard-PCNL, Mini-PCNL or SMP respectively.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES The aim of this registry is to review current clinical practice on PCNL for
      stone treatment. The investigators will explore the answers to the following questions: What
      kind of PCNL urologists prefers to used? Is there a best cutoff based on the size of stones
      to divide the patients into subgroups, or a scoring system to decide which kind of PCNL is
      the best choice for individuals? Primary Objective To compare the stone free rate (SFR) (%)
      among standard-PCNL, Mini-PCNL and SMP for the treatment of ≥2 cm renal stone.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Bleeding complication: hematocrit drop (g/L) and rate of transfusion (%).

        2. Infectious complication: rate of getting fever (≥38℃) (%) and urosepsis (%).

        3. Intraoperative indexes: operating time (mins), rate of tubeless/total tubeless (%).

        4. Postoperative indexes: hospital stay (mins), visual analogue scale (VAS) score (range
           from 0-10, the higher value represents the worse outcome) STUDY DESIGN This study is a
           prospective, observational, international, multicenter registry cohort study SELECTION
           AND ENROLLMENT OF PARTICIPANTS Clinical Recruitment All sites for this pilot study are
           recruited by IAU Members. Each participating center should obtain ethical approval, as
           needed, according to local regulations.

      Each participating centre will include all consecutive eligible patients. PCNL procedures are
      performed according local protocols and surgeons' own propensity. Data will be collected in
      the IAU online platform (http://47.74.212.47/#/login), which is developed by IAU. Each
      participating center has own account and password to login and collect data. Data analysis
      will be coordinated by IAU.

      Study Population All patients ≥14 years with ≥2 cm renal stone who are planned for
      Standard-PCNL, Mini-PCNL or SMP are eligible for this study.

      Surgical procedure The procedure of SMP, mini-PCNL and Standard-PCNL was according to
      surgeons' propensity, the related details were recorded online.
    
  