
    
      This study is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group
      trial to compare the efficacy and safety of standard-dose colchicine (STD)(total dose = 4.8
      mg) versus low-dose colchicine (total dose 1.8 mg) or placebo for the treatment of acute gout
      flares. Eight hundred and thirteen patients with a confirmed diagnosis of gout were screened.
      238 of the screened patients failed screening; 235(98.7%) failed because they did not meet
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. The 575 eligible patients were randomly assigned (1:1:1) to one
      of three treatment groups . At the randomization visit the investigator dispensed a blister
      card containing eight identical looking capsules (in a combination of active drug and placebo
      capsules) in a double blind fashion for use during their next gout flare. Patients were
      instructed to self-initiate treatment with the study medication within 12 hours of a gout
      flare onset. Gout flares were determined by calling a Gout Flare Call Center established for
      this purpose. At Investigator discretion, rescue medication could also be provided, but
      patients were encouraged not to use rescue medication within the first 24 hours after
      starting treatment with study drug. Of the 575 study participants, 185 had a qualifying gout
      flare and 390 did not. Patients used a diary to record study drug administration, pain score,
      the presence or absence of gastrointestinal adverse events (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and
      abdominal pain) and the timing of any rescue medication use prior to beginning treatment and
      1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 16, 24, 32, 40, 48, 56, 64, and 72 hours after the start of dosing.

      The pain score was based on a scale of 1 - 10 where 1 was no pain and 10 was the worst pain
      imaginable. Efficacy was defined as a 50% reduction in pain score in the target joint at 24
      hours in patients who did not use rescue medicine. The primary efficacy analysis was to be
      based on an Intent-to-Treat (ITT) population, defined as all patients who were randomized,
      contacted the Call Center, and were instructed to begin taking study drug. An otherwise
      qualified patient was excluded from the ITT population only if the patient returned a study
      drug blister pack completely unused.

      Secondary outcome measures compared the efficacy of STD dose colchicine to a low dose regimen
      and placebo using the same criteria for efficacy as for the primary outcome measure.

      Additional secondary outcome measures were time to 50% and 90% reduction in pain in the
      target joint analyzed by treatment group using Kaplan-Meier methods, and the change in mean
      pain intensity from 0 to 72 hours plotted by time point for each treatment group.

      All safety analyses were carried out using the safety population defined as all patients who
      received at least one dose of study medication regardless of authorization by the Call Center
      To determine the safety of colchicine when administered via two different dose regimens all
      patients who had a gout flare were seen by the investigator as soon as possible after onset
      and evaluated until the flare and any adverse events resolved. All adverse effects, whether
      recorded by the patient in the diary or obtained by systematic evaluation by the investigator
      were recorded and reported in tabular form. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE) were
      summarized by MedDRA System Organ Class and preferred terms and tabulated according treatment
      arm, overall incidence, severity and relationship to study medication. Multiple events within
      a patient were counted once and at greatest severity and closest relationship to study
      medication.
    
  