
    
      The incidence of autoimmune diseases (celiac disease, type 1 diabetes, thyroid disease) have
      increased over the past 30 years. Although most autoimmune diseases have a strong link to
      different risk genes, the rapid increase is thought to be due to changes in environmental
      factors. There is currently no cure for autoimmune diseases, but the treatment is lifelong
      and either involves suppressing the inflammation and / or substituting the organs that are
      affected to maintain vital functions. Being able to predict who is affected and identifying
      factors that trigger autoimmunity is necessary for developing new treatment methods that
      prevent the occurrence of autoimmune diseases.

      The bacterial flora's composition in the gut can affect both the intestinal barrier
      properties and the immune system's response to various dietary components. An adverse
      composition of the intestinal flora can activate parts of the immune system that are involved
      in chronic inflammation in celiac disease and inflammatory bowel disease.

      Probiotics are defined as living microorganisms which, when ingested in sufficient amounts,
      produce a health effect (FAO / WHO). Certain probiotic strains has been used to hamper
      pro-inflammatory immune system triggered by gluten protein in conjunction with celiac
      disease. Earlier studies have shown that Lactobacillus reduced the permeability in the small
      intestinal mucosa. But to our knowledge, no randomized clinical trials have tested the effect
      on probiotic supplementation and development of autoimmune disease such as celiac disease.

      The aim of the study is to investigate whether a daily oral intake of a mixture of
      L.paracasei and L.plantarum can affect the autoimmune process in children who are screened
      positive for any of the autoantibodies associated with development of celiac disease, type 1
      diabetes and / or thyroid disease. Our hypothesis is that lactobacilli can directly regulate
      the autoimmune process in the small intestinal mucosa by stimulating regulatory T-cells, but
      also by affecting the permeability of the small intestinal mucosa by of antigen that
      stimulates specific T-cells.

      The aims of this study are:

        -  will supplementation of L.paracasei and L.plantarum during a 12 month period compared to
           placebo increase the levels of regulatory T-cells (CD4+CD25+) and decrease B-cells
           and/or NK-cells in children and adolescents screened persistent positive with
           auto-antibodies associated with celiac disease, type 1 diabetes and / or thyroid
           disease?

        -  will supplementation of L.paracasei and L.plantarum during a 12 month period compared to
           placebo increase the abundance of bacteroides in gut and oral cavity in children and
           adolescents screened persistent positive with auto-antibodies associated with celiac
           disease, type 1 diabetes and / or thyroid disease?

        -  will supplementation of L.paracasei and L.plantarum during a 12 month period compared to
           placebo lower the levels of auto-antibodies associated with celiac disease, type 1
           diabetes and / or thyroid disease in children and adolescents with persistent positive
           auto-antibodies.

      A total of 200 children genetically at-risk for celiac disease, type 1 diabetes and thyroid
      disease who are persistent positive for any of the following auto-antibodies will be invited
      to the study.

      Participants who signed a informed consent will be randomized (double blinded) into the
      probiotic or placebo group. A venous blood sample, saliva- and feces sample will be collected
      at every clinic visit, 3 months apart (0, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months). A short questionnaire
      collecting information about illnesses, medication- and dietary supplement use, food habits,
      and demographic factors will be used.

      Blood sample will be analyzed for auto-antibodies (tTGA, GADA, IA-2A, IAA, Zn-T8A, and TPOA).
      FACS analyses will be used for a panel of inflammatory markers (CD3, CD4, CD8, CD25 etc).
      Feces- and saliva samples will be analysed using T-RFLP (PCR) of 16S rRNA.

      The benefit if this study are the increased knowledge about specific probiotics strains
      impact on autoimmunity in genetically at-risk children, and hopes of reducing the risk for
      developing autoimmune diseases as celiac disease, type 1 diabetes and thyroid disease.
    
  