
    
      The increasing availability of small hand held medical devices is a novel opportunity to
      develop a tool that guides patients through the decision-taking processes of seeking medical
      attendance during symptoms suggestive of acute myocardial infarction. The cornerstone of
      early diagnosis, risk stratification and treatment is the presence of ST segment elevation
      during symptoms suggestive of STEMI. Therefore, a hand held medical device that can detect ST
      segment elevation with high sensitivity and specificity could be a breakthrough in the
      further reduction of fatality from acute myocardial infarction. A number of conditions of the
      tool must be fulfilled to allow save use with a low threshold in the general population. Most
      important is the accuracy to detect any new ST segment elevation related to an acute artery
      occlusion. For more than 30 years the 12-lead ECG is the gold standard for detection of ST
      elevation. However, acute coronary occlusions of a posterior or lateral segment are not
      always detected by the gold standard. Moreover, in the very early phase of acute coronary
      occlusion, the accuracy 12 lead ECG is inadequate.

      In a previous study "Diagnostic accuracy of a novel method for detection of acute transmural
      myocardial ischemia based upon a self-applicable 3-lead configuration" the investigators
      developed and validated a sensitive and specific 3-lead ECG method (RELF method). The method
      includes a new lead configuration and a new algorithm to analyze the ECG recordings based on
      an intra-individual comparisons of ST levels. In summary, a 3-lead recording from a healthy
      subject or from a patient with an acute coronary occlusion is compared automatically to one
      or more previous reference recordings from the same individual. The individualized ST shift
      is used as a decision variable to detect or reject an acute coronary artery occlusion. The
      RELF method was more accurate then the simultaneously applied 12-lead ECG which had a lower
      sensitivity and specificity. In that study all recordings were performed by a sophisticated
      ECG recording system. The RELF method is designed to be applicable also by small hand held
      ECG devices such as the self-applicable Mini RELF device.

      In the current study the investigators aim to evaluate the accuracy of Mini RELF device
      relative to the 12 lead ECG when the device is self-applied on a daily basis by patients with
      coronary artery disease. In a parallel study (RELF IIb) the investigators aim to evaluate the
      specificity of the RELF method when it is self-applied by healthy subjects who are
      representative for future users of the device.
    
  