
    
      The proposed study is a cross sectional study that will be carried out among HCWs in three
      University hospitals namely Kasr Alaini , Ain Shams , and Zagazeg Hospitals, employing a
      quantitative survey.

      II-Study population Participants will be the HCWs at great risk of getting an infection which
      include those who are in direct contact with respiratory secretions.

      Inclusion criteria Age: From 25 to 60 years old Department: physicians and nurses from the
      operating room, critical care department, emergency department, pulmonology department.

      The potential participants will be given an information sheet and time to review this
      information before informed consent is sought. After the potential participants have agreed
      to be enrolled in the study, an informed consent will be obtained by the Investigator.

      III- Procedures and Data collection:

      Serum Collection and Interview A- Detecting Serum IgG against SARS-CoV2

      Blood samples will be collected from the enrolled HCWs. Sample collection, processing, and
      laboratory testing will follow guidance from the World Health Organization.(5) The
      sensitivity and specificity reported by the manufacturer for IgM are 88.2% and 99.0%
      respectively, and for IgG are 97.8% and 97.9%.

      B- Structured Interview questionnaire

      A structured - interview questionnaire using closed ended question format will be used to
      obtain information on:

        1. Socio-demographic characteristics of the interviewees asking about age, sex, residence,
           education, occupation, department, Job title, hospital name, medical experience in
           years, marital status, living with family, and having children or not.

        2. History of medical conditions, and history of performing procedures with transmission
           risk (date, place, type, duration, and frequency),

        3. The use of personal protection, i.e., wearing of N95 masks, gloves, and gown, and
           consistent handwashing.

        4. In addition, information will be collected regarding any clinical signs or symptoms in
           the worker past 3 months, including fever, cough, shortness of breath, or
           radiographically confirmed pneumonia.
    
  