
    
      Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the main cause of gynecological cancer death in developed
      countries, reflecting a clinical diagnosis possible at an advanced-stage of the disease and
      an early propensity for peritoneal dissemination. The treatment of these advanced stages
      combines optimal cytoreductive surgery and a platinum and taxan-based systemic chemotherapy.
      Despite a very high initial chemosensitivity and frequent clinical complete responses, the
      majority of patients relapses after a mean period of 18 months and progressively develops
      resistance to the various chemotherapeutic treatments. Nevertheless, recurrences remain
      frequently located in the peritoneal cavity.

      Intraperitoneal administration of chemotherapeutic agents (intraperitoneal chemotherapy, IPC)
      is adapted to OC natural history. IPC has shown its clinical efficacy compared with
      intravenous (IV) chemotherapy in three randomized clinical trials. Recently, an unexpected
      median overall survival of 110 months was reported after complete surgery followed with IPC.
      Nevertheless, IPC repetitions are still strongly limited due to the high local toxicities and
      the difficult access to the peritoneal cavity leading to an important morbidity of the IP
      catheters. In the GOG-172 trial, half of the patients of the IPC arm did not receive the
      complete planned IP treatment. Long-term results of both the GOG-172 and GOG-114 trials
      showed that treatment efficacy is correlated with the numbers of IPC courses administered and
      with a significant long-term effect for patients receiving 3 or more IPC courses. For
      patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy and optimal debulking surgery, the OV21 study
      recently showed that IP carboplatin-based chemotherapy was well tolerated and associated with
      an improved disease-free survival rate at 9 months after surgery compared with that of the IV
      chemotherapy group.

      At the same time, complete cytoreductive surgery associated with perioperative hyperthermic
      intraperitoneal chemotherapy (i.e. HIPEC) is the second promising IP treatment that is
      currently evaluated in advanced OC. HIPEC allows an early IP treatment enhanced by
      hyperthermia while limiting the diffusion problem of the IP drugs and the difficult access to
      the peritoneal cavity. Nevertheless, despite this promising concept, HIPEC with a unique and
      limited IP cisplatin dose remains discussed in the management of OC. A phase 3 trial (OVHIPEC
      study), recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine, emphasized the therapeutic
      interest of a cisplatin-based HIPEC procedure at the time of interval surgery for patients
      receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy. A significant improvement of overall survival (12 months
      gain: OS 33.9 months vs 45.7 months for IDS with HIPEC HR = 0.67 (0,48-0,94) p=0,02) was
      demonstrated for patients receiving HIPEC with a favorable tolerance profile and no
      additional morbidity.

      Clinicians postulate that it may be interesting to combine the two IP treatments associated
      with a significant improvement of OC overall survival i.e. cytoreductive surgery with HIPEC
      and postoperative IPC as an " intensive peritoneal " regimen in the initial management of
      stages III-IVA ovarian cancers. Performing a postoperative IPC may allow completing and
      extending the duration of the effect of HIPEC in decreasing the risk of peritoneal
      recurrence. HIPEC may also allow administering an early IP treatment on the residual
      microscopic disease during initial or interval surgery with an optimal access to the
      intraperitoneal cavity. Postoperative IPC will extend the HIPEC effect on unsterilized
      peritoneal microscopic residues with the aim of decreasing the risk of local recurrence.
      Performing HIPEC before IPC could allow limiting the number of postoperative IP courses
      needed. Nevertheless, this association questions its feasibility and tolerance, which should
      both be assessed in a phase II trial. Clinicians propose to conduct this feasibility study
      combining for the first time HIPEC with IPC as first-line treatment of ovarian cancer with
      peritoneal carcinomatosis to perform a peritoneal intensification.

      Design:

      After written informed consent, patients presenting with suspected advanced OC will undergo
      an exploratory laparoscopy with biopsies and evaluation of the disease extent (Sugarbaker PCI
      score). Only patients with histologically-proven high-grade serous OC with extended disease
      (stages III B-C and IV-A with minimal pleural effusion (FIGO 2014) will be included in the
      study. Patients with stage IV-A cancer with major pleural effusion and stage IV-B patients
      will be excluded. Patients with extended peritoneal carcinomatosis considered unresectable at
      exploratory laparoscopy will undergo classical 3-4 courses neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed
      by interval surgery and will be selected to participate to the INTENSIP study.

      During interval surgery, patients who will have undergone complete surgery (no macroscopic
      residue) and who gave their written consent will be included and will undergo HIPEC
      (Cisplatin 100mg/m2, 1h 30 infusions with sodium thiosulfate renal protection).

      They will then receive postoperative IPC i.e intravenous and intraperitoneal administration
      (IV Paclitaxel, 135mg/m2 on D1, IP Carboplatin, AUC 6 on D1, and IP Paclitaxel, 60mg/m2 on
      D8) with at least 3 courses performed (up to 4-6 allowed, depending on the classical
      therapeutic strategy of each participating center). In case of toxicity or inability to
      administer the treatment in an IP manner, it will be given intravenously.
    
  