
    
      A. PURPOSE OF THE STUDY

      To determine the effect of sleep extension on stress levels, cognitive function, and fitness
      in teenage girls.

      B. HYPOTHESIS / SPECIFIC AIMS

      If teenagers attain the recommended amount of sleep (9-9.5 hours per night), they will feel
      less stress and have better athletic and academic performance.

      Primary Objective:

      • The investigators will evaluate stress with a validated questionnaire before and after
      sleep extension (increased total sleep time per night).

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  The investigators will evaluate physical fitness and endurance with standardized testing
           before and after sleep extension.

        -  The investigators will measure several sleep variables (total sleep time, sleep
           efficiency, sleep onset latency, sleep-wake cycle pattern, sleepiness) before and after
           sleep extension.

        -  The investigators will evaluate the association between academic performance (Grade
           Point Average (GPA) and average total sleep time per night.

      Intervention:

      Sleep extension: Increasing nightly total sleep time (goal of 9-9.5 hours per night) by
      improving sleep hygiene, daily exercise, etc.

      In a prospective cohort study, up to 40 otherwise healthy teenage girls age 14-18 years at
      DSHA High School will be approached for consent to participate in the study. Upon consent
      they will complete the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), Epworth Sleepiness Scale for Children
      and Adolescents (ESS-ChAD) and Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) questionnaires and will be issued
      an actigraphy watch to monitor their sleep-wake cycles daily at home for 2 weeks. They will
      also keep a sleep diary during the study period.

      After the 2 weeks of actigraphy, subjects will have the data from the actigraphy watch
      downloaded and submit their sleep diary. They will be given sleep hygiene recommendations to
      try to attain 9-9.5 hours of sleep per night (sleep extension), if not already sleeping this
      amount. They will then be given a different actigraphy watch to wear and another sleep diary
      to log their total sleep time for 4 more weeks.

      After the 4 weeks, the actigraphy watch will be returned, the actigraphy data will be
      downloaded and the sleep diary data will be collected. Subjects will complete the ESS-ChAD
      and PSS upon conclusion of the study. Subjects will be offered a report of their sleep and
      activity data after completing the sleep extension period. If there is a gap of more than 4
      weeks between actigraphy use and the second fitness test, the investigators will ask
      participants to complete another 1-week sleep diary prior to testing. All study activities
      except downloading the actigraphy watch data will occur at Divine Savior Holy Angels High
      School (DSHA).
    
  