
    
      The study design is a single center, randomized non-blinded controlled clinical trial
      comparing usual care to a program of early identification and treatment of pulmonary
      exacerbation in adults with CF. Forty subjects will be enrolled a at the University of
      Washington with 20 subjects randomized into the usual care arm, and 20 randomized into the
      intervention arm.

      Usual care is defined as the regular quarterly CF visits with acute visits triggered by calls
      from the patient to the clinic. Neither home assessment of spirometry or standardized home
      symptom assessment are a component of usual care. Treatment of a pulmonary exacerbation will
      be based on a standard protocol employing a standard definition and treatment regimen. This
      study will employ current standardized CF pulmonary exacerbation orders used at the
      University of Washington. Usual care arm subjects will have 3 study visits at baseline,
      midpoint, and final, over a period of 6 months.

      The early intervention protocol will employ twice a week assessment of home spirometry and CF
      respiratory symptoms; we will employ a home based monitoring system from Philips called the
      Philips Remote Patient Monitoring system (TeleStation). The home monitoring system is
      connected to the patient's phone line; this system is currently used in clinical practice in
      the care of patients with diabetes and heart failure.

      Subjects who do not have a home phone line will answer the CF respiratory questions via the
      internet from their home computer.

      The home spirometry will be done using a PiKo-6 hand held spirometer up to 84 spirometry
      values. If the subject's spirometry falls by greater than 10% from baseline or the CF
      respiratory symptoms change in 3 or more of the 8 respiratory symptoms captured in the
      questionnaire, the subject will be called by the research staff and clinically evaluated by
      the study PIs within three days. This evaluation will include a history and physical exam
      along with repeat spirometry at the clinic. The intervention arm subjects will have 3 study
      visits at baseline, midpoint, and final, over a period of 6 months. They may have additional
      study visits depending on their respiratory symptoms or exacerbations during the 6 month
      study period.
    
  