
    
      Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), multiple myeloma (MM) and the
      related lymphoid malignancies included in this protocol are all incurable lymphoid
      malignancies that mainly affect persons in their late 60s and early 70s. Conventional
      chemotherapy can be effective at achieving high rates of clinical response, but relapse
      following these responses is almost universal. Response rates in the relapsed setting are
      inferior due to acquired resistance of the tumor cells, and new therapies with novel
      mechanisms of action are needed. Our aim in this study is to specifically address the needs
      of these patients for whom few effective treatments are available.

      Patients with lymphoid malignancies relapse due to acquired resistance of tumor cells to
      chemotherapy agents and innovative targeted therapies which overcome these mechanisms of
      resistance are needed. One such investigational drug, ON 01910.Na, is a potent and selective
      inhibitor of the cell cycle and leads to reduction in cyclin D1 expression. In vitro,
      ON01910.Na shows activity against CLL and MCL cell lines with resultant cellular death. The
      overexpression of cyclin D1 in these related lymphoid malignancies provides a rationale for
      its use in selected patients with these conditions.

      We therefore propose this non-randomized, pilot, dose-escalating Phase I study of ON 01910.Na
      in patients with MCL, CLL, MM and related lymphoid malignancies who have relapsed after or
      are refractory to standard therapy.

      The primary objective is to determine the toxicity profile (including the maximum tolerated
      dose and recommended phase II dose) of ON 01910.Na when administered the first 2 (or amended
      later to 3) days of a 2-week cycle in escalating doses in patients with MCL, CLL, MM and
      related lymphoid malignancies.

      The first cohort was dosed at 1200mg/m2/day times 2 days. The second cohort was dosed at
      1500mg/m2/day for 2 days. Three subjects were enrolled into the third cohort at 1800mg/m2/day
      times 2 days. One subject completed the 1800mg/m2/ day times 2 days dosing scheme. Two
      subjects stopped study drug after the first dose due to progressive disease. The 3 subjects
      who received 1800mg/m2/day times 2 days will compose cohort 3. New safety data from the drug
      manufacturer lead to Amendment L, which changed the dosing from 48 hours to 72 hours. On
      November 18, 2010, the IRB approved Amendment L, which changed the dosing for the new cohorts
      4 and 5 to 1800mg/day times 3 days, and 2100mg/day times 3 days, respectively.

      Secondary objectives include, the biological effects of ON 01910.Na (for example cyclin D1
      expression) on cell-cycle pathways of cells obtained from blood, lymph nodes or bone marrow,
      the toxicity profile of ON 01910.Na with subsequent dosing after 2 cycles of therapy, early
      indications of biologic activity after 4 cycles of therapy, evaluation of the
      pharmacokinetics of ON 01910.Na at the RPTD level, and indications of biologic activity
      during extended access (after 4 cycles (day 56)).

      The primary endpoint will be the toxicity profile at each dose level through day 28 (cycle 2
      day 14).

      Secondary endpoints include the reduction in lymph nodes, quantification of circulating
      lymphoma cells, assessment of extranodal disease sites, and/or measurement of the malignant
      monoclonal proteins in the serum or urine after 4 cycles of therapy (day 56).
    
  