
    
      Gemcitabine and capecitabine are designed to disrupt the growth of cancer cells, which may
      cause cancer cells to start to die. Bevacizumab is a drug that binds to and inhibits Vascular
      Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF), a blood-vessel stimulating agent with unusually high levels
      in kidney cancer.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive gemcitabine,
      capecitabine, and bevacizumab on a 28 day cycle. Capecitabine will be taken by mouth (with
      food), twice daily, on Days 1-21. Gemcitabine will be given through a needle in your vein in
      your arm over 30 minutes on Days 1 and 15. Bevacizumab will be given through a needle in your
      vein in your arm on Days 1 and 15. It will be given over 120 minutes for Cycle 1 and over 60
      minutes for all other cycles. Your doctor may decided to give you bevacizumab over 30 minutes
      if you tolerate the treatment well.

      On the first day of each cycle, blood (about 2 teaspoons) and a urine will be collected
      before treatment for routine tests. You will also have blood drawn on Day 15 (about 2
      teaspoons) for routine tests.

      Every 8 weeks, you will have a CT scan of your chest, abdomen, and pelvis and a chest x-ray.
      You will be asked about any drugs that you are currently taking and you will have a complete
      physical exam. You will be asked about any side effects that you might have experienced since
      the last visit and your ability to perform daily activities will be evaluated. Repeat bone
      scans and MRI of the brain may be done if your doctor thinks it is necessary.

      You will continue receiving treatment for a maximum of 12 months. However, if you are
      benefitting from treatment, you may be able to continue receiving it off study. You will be
      taken off study if the disease gets worse, if the side effects are intolerable, or if you
      develop another illness that prevents you from receiving the treatment.

      This is an investigational study. Gemcitabine, capecitabine, and bevacizumab are all FDA
      approved and commercially available. Up to 40 participants may take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  