
    
      Scientific background

      Cardiac arrest is one of leading causes of mortality in developed world. Survival ranges
      between 15 and 22%. Patients surviving cardiac arrest can have significant neurological
      impairment. None of currently available diagnostic methods can detect neurological
      consequences in early post resuscitation period. Biomarkers (NSE - neuron specific enolase,
      protein S100, GFAP - glial fibrillary acidic protein), imaging (computer tomography, magnetic
      resonance imaging) and functional studies (EEG - electro encephalography, SSEP -
      somatosensory evoked potentials) have all shown only limited prognostic value in predicting
      survival with good neurological outcome after cardiac arrest.

      Mitochondrial damage is one of key mechanisms of postresuscitation dysfunction. Elevated
      values of mitochondrial damage-associated molecular patterns were already linked to worst
      survival after cardiac arrest and critical illness.

      Mitochondrial damage often results in cell death and mitochondrial damage-associated
      molecular patterns are released into bloodstream. Mitochondrial damage-associated molecular
      patterns that can be detected in serum or plasma are: mitochondrial DNA, mitochondrial
      transcription factor A, N-formyl peptides, succinate, cardiolipin, cytochrome C...

      With a more sensitive method of early neuroprognostication after cardiac arrest the limited
      medical resources could be used more effectively in patients with chance of good neurological
      recovery.

      Aim of the study

      The aim of this study is to research the role of mitochondrial damage-associated molecular
      patterns in patients after cardiac arrest.

        1. Determine normal plasma values of mitochondrial damage-associated molecular patterns in
           healthy population.

        2. Compare current prognostic procedures of post-resuscitation neurological damage with
           prognostic value of mitochondrial DNA and cytochrome C in plasma.

      Expected results

      Due to central role of mitochondria in hypoxic-ischemic tissue damage a greater mitochondrial
      damage (measured trough release of mitochondrial damage-associated molecular patterns) is
      expected to have direct correlation with extent of tissue damage (also neurological).
      Currently published data indicate that patients with higher plasma mitochondrial DNA levels
      after cardiac arrest have higher mortality. Correlation of mitochondrial damage-associated
      molecular patterns to extent of neurological damage in survivors of cardiac arrest was not
      researched yet.

      Methods

        1. Measurement of measure mitochondrial damage-associated molecular patterns in healthy
           population (mitochondrial DNA and cytochrome C).

        2. Determination of releasing profile of mitochondrial DNA and cytochrome C in survivors of
           cardiac arrest and establishment of best sample collection time.

        3. Calculation of predictive value for survival of cardiac arrest with good neurological
           outcome for mitochondrial DNA and cytochrome C.

      Mitochondrial damage-associated molecular patterns will be measured in samples of plasma.
      Mitochondrial DNA will be measured using PCR method. Cytochrome C will be measured using
      ELISA.
    
  