
    
      Osteoporosis is a common disease characterized by an increased risk of fracture. Furthermore
      recent studies has revealed that patients with fractures have increased risk of renewed
      fracture. Most fractures in the elderly are partly attributable to osteoporosis. The most
      severe of these shown to be the hip fracture (HFx) which increase mortality and decrease
      health related quality of life and has major impact on the level of national health service.
      Solid evidence is available showing several interventions to reduce the risk of osteoporotic
      fractures. In spite of this only few HFx patients are offered examination or treatment for
      osteoporosis and very rare this happens on a routine basis.

      In the county of Funen and Ribe in Denmark the departments of Endocrinology and Orthopedic
      Surgery at Odense University Hospital and Hospital of South Western Jutland therefore
      initiated a fracture discharge program as part of a health technology assessment (HTA) study
      offering evaluation for osteoporosis to HFx patients. Evaluation consists of Duel Energy
      X-ray Absorptiometry, Instant Vertebral Assessment, a biochemical panel, and clinical
      assessment followed by specific anti-osteoporotic treatment as appropriate.

      The HTA study is designed as a longitudinal cohort study of patients admitted to the
      participating departments with a low energy HFx. Inclusion started January first 2005 and
      ends December 31. 2006. After the last inclusion the follow up of the last patient are set to
      2 years. In the study period data will be collected on subsequent fractures, epidemiological
      and demographic factors, questionnaires on quality of life, and register data on mortality,
      use of medication, and use of health services. The control group consists of patients
      admitted to any other hospital in the two participating counties who are not given this
      systematic evaluation for osteoporosis on a routine basis.

      The HTA report will provide data to suggest if a systematic offer of evaluation and treatment
      of osteoporosis in HFx patients:

      can reduce further fractures is accepted by the majority of patients can increase the amount
      of life years by decreasing mortality can increase quality of life by reducing the amount of
      fractures is cost effective for the health care providers
    
  