
    
      Quality of life has turned into a reference for the so-called "state of wellbeing" that
      includes six domains: physical health, social relationships, psychological state, spiritual
      concerns, environmental features, and level of independence. Quality of life is perceived as
      a major health component, especially for menopausal women, and has become an essential
      research topic that has been discussed widely in the literature.

      Therefore, from the HRQoL perspective, the consequences of the climacterium should be
      considered as a specific aspect of health-related quality of life in studies that include
      this segment of the population. The increased life expectancy of the general population and
      of women in particular, has turned women's health care in this phase of life into a priority;
      the way this should be accomplished, however, represents one of the main sources of public
      health debate.

      Quality of work life is a comprehensive and general schema, which is essential in improving
      specialized personnel's satisfaction and attracting and preserving personnel. It also results
      in positive theories such as increasing profits and provocation. Nevertheless, although
      physicians and nurses are expected to provide patient care and improve their quality of life,
      their own needs and their own quality of life have been either largely underestimated or
      ignored.

      Providing care in these cases is very demanding in physical, emotional, and spiritual terms.
      Their work requires certain qualities, such as empathy, compassion, and closeness to the
      individuals and families they care for. Therefore, daily work may be significantly influenced
      by the menopausal transition, especially in nurses and physicians Work is beneficial for
      menopausal women by providing fulfilment, self-esteem, identity and social needs. But working
      environments like those with lack of temperature control, cramped conditions, some uniforms
      and stress can also make menopause symptoms worse. Menopause refers to the time when a
      woman's menstrual period stops for 12 consecutive months after the last period and is
      characterized by a decline in the production of the ovarian hormones, mainly estrogen and
      progesterone. The lack of these hormones makes some women prone to experiencing common
      symptoms that include, but are not limited to, sleep disorders, mood alterations, hot
      flashes, depression, urinary tract infections, vaginal infections, and increased risk for
      osteoporosis and cardiovascular diseases. Providing up-to-date information to women about
      menopause, its management, and the use of menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) may serve as an
      important step towards treating postmenopausal symptoms thereby improving the QOL of
      postmenopausal women.

      According to a recent study, the level of awareness and knowledge of women about the
      menopause is directly proportional to their ability to control their symptoms as menopausal
      symptoms can have a negative impact on work but menopause in the workplace still remains a
      taboo. This study aims to investigate the QoL of menopausal health-care providers in UMC
      hospitals in Nur-Sultan and identify whether there is a difference in the quality of life
      between two major groups of women health-care professionals: physicians and nurses, and to
      explore factors influencing on it.
    
  