
    
      Perioperative blindness in nonocular surgery has gained significant clinical interest as an
      overwhelming complication with an increasing incidence. Initial published studies suggested a
      rare occurrence with an estimated postoperative visual loss of 0.002% and 0.0008% (1,2).
      However, retrospective reviews in spinal and cardiac surgery demonstrated higher rates of
      perioperative blindness; that is, between 0.2% and 0.06% respectively (3,4). The difference
      in published reports suggests that the true incidence is likely underestimated because of
      fears regarding litigation, ineffective means of reporting and extra work involved.
      Fortunately, numerous case reports and series in the middle to late 1990s were published;
      prompting the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) Committee on Professional Liability
      to establish the ASA Postoperative Visual Loss Registry (POVL) in 1999 as a medium to collect
      confidential, comprehensive perioperative data on patients developing postoperative
      blindness.

      The POVL registry, along with other case series, has demonstrated that the most common cause
      of visual loss is non-arteritic ischemic optic neuropathy (5,6,7). Perioperative
      non-arteritic ischemic optic neuropathy (ION) is a consequence of patient and surgery
      specific factors that results from hypoperfusion and infarction of the optic nerve head (8).
      Anatomical factors such as variation in the number of short posterior ciliary arteries (sPCA)
      supplying the optic nerve head, location of sPCA watershed zone, and small optic cup to disk
      ratio increase susceptibility to optic nerve ischemia (8,9). Surgery specific factors involve
      profound blood loss, anemia, hypotension, prone positioning and duration of surgery
      (5,6,7,10). The interaction of these surgical variables and patient specific anatomical
      factors can decrease ocular perfusion pressure (the difference between mean arterial pressure
      and intraocular pressure) and result in ION (11).

      Based on the determinants of ocular perfusion pressure (OPP), low mean arterial pressure
      (MAP) and/or high intraocular pressure (IOP) can decrease OPP and lead to ION. Therefore, it
      is necessary to investigate changes in IOP incurred from different types of surgery that may
      increase vulnerability to developing ION. Normal IOP is between 12 - 20 mm Hg. Studies have
      been published assessing intraocular changes with prone positioning, laparoscopic surgery and
      cardiopulmonary bypass (12,13,14). However, there has been no literature evaluating
      intraocular pressure during abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair. AAA repair is a high-risk
      surgery associated with blood loss, hypotension and has been reported in a case series
      associated with ION (6). The surgery involves clamping and unclamping of the aorta to
      facilitate excision of the aneurysm and graft repair. Aortic cross clamping and unclamping is
      an intense physiologic insult affecting venous return, systemic vascular resistance, cardiac
      output, and acid base status. These physiologic changes are further pronounced with more
      proximal cross-clamping and longer duration. Because infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms
      are the most common type of AAA repair, we will be assessing IOP with patients undergoing
      elective infrarenal abdominal aortic reconstruction.

      Infrarenal aortic cross clamping is associated with increases in venous return, central
      venous pressure and arterial blood pressure (15). The hemodynamic changes with infrarenal
      unclamping entail decreases in venous return, central venous pressure and arterial blood
      pressure (15). The determinants of intraocular pressure involve extraocular muscle tone,
      aqueous flow, choroidal blood volume and central venous pressure (16). The volume
      redistribution proximal to the aortic cross-clamp should cause a rise in venous pressure,
      increase resistance to aqueous drainage and increase choroidal blood volume thereby
      increasing intraocular pressure. However, after aortic unclamping, choroidal blood volume and
      IOP should decrease as venous return and central venous pressure decline. Therefore, our
      hypothesis is that IOP will be increased during aortic cross clamping and decreased following
      aortic unclamping.
    
  