
    
      Obesity is an increasing health problem in the UK and one which is predicted to worsen. It is
      associated with many health problems that can shorten a person's life span and impair quality
      of life. Current national guidelines recommend that surgery is considered for the very
      overweight (morbidly obese) or for those remaining obese after trying other options.

      In the UK and worldwide the three most commonly performed operations are laparoscopic
      adjustable gastric banding ('BAND surgery'), laparoscopic gastric bypass ('BYPASS') and
      laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy ('SLEEVE'). All lead to weight loss, but they are associated
      with different problems. In the short term there are varying complications and inconvenience
      relating to the operation. In the longer term there are different outcomes relating to weight
      regain, symptoms and side effects of surgery. This study (BYBANDSLEEVE) is a randomised trial
      with a recruitment target of 1341 patients in twelve hospitals and its aim is to compare the
      effectiveness, cost effectiveness and acceptability of BAND, BYPASS and SLEEVE surgery. The
      process of randomisation will mean that participants have a chance of receiving one of the
      three procedures, so a fair comparison between them can be made.

      The first phase (in two hospitals) will test the feasibility of recruitment and optimise
      information for patients to maximise trial recruitment. It will establish a core set of
      clinical outcomes to use to evaluate the surgery for morbid obesity. The second stage (in 12
      hospitals) will recruit the full sample and follow up all participants for at least three
      years. The investigators will compare the effects of BAND, BYPASS AND SLEEVE surgery three
      years after randomisation on weight loss, a wide range of symptoms and aspects of quality of
      life. The investigators will also examine patients' detailed experiences during follow up,
      nutritional outcomes, short and long term surgical complications and National Health Service
      (NHS) value for money.
    
  