
    
      The primary objective is to assess the overall risk of major adverse cardiovascular events
      (MACE) among naloxegol-treated patients compared to that among patients on prescription
      non-peripherally acting mu-opioid antagonist (PAMORA) opioid induced constipation (OIC)
      treatment. The corresponding analysis is of a new-user cohort study that captures the
      occurrence of MACE in persons receiving naloxegol or comparison medications. The study takes
      place in actual-use settings in the US in which existing electronic data captures patient
      diagnoses, health care, and treatment. The occurrence of MACE in naloxegol-treated patients
      will be compared to the occurrence of MACE in medically-similar new users of other
      prescription-only treatments for OIC in the same settings, with both naloxegol-treated and
      comparison medication-treated patients being followed for as long as they continue on
      therapy.

      In further pursuit of the primary objective, there will be a self-controlled study that
      follows all members of the new-user cohorts, including both new naloxegol users and new users
      of comparator products, for as long as data are available as the patients may go on or off
      treatment. A self-controlled study offers a complementary approach to the statistical control
      for the possible confounding effects of personal characteristics. Using the same data
      sources, this self-controlled design follows individuals from the time they finish their
      first course of treatment as new users for as long as the study continues. Patient treatment
      statuses are continuously updated since the treatment choices exercised by patients and their
      caregivers create extended periods of study time on and off naloxegol and possibly on and off
      other therapies for OIC. Comparisons of the occurrence of MACE occur within individuals and
      so are unaffected by differences between individuals, as in a crossover trial.

      The first secondary objective is to assess the potential confounding effects of lifestyle
      risk factors on relative risk of MACE among naloxegol-treated patients compared with that
      among patients on other prescription non-PAMORA OIC treatment. The corresponding analysis is
      of a case-control study nested within the primary study population. All of the MACE "cases"
      will be matched to other members of the cohorts ("controls"). In cases and controls, the
      outpatient medical record will be abstracted for information on lifestyle risk factors. The
      case-control analysis will provide information on the presence and effect of lifestyle
      confounding factors that may be identifiable only by chart review.

      Further secondary analyses will investigate the relative risks analyzed under an
      intent-to-treat paradigm over fixed time periods of membership in the naloxegol and
      comparator cohorts, relative risks for specific components of MACE, relative risks associated
      with new oral PAMORA agents other than naloxegol (non-naloxegol oral PAMORAs [NNPAMORAs])
      that may come onto the US market during the course of the study, and an exploration of the
      possible variations in risk associated with variations in the dose and timing of naloxegol
      dispensing in the case-control study.
    
  