
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  High dose rate brachytherapy (HDR) is a challenging technique utilized in many
           malignancies in order to deliver a high dose of radiation therapy to a tumor in a
           conformal fashion with a rapid dose fall-off with the objective of sparing normal
           surrounding tissue

        -  HDR therapy has been targeted to particular subsites as an integral part of either
           definitive management or palliation for malignancy-related symptoms.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  The primary objective is to determine the quality of high dose rate brachytherapy
           implants performed in the radiation oncology branch. An implant will be adequate if 90%
           of the GTV receives 90% of the dose prescribed and 80% of the CTV receives 85% of the
           prescribed dose. An implant will be inadequate if the above dose limitations are not
           met.

        -  To evaluate local control and late toxicity rates following brachytherapy at the NCI ROB

        -  To increase the flow of oncology participants requiring brachytherapy to the NCI ROB, as
           these participants lend themselves to special study and have unique educational value
           for the purpose of educating nurses, medical students, residents, physicists, clinical
           fellows, and physicians.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      -Participants with cancer who could potentially benefit from the use of high dose rate
      brachytherapy as a component of their treatment.

      DESIGN:

        -  Participants will undergo appropriate work-up and clinical evaluation to determine if
           high-dose brachytherapy would be beneficial in either primary treatment or palliation of
           their disease. Participants will be treated with high-dose brachytherapy appropriately
           sequenced with other modalities in their treatment regimen. This treatment will be
           administered in accordance with standard radiation oncology practice and per the ABS
           (American Brachytherapy Society) guidelines.

        -  The participant s disease status and toxicity outcomes will be documented for a 12-month
           period at 3-months intervals.
    
  