
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the efficacy of bortezomib in patients with symptomatic advanced
           myeloproliferative disorders (i.e., myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia, chronic
           myelomonocytic leukemia, or FIP1LI-PDGFRA-negative mast cell disease).

        -  Determine the safety of this drug when administered on a modified schedule in these
           patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the effect of this drug on bone marrow cellularity, tryptase-positive mast
           cells, reticulin fibrosis, osteosclerosis, and angiogenesis in responding patients

      OUTLINE: This is a prospective, open-label, pilot, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to disease (systemic mast cell disease vs chronic myelomonocytic leukemia vs
      myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia).

      Patients receive bortezomib IV weekly for 4 weeks. Treatment repeats every 5 weeks for up to
      2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving
      a response (complete remission, partial remission, or minimal remission) after 2 courses may
      receive an additional 6 courses of therapy. Patients who achieve stable disease with
      acceptable toxicities after 2 courses receive bortezomib IV at a higher dose twice weekly for
      2 weeks. Treatment with a higher dose of bortezomib repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6
      courses.

      Patients who are responders undergo bone marrow aspirate or biopsy and peripheral blood
      collection for evaluation of bone marrow cellularity, tryptase-positive mast cells, reticulin
      fibrosis, osteosclerosis, and angiogenesis by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH),
      immunohistochemistry, and other immunological laboratory methods.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  