
    
      The CCCH tandem zinc finger proteins are members of a small family of proteins that regulate
      the stability of certain types of mRNA containing so-called class II AU-rich elements in
      their 3'-untranslated regions. The best studied member of this protein family,
      tristetraprolin (TTP), exerts this destabilizing effect on at least two mRNAs coding for
      physiologically and medically important cytokines, tumor necrosis factor alpha and
      granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor. The physiological functions of the other
      two members of this protein family in mammals, 11B and 11D, are not known, but in
      experimental transfection studies they too can destabilize mRNAs containing this type of
      AU-rich element.

      As part of the Environmental Genome Project, we resequenced the protein coding portions of
      the human genes encoding these three proteins, and uncovered a dinucleotide splice site
      mutation in the 11B gene in one of 144 alleles sequenced. We showed that this mutation
      created a novel restriction fragment length polymorphism, and that this mutation resulted in
      the failure of splicing and expression of the mRNA encoded by the mutant allele. Based on our
      previous data with mice completely deficient in TTP, we anticipate that complete deficiency
      of this protein, and possibly its partial deficiency, would result in human disease.

      The mutant allele was from an anonymous adult Aka Pygmy women from the Central African
      Republic. We propose to genotype up to 1000 members of this ethnic group after obtaining
      buccal cell DNA from them. This will give us an approximate idea of the prevalence of this
      mutation in this population. If the mutation is found in a significant number of living
      individuals in this initial screen, then we will propose a later study of the individuals who
      have this genotype and their families. This second study, which will be reviewed separately,
      will attempt to correlate this genotype with a human trait or phenotype and possible
      treatable human disease.
    
  