
    
      CVD affects millions of people in the United States. Current treatment guidelines for CVD
      take into account an individual's risk of developing the disease within 10 years; the
      intensity of therapy is usually matched to the 10-year risk magnitude. However, many
      individuals have a low 10-year risk of CVD, but have an elevated lifetime risk of developing
      the disease. Unfortunately, few studies have examined the lifetime risks for CVD, and these
      studies have been almost exclusively performed in the Caucasian population. There have been
      no studies that focus on the lifetime risks for CVD among other ethnic groups. Because the
      incidence of CVD and other causes of death vary among different ethnic groups, it is
      important to examine each group separately. Using data from ongoing clinical studies, this
      study will evaluate the lifetime risks for CVD among different ethnic groups. The results
      from this study will assist in estimating the future incidence of CVD among ethnic groups,
      improving risk communication within patient care, and identifying new populations of
      individuals at risk for CVD.

      This study will use previously collected data on 500,000 individuals participating in
      pre-specified clinical studies. Some of the participating studies include the following:
      Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities, Framingham Heart, Honolulu Heart, Puerto Rico Heart
      Health, Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA), Cardiovascular Health,
      Chicago Heart Association Detection Project in Industry, Women's Health Initiative
      Observational Studies, and Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial (MRFIT). There will be no
      study visits specifically for this study. Researchers will collect information on CVD risk
      factors and demographics, including sex, race, and age; they will then compare this
      information to overall survival, CVD associated survival, and lifetime risk for CVD.
    
  