
    
      HYPOTHESIS: It is estimated that adding TRANSKRIP ® to the chemotherapy an increase will
      occur in the survival of at least 3.6 months superior compared to the patients receiving only
      QT (17.9 months for TRANSKRIP plus QT and 14.3 months for QT, i.e. a 20% of difference).

      Sample size: Data from GOG (Gynecologic Oncology Group) 240 study was used to define it where
      at 36 months the survival rate was 39.5% for the control group. Losses of 20%, 95% α, 80% β,
      among groups of 1 ratio and a better 20% survival in the experimental group were considered.
      From the above, 230 are included which will be in blocks of 10.

      Study overview: In patients who meet the inclusion criteria an informed consent oral and
      written will be granted, once accepted screening test will be made to determine exclusion
      criteria (CAT, laboratories). If they meet all criteria, patients will be assigned to the
      following treatment groups:

      Group A (115 patients): TRANSKRIP® (Hydralazine: 1 oral tablet every 24 hours, 182 mg for
      rapid acetylators, and 83 mg for low acetylators and Magnesium valproate: orally 30 mg/K
      weight every 8 hours) starting 1 week prior the first day of the QT Carboplatin based (5 area
      under curve (AUC) 1hour/day 1) plus Paclitaxel (175 175mg/m2/body surface (BS) 3hour/day 1)
      for every 21 days for 6 cycles.

      Group B (115 patients): Placebo (orally) starting 1 week before the first day of the QT
      Carboplatin based (5 AUC 1hour/day 1) plus Paclitaxel (175 175mg/m2/BS 3hour/day 1) for every
      21 days for 6 cycles.

      Patients included in the study will be conducted to determine their acetylator genotype by
      polymerase chain reaction (PCR) sequencing N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) gene, and blood
      samples will be sent to the central laboratory CIDAT S.A de C.V. Those with slow acetylation
      result will receive 83 mg/day of Hydralazine plus 30 mg/Kg/day of magnesium Valproate,
      patients with fast acetylation result will receive 182 mg/day of Hydralazine plus 30
      mg/Kg/day of magnesium Valproate.

      Assigning patients: Randomization will be automatically generated in a computer and with the
      randomization program; the list will be generated by the Contract Research Organization (CRO)
      hired for this study. The flasks will be labeled by the Alpharma Manufacturing Department,
      from the random list that identifies the treatment that every patient receives.

      Dose adjustments: All patients should have, previous to the chemotherapy administration, an
      absolute neutrophil count >1500/µL and platelets greater than 100,000/µL. If they have
      smaller numbers, treatment will be delayed during 1-2 weeks, until achieving these levels.
      There won't be dose adjustment of the chemotherapy. The chemotherapy dosage should not exceed
      the initial dose calculation, unless the patient has a weight change greater than 10%
      requiring the new dose calculation. A patient which cannot take the drug during 6 weeks since
      the last treatment should be discontinued from the study. In case of renal toxicity grade
      3-4, the dosage of carboplatin will be decreased to 50%.

      Dose reduction of magnesium Valproate: If a patient shows somnolence grade 3 and/or ataxia
      grade 3 magnesium valproate will be suspended for 3 days or until the toxicity is at least
      grade 2 and will restart to 20 mg/Kg. If after 7 days somnolence grade 3 is not presented it
      will be increased to 30 mg/Kg and will continue with this dose until the end of the study. If
      toxicity grade 3 is resubmitted the patient will continue with 20 mg/Kg until the end of the
      study.

      Dose reduction of hydralazine: If a patient shows hypotension grade 3, hydralazine will be
      suspended for 3 days or until the toxicity is at least grade 2 and will restart to 50% of the
      dose. If after 7 days hypotension grade 3 is not presented it will increase to 100% of the
      dose and will continue with this dose until the end of the study.

      Procedures No more than 14 days before the initiation of study drug, the state of the disease
      form every patient will be evaluated with the following procedures: Medical history and
      physical examination,Evaluation of the performance status (ECOG scale), complete blood count
      (CBC), Blood chemistry, Liver Function test (LFT), Electrolytes, antinuclear antibodies,
      Measurement of palpable or visible lesions, as well as those determined by imaging studies by
      computed tomography of the abdomen, thorax and pelvis, Quality of life questionnaires will be
      applied to know their basal state.

      At the beginning of each cycle: Medical history and physical examination, Evaluation of the
      performance status (ECOG scale), CBC, Blood chemistry, LFT, Electrolytes, antinuclear
      antibodies, Hydralazine levels and valproic acid in blood (every 2 cycles), Toxicity
      evaluation with the established criteria by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE V.3.0).

      At the end of 3 and 6 cycles: Medical history and physical examination, Evaluation of the
      performance status (ECOG scale), CBC, Blood chemistry, LFT, Electrolytes, antinuclear
      antibodies, Measurement of palpable or visible lesions, as well as those determined by
      imaging studies by computed tomography, Quality of life questionnaires (QLQ) Cx-30 and C-24
      will be applied.

      Follow up visits post-treatment will be every 3 months the first 2 years, every 4 months the
      third year, every 6 months the fourth year and later annually or until progression. During
      this period Clinical History and physical examination, assessment of performance status,
      weight and tumor lesion measurements by physical examination or by imaging studies will be
      obtained. CBC, Blood chemistry, LFT, electrolytes and antinuclear antibodies. Relapse,
      progression or recurrence date. Quality of life will be evaluated every 6 months during
      follow to complete 2 years of starting the patient in the study.

      Patients will participate in this study during the period prior to treatment and during the
      QT (Carboplatin plus paclitaxel) administration, or until the experimental treatment with
      TRANSKRIP® vs Placebo is suspended. Patients may withdraw from the study by progression of
      the disease, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of consent by the patient or investigator
      decision to suspend the participation of the patient in the study. In case of suspending the
      treatment, patient will continue monitoring or under non-protocol treatment by the treatment
      service.

      Efficacy criteria. The measuring tumor (s) is defined as: Dimensionally measurable: The
      minimum size of the lesion to be considerable measurable s 10 mm if the cuts from the scanner
      are of at most 5mm and 20mm with higher cuts of 5mm. A maximum of 5 blank lesions by organ
      and/or 10 total lesions will be identified. The sum of the maximum diameters from each of the
      lesions will be considered as the basal measure from the sum of the maximum diameters and
      this number will be used to categorize the answer. Unidimensionally measurable disease,
      lesions in previously irradiated fields, ascites, pleural effusions, bone, blastic or mixed
      metastases or abdominal masses that can be palpated but not measured shall not be considered
      measurable. To determine the disease status during the study will be evaluated by RECIST
      criteria.

      Clinical Adverse Events: Initially, the staff study site will interrogate each patient and
      will write the occurrence and nature of the condition (s) of presentation and any preexistent
      condition (s). During the study, the staff will interrogate the patient and will write any
      change in the preexistent condition (s) and/or the occurrence and nature of any adverse
      event. All the adverse events should be reported to the regulatory agency and to the
      appropriated pharmaceutical companies according to the local regulations.

      The staff study site should report to the local regulatory body (COFEPRIS and to the
      respective committees of the National Cancer Institute), any severe adverse event possibly
      related to the study drugs including: death, initial or prolonged hospitalization, laying in
      life threatening, severe or permanent disability or congenital anomaly.

      Patient substitution: It is considered replaceable, any patient that has been randomized, but
      for some reason it has not receive any doses of Transkrip vs placebo, to not affect the trust
      and power of the sample.

      Statistical analysis: All patients who receive the first cycle of chemotherapy study will be
      evaluated for safety.

      All patients who meet histological diagnosis of cancer, presence of dimensionally measurable
      disease and evaluation with computed axial tomography (CAT) and/or Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (MRI) after the third cycle will be evaluated for efficacy.

      All confidence intervals will be built with a level of significance of α = 0.05 (Confidence
      level of 95%). One interim analysis is expected and one final analysis, the first one after
      included the first 115 patients and upon completion the QT, final analysis is expected at 19
      months that the last patient has been included. Intention analysis to treatment to all
      patients included and by protocol to those who meet the criteria for analysis will be carried
      out.

      Processing and analysis of the data base will be made with the Statistical Package for the
      Social Sciences (IBM SPSS) version 19.0 ® for Microsoft. The demographic, clinical, of
      treatment and disease characteristics, will be analyzed, through descriptive statistics:
      measures of central and dispersion tendency: range, measure, median, mode, standard
      deviation, proportions and ratios.

      Global Survival. It is considered as an initial event the subject inclusion in the study and
      final event of death. Survival times will be estimated by the no parametric estimator of
      Kaplan-Meier. Variances and confidence intervals for those will be estimated. Survival curves
      will be compared by logrank test, considering a bilateral test, and the significance level of
      95%. Format Cox regression will be applied to evaluate the influence of control variables in
      the survival time. Also survival times will be calculated considering as an initial event the
      disease diagnose and progression.

      Objective Response: for parameters for nominal and ordinal scale Chi square test or Fisher
      exact will be used. For quantitative variables or intervals T Student test will be used if
      homogeneity.

      Toxicity: incidence of adverse effects will be estimated, as well as their frequency by
      severity, the laboratory values during treatment. Frequency of abnormal laboratory values
      will be estimated.

      Quality of life: The linear transformation of the data was performed to obtain values on a
      scale of 0-100. In the case of missing data, the calculation of gross score in both the
      numerator and denominator, will be made taking into account only the items with response.
      Thus avoiding the values are affected by extremes. Baseline analysis between groups by
      obtaining mean and standard deviation or median and interquartile ranges, after analysis of
      data normality by Kolmogorov-Smirnov took place. The bivariate analysis was evaluated by
      student test for independent samples when the data is parametric or Mann Whitney test for
      nonparametric data. With an alpha of 0.05 two-tailed. Besides an intragroup longitudinal
      analysis will be performed to monitor changes in the quality of life through% change between
      the first and second assessment and bivariate analysis using paired t or Wilcoxon. With an
      alpha of 0.05 two-tailed.

      Progression free survival: It is considered as an initial event the subject inclusion in the
      study and final event the progression of disease. Survival times will be estimated by the no
      parametric estimator of Kaplan-Meier. Variances and confidence intervals for those will be
      estimated. Survival curves will be compared by logrank test, considering a bilateral test,
      and the significance level of 95%. Format Cox regression will be applied to evaluate the
      influence of control variables in the survival time.
    
  