
    
      This study has four parts. Each part of the study begins with a Screening Period of up to 4
      weeks to allow for completion of screening procedures and subject scheduling. Each
      participant will be screened by means of medical history, medication review, Gastrointestinal
      Symptoms Questionnaire (GSQ), physical examination, vital signs, weight, height, laboratory
      tests, and ECG. The GSQ is being used as a separate safety monitoring tool in this study to
      ensure that all gastrointestinal complaints are reported by the participant.

      Following completion of all screening procedures, eligible participants will be enrolled in
      the study.

      Part 1 of the study in healthy participants will be completed prior to enrollment of any
      subject in Part 2 of the study. A participant enrolled in Part 1 of the study will
      participate in one of five dose Cohorts. Enrollment of healthy participants and participants
      with CeD in each of the five dose Cohorts will occur sequentially, but each of these dose
      Cohorts will be open to enrollment only after demonstration of the safety and tolerability of
      the same dose level in healthy participants. A healthy participant enrolled in Part 2 of the
      study will participate in one of three groups; within Groups 1, 2 and 3 enrollment may occur
      in parallel. A healthy participant enrolled in Part 3 of the study will participate in one of
      five groups; within Groups 1 to 5 enrollment will occur sequentially. A healthy participant
      enrolled in Part 4 of the study will participate in two cohorts; enrollment in Part 4 may
      occur in parallel with enrollment in Part 3. Each participant will be randomized to one of
      two possible treatment order. Participants who participate in Part 1 or Part 2 of the study,
      and who are not ADA positive, may participate in Part 3 or Part 4 of the study. No other
      participants may participate in more than one Part/Group of the study.
    
  