
    
      In all, twenty-five healthy men and women (aged =19 and =45 y, approximately half men and
      half women, with the expectation that = 20 subjects will complete the study (= 20 % dropout
      rate)) will be recruited and each subject will participate in 4 trials (randomized and
      crossover). Anthropometric measurements, including height, weight, waist circumference, blood
      pressure as well as skin scan carotenoids status will be measured on the screening day as
      subject baseline information. Prior to each trial, subjects are required a compliance test
      (CT) visit. On that day, fasting blood will be drawn to analysis the CAT concentration and
      compare the analyzed CAT concentration to those of testing day baseline to assess the
      compliance of the washout diet period. Skin CAT scan status will also be conducted. After the
      CT day, subjects will undergo a 7-day washout period and follow low-CAT diet to reduce
      circulating, endogenous levels of CAT and minimize the contribution of CAT in the plasma.
      During the first 5 days, subjects will consume a low-CAT diet (CAT<750µg), and during the
      6-7days, subjects will consume an even low-CAT diet (CAT<500µg). The low-CAT diet menu sheet
      will be provided and dietary instruction to achieve the low CAT diet will be given.
      Compliance with the low CAT diet will be promoted by daily menu check-off lists and in-person
      contact on visit day.Subject will be randomly assigned to consume a carefully portioned
      mix-vegetable salad (including tomatoes, shredded carrots, spinach, lettuce, and Chinese
      wolfberry) with 4 different oil-water combinations on the 4 meal testing (MT) day. The 4
      different oil-water combinations are as follows:1) Olive oil-water mixture (non-emulsified,
      rich in unsaturated fat);2) Olive oil-water emulsification (rich in unsaturated fat);3)
      Coconut oil-water mixture (non-emulsified, rich in saturated fat);4) Coconut oil-water
      emulsification (emulsified, rich in unsaturated fat).On every MT day, fasting blood will be
      collected for analyzing the CAT levels every 60 minutes for 10 hours and CAT concentration,
      triglycerides will be analyzed from the collected blood samples. Appetite VAS questionnaire
      will be conducted every half hour in the first two hours after consuming test meal and hourly
      conducted till the 5th hour when lunch ( low-CAT (< 2000 µg), low-fat (<2 g)) provided. After
      consuming the lunch, Appetite VAS questionnaire will be conducted every half hour in the
      first two hours and hourly till the 10th hour. Thus, the timepoint for appetite VAS
      measurement will be at 0, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 8, 9, 10 hour.There
      are no incidental findings in the current research as we will only collect subject's
      biological sample (blood) for testing the carotenoids level and blood triglycerides level
      which are the aim of this study. The rest measurements, including blood pressure, weight,
      height and waist circumference, they are the baseline information we collect for this study.
    
  