
    
      Kidney transplantation is the preferred treatment for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) given
      improved quality of life, longer survival and lower costs compared with chronic dialysis.
      Despite these long-term benefits, the first year post-transplant is a critical period that
      influences health care costs for transplantation and long-term patient and allograft
      survival. The two most common complications in the first year are delayed graft function
      (DGF), which affects nearly 25% of deceased-donor transplants, and acute allograft rejection,
      which affects nearly 10% of all transplants (deceased and living donor). DGF is most commonly
      caused by severe ischemia-reperfusion injury at transplantation and is a known risk factor
      for acute rejection and premature failure. Driven by an ever-growing transplant waiting list
      and limited organs, efforts to utilize higher-risk kidneys for increasingly higher-risk
      recipients may further increase these complication rates. While treatments exist for DGF and
      acute rejection, the current diagnostic paradigm is to obtain a duplex ultrasound (DUS) of
      the allograft, based on serial changes in serum creatinine, and then proceed to biopsy if
      there is clinical concern for rejection. Biopsy is the gold standard to differentiate between
      causes of allograft dysfunction, but the procedure is invasive and typically takes 24 hours
      or longer for an interpretation. Thus, early detection of these complications using
      non-invasive diagnostic methods (a major transplant research goal) could reduce our reliance
      on biopsies and help improve long-term patient and allograft survival.

      Researchers in the United States have safely performed contrast-enhanced ultrasounds of the
      kidney in healthy participants, and radiologists have used ultrasound contrast agents
      off-label to better visualize organs other than the heart when clinically indicated. In terms
      of kidney transplants, European data suggest CEUS of the allograft on post-operative day
      (POD) 7 is superior to DUS for predicting 12-month allograft function, but there are no
      published studies using CEUS on POD 1 to diagnose DGF or acute rejection.

      The pathophysiology of both DGF and acute rejection involve interactions between the
      microvasculature, parenchymal cells and inflammatory cells, though with differences in timing
      and within different zones of the kidney itself. A very important feature of CEUS is its
      capacity to measure microvascular perfusion, whereas DUS can only estimate flow within larger
      vessels. This potential innovation for assessing the renal macro- and microvasculature may
      allow for earlier non-invasive detection of DGF and acute rejection. With additional
      research, it may ultimately be shown that non-invasive CEUS will revolutionize early DGF and
      acute rejection diagnosis to enable improvement in long-term patient and allograft survival.
    
  