
    
      As of the 2018 EAU guidelines, PSMA PET-CT is now recommended for prostate cancer patients
      with a rising PSA following local therapy, resulting in an increase in patients with
      conventional imaging M0, but novel imaging M1-state. This creates a new class of patients for
      which no clear guidelines exist on the optimal management. It became clear that there is no
      real consensus nor data on how these patients should be treated.

      In 1995, a new approach was proposed, hypothesizing that patients with a limited number of
      metastases (oligometastases) might benefit from eradication of metastases by means of local
      therapy, or metastasis-directed therapy. Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), a novel
      radiotherapy technique for metastatic and primary prostate cancer treatments, has emerged as
      a highly precise radiotherapy method able to eradicate small metastases with acceptable
      toxicity. Nevertheless, responses following SBRT were not always durable. To improve response
      rates and time to new metastases, additional steps should be taken balancing with potential
      added toxicity. One of the logical steps would be to combine SBRT with temporary androgen
      deprivation therapy (ADT) as this combination therapy is standard of care for primary PCa and
      locally recurrent PCa17. However, ADT, negatively impacts quality of life (QoL) even when
      used temporary. Anti-androgen or androgen receptor (AR) pathway inhibitors (ARpI) may
      circumvent these side effects by suppressing AR transcription by competitive inhibition of
      AR, without lowering systemic testosterone. The current trial will test the combination of
      darolutamide with SBRT, in oligometastatic recurrent hormone sensitive prostate cancer. We
      hypothesize that the addition of short-term darolutamide improves metastasis-free survival
      when added to SBRT without a detrimental impact on the QoL.
    
  