
    
      This study is a prospective, single-arm, multi-center, pilot trial of Bronchoscopic Thermal
      Vapor Ablation for Lung Cancer (BTVA-C) in patients with primary lung cancer or metastatic
      cancer in the lung.

      Subjects identified for this study will be those that have a surgical resection already
      scheduled as part of their lung cancer treatment. Patients who have consented to participate
      in this study (enrolled) will undergo screening assessments to evaluate the inclusion
      criteria associated with their lung cancer and general health. Only patients that meet all of
      inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be scheduled for treatment with
      the BTVA-C System.

      A total of 8 subjects will be treated at up to 2 investigational sites in Canada.

      Prior to the vapor ablation procedure, the patient's CT scan is analyzed to evaluate the
      location and size of the target lesion. The segments and airways associated with the lesion
      are identified and images are created to aid in the navigation to appropriate treatment
      locations during the upcoming procedure.

      At the time of the vapor ablation procedure, the Uptake catheter is placed in a selected
      airway with a thin bronchoscope. A balloon at the distal end of the catheter is then inflated
      to occlude the bronchus prior to vapor infusion. Sterile water is heated to approximately
      100°-140°C by a reusable Generator and vapor (steam) is infused into the targeted region for
      8 seconds at a precisely controlled flow rate and power. If necessary, the catheter is moved
      to the next airway and the procedure is repeated until all desired airways have been treated
      (maximum 3 treatments). The treatment creates a uniform field of necrosis in the parenchyma
      around the lesion.

      The interval between vapor ablation and the surgical resection will be a minimum of 60 hours
      to a maximum of 105 hours, with the exact scheduling determined by the investigator. The
      resected tissue will undergo pathological evaluation for tissue viability.

      In addition to standard post-operative follow-up, patients will be evaluated at Day 7 (± 2
      days) and Day 30 (± 5 days) post-resection to assess safety, functional and clinical status.
    
  