
    
      Objective

      In endemic regions neurocysticercosis is the most common cause of adult acquired epilepsy and
      thus an important public health problem. The disease is caused by infection with the larval
      form of the tapeworm, Taenia solium. Although neurocysticercosis is common only in many
      developing regions, an increased number of patients are diagnosed in developed countries
      mostly due to immigration of infected individuals.

      The peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) can be a clinically useful marker to detect
      neuroinflammation because activated microglia in inflammatory areas expresses much greater
      levels of PBR than in microglia in resting conditions. PBR has been imaged with positron
      emission tomography (PET) using [(11)C]1-(2-chlorophenyl-N-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinoline
      carboxamide (PK11195), which provides low levels of specific signal. Recently we developed a
      new ligand, [(11)C]N-acetyl-N-(2-methoxybenzyl)-2-phenoxy-5-pyridinamine (PBR28), which
      showed much greater specific signal than [(11)C]PK11195 in non-human primates.

      The major objective of this protocol is to assess the utility of [(11)C]PBR28 PET to detect
      neuroinflammation in patients with neurocysticercosis.

      Study population

      Thirty patients will be recruited and clinically followed under protocol 85-I-0127, Treatment
      of Cysticercosis including Neurocysticercosis with Praziquantel or Albendazole, (PI: Theodore
      E. Nash, MD, NIAID). Thirty healthy subjects will be recruited.

      Design

      Fifteen patients with neurocysticercosis and the first 15 age-matched healthy subjects will
      have brain PET scans. Patients will have up to three [(11)C]PBR28 PET scans during the
      follow-up and the treatment under 85-I-0127, typically a few weeks apart.

      Outcome measures

      PBR28 binding will be compared with clinical symptoms and MRI findings. In addition, the
      binding will be compared between patients and age-matched control subjects because the high
      levels of specific binding may allow detection of an increase of PBR in regions where MRI
      does not detect inflammation.
    
  