
    
      The combination of an anti-TNF alpha and methotrexate may also prevent the development of
      antibodies to anti TNF alpha. Observational studies indicated that MTX dose-dependently
      inhibits the development of anti-drug antibodies and could reduce the accelerated clearance
      of biological agents associated with loss of therapeutic response in inflammatory diseases.
      Reduced ADA development influence positively clinical response and therefore likely drug
      maintenance through optimizations of drug pharmacokinetics and serum anti TNF alpha trough
      concentrations.

      In psoriasis, there is no prospective evaluation of the combination MTX-anti TNF alpha to
      help to maintain long-term efficacy for all anti TNF alpha. Long-term maintenance treatment
      with the combination of MTX and infliximab was reported in one small retrospective cohort
      study of psoriasis patients experiencing a loss of response to infliximab (55). In total 23
      patients received as a rescue either azathioprine (5 patients) or weekly MTX (18 patients)
      (7.5 to 15 mg, average 11.66 mg) in combination with infliximab. After a mean follow up of
      26.5 months, only 2 patients on MTX combination stopped infliximab for loss of response which
      is lower compared to the 50% loss of response observed with infliximab monotherapy (55).

      The combination of anti TNF alpha and MTX was also retrospectively assessed in observational
      studies. Most of them suggest that the systematic combination of MTX to biologic since the
      anti TNF alpha initiation improve survival rate of biologics (21, 24, 29, 30, 31). A
      retrospective cohort study including 93 patients treated with infliximab for psoriasis showed
      that concomitant MTX at an average weekly dose of dose of 7.5 to 17.5 mg of MTX enhanced the
      maintenance of response and prolonged drug survival (by a mean ± SD of 19.5 ± 8.1 months, P =
      0.034) (23). In addition, time until first infliximab dose escalation was delayed in patients
      receiving MTX (by a mean ± SD of 12.0 ± 6.1 months, P =0 .037). In the same study, after 2
      years of treatment, 25% of patients without MTX were still under the initial infliximab
      regimen versus 40% of patients receiving a combination of infliximab with MTX (30).

      The ability of MTX to prolong drug survival was also suggested in psoriatic arthritis in
      several observational studies (26, 27, 52, 56). In a longitudinal observational study, the
      1-year retention rate of anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha medications in patients with RA and
      PsA were 65.4% and 77.3%, respectively with concomitant MTX associated with a better drug
      survival (52). In this study, the combination with MTX was also associated with a crude
      1-year survival of 85% in PsA versus 70% without concomitant MTX, p=0.02 (52). In the Danish
      biologics registry DANBIO, male sex, CRP level >10 mg/liter, concomitant methotrexate use,
      and low patient health visual analog scale score at baseline were associated with longer drug
      survival in PsA patients (27).

      To summarize, there is a need to improve drug survival as well as level of response rates
      with biologics, especially for psoriasis patients. Low doses methotrexate when combining to
      biologics could be an option in psoriasis patients to solve such crucial issues.
    
  