
    
      Early bactericidal activity (EBA), which measures decline in serial sputum colony forming
      unit (CFU) counts over the first 2-14 days of treatment, has been used extensively as a means
      of initially evaluating the potency of individual or combinations of antituberculous agents.
      This approach is endorsed by the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development and the US FDA.
      However, EBA seems to correlate poorly with the relative ability of an agent to prevent
      relapse and produce a durable cure (often referred to as sterilizing activity ). The reasons
      for this discrepancy may have to do with a limitation of sputum measurements to capture
      populations that persist beyond airway surfaces in discrete lesions such as granulomas,
      nodules, or cavities. The elimination of these persistent populations depends on the
      pharmacodynamic properties of a regimen and may be better captured by biologic and functional
      markers that can reflect dynamic treatment effects within these relevant host environments.

      Recent studies of the response to TB chemotherapy have identified promising new biomarkers of
      sterilization in 2 areas. First, immunologic changes appear to have potential in small
      subject cohorts to predict sterilizing cure within 1 month after commencing treatment.
      Second, F-FDG PET/CT has been used in tuberculosis as a qualitative means of assessing drug
      response in small case series at multiple time points, starting as early as 1 month. PET
      activity reflects uptake and phosphorylation of FDG by neutrophils and macrophages, and CT
      provides structural information on disease pathology. Hence, PET/CT data may offer additional
      insights into lesion-specific sterilizing activity. This study will add 18F-FDG PET/CT scans
      and immunological assays at 0, 2, and (in the HRZE arm) 4 weeks to standard EBA methodology
      using regimens containing isoniazid (INH), rifampin (RIF), pyrazinamide (PZA), moxifloxacin
      (MXF), and ethambutol (EM). We hypothesize that drug regimens associated with higher
      sterilizing activity (e.g., containing rifampin or pyrazinamide) will show distinctive early
      cytokine and chemokine patterns and discrete, quantifiable changes on PET/CT in certain
      lesion types during the 2-week period, compared to drug regimens with poor sterilizing
      activity (e.g., containing isoniazid or moxifloxacin). Demonstration of such an association
      would provide rationale for including radiologic and immunologic analysis, alongside
      conventional EBA, in early phase clinical studies of novel drugs, and would also provide
      important new insights into the biology of human and bacterial responses to TB drugs.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      To characterize, in the context of a standard EBA study, the effect of various
      antituberculosis drugs on radiographic and immunologic markers as measured by PET/CT and
      immunologic assays, in treatment-na(SqrRoot) ve subjects with pulmonary drug sensitive
      tuberculosis.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To describe the nature and magnitude of drug/regimen-specific PET/CT changes over the
           initial 14 days of therapy in pulmonary drug sensitive tuberculosis subjects.

        2. To describe the change in PET/CT signals after 2 and 4 weeks of standard therapy with
           HRZE.

        3. To describe the correspondence between change in PET/CT and standard EBA measures among
           following chemotherapeutic regimens: isoniazid (INH [H]), rifampin (RIF [R]),
           pyrazinamide (PZA [Z]), HZ, RZ, M (MXF [M]), MRZE, and HRZE.

        4. To compare the qualitative changes in PET/CT among H, R, Z, HZ, RZ, M, and MRZE with
           that of HRZE.

        5. To characterize EBA using time to liquid culture positivity (TTP).

        6. To compare absolute and dynamic profiles of immunological assays composed of specific
           chemokines and cytokines, at 0, 2, and (in HRZE arm) 4 weeks for each treatment regimen.

        7. Comparison of specific changes in PET/CT characteristics between combination regimens
           and their components

        8. Comparison of specific changes in immunologic markers between combination regimens and
           their components

        9. To compare drug and drug metabolite levels to changes in PET/CT signals

      Design:

      This is a prospective, randomized study of drug-na(SqrRoot) ve subjects in South Africa with
      smear-positive, drug-sensitive pulmonary tuberculosis.

      Population:

      N=160 drug-na(SqrRoot) ve, smear positive subjects with tuberculosis from Cape Town, Republic
      of South Africa

      Subject Participation Duration:

      2-6 weeks

      Estimated Time to Complete Enrollment:

      12 months
    
  