
    
      There is a large patient group with primary osteoarthritis (OA) and secondary osteoarthritis
      due to joint-associated fractures, repeated trauma to the joint and surroundings, congenital
      joint-deformity, hyper mobility and diabetes. There are 2 preservative surgical treatment
      alternatives for PIP joint OA; namely arthrodesis and arthroplasty. Arthroplasty is the
      choice of treatment, when preserving motion is feasible, but patients can have excellent
      results with arthrodesis. There are several arthroplasty techniques including fibrous
      interposition, palmar plate advancement, metallic or metalloplastic hinges or one piece
      polymeric plastic hinge devices.

      In this study, we use a 2 part metallic implant designed to minimize bone removal and
      preserve the collateral ligaments of the PIP joint providing a more stable joint particularly
      to imposed lateral forces. Preservation of the capsule with this prosthesis allows diversion
      of some of the transverse forces and axial torques from the prosthesis endosteal interface to
      the lateral cortices through the collateral ligaments. The semi-constrained design provides a
      more physiological articulation, and besides this the centered anatomical configuration
      allows a more reliable restoration of tendon movements to the joint. All of this probably
      diminishes the mechanical contribution to osteolysis and subsidence at the bone prosthesis
      interface and prolongs the time of survival of the prosthesis. All of these improvements on
      prosthetic design are very important and provide a better possibility for the patient to
      regain near-normal joint conditions.

      The prosthesis has two components - one proximal and one distal. The proximal part has a
      symmetric shallow bicondylar anatomic configuration fixed on a stem for the intramedullary
      cavity of the proximal phalanx. The distal component is fabricated from polyethylene
      press-molded on a metal backing with a stem for the intramedullary cavity of the middle
      phalanx. Both implant parts are CoCr alloy with a coating of plasma sprayed porous titanium.
      Studies have shown that bone grows well into the titanium surface of experimental implants,
      but it is also fixed into bone using cement.

      With the new type of PIP prostheses there is often excellent if not total long-term pain
      relief and little or no loss of movement. The stability becomes considerably better compared
      with older types of prostheses. The outcome is however dependant on the skill and experience
      of the surgeon.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the early migration and the periprosthetic bone
      changes of cemented versus non-cemented interphalangeal implants. Furthermore a thorough
      occupational therapist evaluation on the functional progress prior to and after surgery will
      be assessed.

      To evaluate both the implant-bone micromotions, metal markers have been placed on the implant
      preoperatively and other markers will be fixed in the phalangeal bone intra-operatively. This
      allows us to evaluate the implant micromotion with stereo x-rays by photogrammetric computer
      analyses called RSA at the Orthopaedic Center, Aarhus University Hospital. Follow-up stereo
      x-rays will be scheduled for 1 week, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years
      post-surgery. Periprosthetic bone density will be evaluated at 1 week, 1 year and 2 years
      upon inclusion at the Orthopaedic Center, Aarhus University Hospital. An occupational
      therapist will evaluate the joint range of motion, pain, edema and grip strength prior to
      surgery and throughout the 2 year follow up.
    
  