
    
      The mandibular condyle is one of the most frequent locations of facial fractures. It can lead
      to severe functional impairment if the occlusion is not properly restored and the mandibular
      mobility not recovered totally or within an acceptable range. Most frequent sequels of these
      fractures include limitation of mandibular movements resulting in limited mouth opening,
      occlusal disturbance causing chewing malfunction, chronic pain, chronic temporo-mandibular
      joint (TMJ) disorder and facial asymmetry. The risk of permanent limited mouth opening is
      even higher when the fracture is located inside the TMJ. Although the superiority of surgical
      treatment is now widely accepted for low-level fractures of the condylar unit (i.e.,
      extra-articular fractures) the treatment of fractures involving the TMJ in adult patients is
      still controversial.

      Treatment principles in these fractures can be ranked in two groups: closed and open
      treatments. Closed treatment - also called closed reduction or conservative treatment -
      consists in prolonged physical therapy frequently associated with transient
      maxillo-mandibular fixation (MMF). Open treatment consists in open reduction and internal
      fixation of the fracture (ORIF).

      No randomized controlled trial has ever evaluated the superiority of open versus closed
      treatment, and treatment strategy for IAFC remains a matter of ongoing debate.

      The primary objective of this trial is to compare mandibular mobility at 3 months
      post-treatment between open (surgical) and closed (conservative) treatment of intra-articular
      fracture (high fracture) of the mandibular condyle.

      The secondary objectives are to compare between open (surgical) and closed (conservative)
      treatments:

      At 3 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months post-treatment:

        -  maximal mouth opening (in mm)

        -  maximal mandibular protrusion (in mm),

        -  maximal lateral excursion (in mm),

        -  lateral deviation of the mandible during mouth opening

        -  occlusal disturbance evaluated by both the patient and the surgeon

        -  pain using a visual analog scale

        -  subjective functional impairment as assessed by the Mandibular Function Impairment
           Questionnaire

      Overall:

        -  duration of sick leave

        -  time to normal activity recovery (social activities, eating, sports) We will also
           evaluate compliance with the intervention. This trial is an open multicenter randomized
           controlled trial with 2 parallel arms. Eligible patients will be randomized 1 :1 between
           open and closed-treatment group.
    
  