
    
      1. Background

           In vitro fertilization (IVF) technique is now commonly used for the treatment of
           infertile couples. To obtain better outcomes of IVF, it is important to enhance embryo
           quality by optimizing IVF techniques. In IVF procedures, oocytes and sperm are routinely
           co-incubated overnight, which may expose oocytes and zygotes to suboptimal culture
           conditions with increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by sperm in this long
           term culture[1]. High levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) can adversely affect the
           quality of the embryos, result in hardening of the zona pellucida and impair the
           implantation capacity of embryos [2-4]. Studies shows successful fertilization of a
           mamamal oocyte occurs 20mins after gametes meet [5]. Sperm can penetrate through the
           cumulus cells within 15min, and 80% of oocytes can be fertilized when they are exposed
           to a large number of spermatozoa within 1hrs[1]. As an attempt to avoid possible
           detrimental effects on the oocytes from long exposure to sperm, the brief co-incubation
           insemination protocol was developed. It implies that long-term co-incubation of oocytes
           and sperm may not be necessary and may even be harmful. Some reports suggest that a
           sperm-oocyte exposure time of 1-6 h improves IVF outcomes[1,2,6,7] However, other
           studies report no such advantage with a short insemination time[8,9,10] .

           Recent published Meta analysis shows[11] brief co-incubation of gametes was associated
           with significantly higher rates of clinical pregnancy (RR: 1.84, 95% CI: 1.24-2.73),
           ongoing pregnancy (RR: 1.73, 95%CI: 1.27-2.33) and higher rate of implantation (RR:
           1.80, 95% CI: 1.43-2.26) than standard insemination. But the rates of normal
           fertilization (RR: 0.98, 95% CI: 0.93-1.02), good quality embryos (RR: 1.24, 95% CI:
           1.0-1.53) and polyspermy (RR: 0.84, 95% CI: 0.7-1.01) were not significantly different
           compared with standard insemination. In another Cochrane meta-analysis[12] eight RCTs
           with 733 women were included, and got the similar results. But it only reported clinical
           pregnancy rate, ongoing pregnancy rate which was significantly higher in brief
           co-incubation group than standard insemination. For the miscarriage rate, there were six
           miscarriages in one trial including 167 women. This low quality evidence suggested no
           significant difference in the odds of miscarriage between brief co-incubation and
           standard insemination (OR 1.98, 95% CI 0.35 to 11.09; P = 0.44). And live birth was not
           reported in the included studies, it is unclear whether brief co-incubation improves the
           life birth rate compared with the standard overnight insemination protocol.

           Drawbacks inherent to the quality of these studies, such as lack of allocation
           concealment and no blinding, limit the quality of the available evidence. To better
           evaluate these issues, more well designed RCTs are required to assess whether brief
           co-incubation would contribute to a higher live birth rate and a lower miscarriage rate
           compared to the standard overnight insemination protocol.

        2. Objectives:

           The objective of the present randomized, double blinded controlled study is to compare
           clinical effectiveness (especially on live birth rate) of a shorter exposure of oocyte
           to spermatozoa compared to a standard incubation in women undergoing IVF treatment.

        3. Trial design:

      A total of 280 infertile women undergoing IVF treatment will be randomized into one of the
      following two groups by computer-generated random numbers that was placed in sealed
      envelopes:

      Shorter exposure of oocyte to spermatozoa group: oocytes will be exposed to spermatozoa for 2
      hours Standard incubation group: oocytes will be exposed to spermatozoa for 20 hours

      Treatment of subjects

      All techniques of IVF including ovarian stimulation will be according to local protocols.

      4.1 Ovarian stimulation and IVF

      All women started their IVF treatment with ovarian stimulation using either the long agonist
      or antagonist protocols. For long protocol, gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue (GnRHa)
      will be given for pituitary desensitization, on Day 2-3 of the menstrual cycle, they will
      undergo transvaginal ultrasound examination and serum E2 measurement. Human menopausal
      gonadotrophin (hMG) or recombinant FSH will started at 150-300 IU per day based on the antral
      follicle count, age of women and previous ovarian response, according to the standard
      operation procedures of the centre. Ovarian response was monitored by serial transvaginal
      scanning with or without hormonal monitoring. Further dosage adjustments will base on the
      ovarian response at the discretion of the clinicians in charge. For antagonist protocols,
      antagonist (cetritide0.25mg daily) will be given on the 6th day of ovarian stimulation until
      day of hcg priming.

      When three leading follicles were ≥18 mm, hCG 10 000 IU or ovidrel 250 mg will be given to
      trigger final maturation of oocytes. Oocyte retrievals will be arranged around 36 h later.

      4.2 Insemination Procedures

      All semen samples were prepared by the conventional swim-up procedure. At2hr after oocyte
      retrieval, each matured oocyte will be inseminated with approximately 50,000-100,000 motile
      spermatozoa.

      4.3. Assignment and masking

      On the day of OPU, patients will be randomized after occyte pick up by a laboratory
      technician according to a computer generated randomization list in sealed envelopes into the
      shorter incubation group or the control group. Until the completion of the whole study, both
      the patients and the clinicians were blinded to the group assigned.

      Control arm Women who allocated to the control arm, all the oocytes will be exposed to
      spermatozoa for 20 hours, and checked for fertilization on day 1 (20 hours) after denuding

      Intervention arm For those allocated to the intervention arm, all the oocytes will be exposed
      to spermatozoa for 2 hours and gently wash through two organ dishes containing 1.5 ml of
      equilibrated medium, and then transferred to the corresponding microdroplet of equilibrated
      fresh medium. Surrounding cumulus cell will be retained, not removed from the ooctyes.

      4.4 Fertilization and Embryo Evaluation Both groups of oocytes will be decoronated and
      checked for the presence of two pronuclei and two polar bodies to confirm fertilization. All
      other outcomes (i.e., no fertilization, one pronucleus, polyspermia, degeneration) were also
      recorded.

      Embryo morphology will be assessed every day of culture. Embryos will be scored according to
      the following criteria. Briefly, embryos are classified as: gradeA, no cellular
      fragmentation; grade B, <20% fragmentation; grade C, 20% to 50% fragmentation; and grade D,
      >50% fragmentation. The number of blastomeres per embryo was also recorded. Grade A and B
      embryos constituted the "good quality embryo".

      The transfer is performed by the team clinician with a maximum of 2 embryos being replaced
      according to the standard protocol under transabdominal ultrasound guidance. Luteal phase
      support is given at the discretion of the physician.

      4.5 Follow up strategy:

      A pregnancy test will be carried out 2 weeks after embryo transfer in both arms. All women
      who have a positive pregnancy test 2 weeks after a fresh embryo transfer will undergo a
      transvaginal ultrasound scan after a further 5 weeks to identify the presence of a gestation
      sac with a fetal heart signifying an ongoing pregnancy.

      Data on all pregnancy outcomes including early pregnancy losses such as miscarriage or
      ectopic pregnancy will be collected.

      In order to achieve consistency with respect to the collection of outcome, standardised case
      report forms (CRF) will be completed for each woman at each centre. These CRFs will include
      details on treatment received, pregnancy outcomes, complications in pregnancy, mode of
      delivery and birth outcomes.

      Statistics

      5.1 Analysis plan: Demographic factors and clinical characteristics collected as part of
      baseline data collection will be summarised with counts (percentages) for categorical
      variables, mean (standard deviation [SD]) for normally distributed continuous variables, or
      median (interquartile [IQR] or entire range) for other continuous variables.

      Outcomes for participants will be analysed in the groups to which they are assigned
      regardless of deviation from the protocol or treatment received (intention-to-treat).
      Comparative statistical analysis will entail calculating the relative risk (RR) (95% CI) for
      the primary outcome (99% CIs for all dichotomous secondary outcomes), the mean difference
      (99% CI) for normally distributed continuous secondary outcomes, or the median difference
      (99% CI) for skewed continuous variables.

      All analyses will adjust for the minimisation factors to account for the correlation between
      treatment groups introduced by balancing the randomisation (which forces outcomes between
      treatment arms to be similar apart from any treatment effect).

      Adjusted risk ratios will be estimated using a log binomial regression model, or using a log
      Poisson regression model with a robust variance estimator if the binomial model fails to
      converge. Linear regression will be used for normally distributed outcomes and quantile
      regression for skewed continuous variables.

      Pre-specified subgroup analyses will include Cleavage versus blastocyst stage transfer.

      6. Sample size estimation:

      The average live birth rate in our center from 2010-2012 was 30% per transfer. According to
      recent published Meta analysis[11],brief co-incubation of gametes was associated with
      significantly higher rates of ongoing pregnancy (RR: 1.73, 95%CI: 1.27-2.33) than standard
      insemination.

      Assuming live birth in the treatment group =50% (increase by 70%); with 90% power and a
      two-sided 5% level of statistical significance, we will need to recruit 124 women in each
      arm. To account for 10% loss to follow up, we will recruit 140 subjects in each group or 280
      subjects for the whole study.

      7. Assessment of safety

      Recults from recent published Meta analysis[11,12] showed the rates of normal fertilization,
      good quality embryos and polyspermy were not significantly different with short time
      incubation of gametes compared with standard insemination. Thus, there should be no major
      safety concern in this study.

      8. Direct access to source data / documents:

      Trial-related monitoring, audits, IRB review and regulatory inspections are allowed.

      9. Quality control and quality assurance

      Patients will be managed by the listed investigators who have adequate experience in managing
      assisted reproduction treatments. A Trial steering committee will be formed which will
      oversee the conduct of the trial.

      10. Ethics

      Written consent will be obtained from all patients. The patient information sheet and consent
      forms in English and Chinese are enclosed. Ethics approval will be obtained from the
      Institutional Review Board, Shanghai first Maternity and Infant health hospital Hospital.

      11. Data Handling and record keeping

      All data will be stored for three years. A designated research nurse will be responsible for
      data management including data coding, monitoring and verification.

      12. Financing and insurance

      The study will be funded by MerckSerono China Research Fund for Fertility Experts.

      13. Publication policy

      The findings of this study will be submitted for consideration for publication in
      peer-reviewed scientific journal.

      14. Supplements

      The study will be conducted in compliance with the Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical
      Practice (ICH-GCP)
    
  