
    
      5. Material and Methods

      5.1 Patients

      Patients who had had systematic periodontal treatment (antiinfective treatment with
      subgingival debridement under local anaesthesia and if required periodontal surgery) at the
      Dept. of Periodontology starting from October 2004 are re-examined 10 years +/- 12 months
      after accomplishment of active periodontal therapy (re-evaluation 1 or 2, start of supportive
      periodontal treatment) until 100 patients have been enroled. Radiographs (periapicals or
      panoramics) from start of treatment should be available.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  at least 18 years old

        -  systematic periodontal treatment (antiinfective treatment with subgingival debridement
           under local anaesthesia according to the full mouth disinfection protocol and if
           required periodontal surgery) at the Dept. of Periodontology starting from October 2004

        -  complete periodontal charts (probing pocket depths [PPD] and vertical probing attachment
           level [PAL-V] at 6 sites per tooth, furcation involvement at all furcation sites of
           multi-rooted teeth) Prior to periodontal treatment (baseline, T0) and after
           accomplishment of active periodontal Treatment (APT) (reevaluation 1 or 2 and start of
           SPT, T1)

        -  radiographs of all teeth (periapical or panoramic) at baseline

        -  written informed consent.

      Exclusion citeria:

      - Patients that do not meet the inclusion criteria.

      Individual dropout criteria:

      retraction of consent

      5.2 Recruitment and clinical examination

      All patients who had had systematic periodontal treatment (antiinfective treatment with
      subgingival debridement under local anaesthesia according to the full mouth disinfection
      protocol and if required periodontal surgery) at the Dept. of Periodontology starting from
      October 2004 and of whom radiographs (periapicals or panoramics) from start of treatment are
      available are invited for re-examination 10 years +/- 12 months after accomplishment of
      active periodontal therapy (re-evaluation 1 or 2, start of supportive periodontal treatment)
      until 100 patients have been enroled. For patients not agreeing to the invitation the
      respective reasons are documented (e.g. could not be contacted due to unknown new address).
      The follow-up is performed by the participating examiners and encompasses the following
      examinations:

        -  measurement of CO in exhaled air as measure for cigarette smoking (Bedfont EC50-Micro;
           Bedfont Scientific Ltd, Rochester, Great Britain). Patients are asked for cigarette
           smoking: Do you actually smoke and if yes, how many cigarettes per day? Did you smoke in
           earlier times? If yes how long (years) and how many cigarettes per day? After the
           questionnaire the CO measurement is repeated.

        -  Using patients' charts it is documented for each patient whether he or she had attended
           SPT at the Dept. of Periodontology of the Goethe-University Frankfurt regularly
           complying with the intervals that had been recommended. If a patient had extended the
           recommended SPT interval at least once more than 100% he or she is assigned to the
           irregular SPT group (e.g. the recommended SPT interval is 6 months and the patient
           returns for SPT after 13 months). Further, rhythm and number of SPT visits is scored.

        -  General medical history and extended helath questionnaire

        -  Dental status, sensitivity testing

        -  Modified GBI

        -  Modified PCR

        -  Measurement of probing pocket depths (PPD) and vertical attachment levels (PAL-V) to the
           nearest 1 mm using a manual periodontal probe (PCPUNC 15; Hu Friedy, Chicago, IL, USA)
           at 6 sites per tooth, bleeding on probing after 30 s (BOP), and suppuration on probing
           (SUP). Implantats are measured like teeth but marked as implants.

        -  At multirooted teeth assessment of furcation involvement using a Nabers probe that was
           marked in 3 mm increments (PQ2N; Hu Friedy, Chicago, IL, USA)

        -  Test for interleukin-1 (IL-1) polymorphism (IL-1A -889, IL-1B +3953) (GenoType
           IL-1-Test, Hain Life Science GmbH, Nehren, Germany), if IL-1 polymorphism had not been
           tested during routine SPT to estimate the individual periodontal risk and SPT interval.
           A patient is classified as IL-1 positive if both the second allele for IL-1A and IL-1B
           are positive.

        -  All patients who have lost teeth are asked for the reasons (e.g. caries, endodontic,
           periodontal, orthodontic, prosthetic, trauma etc.).

        -  All patients were asked about satisfaction with the aesthetic aspects of their
           periodontal situation (OHIP).

      In each patient PPD and PAL-V measurements are repeated in one sextant to assess the
      reproducibility of measurements.

      5.3 Radiographic evaluation

      Prior to subgingival debridement/periodontal surgery periapical radiographs (Insight; Kodac,
      Rochester, NY, USA) using film holders (XCP, Kentzler & Kaschner Dental, Ellwangen/Jagst) or
      panoramic radiographs had been obtained. Radiographs were obtained using the appropriate dose
      (Heliodent 70*, 70 kV, 7 mA, Sirona, Bensheim) and were developed (XR24 nova*, Dürr Dental,
      Bietigheim-Bissingen).

      All radiographs are viewed in a darkened room using a radiograph screen. Relative percentage
      of bone loss is assessed at the most periodontally affected site of each tooth using a Schei
      ruler. Teeth were assigned i) to one of 5 groups of periodontal bone loss (< 20%, 20/< 40%,
      40/< 60%, 60/< 80%, 80% and more) and ii) in conjunction with furcation involvement to one of
      3 groups for the assessment of tooth-related prognosis (< 50%, 50-75%, > 75%). Furthermore,
      at the interproximal site with the most severe bone loss of each tooth, the type of bone loss
      is characterized as horizontal or vertical (infrabony defect). At each infrabony defect the
      depth of the infrabony component is measured to the next 0.1 mm using a loupe with 10fold
      magnification (Scale loupe 10x, Peak, Tohkai Sangyo, Tokyo, Japan). Each infrabony defect is
      allocated to one of 3 groups: shallow (2 mm), moderate (2.5-4 mm), and deep (>/= 4.5 mm)
      defects. For each tooth it is assessed whether a double contour of the root could be
      detected. A double contour is interpreted as indicator for a mesial or distal root groove.

      All radiographic assessments are performed by an independent examiner blinded for clinical
      measurements and therapy rendered.

      5.4 Evaluation of patient charts

      Each patient is assigned to a periodontal diagnosis (e.g. generalised moderate chronic
      periodontitis) according to the actual classification of periodontal diseases.

      According to baseline data each tooth is assigned to a prognosis category:

        -  hopeless: bone loss > 75% or the tooth fulfils at least 2 criteria of category
           "questionable";

        -  questionable: bone loss between 50 and 75% or infrabony pocket (infrabony component > 2
           mm) or furcation involvement;

        -  good: bone loss < 50% and nonne of the criteria for "qustionable" or "hopeless" are
           present.

      For each patient a prognosis index is calculated (number of hopeless and questionable teeth
      divided by the whole number of teeth).

      The periodontal status at re-examination will be scored according to the most recent criteria
      of the Swiss Dental Society using precise threshold according to the 2005 criteria.

      5.5 Statistical analysis

      The patient is defined as statistical unit. Main outcome variable is tooth loss from the end
      of APT (T1) to re-examination (T2). Secondary endpoints are: PAL-V loss, PISA (periodtally
      inflamed surface area) change from T1 to T2, SSO criteria at T0, T1, T2 as well as average
      PPD, PISA, PPD categories at T0, T1, T2.

      Using Poisson regression analysis patient-related factors (sex, age, socieconimic status,
      baseline diagnosis [chronic or aggressive periodontitis], IL-1 polymorphism, mean bone loss
      in %, cigarette consumption, regular SPT participation ) and using logistic multilevel
      regression analysis tooth-related (PPD at T1 [deepest pocket/tooth], PAL-V at T1, bone loss
      in % [T0], furcation involvement [most severe furcation ionvolvement/tooth], tooth type
      [single-rooted, multi-rooted with/without furcation involvement], type of bone loss
      [horizontal/vertical, shallow, moderate, deep infrabony defects], baseline prognosis) factors
      shall be indentified that explain tooth loss during SPT or quality standards.
    
  