
    
      This prospective study is going to be performed at UKM Medical Centre for a duration of 1
      year. The PCOS and control women will be recruited from the Medically Assisted clinic in
      Obstetrics & Gynaecology department.

      The sample size of this study is calculated using Power and Sample Size Calculator by Dupont
      & Plummer 1998 for paired t-test response version 3.1.2; using the endpoint of mean of Hb-EGF
      expression during window of implantation in predicting successful pregnancy following in
      vitro fertilization (IVF) rate by Mengling et al. 2016 (11) as one of its specific outcome.
      The auto-generated sample size using this programme is 8 subjects. Considering the dropout
      rate of the sample is 30%, the total sample size required in this study is 10 subjects each
      arm, making a total sample size 40.

      The participants are divided into four groups according to PCOS diagnosis and Asian adult
      population body mass index (BMI):

        1. Anovulatory PCOS women with a BMI greater than 27 (OB-PCOS)

        2. Anovulatory PCOS women with a BMI lower than 25 (NW-PCOS)

        3. Healthy fertile women with a BMI greater than 27 (OB-C)

        4. Healthy fertile women with a BMI lower than 25 (NW-C)

      In the PCOS group, generally anovulatory cycle hence the implantation window during
      mid-secretory endometrium can be exhibit following a daily oral micronized progesterone
      (Utrogestan 200mg) for 10 days based on previously published methods.

      Volunteers in the control group with a normal regular menses will be counseled regarding the
      procedure and monitored for ovulation. The endometrial biopsy will be acquired during
      implantation window (mid-secretory endometrium), which occurred 7-9 days after the ultrasound
      and urinary LH confirmed ovulation.

      Endometrial samples are obtained using the Pipelle de Cornier catheter for all participants.
      The endometrium sample that is taken is divided into two portions; a portion for
      histopathological examination (HPE) for endometrial dating and a portion frozen in liquid
      nitrogen at -80 degrees Celsius for real-time PCR analysis.

      For endometrial dating, all samples were analyzed by classical histological analysis
      according to the criteria of Noyes.

      A total amount of RNA was isolated from the endometrial tissue using RNA easy kit by
      following manufacturer's instruction. Pellet will be suspended in 30ul of RNAase-DNAse free
      water. Finally, nanodrop will be used to determine the concentration and quality of RNA. By
      following manufacture's instruction, total RNA will be reversed transcribed to cDNA. The
      target for cDNA is primers for heparin binding epidermal growth factor. QRT-PCR will be
      performed using Sybergreen Master Mix and detected using QRT-PCR detector machine in
      accordance with manufacturer's protocols. The reaction was running in real-time PCR machine
      with 40 cycles and cycling temperature as follows: 95 ºC for 10 minutes and 15 seconds, 56 ºC
      for 30 seconds and final dissociation stage: 94 ºC for 15 seconds, 56 ºC for 15 seconds and
      last 95 ºC for 15 seconds. Relative quantification will be calculated by normalizing against
      any housekeeping genes available. Positive controls and negative controls will be included in
      each analysis run.
    
  