
    
      -  Age at diagnosis: young patients are defined as younger than 35 years.

        -  Surgical techniques: Preoperatively all patients will undergo physical examination of
           both breasts and axillae as well as bilateral mammograms and ultrasonography of both
           breasts. Histopathological diagnosis of cancer will be made prior to surgery. The
           planned procedure will be discussed. Different oncoplastic techniques will be utilized
           to achieve oncologically appropriate margins with either sentinel lymph node detection
           or axillary lymph node dissection according to the triple assessment of the patients .
           Surgical margins were determined by macroscopic and histologic examination of frozen
           sections of the breast specimens in the operating room. An adequate safety margin of 1cm
           was always insured. Breast remodeling will be done according to breast size, degree of
           ptosis and size of defect.

        -  Tumor characteristics: size, nodal status, presence of lympho-vascular invasion, amount
           of intraductal component, tumor grade, margin status, hormone receptor, and Her2 neu
           status.

        -  Margins will be regarded as negative when permanent histological examination found no
           ink on the tumor.

        -  Postoperative surgical complications will be documented if happened; seroma formation,
           hematoma and or wound dehiscence.

        -  Cosmetic outcome: The postoperative esthetic result will be evaluated asking the
           patients to rate the postoperative cosmetic result and their degree of satisfaction
           compared to the preoperative breast using a five-point scale (excellent, 5; good, 4;
           fair, 3; poor, 2;bad, 1). Objective assessment of the cosmetic result was done by two
           surgeons, rated on a visual analog scale from 1 (unacceptable result) to 10 (excellent
           result). Evaluation is based on 5 criteria, namely: breast symmetry, glandular tissue
           defects, nipple and areola reconstruction, scar quality and/or retraction, and the
           resultant breast shape. (14)

        -  The occurrence of loco-regional recurrence or distant metastases during the follow-up
           period was recorded and considered as an end point for follow-up.
    
  