
    
      Background Knee Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most prevalent of the chronic rheumatic diseases
      and is a leading cause of pain and disability in most countries worldwide. The treatment
      methods for knee OA are diverse for patients with mild or moderate osteoarthritis (OA).
      Biomechanical intervention, physical therapy and exercise, medication, and intra-articular
      injections (both corticosteroid and hyaluronic acid) are recommended.

      Recent studies have suggested that extracorporeal shock wave therapy is an effect treatment
      method for the knee OA. Based on the propagation pattern of the wave, extracorporeal shock
      wave therapy can be classified into two main modalities: focused and radial shock wave
      therapy. However, no previous study compared the effect of radial versus focused type of
      extracorporeal shock wave on symptoms and functions in patients with symptomatic knee OA.
      Therefore, the purpose of our study was to compare the effects of focused and radial shock
      wave therapy on patients with knee OA. Design: Randomized control trial Setting: Outpatient
      rehabilitation clinic in our hospital. Population:100 patients with mild and moderate knee OA
      Methods: Patients were randomly assigned to receive three sessions of either focused or
      radial shock wave therapy at 1-week intervals. The extracorporeal shock wave will be applied
      to the patellofemoral and tibiofemoral borders and the subchondral bone of the medial tibia
      condyle of the affected knee joint. The intensities that were used during focused shock wave
      therapy (0.20 mJ/mm 2 ) and radial shock wave therapy (3 bar) were comparable. The patients
      were evaluated at baseline and at 1, 4, and 8 weeks and 6 nmonths after the final shockwave
      treatment. The primary outcome measure was visual analogue scale. The secondary outcome
      measures were Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index, the knee joint
      ROM, and sonographic findings and six-minute walk test (6MWT) will be performed. A linear
      mixed model with repeated measures was used to compare each outcome measure between the two
      groups.
    
  