
    
      The majority of mental, emotional and behavioral (MEB) disorders have an initial onset before
      age 24, with 20% annual incidence, with major depressive disorder (MDD) being the most common
      MEB. Health systems, eager to reduce costs, want to transition from the current "wait until
      sick enough for treatment" model for MDD to a preventive model. However, evidence is needed
      for (1) the comparative effectiveness of a "scalable intervention" and (2) an implementation
      model for such a scalable intervention in the primary care setting. This study is a
      comparative effectiveness trial evaluating the efficacy of two evidence-based
      cognitive-behavioral prevention (CBP) programs: Teens Achieving Mastery over Stress (TEAMS),
      the "gold standard," group therapy model, and Competent Adulthood Transition with Cognitive
      Behavioral, Humanistic and Interpersonal Training (CATCH-IT), a scalable, self-directed,
      technology-based model. For implementation during the COVID-19 pandemic, TEAMS has
      successfully been adapted to an online format and administered online through HIPAA-compliant
      video conferencing software. For the first cohort, 564 eligible adolescents age 13-18 will be
      offered one of two different depression prevention programs using cluster randomization in
      multiple sites in urban and suburban Chicago, Illinois; rural Western Illinois, including
      Dixon and surrounding towns; and Louisville, Kentucky. Randomization will be blocked into
      matched pairs of primary health care clinics and school sites and stratified by race,
      ethnicity, rural-urban commuting area codes, and socio-economic disadvantage using the
      Distressed Communities Index (DCI) from census-tracked data of each site zip code. A second
      cohort of 100 eligible adolescents will be recruited through public health media campaigns in
      Illinois, Kentucky, and Massachusetts utilizing the same eligibility criteria as Cohort One.
      These participants will connect with the research team by phone, email, web survey, or social
      media and will be randomized at the individual-level with equal allocation into treatment
      conditions (CATCH-IT or TEAMS). The investigators will comprehensively evaluate
      patient-centered outcomes and stakeholder-valued moderators of effect at 2, 6, 12, and 18
      month assessment points. Using a hybrid clinical trial design that simultaneously examines
      implementation process, the study will also assess adolescents', parents' and providers'
      experiences (i.e. efficacy, time commitment, cultural acceptability, and implementation cost)
      with each intervention approach. A sub-sample of Cohort Two (n=50, 25 from each intervention
      arm) will be recruited to participate in open-ended interviews for adolescents to share their
      experiences of living with subsyndromal depression, coping during the COVID-19 pandemic,
      their perceived impact of CATCH-IT or TEAMS on their mood and behavior, and the cultural
      contexts in which these experiences occurred.
    
  