
    
      This research study was designed to determine the effects of functional electrical
      stimulation (FES) rowing and a drug called zoledronic acid in bone health in individuals who
      have suffered a spinal cord injury (SCI). The investigators hoped to learn if zoledronic acid
      treatment would increase bone mineral density in persons with chronic spinal cord injury.
      This was designed and conducted as a three center study with multiple investigators. The
      investigators also had a goal to find out if zoledronic acid is safe for persons with SCI
      without causing too many side effects.

      The Prime recipient of funding is Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital (SRH). Dr. Leslie Morse
      is the Principal Investigator for the study, the coordination of the study was located at
      Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital. Through a sub-award a research group from the Veterans
      Administration of Boston Healthcare System was contracted to conduct DXA scans, blood draws
      and zoledronic acid administration to support this study. Through another sub-award from SRH,
      another Investigator from Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) participated conducting CT
      scans for the study. All adverse events related to this study were to be monitored and
      recorded by investigators at SRH.

      Seventy subjects age 18 years or older and wheelchair dependent at least 50% of the time
      because of an SCI were enrolled. Enrollment and initial screening for the study and follow up
      was performed at SRH. After enrollment the subjects were randomized to 1) FES-rowing alone or
      2) FES-rowing plus a 1-time infusion of zoledronic acid. Following a variable period of
      strength training which was necessary for preparing quads and hamstrings for extended FES
      use, enrolled participants were planned to begin a regular rowing program for 12 months at
      the Cardiovascular Laboratory at the Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital . DXA scans to measure
      bone mineral density were planned to be performed at the VA Boston Healthcare System-Jamaica
      Plain Campus (VABHS) three times during the study on all participants. In addition, 25
      subjects in each arm of the study were planned to receive CT scans of their knees at MGH at
      the beginning and end of the study. Up to 20 subjects were to have an additional CT scan (at
      MGH) six months into rowing. Research blood samples were planned to be collected at VABHS
      five times during duration of the study and stored at the VA for further study of molecular
      markers of bone turnover. All participants were expected to be screened for renal function
      and calcium and vitamin D levels at the beginning and end of the study, with additional renal
      screening done before and after the zoledronic acid infusion. Calcium and vitamin D
      supplements were to be provided to each subject throughout the study. Those with insufficient
      vitamin D levels were to be provided additional repletion and planned to be periodically
      rechecked. Up to 15 male subjects were asked to have two echocardiograms at one of the SRH
      sites - one at the beginning of the study and the other halfway through the year-long rowing
      regimen.
    
  