
    
      The purpose of this registry is to establish a research data repository, comprised of data
      generated in the course of providing clinical services to patients treated by Virta Health,
      to conduct secondary research on clinical interventions and chronic diseases.

      The scope of research under this protocol includes the following:

        1. Examining the effectiveness, safety, and sustainability of Virta Health clinical
           interventions for treating chronic diseases and prevention of or regression of
           associated adverse health outcomes.

        2. Examining the cost-effectiveness and economic impact of Virta Health clinical
           interventions for treating chronic diseases and preventing or regressing associated
           adverse health outcomes.

        3. Identifying demographics, clinical characteristics, comorbidities, concomitant
           treatments, genetic variants, and behavioral phenotypes that predict more or less
           favorable clinical outcomes of subjects to Virta Health clinical interventions for
           chronic diseases.

        4. Examining the impact of mental health and the behavioral modification components of
           Virta Health clinical interventions on disease markers, comorbidities, and adverse
           health outcomes associated with Virta Health clinical interventions.

        5. Characterizing typical presentation patterns, genetic determinants, biochemistry, and
           pathophysiology of the chronic diseases treated by Virta Health.

        6. Exploring relationships between dietary composition and physiologic characteristics of
           chronic diseases.

        7. Exploring the interrelationship and common clinical/biological features of the various
           chronic diseases under treatment by Virta Health.

        8. Compiling case reports and case series of interesting disease presentations and
           outcomes, of the chronic diseases Virta Health treats, that may inform about the disease
           state and treatment responses.

        9. Validating the integration of technological aids into Virta Health clinical
           interventions. Where the impacts of devices are examined, devices will be FDA-approved
           and approved, marketed devices. No safety data will be collected on devices; rather,
           research will focus only on the feasibility of adding the device to the treatment
           program, its relationship with participant behaviors and health outcomes, and patient
           satisfaction attributable to the device.

       10. Understanding the relationships of patient needs, educational methods, and use of the
           Virta Health online Application, to subsequent patient satisfaction/clinical outcomes.
    
  