
    
      There will be approximately 3-5 sites who will participate in this study. These sites may
      include two private practices in Roxboro and Creedmoor, North Carolina, the Duke Hospital and
      two practices in the Five County region of NC who are implementing Integrated, Collaborative,
      Accessible, Respectful, and Evidence-based (ICARE). In each clinic one day of the week (or 2
      half days) will be chosen randomly from the days the clinic identifies as appropriate. During
      this time a behavioral health specialist (BHS) will be on site to recruit potential
      participants. All patients will be asked to speak to the specialist. On two other randomly
      selected days printed material will be given to all parents of underage patients and the
      underage patients. This material will describe the study and give the specialist's contact
      information. If the patients are 18 to 21 years old the material will be given directly to
      the patient.

      The BHS will ask all interested participants to sign the informed consent/minor consent and
      one parent/legal guardian will be asked to counter sign the informed consent if subject is
      not 18 years of age yet. All participants signing informed consent will be given the CRAFFT
      and the PARTNER basic information questions in an interview with the specialist.

      The primary outcome measure will be the number of participants recruited per day by the on
      site BHS versus appointment recruitment method. In addition, the total number of clinic
      visits for patients' ages 14 to 21 years old on each day of the week will be totaled by age,
      gender and ethnicity to determine the penetration rates for the recruitment procedures. And
      lastly, medical records at the treatment referral sites will be checked to identify the
      number of participants referred.

      The study will recruit subjects at each site for approximately last six months.
    
  