
    
      The impact of stroke on walking is significant, with only 37 percent of stroke survivors able
      to walk after the first week after stroke (or post-stroke). Even among those who achieve
      independent ambulation, significant residual deficits persist in balance and gait speed with
      a 73 percent incidence of falls among individuals with mild to moderate impairment 6 months
      post-stroke. Body weight supported treadmill training is one therapeutic method for locomotor
      training that is rapidly being adopted into physical rehabilitation to improve walking after
      stroke.

      The purpose of this multi-center, randomized controlled study is to compare two different
      treatments to improve walking after stroke. The two treatments are: 1) a training program
      that includes use of a body weight support system and a treadmill to practice walking and 2)
      a physical therapist monitored exercise program to work on general conditioning and
      strengthening in the patient's home. In addition, investigators will determine the best time
      to provide training after a stroke and if the training is beneficial for mild, moderate, or
      severe cases of stroke.

      Four hundred subjects will be recruited from five facilities in Florida and California.
      Screening and subject recruitment will take place within 45 days post-stroke. All stroke
      patients will be screened to determine eligibility for the study. Eligible subjects will be
      followed for 2 months post-stroke. At that time, those who are eligible for enrollment and
      who consent to participate will undergo an exercise tolerance test and baseline assessment.
      Following this evaluation, participants will be randomized into one of three groups,
      according to the severity of their locomotor impairment: early locomotor, late locomotor, or
      early home exercise.

      The early locomotor training group will begin the locomotor training program immediately (2
      months post stroke). The locomotor training program is an out-patient program of locomotor
      training for 36 sessions, 3 times per week, using a body weight support system and stepping
      on a treadmill. The late locomotor training group will begin locomotor training at 6 months
      post-stroke. Participants in the early home exercise group will receive a non-specific low
      intensity exercise program beginning immediately (2 months post stroke).
    
  