
    
      Degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis (DLSS) or osteoarthritis of the spine is a leading cause
      of pain, disability, and loss of independence in older adults. It is a chronic disease caused
      by age related degenerative narrowing (stenosis) of the spinal canal that can lead to
      compression and ischemia of the spinal nerves (neuro-ischemia). The clinical syndrome of DLSS
      is known as neurogenic claudication. It is characterized by bilateral or unilateral buttock
      and/or lower extremity pain, heaviness, numbness, tingling or weakness, precipitated by
      walking and standing and relieved by sitting and bending forward. Limited walking ability is
      the dominant functional impairment caused by DLSS. Those afflicted have greater walking
      limitations than individuals with knee or hip osteoarthritis and greater functional
      limitations than those with congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive lung disease or
      systemic lupus erythematosus. Inability to walk among individuals with DLSS leads to a
      sedentary lifestyle and a progressive decline in health status. The prevalence and economic
      burden of DLSS is growing exponentially due to the aging population. Although DLSS is the
      most common reason for spine surgery in individuals over the age of 65, only very few DLSS
      patients receive surgery. The vast majority of individuals with DLSS receive non-surgical
      care. However, what constitutes effective non-surgical care is unknown. Self-management
      strategies may be a practical and effective means to improve walking ability, functional
      status, and quality of life in this chronic arthritic and often progressive condition. The
      investigators have conducted two systematic reviews of the literature, one assessing the
      effectiveness of non-surgical treatments for neurogenic claudication which included
      randomized controlled trials (RCTs) assessing improvements in pain, disability, quality of
      life or global improvement; the other evaluated the effectiveness of surgical or non-surgical
      interventions and included only RCTs that assessed improved walking ability. the
      investigators learned from these reviews that the evidence for interventions that improve
      outcomes including walking ability in neurogenic claudication due to DLSS is lacking. The
      evidence published thus far on this topic has been of low or of very low quality, prohibiting
      the formulation of evidence-based recommendations for clinical practice. Moreover, the
      investigators identified no RCTs that examined a self-management approach to the treatment of
      DLSS.

      In addition to the structural arthritic changes causing narrowing of the spinal canal, DLSS
      has an important dynamic component. The volume of the spinal canal and degree of epidural
      pressure and ischemia of the spinal nerves can change depending on spinal posture. Both
      lumbar flexion (stooping forward), and sitting increase the diameter of the canal and reduce
      spinal nerve ischemia, and correspond with a reduction or elimination of lower extremity
      symptoms. Conversely, lumbar extension or increasing the lumbar lordosis (which occurs when
      standing) reduces the diameter of the spinal canal and increases spinal nerve ischemia, and
      corresponds with increased lower extremity symptoms. The ability to reduce symptoms of DLSS
      by changing spinal posture/structural alignment and/or increasing blood flow to the spinal
      nerve provides potential mechanisms for developing interventions to improve symptoms and
      walking ability.

      First, the investigators have designed and implemented a novel six week self-management
      training program for DLSS over the past 3 years at the Spinal Stenosis Clinic at the Rebecca
      MacDonald Centre for Arthritis and Auto-immune Diseases at Mount Sinai Hospital (MSH). The
      goal of the training program is to provide patients with the knowledge, skills,
      self-confidence, and physical capacity to manage their symptoms and maximize their function.
      The program is multi-modal, tailored and directed to the structural, functional,
      physiological and psychosocial consequences of DLSS. Particular emphasis is placed on
      exercise instruction to build core and lower extremity strength and enable individuals to
      achieve optimal posture during standing and walking.

      There are numerous human studies demonstrating significant reduction in laboratory induced
      ischemic pain in the lower and upper extremities with paraspinal TENS compared to placebo
      TENS. Moreover, there is low quality evidence from one case series suggesting that electrical
      stimulation may be effective for the management of neurogenic claudication. Higher quality
      studies are needed to assess whether paraspinal TENS applied while walking improves walking
      ability, as this could be an innovative, convenient, and inexpensive self-management strategy
      for DLSS patients.

      Finally, the investigators have designed a prototype spinal stenosis belt with the Ontario
      College of Art and Design. The belt is designed as garment that will snugly fit over the
      sacrum and pelvic girdle with a pump that place pressure over the sacrum with the aim to
      reduce the lumbar lordosis and maximize the spinal canal diameter when walking. The
      investigators hypothesize the belt will reduce the lumbar lordosis and alleviate epidural
      pressure and neuro-ischemia while standing and walking. The investigators identified two
      preliminary studies evaluating back belts, supports or braces for DLSS, none of which were
      RCTs. These studies found significant improvements in walking distance with the use of a back
      corset; however both studies had a high risk of bias.

      OBJECTIVES AND HYPOTHESES The overall goal of this study is to assess the effectiveness of
      four self-management strategies in improving walking ability among patients with DLSS. The
      investigators primary objective is to compare the effectiveness of a comprehensive six week
      self-management training program that includes a patient instructional workbook, video and
      pedometer to a patient workbook, video and pedometer alone. The investigators secondary
      objectives are: 1) to compare the change in walking capacity from baseline when using
      superficially applied para-spinal TENS versus placebo para-spinal TENS applied during walking
      and 2) to compare the change in walking capacity from baseline while wearing a novel spinal
      stenosis belt to the use of a sham spinal stenosis belt while walking. The investigators
      hypothesize that the self-management training program with workbook, video and pedometer will
      be more effective in improving walking capacity and functional outcomes than the use of a
      workbook, video and pedometer alone. Furthermore, the investigators hypothesize that
      para-spinal TENS or the novel spinal stenosis belt used while walking will be more effective
      in improving walking capacity than placebo TENS or a sham spinal stenosis belt, respectively.
    
  