
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a very frequent endocrine disease of women in
      reproductive age, with an estimated prevalence of 5 to 10 % according to the studied
      population.

      Its cause remains not fully understood. PCOS is characterized by hyperandrogenism, chronic
      anovulation and / or polycystic ovaries. Patients, in a high percentage of cases show
      obesity, hirsutism, acne, menstrual irregularities and infertility. Clinically and
      biologically PCOS is a heterogeneous disorder with a not yet clear pathogenesis. Therefore,
      discussions on its definition and diagnosis still subsist. Seventy years ago Stein and
      Leventhal published their findings in 7 women with amenorrhea, hirsutism, acne, obesity and
      polycystic appearance of their ovaries. Since then, diagnostic criteria for PCOS suffered
      multiple modifications.

      In 1990 a group of experts under the auspices of the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
      considered affected by PCOS every woman with hyperandrogenism and chronic anovulation; after
      having excluded other specific diseases that mimic that clinic like Cushing's syndrome,
      androgen secreting tumors and congenital adrenal hyperplasia (NIH criteria). The presence of
      polycystic ovaries under ultrasound exploration was considered controversial criteria and was
      not included for diagnosis. In May 2003 a new committee of experts joined in Rotterdam under
      the auspice of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM) and the European Society
      for Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE), included polycystic ovaries by ultrasound to
      the physiologic abnormalities for diagnosis. Thus, diagnosis should include unless two of the
      following: oligo or anovulation; hyperandrogenism (clinic or biochemical) and polycystic
      ovaries under ultrasound examination.

      Rotterdam consensus widened the definition already proposed by NIH in 1990 giving rise to
      four subgroups or phenotypes:

      1- Women with polycystic ovaries, hyperandrogenism and oligoamenorrhea. 2. Women with normal
      ovaries, hyperandrogenism and oligoamenorrhea. 3- Women with polycystic ovaries,
      oligoamenorrhea without hyperandrogenism. 4- Women with polycystic ovaries, hyperandrogenism
      with normal menses. This new criteria increase de prevalence, diversity and also controversy
      about PCOS. Some authors like Franks accept that the new consensus gave significant advances
      in the etiological knowledge of the syndrome. Others, like Azziz, proposed that is premature
      to include ovulating women and the ones with no clear evidence of androgens excess. In the
      last subgroups is no clear if they have an increased risk of cardiovascular and / or
      metabolic diseases.

      The clinical heterogeneity of the syndrome is the product of a multifaceted process; where
      converge genetic and environmental influences. Many hypotheses try to explain the primary
      defect; but insulin resistance (IR) seems the most suitable according to most of studies. IR
      is present in 60 to 70 % of patients independently of obesity. Compensatory hyperinsulinism
      has a fundamental role in the pathology of PCOS. In vitro insulin stimulates androgen
      synthesis in ovary theca cells, acting on its own receptor and inhibits hepatic synthesis of
      sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), increasing free testosterone. It also leads to the
      amplification of LH induced expression of cytochrome P450c 17 alfa (a limiting enzyme in
      androgen synthesis).

      PCOS shares components of Metabolic Syndrome for the high prevalence of IR (abdominal
      obesity, impaired glucose tolerance, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, endothelial dysfunction,
      impaired lipid profile and probably cardiovascular disease). Dunaif and Sam using NIH
      criteria for PCOS diagnosis suggested a sole entity called XX syndrome. Central adiposity
      seems to play an important role in the development of this metabolic phenotype trough the
      production of many cytokines and adipocytes derived proteins, known as "adipocytokines".
      Failures on its regulation could contribute to the development of IR. The late one for itself
      or trough metabolic disturbances is associated with endothelial dysfunction and
      atherosclerosis.

      Adiponectin is exclusively secreted in adipose tissue and could inhibit the expression of
      vascular endothelial adhesion molecules induced by TNF-alfa. So, it could be an anti
      atherogenic effect of adiponectin. In obese subjects and those with type 2 diabetes and IR
      (whom has a high incidence of coronary atherosclerosis) it was found low plasma levels of
      adiponectin. Recent studies propose low serum levels of adiponectin as an early marker for
      metabolic risk in women with PCOS.

      C Reactive Protein (CRP), a low grade inflammation marker, has been suggested as an
      independent predictor of cardiovascular event in women; even more relevant than LDL
      cholesterol. Those facts have been reassured in the recent publication of Reynolds risk score
      which adds to the classical ATP III´s Framingham score; the usage of CRP in women, increasing
      its prognostic value. Higher levels of CRP have been described in women with PCOS compared
      with normal controls.

      All these findings lead us to assume that women with PCOS have an increased risk of
      developing cardiovascular disease. As there is no universally accepted definition for PCOS,
      studies that show an association between PCOS and cardiovascular disease are of relative
      value. Legro stated that "It is premature to assume that every PCOS phenotype has the same
      cardiac and metabolic risk factors".

      So, it is important to evaluate the endocrine and metabolic characteristic in different
      phenotypes of PCOS to prevent the co morbidities that predispose to cardiovascular disease.
      And of course to avoid unnecessary measures in groups that could not show increased risk.
    
  