
    
      Bone is the third most common organ involved by metastatic disease behind lung and liver [6].
      In breast cancer, bone is the second most common site of metastatic spread, and 90% of
      patients dying of breast cancer have bone metastasis. Breast and prostate cancer metastasize
      to bone most frequently, which reflects the high incidence of both these tumors, as well as
      their prolonged clinical courses. Post-cancer survival has increased with improvement in
      early detection and treatments. As a consequence, the number of patients developing
      metastatic bone disease during their lifetime has also increased.

      Current treatments for patients with bone metastases are primarily palliative and include
      localized therapies (radiation and surgery), systemic therapies (chemotherapy, hormonal
      therapy, radiopharmaceutical, and bisphosphonates although the primary goal of the use of
      these therapies are often to address the disease itself), and analgesics (opioids and
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Recently, radiofrequency ablation has been tested as
      a treatment option for bone metastases [8]. Currently, an off label use of Cryoablation
      techniques are being tested as another alternative for bone Mets palliation. The main goals
      of these treatments are improvement of quality of life and functional level. These goals can
      be further described:

        1. Pain relief

        2. Preservation and restoration of function

        3. Local tumor control

        4. Skeletal stabilization

      Treatment with external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) is the standard of care for patients
      with localized bone pain, and results in the palliation of pain for many of these patients.
      Twenty to 30% of patients treated with radiation therapy do not experience pain relief
      [9-13]. Re-treatment rates are generally reported in the range of 10-25%. Many patients with
      relapsed pain or poor response to initial radiation may be lost to follow up or may not be
      referred back to oncologists for consideration of re-radiation. In addition to relapse and
      re-treatment, there is an increased risk of pathologic fracture in the peri-radiation period.
      The fracture rate reported in radiation studies is generally in the range of 1% to 8%. The
      hyperemic response weakens the adjacent bone and increases the risk of spontaneous fracture.
      Furthermore, patients who have recurrent pain at a site previously irradiated may not be
      eligible for further radiation therapy secondary to limitations in normal tissue tolerance.
      Hesitation on the part of physicians to use a larger dose may be related to increased
      long-term toxicity. Larger radiation dose produces a greater risk of complications such as
      fibrosis of normal soft tissue, which can cause a decrement in the quality of life in cases
      of life expectancy longer than 6 months. There may also be a greater incidence of acute side
      effects of nausea and vomiting if the treatment field includes the stomach. The percent of
      patients experiencing vomiting following EBRT ranges from about 5% to 30%.

      A palliative treatment for painful bone metastases that is non-invasive, without long-term
      toxicity and having minimal complications would be a useful tool for treating physicians and
      also a beneficial option for patients suffering from painful bone metastases. Results of
      preliminary studies indicate that ExAblate treatment of painful bone metastases may be a
      beneficial treatment option [14, 15]. The ExAblate system is a non-invasive thermal ablation
      device used in the coagulation of various types of soft tissue. The ExAblate system has the
      potential to achieve the first three of the four previously mentioned goals in the treatment
      of bone tumors; namely pain relief, preservation and restoration of functional levels and
      local tumor control [11]. The ExAblate system used in the present study is a technological
      advance over the ExAblate 2000 fixed transducer system in terms of flexibility of use and
      reduction of positioning related pain to the patients. The ExAblate system used in this study
      conforms to the patient's body shape at the location of the bone mets location.
    
  