
    
      Abstract from protocol: The uveitides are a collection of diseases characterized by
      intraocular inflammation. Collectively, they are the 5th leading cause of blindness in the
      US, and the estimated cost of treating them is similar to that of treating diabetic
      retinopathy. Non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitides have the highest rates
      of visual loss and typically are treated with oral corticosteroids and immunosuppression. The
      Multicenter Uveitis Steroid Treatment (MUST) Trial (a randomized, comparative effectiveness
      trial, which compared 2 treatment paradigms for these diseases, systemic therapy with
      corticosteroids and immunosuppression vs. regional therapy [the fluocinolone acetonide
      implant]), and Follow-up Study demonstrated the superiority of the systemic approach to the
      regional ocular approach in terms of long-term visual outcomes with essentially no increase
      in systemic side effects in the systemic group. One key to systemic therapy's success was the
      use of systemic immunosuppression in 88% of participants, coupled with tapering the
      prednisone to <7.5 mg/day, a relatively safe dose. Non-alklyating agents are typically the
      first choice and the most often used are azathioprine, methotrexate, mycophenolate,
      cyclosporine, and tacrolimus. The alkylating agents, cyclophosphamide and chlorambucil, are
      used less often because of concerns about potential increased malignancy risk. Data from the
      Systemic Immunosuppressive Therapy for Eye Diseases (SITE) Cohort Study suggest that each of
      the conventional, non-alkylating agent immunosuppressive drugs is effective in controlling
      the inflammation while permitting tapering prednisone in ~40-55% of patients; hence
      combination therapy often is needed. Furthermore, minimizing the daily dose of prednisone is
      important, as the risk of cardiovascular disease and mortality increase with the cumulative
      dose of oral corticosteroids. In June 2016, the fully-human, anti-TNF-α monoclonal antibody,
      adalimumab, was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of
      uveitis. Anti-TNF-α monoclonal antibody therapy has revolutionized the management of the
      rheumatic diseases largely due to its superior efficacy compared to conventional Disease
      Modifying Anti-Rheumatic Drugs. Data from VISUAL III, the extension of the two phase 3 trials
      that led to the FDA approval of adalimumab for the treatment of uveitis, suggest that
      adalimumab may be superior to conventional immunosuppression, as ~75% of participants had
      controlled inflammation with prednisone doses <5 mg/day. The ADalimumab Vs. conventional
      ImmunoSupprEssion for uveitis (ADVISE) Trial is a randomized, comparative effectiveness trial
      comparing adalimumab to conventional agent immunosuppression for patients with
      non-infectious, intermediate, posterior, and panuveitides. The primary outcome is the ability
      to successfully taper prednisone to <7.5 mg/day by 6 months after randomization while
      maintaining control of the inflammation. Secondary outcomes include prednisone
      discontinuation by 1 year, visual acuity, and complications of uveitis and its treatment.

      ADVISE is being conducted under IND 132532. Adalimumab was FDA approved for the treatment of
      non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitides in adult patients in 2016 and in
      pediatric patients 2 years of age and older in 2018. In 2016, prior to the approval for
      pediatric patients, the FDA determined that use of adalimumab for the treatment of
      non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitides in adolescent patients in the ADVISE
      Trial does not increase risk for these patients as the drug is approved for treatment of
      pediatric patients for other indications. Although conventional immunosuppressive drugs are
      the standard approach and in widespread use, these drugs are not FDA approved for treatment
      of non-infectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitides, and therefore an IND has been
      issued for this trial.
    
  