
    
      Mechanical ventilation is a life-supporting therapy that intrinsically induces diaphragm
      rest. Consequently, mechanical ventilation induces time-dependent diaphragm weakness in
      animals and in critically ill patients, and is referred to as ventilator-induced diaphragm
      dysfunction (VIDD).

      In most cases with VIDD, the decrease in diaphragm thickness can be detected by bedside
      Ultrasonography. The onset of diaphragm atrophy in the intensive care unit could be very
      rapid (fewer than 5 days). Vivier E. defined muscle atrophy as greater than or equal to a 10%
      decrease in muscle thickness on day 5 compared to day 1. It's found that diaphragm atrophy
      occured in 17/35 (48%). However, There is always some cases presented an increase in
      diaphragm thickness. Goligher EC. reported that approximately 20% of mechanically ventilated
      patients exhibit an increase in diaphragm thickness. In our previous study, there were about
      46.7%(14/30) of ventilated children had increased diaphragmatic thickness. It's supposed that
      the thickening might associated with the diaphragm injury during mechanical ventilation.

      Early mobilization may enhance the weaning of ventilated children, so the investigators
      hypothesize that the percentile of cases with increase diaphragmatic thickness will decline
      by early mobilization. To investigate this hypothesis, investigators are conducting a
      randomized trial examining the effects of early mobilization versus routine care on changing
      tendency of diaphragm thickness.

      Enrolled children requiring mechanical ventilation will be randomized to either early
      mobilization group or routine care group. Diaphragm thickness will be measured by ultrasound
      on day1, day3, day5 and day7 after intubation and subsequently diaphragm thickness changing
      tendency will be calculated in each arm. The operator acquiring ultrasound images will be
      blinded to the care mode that the subject was randomized to. Subjects in the study will
      follow standard ICU sedation awakening trials and spontaneous breathing trials. The medical
      team in charge of the subject will determine when the subject is safe to receive early
      mobilization according to the standard established along with the rehabilitation team.
    
  