
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a global public health problem. The prevalence of CKD in
      adults in China was 10.8%. Awareness of CKD is only 10.04% from a national cross-sectional
      survey in China. CKD is characterised by decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate
      (eGFR) and increased albuminuria, present for more than three months, and is associated with
      adverse outcomes (all-cause mortality, acute kidney injury, and end-stage renal disease),
      independent of hypertension and diabetes, age, or sex. CKD may carry a coronary heart disease
      risk similar to that of diabetes. The estimated lifetime risk of CKD stage 3a was more than
      50%, lower than that of hypertension (83%-90% for a 55-year-old), but higher than those for
      diabetes (33%-39%), coronary heart disease (32%-49% for a 40-year-old), and invasive cancer
      (38%-45%).

      Albuminuria measurement and estimating glomerular filtration rate (GFR) are the primary means
      of screening for CKD in epidemiological investigations. However, there are many important
      problems to be solved, whether albuminuria test or GFR evaluation. The investigators aim to
      detect thrice albumin-creatinine ratio (ACR) within three months, with simultaneous test of
      urinary protein-creatinine ratio (PCR), 24-hour urine protein excretion rate (PER) and
      24-hour albumin excretion rate (AER) to compare the effects of different times of screening
      for CKD and observe the daily physiological variation of ACR, PCR, AER and PER, and repeat
      test to reduce the physiological variation, and further derive ACR and PCR reference value on
      the basis of different genders, in order to facilitate the early diagnosis of CKD. Meanwhile,
      for more accurate assessment of GFR in Chinese populations, the investigators intend to
      validate beta-trace protein (BTP) based equation to evaluate GFR compared with
      99mTc-diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA) renal clearance method. Then the
      investigators aim to develop GFR estimation equation based on the combination of serum
      creatinine, cystatin C, β2-microglobulin and BTP applicable in China, for early and accurate
      assessment of GFR in Chinese people, and develop appropriate software to estimating GFR.
    
  