
    
      The PennPET Explorer is a multiring system with a long AFOV that is scalable and comprised of
      multiple 22.9 cm long ring segments, each with 18 detector modules based on a commercial
      digital silicon photomultiplier. Initial testing data on a prototype 3-ring-segment
      instrument with an active 64-cm AFOV has been collected and published by Karp et al., and
      Pantel et al., [Karp 2020, Pantel 2020], validating the system design and demonstrating its
      initial performance.

      In the last two decades, commercial PET scanner performance has improved dramatically with
      CT-based attenuation correction 1, the use of lutetium oxyorthosilicate or lutetium-yttrium
      oxyorthosilicate scintillators, time-of-flight reconstruction 2-5, and, most recently,
      silicon photomultiplier (SiPM)-based time-of-flight detectors 2,6. However, the AFOV has not
      grown; it remains 16-26 cm for the newest commercial SiPM-based scanners 7,8. This choice is
      due mainly to scintillator and SiPM photosensor costs and the prevalence of clinical 18F-FDG
      scanning focused on measuring lesion SUV when the uptake is assumed to be at steady state,
      typically at 60 min after injection. The newest commercial instruments perform an 18F-FDG
      whole-body survey (skull-base to mid-thigh) with excellent diagnostic quality in 10-20 min
      using bed translation.

      The motivation for a LAFOV PET system is to use its high sensitivity to enhance clinical
      performance and to enable research applications. Clinically, a LAFOV system could enable
      faster imaging, imaging with lower injected activities, or a combination of the two. Research
      applications include delayed imaging, improving quantification for kinetic modeling, and
      applications requiring simultaneous measurement of multiple organ systems 9,10. It is unknown
      whether such a system would primarily be used for clinical or research applications. The
      investigators developed the PennPET Explorer whole-body imager to support both applications.
      Performance measurements were taken on the prototype 3-ring-segment system to optimize the
      hardware and software acquisition and reconstruction, as well as to demonstrate the
      capabilities of the PennPET Explorer. The investigators are currently increasing the number
      or ring-segments to a total of 6 which will give an active 140 cm AFOV. This will allow
      whole-body imaging in one bed position for most adults.

      In the evaluation of a new instrument, human studies are essential to establish the
      real-world performance beyond phantom studies, as well as to test and optimize data
      acquisition and reconstruction. To date 10 human studies have been imaged on the prototype
      scanner under IRB 809476. This instrument was determined by the FDA to meet the definition of
      a nonsignificant risk (NSR) device and is therefore subject only to abbreviated IDE
      requirements. Once the additional ring-segments have been added to the instrument, the
      investigators plan to continue testing this scanner in human subjects under this ongoing
      open-ended protocol. The investigators will continue to work towards optimizing performance
      and data acquisition until such time as this device receives full FDA 510(k) approval.

      This protocol is designed to test the PennPET Explorer instrument with its final AFOV of 140
      cm. PET imaging involves the administration of a radioactive imaging drug that emits
      positrons which are detected by the scanner and used to form the images. For the purposes of
      this protocol, the administered radioactive imaging drug (tracer) will vary; it may be an
      FDA-approved radiotracer or an experimental radiotracer that is used under an IND. If the
      radiotracer used is under an IND, then the administration of the radiotracer will be done
      under the purview of a separate protocol for which the subject has been separately consented.
      This protocol and the corresponding ICF involves consent only for being scanned on the
      investigational scanner and does not pertain to the administration of an investigational
      radiopharmaceutical.
    
  