
    
      The present protocol is designed to determine whether strict hypoglycemia avoidance by
      real-time continuous glucose monitoring (RT-CGM), can restore endogenous glucose production
      in response to hypoglycemia in patients with long standing disease. Twelve subjects with long
      standing type 1 diabetes complicated by hypoglycemia unawareness underwent assessment of the
      endogenous glucose production response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia using paired
      hyperinsulinemic eu- and hypoglycemic clamps with stable glucose isotope infusions before and
      at 6 and 18 months following initiation of RT-CGM. The primary analysis will be change in the
      endogenous glucose production response from before to 6 months following initiation of
      RT-CGM, and a secondary analysis will consider the persistence of any change at 18 months.
      The clinical significance of any determined changes in the endogenous glucose production
      response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia will be determined by comparison to responses
      obtained using paired hyperinsulinemic eu- and hypoglycemic clamps on one occasion in a
      matched control group of 12 subjects with long-standing type 1 diabetes but no hypoglycemia
      unawareness (GROUP 2) and in a matched control group of 12 nondiabetic subjects (GROUP 3).
      The Investigator is now ONLY recruiting for GROUP 2.

      Enrollment for Group 1 (Hypo-Unaware) and Group 3 (Non-diabetic) is complete.

      Hypoglycemia is a major barrier to the achievement of adequate glycemic control for most
      patients with insulin-dependent diabetes. Type 1 diabetic patients with absolute insulin
      deficiency (C-peptide negative) are at greatest risk for experiencing severe hypoglycemic
      events because the near total destruction of insulin producing islet β-cells produces an
      associated defect in glucagon secretion from neighboring α-cells. Such patients then depend
      on the sympathoadrenal system as a final defense against hypoglycemia, but unfortunately,
      recurrent episodes of hypoglycemia blunt sympathoadrenal activation and produce a syndrome of
      hypoglycemia unawareness that is associated with a twenty-fold increased risk of
      life-threatening hypoglycemia. Without intact islet or sympathoadrenal (especially
      epinephrine) responses to hypoglycemia, these patients cannot increase endogenous (primarily
      hepatic) glucose production to prevent or correct low blood glucose.
    
  