
    
      Data on antithrombotic therapy after Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) are scarce and no
      randomized evaluation has been performed to demonstrate what is the best antithrombotic
      strategy following LAAC. LAAC is classically associated with a 6-week period of
      anticoagulation with warfarin + aspirin followed by once daily clopidogrel (75 mg) + aspirin
      (81-325 mg) until the 6 months visit, then aspirin alone is continued indefinitely, as tested
      in patients without contraindication for anticoagulation in the pivotal Watchman trials. LAAC
      is mostly used in Europe as an alternative to warfarin anticoagulation when patients have a
      contraindication to or are unsuitable for warfarin anticoagulation. The classic regimen is
      not applicable and believed to be too risky in such frail patients. These patients usually
      receive a regimen of daily clopidogrel + aspirin followed by single antiplatelet therapy
      (most frequently used treatment). Some patients receive oral anticoagulation without aspirin,
      including NOAC anticoagulation. Rivaroxaban is a tempting strategy for anticoagulation
      following LAAC in atrial fibrillation (AF) patients. The dose needs first to be carefully
      evaluated the trial propose a dose ranging study in patients who have undergone successful
      LAAC.

      The study will evaluate two different Rivaroxaban regimen (10 or 15 mg a day) in comparison
      to dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) (aspirin+clopidogrel : control arm representing standard
      of care) after successful LAAC. The aim is to investigate whether rivaroxaban could provide
      correct anticoagulation levels and adequately suppress coagulation activation after LAAC.

      The patient will be enrolled after left atrial appendage closure before discharge. The
      randomization is 1/1/1 between the 3 groups : rivaroxaban 10mg a day, rivaroxaban 15 mg a day
      and aspirin 75mg + clopidogrel 75 mg a day. At 10 and 90 days, the patients will be sampled
      for biological assessment : Prothrombin fragments 1+2, Factor Xa inhibitory activity, Russel
      Viper venom enzyme assay, thrombin anti-thrombin (TAT) complex, D-Dimers, Prothrombin time
      (Neoplastin) and plasma von Willebrand factor (vWf) Ag level

      After 90 days, the patient will end his/her participation in the trial. Clinical endpoints
      (death, MI, Stroke, TIA, systemic embolism, extracranial major bleeding or clinically
      relevant non major bleeding) at 90 days will be assessed by a clinical endpoint committee.
      Central echographic laboratory will review all 90 days transesophageal echocardiography (TEE)
      to detect the presence of thrombus or peri-device leak.

      The study is open-label. Central laboratory, clinical endpoint committee and echographic core
      laboratory is blinded to randomization arm.
    
  