
    
      Background:

      The understanding of stunting has shifted from attention to protein and micronutrients in
      60-80s to amino acids and calcium in the past two decades. Amino acids are suspected to be
      nutrients that determine to stunting because recent studies have shown that growth can be
      carried out by the information pathway through the mTOR pathway (the mechanistic target of
      rapamycin). mTOR is a serine/threonine protein kinase from the PI3K family related kinases
      which are the main subunits of 2 complex proteins, namely mTORC1 and mTORC2. The mTORC1
      protein includes 5 main parts for cell growth, nutrition, growth factors, oxygen, energy, and
      stress. The mTORC2 protein is used in the cytoskeletal organization and cell survival. The
      activated mTORC1 protein initiates anabolic processes such as synthetic proteins, lipids, and
      nucleotides and inhibits catabolic processes such as autophagy. mTORC1 consists of three core
      proteins: mTOR, Raptor (regulatory protein associated with mTOR) and mLST8 (deadly mammals
      with Sec13 protein 8).

      Activation of the mTORC1 pathway as a controller of growth and metabolism is in accordance
      with the adequacy of intracellular essential amino acids. Deficiency of leucine, isoleucine,
      and valine determines mTOR downregulation. Inadequate intake of essential amino acids will
      repress protein and lipid synthesis as well as cell growth that will affect bone and chondral
      palate growth, skeletal muscle growth, nervous system myelinization, immune function and the
      size of the organ formed (Saxton & Sabatini, 2017). Research by Semba, et.al (2016) shows
      that in stunting children's serum, the levels of the nine essential amino acids are very low.
      Given that the body does not form essential amino acids directly, the intake of amino acids
      from food becomes very important (Nuss & Tanumihardjo, 2011). Essential amino acids are
      mostly contained in animal protein, but consumption in developing countries is still limited.
      Consumption of animal food sources is associated with a lower risk of stunting.

      Study of the mTORC1 pathway that has been done in vitro studies and experimental animals. In
      humans, the evidence of amino acid signaling through the mTORC1 pathway by using metabolomic
      aspects and proteomic and transcriptomic characteristics is still unknown. Analysis of genes
      related to MTORC1 pathway may answer this question

      The scope of services:

        1. To assess intakes of energy, macronutrients (protein, fat, carbohydrate), calcium and
           other micronutrients related to growth (zinc, iron, magnesium)

        2. To assess linear growth

        3. To assess gene expression of the mTORC1 pathway in school-age children in Malang, East
           Java.

      The objective of research:

        1. To assess energy and nutrient intake (especially for protein and calcium)

        2. To assess the expression of mTOR gene

        3. To assess the linear growth (height)

        4. To assess the association between intake of protein, calcium, milk with gene expression
           of mTOR and linear growth of children who received food-based intervention with or
           without milk with comparable calcium and protein intakes
    
  