
    
      The proposed research is a pilot study with 70 participants, 35 in the probiotic and 35 in
      the placebo arm of the study. The study will investigate the process of conducting
      randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled research about probiotic use in Parkinson's
      Disease patients. The primary aim of the study is to test elements of the study design for a
      full-scale clinical study: recruitment, randomisation, probiotic use, stool sample collection
      and DNA sequencing and behavioural/cognitive measures. The secondary aim is to collect pilot
      data to determine the sample size, Power and appropriateness of measures needed for a
      full-scale study that maximises findings and minimises patient burden.

      Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative condition that affects motor functions and a
      range of non-motor abilities. There is no cure and a definitive cause is not yet known. It
      has a prevalence of 0.3% in the general population and 1-3% in the population over the age of
      65. Globally, it is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder and due to the lack of
      early diagnosis and effective therapy, represents a large burden for society and healthcare
      provision. The underlying pathology of PD is associated with accumulation of abnormal clumps
      of alpha-synuclein protein termed Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites in the central nervous system
      (CNS) that impede the normal function of brain cells. Evidence from animal studies indicates
      that the production of alpha-synuclein begins in the gut, and gastro-intestinal problems are
      a common feature of PD.

      The gut contains millions of micro-organisms termed the microbiome. Over the past decade
      research findings have identified a complex bidirectional interaction between the
      gastrointestinal (GI) tract and the central nervous system (CNS), the Gut-Brain axis. It is
      now known that the Gut-Brain axis is adversely affected by PD. Recently, probiotics have been
      proposed as a potential intervention for systemic and neurological conditions by improving
      microbiome composition.

      Data obtained from this pilot study will be used to identify challenges in conducting
      research using probiotics in patients with Parkinson's Disease and provide a rationale for
      conducting a full-scale study including information that may reduce or eliminate problems
      that limit the successful delivery of a full-scale trial. The investigators will make no
      claims here about any purported clinical effects of the chosen probiotic.
    
  