
    
      An medicated 2% atorvastatin dentifrice (2 mg x every 0.1 ml of dentifrice) will be prepared
      for dental brushing. It will be used as a base a fluoride dentifrice, to which will be added
      atorvastatin in the prescribed amount. Medicated prototypes and placebos will be dosed in 5
      ml syringes indicating each 0.5 ml measures to facilitate dispensing the product and ensure
      proper use. Thus, each syringe will be for 10 doses of toothpaste (10 brushings). 6 syringes
      will be provided to each patient, so that they have enough for a month of treatment, during
      which they will have to brush 2 times a day.

      Sample size:

      A clinical trial with two parallel groups (1:1) will be conducted, where there will be 2
      groups of 19 patients each. The estimated sample size was based on the difference in
      attachment level achieved in the study Goodson et al (Goodson, Haffajee, Socransky, Kent,
      Teles, Hasturk, Bogren, Van Dyke, Wennstrom, Lindhe. Control of periodontal infections: A
      randomized controlled trial I. The primary outcome attachment gain and pocket depth reduction
      at Treated sites. J Clin Periodontol 2012, 39: 526-536), with a power of 90%, a significance
      level of 0.05 two-tailed.

      Treatments and protocols:

      Patients will be treated at the Department of Periodontology of Health Care Center,
      Universidad de Los Andes in San Bernardo, Santiago, Chile.

      The two groups will undergo non-surgical periodontal therapy consisting of scaling and root
      planning of all tooth groups.

      Therapy will be supplemented with oral hygiene instruction, indicating patients to brush with
      the dentifrice that will be provided, 2 times a day for two minutes each time. Then they will
      be told to spit the dentifrice excesses during 30 seconds, but not to rinse their teeth, or
      consume liquids or solid foods for at least 30 minutes. A group of 19 patients will receive
      the medicated 2%atorvastatin dentifrice while the other group of 19 patients will receive
      dentifrice without the drug to act as a placebo.

      The record of the application of statins will be done by a professor at the Faculty of
      Dentistry, before periodontal clinical evaluation, in order not to influence the researcher.

      The allocation to each group will be random and there will be a sequence concealment.

      Analysis Plan:

      Continuous variables will be described by measures of central tendency and dispersion.
      Dichotomous variables will be tabulated and described by absolute frequencies and percentages
      according to each group. The delta of the outcome variables will be calculated as the
      difference between measurements before and after intervention. Multiple linear regression
      models will be used to compare the deltas of outcome variables after adjusting for gender,
      diabetes and tobacco use. A p value of <0.05 is considered statistically significant. The
      analysis will be performed with Stata software (version 12; Stata Corporation, Lakeway Drive,
      College Station, Texas, USA).
    
  