
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Cell Savers are used intraoperatively to decrease the risk of transfusion due to surgical
      blood loss. Blood collected from the operative field is anticoagulated, filtered, and stored
      in a reservoir. Once a set volume of blood has been collected in the reservoir, the blood is
      separated into its red blood cell and plasma components by use of a centrifuge. Red blood
      cells are washed with a crystalloid solution and then reinfused into the patient. Although
      the theoretical benefits of using a cell saver are attractive, the literature seems to be
      controversial with respect to efficacy and cost-effectiveness. The benefits are clear in
      patients undergoing fusions for scoliosis that involve more than 5 levels where blood loss is
      considered substantial. It is less clear in patients who undergo a more limited two to three
      level lumbar fusion.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the cost-effectiveness of using a cell saver for 2
      to 3 level lumbar fusions. A secondary objective is to determine if there will be a decrease
      in the number of allogenic blood transfusions when a cell saver is used intraoperatively.
      Another secondary objective is to determine incidence of complications associated with cell
      saver use and transfusions.

      METHODS Patients seen at the Norton Leatherman Spine Center scheduled to have decompression
      and fusion over 2 to 3 lumbar spine segments will be screened for the study. After obtaining
      informed consent, patients will be randomized to have a cell saver used intraoperatively
      (Cell Saver group) or no cell saver (Non-Cell Saver group). Data to be collected will include
      age, gender, smoking status, height, weight, co-morbidities, the use of medications that may
      increase bleeding (Plavix, Coumadin, Warfarin), or increase blood production (Ferrous
      sulfate, erythropoietin) medications used to decrease intraoperative bleeding (Aprotinin,
      Tranexamic Acid); the use of hypotensive anesthesia, ASA Grade, indications for surgery, date
      of surgery, estimated blood loss, surgical approach, surgical levels, bone graft used,
      operative time, complications, length of stay, discharge information, whether or not patient
      pre-donated blood, hemoglobin, hematocrit and maximum body temperature prior to surgery and
      during the patient's hospital stay, surgical drain output, products transfused
      intraoperatively and postoperatively and the amount of cell saver salvaged, re-infused, and
      the cell-saver hematocrit and hemoglobin prior to re-infusion. The costs associated with the
      use of the cell-saver and/or blood transfusions, including supplies and personnel time, will
      be determined.

      Randomization Randomization will be through stratified block randomization to allow for
      stratification of the number of levels fused. Randomization will use sealed envelopes.

      Sample Size To detect a medium effect size of 0.3 with an α error of 0.05, a total of 220
      subjects need to be included in the analysis. To account for subject withdrawal, a total of
      240 subjects will be enrolled

      Procedures Patients receiving care at the Norton Leatherman Spine Center will be screened as
      potential subjects for the study. Only the existing information obtained per standard routine
      medical procedures will be used. Patients who fail pre-screening will not be recorded on any
      log or form. Patients considered potential candidates for the study based on screening will
      sign an Institutional Review Board -approved Informed Consent Document and HIPAA
      Authorization form prior to participating in any study activity.

      Subjects will be randomized to receive or not receive cell saver during surgery. The
      following data will be collected during the clinic visit: age, gender, smoking status,
      height, weight, co-morbidities, the use of medications that may increase bleeding (Plavix,
      Coumadin, Warfarin), or increase blood production (Ferrous sulfate, erythropoietin). The
      following pre-operative data will be collected: hemoglobin, hematocrit, body temperature and
      whether or not patient pre-donated blood, the predonated blood volume and date of donation.

      Surgery will be performed per the standard of care of the treating surgeon. The choice of
      surgical approach, instrumentation and bone grafts/bone graft substitutes will be at the
      discretion of the surgeon. The following intraoperative data will be collected: use of
      hypotensive anesthesia, ASA Grade, indications for surgery, date of surgery, estimated blood
      loss, surgical approach, surgical levels, bone graft used, operative time products transfused
      intraoperatively. In the subjects randomized to the Cell Saver group, the amount of cell
      saver salvaged, re-infused, and the cell-saver hematocrit and hemoglobin prior to re-infusion
      will be determined and collected. In-hospital post-operative data to be collected include:
      complications, length of stay, discharge information, hematocrit, hemoglobin and maximum body
      temperature during the patient's hospital stay, surgical drain output, products transfused
      postoperatively.

      Subjects will be transfused at a set transfusion threshold of hemoglobin of 7.0g/dL or below
      and corresponding hematocrit of 21 or below. Subjects with Hb 7.0g/dL and are symptomatic as
      evidenced by tachycardia, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension or have pre-existing cardiac
      or pulmonary disease will also be transfused.

      The risks that occur in this study are associated with the general risks of spine surgery.
      Risks associated with allogeneic blood transfusion include allergic reactions, hemolytic
      reactions, isoimmunization, graft versus host reactions, increased infection rates, and
      transmission of bloodborne pathogens, including human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis.
      Risks associated with the use of a cell saver include a paradoxical increase in blood loss,
      electrolyte depletion, metabolic acidosis, and hematuria

      Endpoints The primary endpoint is the volume of blood transfusion required. Secondary
      endpoints include

        -  Immediate post-op Hematocrit level

        -  Immediate post-op Hemoglobin level

        -  Volume of blood products used post-operatively

      Statistical Analysis Descriptive statistics, including frequency counts for discrete
      variables and measures of central tendency (means, medians) and dispersion (standard
      deviation, range) for continuous variables will be calculated. Comparisons between the Cell
      Saver and non-Cell Saver groups will be done with independent t test for continuous variables
      and χ2 tests for discrete variables. To determine the effects of potentially confounding
      variables, analysis of covariance to compare the Cell Saver and non-Cell Saver groups will be
      used. This will help identify variables that may be statistically different between the Cell
      Saver and non-Cell Saver groups that could potentially influence the total units of blood
      transfused. Those variables that were significantly related (i.e., correlated) with the
      number of units of blood transfused will be entered as covariates into the statistical model
      to determine if they affect the statistical conclusions between the Cell Saver and non-Cell
      Saver groups. All analyses will performed an a priori alpha level of 0.05 using IBM SPSS
      version 19.0.

      Funding This study will be unfunded.
    
  