
    
      This is an open-label, multi-center, 10 patient pilot study with an anticipated 1 year
      enrollment period

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of ODSH in patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia
           (AML) receiving cytarabine and idarubicin induction or cytarabine consolidation
           chemotherapy.

        2. To determine whether there is preliminary evidence of an effect of ODSH on time to
           transfusion-independent platelet recovery in Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) patients
           receiving cytarabine and idarubicin induction or cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine whether there is preliminary evidence of an effect of ODSH on remission
           rate following cytarabine and idarubicin induction in Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
           patients.

        2. To determine whether there is preliminary evidence of an effect of ODSH on improving
           platelet nadir counts in Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) patients receiving cytarabine and
           idarubicin induction or cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy.

        3. To determine whether there is preliminary evidence of an effect of ODSH on decreasing
           the number of platelet transfusions in Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) patients receiving
           cytarabine and idarubicin induction or cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy.

        4. To determine whether there is preliminary evidence of an effect of ODSH on reducing
           overall side effects of chemotherapy in Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) patients receiving
           cytarabine and idarubicin induction or cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy.

      Enrollment for newly diagnosed, previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia. Acute
      promyelocytic leukemia and acute megakaryoblastic leukemia subtypes are excluded.

      All patients will receive standard induction chemotherapy with cytarabine 100 mg/m2/day by
      continuous intravenous infusion over 24 hours daily for 7 days (D 1-7) plus idarubicin 12
      mg/m2/day by intravenous injection daily for 3 days (D 1-3). For consolidation, patients
      younger than 60 will receive cytarabine at a dose of 3 grams/m2 over 3 hours, every 12 hours
      on days 1, 3, and 5.

      Induction cycle: ODSH 4 mg/kg IV bolus day 1, 30 minutes after completion of administration
      of the first dose of idarubicin, then ODSH 0.25 mg/kg/hour for 24 hours daily by continuous
      IV infusion days 1-7.

      Consolidation cycle: ODSH 4 mg/kg IV bolus day 1 administered 30 minutes after completion of
      infusion of the first dose of cytarabine then ODSH 0.25 mg/kg/hour for 24 hours daily by
      continuous IV infusion days 1-5

      7 days in induction cycle and 5 days in consolidation cycles
    
  