
    
      AIM 1: To determine if UE motor performance significantly improves in individuals with
      moderate impairment from chronic stroke, following anodal tDCS applied to the ipsilesional
      PMd during circuit-based, UE, TRT conducted three times/week for 4-weeks. Hypothesis:
      Following a 4-week, tDCS-paired UE TRT program, there will be significant changes in
      unimanual and bimanual performance in individuals with moderate impairment from chronic
      stroke, as detected by clinical assessments. Our primary measure will be UE accelerometry
      gathered with wrist-based ActiGraphs; a secondary measure will be the Wolf Motor Function
      Test (WMFT).

      AIM 2: To determine if there are significant structural and functional brain changes in
      individuals with moderate impairment from chronic stroke, following anodal tDCS applied to
      the ipsilesional PMd paired with circuit-based, UE, TRT conducted 3 times/week for 4-weeks.
      Hypothesis: Following a 4-week, tDCS-paired UE TRT program, there will be significant
      structural/functional brain changes as detected by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
      functional MRI (fMRI). Based on prior work,4,10 we expect that there will be an increase in
      resting state functional connectivity as shown using BOLD fMRI between the cerebellum and
      cortical areas.

      Task related training (TRT) is a treatment approach that aims to increase use of the paretic
      arm, avoid learned disuse and minimize compensation (Thielman et al, 2004). It involves
      variable practice of goal-directed, functional movements in a natural environment (Ada et al,
      1994) focusing on solving movement problems (Gentile, 2000). Task related training has been
      found to significantly improve paretic arm function post-stroke, in individuals with baseline
      UE FM < 35 (Kim et al., 2013; Thielman et al., 2004; Thielman, 2015; Wu et al, 2000).

      The effects of TRT could be augmented with noninvasive brain stimulation pairing. Motor
      priming before or during task practice has been found to foster motor learning and UE
      function in healthy individuals and persons post-stroke by increasing neuroplasticity (Fusco
      et al., 2014; Stoykov and Madhavan, 2015; Stoykov and Stinear, 2010). Anodal transcranial
      direct current stimulation (tDCS) is one form of stimulation (Fusco et al., 2014). Anodal
      tDCS increases neuronal excitability by depolarizing the membrane potential while cathodal
      tDCS decreases excitability and hyperpolarizes the membrane potential (Nitsche and Paulus,
      2001). After effects from anodal tDCS stimulation, involving activation of NDMA receptors
      associated with long-term potentiation, have been shown to last up to 120 minutes (min)
      (Madhavan and Shah, 2012). Anodal tDCS administered during intervention has a greater impact
      on UE function than therapy or tDCS alone (Bolognini et al., 2011; Butler et al., 2013; Cho
      et al., 2015; Lee and Lee, 2015; Yao et al., 2015). While the receipt of tDCS during
      therapeutic interventions is promising, it can limit the therapy to seated or more sedentary
      programs. Given the support in the literature, we believe it may be more effective to foster
      neuroplasticity and UE functional recovery in chronic stroke survivors if tDCS is done
      repetitively, during participation in a dynamic UE standing program. Our circuit-based, UE
      TRT standing program requires more aerobic effort from participants than seated programming
      and greater aerobic effort has been shown to foster neuroplasticity in persons post-stroke
      (Mang et al., 2013; Quaney et al., 2009).

      Expanding Plasticity Beyond the Motor Cortex. The dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) may be a more
      suitable neural substrate for promoting recovery in moderately impaired individuals. While
      the results of anodal priming over the ipsilesional motor cortex are promising, the effects
      have primarily been limited to persons with mild impairments. For persons with moderate
      impairment, a substantial portion of the motor cortex and/or corticospinal system is damaged
      leaving less neural substrate within M1 than can be targeted using anodal tDCS. In such
      individuals, alternative cortical sites may have greater potential to reorganize and
      implement motor recovery. Previously, we (Kantak et. al., 2012) and others (Plow et al.,
      2016) proposed that the PMd may be uniquely poised to reorganize and implement recovery after
      motor cortex injury. The PMd contributes to over 30% of descending corticospinal fibers
      (Barbas and Pandya, 1987; Dum and Strick, 2002). Further, the PMd has been shown to
      reorganize after stroke, contributing to motor performance (Fridman et al., 2004; Kantak et
      al., 2012; Mohapatra et al., 2016). We believe that the benefit of priming the PMd before
      engaging in circuit-based, UE TRT warrants further investigation.

      Brain Imaging. Using hybrid diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and functional MRI
      (fMRI) to quantify structural and functional changes in the brain is critical to understand
      behavioral change post-injury and with training. Functional organization of intact cortical
      tissue post-stroke is dependent on the post-injury behavioral experience (O'Shea et al,
      2007). Neuroimaging has been used to show an increase in neural activity in persons who
      engage in TRT post-stroke (Nelles et al,2001). By using fMRI to assess brain function, the
      volume of activation in regional brain areas can be determined, which could be used to
      predict treatment outcome (Cramer, 2008).
    
  