
    
      Hantavirus disease are zoonotic infections and remain a clinical challenge with globally
      increasing incidence and multiple serious outbreak situations in Europe within the last
      years. Hantavirus disease encompasses two clinical syndromes, hemorrhagic fever with renal
      syndrome (HFRS) and hantavirus cardiopulmonary syndrome (HCPS) caused by Old World and New
      World hantaviruses, respectively. Depending on the causative Old World hantavirus species,
      clinical course of HFRS can vary from mild to moderate to severe. HRFS caused by Hantaan
      virus, Amur virus and Dobrava-Belgrade virus lead to severe clinical course of the disease,
      with mortality ranging from 10-15%, whereas Seoul virus and Puumula virus result in mild to
      moderate from of disease with a mortality below <1%, also referred to as nephropathia
      epidemica. New World hantaviruses cause HCPS leading to acute respiratory distress syndrome
      (ARDS) and heart rhythm disorders with attributable mortality ranging high from 30-50%.
      However, there are hints that HRFS and HCPS overlap with a combined clinical course with
      cardiopulmonary, renal and hemorrhagic symptoms being present simultaneously. Due to climate
      changes and globalization, outbreak situations of hantavirus disease throughout Europe are
      increasing and there are worrisome trends regarding changing of species distributions in
      Europe.

      At present, there is no specific therapy available for hantavirus disease. Treatment
      approaches are primarily supportive with admission of patients to the intensive care unit
      (ICU) and maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance. Patients with severe renal
      insufficiency and fluid retention, pulmonary edema or hyperkalemia may require dialysis. In
      case of extensive thrombocytopenia and present bleeding, platelet transfusion may be needed.
      In HCPS, treatment approaches consist of the supplementation of oxygen, mechanical
      ventilation and in case of extended acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) extracorporeal
      membrane oxygenation (ECMO).

      Due to increasingly frequent outbreak situations and globally chances in species
      distributions, a worldwide surveillance in epidemiology and species attribution is needed. As
      the clinical course of hantavirus disease is dependent on the causing viral pathogen and as
      there worrisome hints that clinical course HFRS and HCPS overlap, further studies with regard
      to the disease course are mandatory. Furthermore, the examination of attributable mortality
      and costs of hantavirus disease will need to be studied on a multinational basis and
      therefore HantaReg will particularly use a matched case control design.

      The objective of the Hantavirus Registry - HantaReg is to overcome the lack of knowledge on
      epidemiology, clinical course and prognostic factors for hantavirus infections and their
      complications, as well as to serve as a platform for future studies and outbreak situations.
    
  