
    
      Regular high-level exercise in people with CF has been linked with reduced rate of decline in
      lung function, is positively related to quality of life and improvement in bone
      mineralisation. Unfortunately, exercise tolerance in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and
      severe lung disease is limited by dyspnoea, exercise-induced desaturations (EID) and fatigue.
      Therefore, a reduction in patients' activity level can be observed, which would lead to
      further deconditioning.

      High-flow nasal therapy (HFNT) delivers heated, humidified and oxygenated gas with flow rates
      up to 60 L/min at FIO2 adjustable between 0.21 and 1.0 via soft, loose fitting, large bore
      nasal prongs (Airvo2/OptiflowTM). HFNT has been shown to (a.) Wash out nasopharyngeal dead
      space, minimizing rebreathing of CO2 and acting as a reservoir for fresh air, thus
      contributing to improved gas exchange with respect to CO2 and O2. (b) Lower respiratory rate
      and provide a small positive end expiratory effect. (c) Provide oxygenated gas at a flow that
      matches more closely the patient's spontaneous inspiratory flow rate, thus attenuating
      inspiratory resistance within the nasopharynx and eliminating the related increase in work of
      breathing. (d) Provide warmed and humidified gas (37°C and 44 mg/L H2O) thus reducing airway
      dryness, enhancing patient comfort and reducing the metabolic work associated with gas
      conditioning. (e) Moisten secretion and facilitate mucociliary clearance.

      HFNT is being extensively studied, in comparison to NIV and conventional oxygen therapy, in
      de novo acute respiratory failure, in post-surgical and post-extubation setting and in
      do-not-intubate patients. One pilot study has demonstrated that HFNT can increase exercise
      tolerance in stable patients with severe COPD, with improvement in oxygen saturation and
      perceived dyspnea and muscle fatigue.

      As the main limiting factors for exercise tolerance in patients with CF and severe lung
      disease are perceived dyspnoea, and hypoxaemia related symptoms, secondary to static and
      dynamic hyperinflation, it is conceivable that HFNT could have beneficial effects in
      improving exercise tolerance and reducing symptoms.

      The Investigators propose here a pilot study to assess a feasibility of a subsequent trial of
      long-term use of HFNT during exercise training in patients with CF compared to standard
      oxygen or room air.

      A single-centre, short-term, open, randomized, cross-over study is planned. The Investigators
      will compare the results of 6-MWT on HFNT and without HFNT (either on conventional oxygen
      therapy or room air). The Investigators plan to enroll 25 subjects, expecting a drop-out rate
      of 5%, to have 20 subjects completing the study. Each subject will serve as their own
      control.

      Participants in the study will be asked to fill in a questionnaire which is routinely used in
      the assessment of exercise and activity among patients with CF, and has been previously
      validated in other CF Centre.

      Study procedures will consist in:

        -  Two 6-minute walking test (24 to 48 hours apart). The 6-minute walking test is a simple
           assessment of exercise and consist in the patient having a brisk walk for 6 minutes.
           Patients can increase or decrease the speed at their will while walking. Oxygen and
           carbon dioxide (the waste gas) levels will be measured through a sensor applied to the
           skin. Patients will be asked to score their breathlessness, comfort and fatigue, before,
           during and after the test. One of the tests will be performed under the usual condition,
           the other test on HFNT.

        -  Lung function before and after each 6-minute walking test. Lung function is a standard
           assessment in CF, consisting in blowing air into a machine to measure lung volumes and
           flows.

      Measures related to the 6-minute walking test and the lung function will be recorded as part
      of the study. The Investigators will record patients' feedback on shortness of breath,
      comfort and fatigue, but also oxygen and carbon dioxide levels, frequency of breathing and
      distance walked during the 6 minutes.
    
  