
    
      Purpose: The purpose of this pilot study is participant user acceptance testing of the
      Tasso-SST OnDemand device to collect blood for antibody testing. The study will also compare
      antibody testing results from blood collected using the Tasso-SST On-Demand device compared
      to blood collected by phlebotomy.

      Design and Procedure: Participants will collect a small blood sample using the Tasso-SST
      OnDemand device during a serology blood draw visit already scheduled for the MURDOCK C3PI
      Study (Pro00105703). Participants will be provided a kit that includes written, step-by-step
      instructions that include pictures. Participants will also have the option to watch a brief
      video on using the device, available online, prior to collection. The Tasso-SST OnDemand
      device collects whole capillary blood, at a minimum volume of 80ul.

      A standard blood draw will also be done and both blood samples will be spun and processed for
      serum. Serum will be frozen and shipped to the lab at Duke for antibody testing. Antibody
      results will be compared between the two methods.

      Participants will be sent a brief survey to learn about their experience using the Tasso-SST
      OnDemand device.

      Selection of Subject:

      Subject Recruitment: All participants meeting eligibility criteria will be emailed about the
      study. One or more reminder emails may be sent about the study. The study seeks to enroll up
      to 100 participants.

      The Tasso-SST OnDemand device sticks to the skin with a light adhesive. When the button is
      pressed, a vacuum forms and a lancet pricks the surface of the skin. The vacuum draws blood
      out of the capillaries and into a tube attached to the bottom of the device. The Investigator
      Brochure is attached to this submission.

      Risk and Benefit Assessment: The Tasso-SST OnDemand device uses an adhesive - the device
      should be removed immediately if there are any signs of an allergic reaction. There is risk
      of bruising or soreness at the site where blood is drawn. There is also a slight possibility
      of infection, and a rare risk of fainting.

      Participants can minimize risk by closely following the instructions provided with the kits.

      Trained staff will be present should the participant have any concerns or issues.

      The study does not have a direct benefit to participants. The information learned could lead
      to future use of the Tasso-SST OnDemand device to collect blood safely at home.

      Data Analysis and Data Safety Monitoring: The study team will evaluate correlation between
      results from blood collected by the two methods in this pilot study and qualitatively exam
      participant survey results. Summary statistics will be generated for survey responses, and
      qualitative data will be reviewed.
    
  