
    
      Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis are autoimmune conditions affecting the thyroid
      gland. Surgery to remove the thyroid gland in these patients may be complicated by the
      inflammatory nature of these diseases. Prednisone is a steroid medication used to decrease
      inflammation of the thyroid gland in other disease states such as sub-acute thyroiditis, but
      has not been used systematically to reduce inflammation in patients about to undergo surgery.

      This is a pilot project that proposes to randomize a small sample of patients about to
      undergo surgery for their autoimmune, inflammatory thyroid disease, and determine if a short
      course of prednisone alters the inflammation of the gland and makes surgery less difficult.
      This could potentially lead to better outcomes for these patients, as well as increased time
      to recovery and improved quality of life.

      This project proposes to administer short quality of life surveys at three time points, as
      well as draw additional labs to measure inflammation and antibody levels at times when
      patients will already be getting labs drawn for clinical purposes. The purpose of this study
      is to generate preliminary data from which a larger, blinded, placebo-controlled trial could
      be designed.

      These specific aims are:

        -  Determine the benefits and safety of preoperatively administered prednisone for patients
           with autoimmune thyroid disease undergoing thyroidectomy on:

             -  Difficulty of surgery and rates of surgical complications

             -  Serum autoantibody levels

        -  Longitudinally assess the impact of surgical treatment on QoL in patients with
           autoimmune thyroid disease

      Update: Protocol amendment approved on 10-22-2020: Study team decided to omit the aim
      'antibody-mediated cytokine levels' from the protocol and consent process as it became
      cost-prohibitive for processing and storage fees. Cytokine levels are not something typically
      collected or tracked in the course of clinical care, and may not be relevant. Study can
      proceed without this aim and will not alter the main outcome measures of antibody levels and
      difficulty of the operation.
    
  