
    
      Bronchiectasis is a chronic airway disease characterized by airway infection, inflammation
      and destruction [1]. Bacteria are frequently responsible for the vicious cycle seen in
      bronchiectasis. Clinically, potentially pathogenic microorganisms (PPMs) primarily consisted
      of Hemophilus influenzae, Hemophilus parainfluenzae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa),
      Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pneumoniae and Moraxella
      catarrhalis [1]. These PPMs elicit airway inflammation [2-5] and biofilm formation [6]
      leading to and oxidative stress [7,8]. However, different PPMs harbor varying effects on
      bronchiectasis. For instance, P. aeruginosa has been linked to more pronounced airway
      inflammation and poorer lung function [9,10].

      However, it should be recognized that routine sputum bacterial culture techniques could only
      effectively identify a small proportion of PPMs. The assay sensitivity and specificity could
      be significantly affected by the duration from sampling to culture, the culture media and
      environment. Pyrosequencing of the bacterial 16srRNA might offer more comprehensive
      assessment of the airway microbiota. Based on this technique, Goleva and associates [11]
      identified an abundance of gram-negative microbiota (predominantly the phylum proteobacteria)
      which might be responsible for corticosteroid insensitivity. The microbiome of airways in
      patients with asthma [11,12], idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis [13] and bronchiectasis [14,15]
      has also been characterized. Furthermore, the association between the "core microbiota" and
      clinical parameters (i.e., FEV1) has been demonstrated. However, previous studies suffered
      from relatively small sample size and lack of comprehensive sets of clinical parameters for
      further analyses.

      Bronchiectasis exacerbations (BEs) are characterized by significantly worsened symptoms and
      (or) signs that warrant antibiotics therapy. The precise mechanisms responsible for
      triggering BEs have not been fully elucidated, but could be related to virus infection and
      increased bacterial virulence. However, it should be recognized that antibiotics, despite
      extensive bacterial resistance, remain effective for most BEs. This at least partially
      suggested that bacterial infection might have played a major role in the pathogenesis of BEs.
      Therefore, the assessment of sputum microbiota during steady-state, BEs and convalescence may
      unravel more insights into the dynamic variation in microbiota compositions and the principal
      microbiota phylum or species that account for BEs.

      In the this study, the investigators seek to perform 16srRNA pyrosequencing to determine: 1)
      the differences in microbiota compositions between bronchiectasis patients and healthy
      subjects; 2) association between sputum microbiota compositions and clinical parameters,
      including systemic/airway inflammation, spirometry, disease severity, airway oxidative stress
      biomarkers and matrix metalloproteinase; 3) the microbiota compositions in patients who
      yielded "normal flora (commensals)", in particular those who produced massive sputum daily
      (>50ml/d); 4) dynamic changes in microbiota compositions during BEs and convalescence as
      compared with baseline levels; 5) the utility of predominant microbiota taxa in predicting
      lung function decline and future risks of BEs during 1-year follow-up.
    
  