
    
      Hyperventilation syndrome (SHV) is a complex disorder of adaptation of ventilation to
      exercise. This is a frequent reason for consultation because it is associated with major
      symptoms, which can be a source of sometimes heavy exploration and wandering. The breathless
      patient reduces his activity and enters the vicious circle of deconditioning. The principal
      clinical symptom in this pathology is the dyspnea with hypocapnia. The diagnosis is based on
      quality of life questionnaires and provocation tests, such as stress testing. When hypocapnia
      becomes chronic, a disturbance of breathing control sets in.

      In SHV therapy, control of ventilation to exercise is recommended in the first line. It aims
      to slow the respiratory rate or tidal volume with, for example, techniques of voluntary
      hypoventilation and abdominal ventilation. But the evidence of literature is lacking to
      recommend a particular technique. Given the implication of the dysfunction of the nose, of
      non-unicist and often multifactorial origin in the respiratory pathologies, one of the
      possibilities of intervention is to reeducate the patient to the nasal ventilation.

      Our rehabilitation of nasal ventilation is based on the clinical observation of
      hyperventilation dyspnea. During breathlessness breathing is essentially oral. It is a
      natural mechanism of adaptation that responds to the metabolic demand, which is far too
      present in the hyperventilation syndrome. From our therapeutic experience, the hypothesis is
      that the work on nasal ventilation can provide the necessary elements for the correction of
      SHV. The importance of the nasal breath in managing emotions and effort in sport is already
      considered.

      This study will evaluate pathophysiological and clinical parameters effets of rehabilitation
      of nasal ventilation compared to those of the technique of voluntary hypoventilation (ThV)
      which is the conventional management of patients with SHV.
    
  