
    
      Hemostasis, a main concern during and after any surgical procedure, is traditionally
      monitored by the following laboratory tests: activated Partial Thrombin Time (aPTT),
      prothrombin time (PT), fibrinogen, platelets count. They neither provide a reliable estimate
      of the risk of bleeding, nor allow determining useful interventions.

      New investigations of hemostasis are now used and validated during and after surgery:
      Rotational Thromboelastometry (ROTEM速) and impedance aggregometry. This is a quick bedside
      functional analysis of the patient's clotting. Children who undergo surgery under
      cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) are particularly at risk of bleeding and this population hasn't
      been studied with large cohort yet.

      Hypothesis: Hemostasis in children with CHD, especially when cyanotic, is intrinsically
      abnormal. The corrective surgery on CPB induces further hemostatic disorders which can be
      identified by the ROTEM platelet速.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate the hemostatic function of the child with congenital
      heart disease using a Point-Of-Care (platelet-ROTEM 速) system, before surgery and after
      alterations induced by cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).

      This is a single center, observational, prospective study. Expected duration: 2 years. The
      investigators plan to include 200 patients with CHD, 100 patients undergoing surgery with CPB
      and 100 patients with congenital heart disease requiring cardiac catheterization. Recruitment
      will be conducted by the Division of Paediatric Cardiology.

      Inclusion criteria include an age of 0-16 years and a diagnosis of congenital heart disease
      requiring surgery with CPB or cardiac catheterization. Patients with known dyscrasia or
      treated with antiaggregant within 10 days/oral anticoagulants within 48h before
      surgery/catheterization.

      ROTEM platelet速 test will be performed before surgery/catheterization. Patients undergoing
      surgery will have a second test within 30 minutes after the end of cardiopulmonary bypass.
      All patients will benefit from the usual cares.
    
  