
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and
      emphysema, affects more than 16 million Americans, is the fourth leading cause of death in
      the USA, and costs the nation billions in direct and indirect health care costs. Though only
      about two million of the 16 million people with COPD have emphysema, emphysema is more
      disabling, accounting for approximately half of the 114 million days of restricted activity
      and half of the 53 million days of disability attributed to COPD per year. Emphysema is
      characterized by destruction of the air space walls, leading anatomically to abnormal,
      persistent enlargement of the airspaces distal to the terminal bronchioles, and without
      obvious fibrosis. The clinical result is continuous dyspnea due to hyperinflation of the
      lung, over distention of the chest wall, disadvantaged respiratory muscles, and hypoxia, even
      at rest.

      Treatment options in emphysema are limited and primarily aimed at symptomatic relief of the
      dyspnea by maximizing the depleted reserves of the patient. In the late stages, care is
      supportive, in the form of oxygen therapy, bronchodilator, nutritional supplementation and
      exercise rehabilitation. Exercise rehabilitation has been shown to improve the quality of
      life, but only oxygen therapy has been shown to affect survival. For patients less than 60
      years old, lung transplantation may be possible, but scarcity of donor lungs and expense
      greatly limits this option and the efficacy has not been studied. Lung volume reduction
      surgery is currently under investigation for its effect on symptoms and survival. For the few
      patients with hereditary alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency, the recent report of the NHLBI
      supported Alpha-1-Antitrypsin Deficiency Registry Study Group cautions that although those
      with moderate airflow obstruction may benefit from augmentation therapy, more studies were
      needed to draw firm conclusions and to answer questions about dose and dosing schedules.

      Recent laboratory data have shown that all-trans-retinoic acid, a derivative of vitamin A,
      can regenerate alveoli in adult rats with elastase induced emphysema (Massaro, GD and Massaro
      D. Retinoic Acid Treatment Abrogates Elastase-induced Pulmonary Emphysema in Rats. Nature Med
      3:675-677, 1997). Based upon the findings that prior to septation, rats have fibroblasts rich
      in vitamin A storage granules, high concentrations of cellular retinol binding protein, and
      lung nuclear retinoic acid binding receptors, all of which diminish after septation and the
      fact that retinoic acid increases the number of alveoli in rats, the investigators reasoned
      that retinoic acid plays a key role in septation. Tracheal instillation of elastase into
      adult rats resulted in an increase in lung volume, a decrease in surface area, and large
      alveoli as in human emphysema. Intra peritoneal injection of all-trans retinoic acid in the
      elastase-treated rats for 12 days prior to sacrifice reduced the lung volume and increased
      the surface area to normal.

      In addition to the elastase-treated rats, all trans-retinoic acid has been found to induce
      formation of alveoli in normal rats, in neonatal rats treated with dexamethasone, which
      prevents septation, in adult tight skin mice, and in fetal mouse lung in culture.

      These findings led to interest in the medical community whether adult emphysema patients
      might get symptomatic relief from treatment with all-trans-retinoic acid. In September 1998,
      the NHLBI convened a workshop, entitled "Clinical Trial Feasibility: All-trans-Retinoic Acid
      for the Treatment of Emphysema", to discuss the feasibility of a clinical trial to test the
      efficacy of retinoic acid in the treatment of emphysema. The workshop participants agreed
      that the laboratory findings were exciting, but that a proof of principle study was needed to
      demonstrate whether the laboratory findings could be applied to humans with emphysema. Since
      there was adequate information about the dose range and toxicity of retinoids in humans,
      adequate methods for assessing the extent of emphysema, and adequate methods to assess the
      biological activity and distribution of retinoids in the human lung, the workshop
      participants thought studies in emphysema patients were possible and appropriate. Several
      possible populations and retinoids, especially the retinoic acids, were discussed as
      appropriate for a clinical trial. However, the participants did not think that there was
      sufficient information available to recommend a single trial design and recommended the
      conduct of multiple small trials, allowing flexibility in the choice of population, retinoid,
      doses, and outcomes.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The core study is a multi-center, randomized, double-masked, placebo-controlled clinical
      trial enrolling a total of 300 non-smoking persons with emphysema at 5 participating clinical
      centers. Study participants were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of three retinoid
      treatment arms. Within each study arm, participants were randomized to active treatment or to
      a matched placebo in a 3:1 ratio. After six months of follow-up, the three month crossover
      period began. Participants initially assigned to active treatment began taking the matched
      placebo, and participants originally assigned placebo began taking the active treatment.
      Retinoid treatment arms were all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA trademark, Roche Laboratories,
      Inc.) at two different doses and 13-cis retinoic acid (cRA, Roche Laboratories, Inc.), each
      with matched placebo. Several single-center substudies were also performed.
    
  