
    
      Currently, chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection therapies are limited to pegylated
      interferon alpha (Peg-IFNα) and nucleos(t)ide analogues (NUCs), alone or in combination. Even
      though they can reduce viremia level (circulating viral load), the loss of HBs antigen
      (HBsAg), which indicates functional clearance of the virus, is achieved in less than 10% of
      cases.

      The absence of curative treatment to eliminate the infection justifies the need to define new
      targets and to develop new therapeutic strategies, with an immuno-therapeutic component.

      Chronic HBV infection is associated with persistent and virally-induced immune deficiency.
      The immunological control of the infection seems essential to the functional clearance of the
      virus. The restoration of appropriate immune responses against the virus could prove to be a
      promising therapeutic strategy. However, the mechanisms in which HBV modulates immune
      function is still poorly understood.

      Dendritic cells (DCs) have an essential role in immunity. They play a central role in the
      induction and regulation of immune responses. Also, they play a particularly crucial role in
      the induction and orientation of antiviral immunity due to their unique properties at the
      interface between innate and acquired immune responses. In several chronic viral infections,
      DCs appear defective. The immune responses induced in the early stages of infection seem to
      be a crucial guide on the progression of the infection into the resolution or the chronicity.

      Objective of the investigators is to better understand the virus escape mechanism from immune
      control, particularly, to determine the mechanisms in which the virus modulates the functions
      of DCs, crucial for the subsequent orientation of antiviral immune responses, to define the
      molecular mechanisms of this inhibition and their consequences on the antiviral effectors
      functions, in order to propose new immunotherapeutic approaches that compromise the
      chronicity of the infection and treat the infection permanently and definitively.

      Lastly, the investigators have shown that there are functional impairments in plasmacytoid
      DCs (pDCs) in patients with chronic hepatitis B, associated with a lack of cytotoxic activity
      of NK cells. The Subverting of pDCs in HBV patients could be related to IP-10 and HBsAg and
      HBeAg antigens or other viral components (infectious particles or circulating HBcAg). In
      addition, HBV was able to inhibit the production of IFNα by pDCs from healthy individuals in
      response to TLR9 agonists, by the presence of inhibitory CpG sequences in its genome. This
      mechanism would allow the virus to actively escape the innate immune response mounted by
      pDCs. Recently, investigators have found an alteration of lectin C-type receptor (CLR)
      expression on pDCs of HBV patients compared to healthy donors as well as a phenotypic and
      functional modulation in the 3 major subtypes of DCs (mDCs BDCA1 +, pDCs BDCA2 + and mDCs
      BDCA3 +) in the context of chronic HBV infection. These major subversions of DCs, crucial
      cells for subsequent orientation of antiviral immune responses, support the hypothesis that
      HBV might deflect immunity by impacting these cells.

      In this clinical trial, investigators would like to pursue their research to better
      understand the functional impairments of DCs in chronic HBV infection, by defining if the
      virus is able to bind to the CLRs of DCs to modulate their functions, and by defining the
      role of viral components and the molecular mechanisms of DCs modulation by HBV. This project
      should provide a better understanding of the mechanisms of the immune response orientation by
      HBV and the immunological control of the infection, and thus propose new immunotherapeutic
      strategies based on the restoration of DC functions by releasing of virally-induced
      inhibitions, compromising the infection chronicity
    
  