
    
      Infants born at Boston Medical Center and their caregivers will be recruited at any scheduled
      visit at Boston Medical Center's primary care clinic between birth and 2 months of age.
      Eligible caregivers will complete a baseline survey and provide consent for the study
      investigators to perform a prospective chart review. The infant-caregiver pair will be
      randomized to the intervention group or the control group. The intervention group will
      receive 600 diapers, distributed in packs of 200 to the families at the conclusion of the 2
      month, 4 month, and 6 month old well-child visits. The control group will receive resources
      of diaper banks in the greater Boston area.

      Surveys:

        -  Baseline: At the initial visit, the survey will obtain baseline data from the child's
           caregiver on prior history of diaper need, current employment and income, government
           benefits, and other material hardships. The survey will also include the Protective
           Factors Strength Level and Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), both validated
           measures. The survey will take approximately 15-20 minutes to complete. Baseline surveys
           will be completed in person.

        -  Follow-up: At the 2 month, 4 month, 6 month, and 9 month well-child visits (as
           applicable based on age of enrollment), all enrolled families will complete a survey
           repeating the measures of diaper need, the Protective Factors Strength Level, and PHQ-9.
           Additional questions will ask about episodes of diaper rashes and economic impact of
           diaper need. Families in the intervention group will be asked about acceptability of the
           intervention at the conclusion of the study.

      Chart review: After the completion of the 2 month, 4 month, 6 month, and 9 month well-child
      visits, study staff will review the medical record for attendance at planned well-child
      visits, adherence to the immunization schedule, number of urgent care and ED visits, and
      incidence of diaper dermatitis and urinary tract infections requiring treatment. Demographic
      information extracted will include sex, race/ethnicity, and confirmation of insurance status.

      All survey and chart review data will be de-identified and entered into REDCap with a unique
      study identification number.
    
  