
    
      This study will be carried out as an explorative study in order to investigate the benefits
      of mental imagery training of hand movements guided through Brain-Computer Interface (BCI)
      feedback after stroke. Stroke patients will be trained to mentally imagine the opening and
      closing of the hand (hereafter named MI, Motor Imagery). During the training, the patients
      will receive visual feedback in real time that reflects the neural activity related to motor
      processes. The NeuroFeedback (NF) will be projected with minimal time delay to maximize the
      neural learning. This type of brain training with feedback is thought to have significant
      importance to stimulate the ability of the brain to reorganize and compensate for a damaged
      region.

      Each participant will go through the following data collection procedure (total of 33
      measurement sessions per RP):

      Week 1-3:

      Clinical baseline evaluations, 1 time/week MRI measurements, 1 time/week Baseline EEG
      recordings, 1 time/week Week 4-7 MI-neurofeedback training 3 times/week Clinical intervention
      evaluation, 1 time/week Week 8-10 Same as week 1-3

      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) measurements. The MRI exam will be carried out on a Siemens
      MAGNETOM Prisma 3T scanner (head-coil with 20 channels) at baseline and at final assessment
      session at Stockholm University Brain Imaging Centre. The MRI protocol comprises i)
      anatomical whole brain spin-echo T1 and T2 weighted sequences for description of lesion size
      and location ii) acquisition of T2*-weighted gradient echo EPI-BOLD images of the whole brain
      for assessment of resting state functional connectivity of sensorimotor networks
      (resting-state functional MRI (fMRI)), and iii) the same sequence as the previous with rest
      interleaved by a motor imagery paradigm further described below.

      Motor Imagery (MI) paradigm. The paradigm consists of instructing RP, by the use of a
      mirrored computer screen, to either i) rest his/her mind with eyes closed, ii) mentally
      imagine a hand movement (MI), or ii) execute a hand movement. The hand movements that are
      instructed are either to close the hand or to open the hand and extend the fingers. RP will
      perform several repetitions of each hand movement (MI and execution) in order to collect a
      statistical basis.

      Baseline EEG recording. During the baseline EEG recordings, RP will be seated in front a
      computer screen and perform the MI paradigm (described above). During these session, EEG,
      EOG, EMG, and accelerometer-data will be collected and are further described below.

      ElectroEncephaloGram (EEG), ElectroOculoGram (EOG), ElectroMyoGram (EMG) and accelerometer
      equipment. The EEG equipment consists of a 64-electrode scalp EEG acquisition system (Brain
      Products ActiCHamp). The 64 electrodes (active Ag/AgCl) will be distributed according to the
      extended 10-20 reference placement system. In addition to the EEG recording, 3 electrodes
      (passive Ag/AgCl, Brain Products) will be placed on each side of both eyes and on the earlob
      to measure eye-movements during the experiment (EOG). EMG electrodes (passive Ag/AgCl, Brain
      Products) will be placed over four muscles controlling the wrist and fingers according to a
      standardized protocol. Two accelerometer-sensors (Brain Products) will be placed on the hand
      and the index finger in order to record movement-related activity.

      EEG, EOG, EMG and accelerometer data analysis. The recorded data will be further analyzed
      offline in order to evaluate the characteristic features in the data that best describe MI of
      hand movements. This will be performed in Matlab and Labview combining custom-made scripts
      with already developed toolboxes (such as EEGLab, Chronux). Features to be evaluated will
      include the evoked activity, the time-frequency spectra, phase, correlation coefficients,
      coherency among other. When the feature that best describes MI has been identified different
      classifier and pattern recognition methods will be evaluated in extracting the information.
      Intelligent algorithms, Support Vector Machine (SVM), regularized linear regression, naïve
      Bayes classifiers among others will be evaluated and compared. These are commonly used
      methods in the field of neurotechnology and a prior comparison-study using neural data from
      invasive recordings shows the importance of choosing a well-adapted classifier for extracting
      information.

      MI-NeuroFeedback Training (NFT). EEG, EOG, EMG and accelerometer-data will be collected as
      described in the section "EEG, EMG and accelerometer equipment". RP will perform the MI
      paradigm without the execution of hand movements. Real-time feedback from recorded
      EEG-activity will be provided to RP during MI. The feedback consists of a virtual hand on a
      computer screen whose movements reflect the brain activity of RP related to MI. The recorded
      data will be further analyzed offline with the analytic tools that are described in previous
      section.
    
  