
    
      Crystalloid fluids are used extensively for acutely ill patients who are admitted to
      hospital. Two fluids most commonly used are 0.9% saline and Ringer's Lactate. Both are used
      to rehydrate patients, restore fluid volume and help stabilize blood pressure and failing
      organ and both have been used for several decades. Until recently, it was thought the fluids
      are essentially equivalent other than some minor differences related to the concentration of
      salt components (sodium and chloride) and buffers (Ringer's Lactate has lactate as a buffer).
      The safety of 0.9% saline is now being questioned due to its high chloride content and its
      association with the development of hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. Until recently, the
      evidence base supporting the superiority of Ringer's Lactate has been derived from
      observational studies. Two recent pilot studies in critically ill patients comparing 0.9%
      saline to balanced crystalloid fluids (Ringer's lactate and/or Plasma-Lyte, another balanced
      crystalloid) did not detect clinical outcome differences between the fluid groups, but the
      trials were not powered to do so. Furthermore, two multiple period cluster cross-over studies
      conducted at one institution comparing 0.9% saline to balanced crystalloids (Ringer's lactate
      and Plasma-Lyte) in the emergency department (ED) and intensive care unit (ICU) found small
      differences in a composite outcome which included death, requirement for dialysis or
      persistent renal dysfunction, in favor of balanced crystalloids. Authors and editorialists
      now urge the conduct of large multi-centre randomized trials, with longer-term patient
      centred outcomes supported by health economic evaluations to provide confirmatory evidence to
      guide future clinical practice and resource allocation related to these usual care
      crystalloid fluids.

      Small differences in clinical outcomes between crystalloid resuscitation fluids are highly
      relevant. Furthermore, small absolute differences in important clinical outcomes may
      translate into substantial savings to hospitals and the health care system. The FLUID trial
      will determine if there are differences in the clinically important outcomes of death and
      hospital re-admissions. FLUID is novel in its design because it is a hospital wide pragmatic
      cluster cross-over comparative effectiveness trial that will be conducted in both academic
      and community sites which will use provincial health administrative data available through
      the Institute of Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES) for all clinical data collection. Our
      trial will answer this fundamental fluid resuscitation question and determine if Ringer's
      Lactate is superior to 0.9% saline at much lower cost in comparison to an individual patient
      randomized controlled trial (RCT), or even a conventional cluster RCT.
    
  