
    
      Most widely used biomedical materials are polymeric, ceramics and metals. Among these
      materials, metals exhibit a unique combination of mechanical strength, toughness, wear
      resistance and forming easiness. Metals are chemically reactive when in contact with body
      fluids. While some of the reactions are welcome, such as the surface oxidation providing
      corrosion protection, other reactions may adverse the biocompatibility character of the
      material.The understanding of these reactions is the object of several studies. Corrosion
      scientists try to characterise the corrosion response of metals when in contact with
      simulated body fluids in order to verify the occurrence of hypothetical mechanisms.
      Biologists look at specific reaction products expected to be released by cells when set in
      contact with structured or functionalized surfaces. These approaches are necessary but also
      time consuming due to the complexity of possible reaction mechanisms. As complement to these
      deductive approaches we propose here an inductive one based on direct measurement through
      electrochemical, gravimetric, spectrophotometric and surface analysis of reaction occurring
      at the interface between functionalized metal samples and body fluids (synovia) directly
      extracted from patients.

      The general aim of this project is to contribute to develop a comprehensive vision of
      interfacial reactions occurring on biomedical alloy surfaces exposed to human synovial fluid
      and to link them to clinical data. This will be achieved through a collaboration between
      surgeons and corrosion scientists. The synovial fluid will be extracted form patients using
      an established procedure and transferred to a portable sterile corrosion laboratory located
      close to the surgery room. There, surface reaction will be characterized using
      electrochemical methods already successfully applied in recent studies carried out by the
      same team. We will be integrating in-situ quartz crystal microgravimetry and in-situ Raman
      spectroscopy as well as ex-situ methods. Further, metal surfaces will be chemically
      functionalized (wettability, oxidation, surface charge) in order to selectively influence
      specific reactions of body fluid components (i.e. adsorption depends on surface energy and
      wettability while Redox reactions are influenced by the oxidation state of the surface. The
      acquired information will be compared to the clinical state of the patient in order to
      establish possible correlations between interface reactivity and patient state.
    
  