
    
      The study includes 20 Cases presenting with one or more lesions of morphea (plaque, linear
      and atrophic). Each case will be subjected to:

        1. -Informed consent. 2-Detailed history 3- Clinical examination to assess type, site,
           extent. 4-Clinical evaluation before treatment, in the follow up period and after
           treatment ( 24 sessions of UVA1) (one month after last CO2 laser session) using a
           scoring system:

             -  Skin thickness: 0-3, 0: normal; 1: thickened skin; 2: decreased ability to move the
                skin; 3: unable to pinch or move skin (according to the Modified Rodnan skin score)

             -  Dermal atrophy: 0-3, 0: none, 1: shiny, 2: visible vessels, 3: obvious atrophy

             -  Dyspigmentation (Hypo or hyper pigmentation): 0-3, 0: none, 1: mild, 2: moderate
                ,3: marked C- Digital Photography before, follow up and after treatment using the
                same digital camera , at fixed distance and constant settings for standardization .

                5-Investigations: A- Punch biopsy: A punch biopsy will be taken before and after
                treatment to be stained with haematoxylin and eosin.

      B-Immunohistochemical assessment of

        -  MMP1 (matrix metalloproteinase 1) in the pre and post treatment skin biopsies.

        -  TGFß ( transforming growth factor beta)in the pre and post treatment skin biopsies.

           6-Treatment intervention: Two lesions with identical scoring will be chosen for the
           treatment interventions.

             1. Lesion number (1) will be subjected to: localized UVA1 phototherapy (340-400 nm),
                low dose irradiation, at a rate of 3 sessions per week , total of 24 sessions with
                full clinical evaluation and investigations before and after treatment and clinical
                follow up one month after treatment.

             2. Lesion number (2) will be subjected to: Fractional carbon dioxide laser (10,600
                nm), a session once per month, total of 3 sessions with full clinical evaluation
                and investigations before and one month after the last session of treatment.
    
  