
    
      Background and Introduction

      The role of the human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) in the acute inflammatory response
      is well documented. PMNs play a fundamental role in the innate immune response and are
      rapidly recruited to areas of injury or inflammation where they participate in bacterial
      phagocytosis and killing. Disorders associated with a deficiency or impairment of PMN
      function (neutropenia, chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), leukocyte adhesion deficiency)
      predispose to infections with bacteria and fungi. Regulation of this potent component of the
      acute inflammatory response is imperative to prevent overwhelming infections often associated
      with morbidity and mortality.

      Recently, neutrophils isolated from healthy adult donors were shown to undergo programmed
      cell death distinct from apoptosis and necrosis to form neutrophil extracellular traps
      (NETs). NETs are extensive lattices of extracellular DNA and chromatin decorated with
      anti-microbial proteins and degradative enzymes such as myeloperoxidase and neutrophil
      elastase (NE). NETs effect extracellular killing of bacteria and fungi. The laboratory of
      Christian Yost, MD recently characterized impaired NET formation as a novel innate immune
      deficiency of human newborn infants and showed that PMNs isolated from the cord blood of
      newborn infants, both term and preterm, demonstrated impaired NET formation and extracellular
      bacterial killing as compared to PMNs isolated from healthy adults. However, the timing for
      developmental maturation of newborn infant PMN NET formation remains unknown.

      Stem cells for bone marrow transplants originate from cord blood, peripheral stem cells, or
      bone marrow stem cells. Regardless of the source of these stem cells, patients receiving a
      bone marrow transplant are essentially building a new immune system, as if they were a
      newborn baby. Immune system reconstitution is a continuous process whose components can take
      up to 1 to 2 years to fully recover. Severe infections in bone marrow transplant patients
      occur and may be associated with deficient PMN NET formation by way of impaired extracellular
      bacterial containment and killing. We hypothesize that the increased risk of infection
      attributed to bone marrow transplant recipients results, in part, from deficient PMN NET
      formation by the nascent, post-engraftment immune system which is molecularly and
      functionally similar to that of a newborn baby. We plan to determine the point after
      transplant at which the neutrophils derived from the transplanted stem cells are competent to
      form functional NETs. Furthermore, given the importance of platelet function for NET
      formation, we also plan to examine platelet activation and function as well as the platelet
      transcriptome using the same clinical samples.
    
  