
    
      To increase effect sizes and reach of computer tailored interventions, the theory of
      self-regulation was used, motivational and volitional determinants were targeted and the
      intervention was not served as a stand-alone intervention but was delivered in general
      practice. The intervention consists of three sessions for each behaviour (ie., physical
      activity, fruit and vegetables intake) and is available on a website and tablets to deliver
      it in general practice. Adults can start session one on a tablet in general practice or on
      their own computer at home, after receiving a flyer in general practice. In this first
      session adults receive general information, monitor their behaviour and receive tailored
      feedback to increase awareness. Adults are also guided to set goals and self-efficacy is
      increased by modeling and problem solving methods. In the second and third session, adults
      can evaluate if they reached their goals, make coping plans and adapt their action plans. To
      ensure the feasibility of implementing the intervention in general practice, general
      practitioners were involved from the beginning of the development.

      A three-arm clustered quasi-experimental design will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of
      the intervention. Therefore, general practitioners will be recruited and patients will be
      randomly assigned at general practice level. Within each practice, patients can be allocated
      in three groups. Group one is an intervention group in which general practitioners select and
      motivate adults to use the intervention. In group two, the selection and motivation of adults
      will be conducted by a researcher in the waiting room and finally, group three will be a
      control group in which adults are also selected by a researcher. The distinction between the
      two intervention groups is made to evaluate if general practitioners influence when
      recruiting participants leads to beneficial effects compared to when investigators recruit
      participants. Furthermore, it will also be investigated if the implementation of the
      intervention by general practitioners is feasible.

      In the intervention groups, adults are asked to complete session one (S1) and measurements
      questions on a tablet in general practice or are referred with a flyer to do this at their
      computer at home. Adults, who do not use the tablet, have to fill in a short questionnaire
      and leave their email address to send them a reminder email to complete session one at home.
      In session one, adults choose themselves for which behaviour(s) they want to complete the
      intervention. One week (S2) and one month (S3) after session one is completed, adults will
      receive an email to respectively start session two and three for the chosen behaviour(s). In
      the control group, adults have to fill in a questionnaire at base line in general practice or
      at home (C1) and one month post intervention (C2).
    
  