
    
      Induction of labor is a common obstetrical procedure. It accounts for 20% of laboring women
      worldwide.

      In the past, studies showed that cesarean delivery rates (CDR) are higher in women who are
      induced. These studies were comparing induction to spontaneous labor, which is not the
      management in practice, and when the comparison was made between induction and expectant
      management, the conclusion was that the induction does not increase CDR and can even reduce
      its' rate.

      Failure of induction depends on the definition, and even among randomized controlled trials,
      this definition may vary greatly.

      The decision whether to use a mechanical or pharmacological agent depends on Bishop score,
      parity, contraindications to one of the methods and patient-doctor preference.

      Recently, more data are available regarding induction with oral misoprostol (OM) and this
      method is becoming more popular because OM is effective, safe, convenient, cheap and easy to
      administer.

      If mechanical induction is preferable, either single or double balloon device (DBD) can be
      used. These methods have been previously studied and neither found to be superior.

      A recent study showed that, insertion of the DBD for 6 hours in nulliparous women, results in
      shorter time to delivery (26 hours vs. 31.4 hours, p=0.015), similar Bishop score after
      removal ( 5.74 vs. 5.26, p=0.2) without increasing the rate of cesarean deliveries (19% vs
      32%, p=0.135) when compared to insertion of the DBD for 12 hours as instructed by the
      manufacturer. Several studies have shown that a combination of pharmacological and single
      balloon device results in higher rates to achieve vaginal delivery when compared to each
      method separately

      The investigators hypothesize that with the combination of DBD for 6 hours and OM we will be
      able to reduce the rate of cesarean deliveries when compared to each method separately.

      To date, there are no studies that compared double balloon device with oral misoprostol used
      concomitantly.
    
  