
    
      The use of Medical Emergency Teams (METS) for handling in-hospital medical crisis decreases
      mortality and improves patient safety. Adverse in-hospital events occur in about 4-17% of
      hospital admissions. Of these, 70% are thought to be preventable. The most serious adverse
      in-hospital event is unexpected cardiac arrest which carries a mortality rate of 50-80% [1].
      One approach to reducing this adverse event is the use of METS. Unlike traditional
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation teams, which respond to cardiac arrests, METS respond to
      medical crises early on and aim to prevent the progression of problems into unstable
      situations. The implementation of METS have been found to decrease the number of unexpected
      cardiac arrests, intensive care unit transfers and in-hospital mortality [1]. Bellomo et al.
      further found that the implementation of a MET not only decreases hospital mortality but also
      decreases incidence of post-operative complications [2]. As an integral part of the MET, a
      critical care physician must have the communication and leadership skills to effectively
      manage the team, the cognitive skills to adequately assess/judge the situation and guide plan
      of actions, and the psychomotor skills to perform necessary procedures.

      Existing methods for teaching medical crisis management are inadequate. The instruction of
      medical trainees in the management of acute medical crisis is often done through didactic
      teaching, problem based learning, and apprenticeship. It is not uncommon for a trainee's
      first experience managing medical crisis to be on a real patient who is experiencing a real
      medical crisis with significant consequences. This form of training is limited and clearly
      sub-optimal for many reasons. Didactic training and problem based learning may be useful in
      instilling medical knowledge but is often inadequate in teaching the communication skills and
      critical thinking that is involved in managing medical crises. Further, the urgency and
      complexity of medical crisis is not well understood without first-hand experience. In
      general, although medical crises are relatively common, trainees get limited opportunities
      for the repetition required to hone their management skills. Some medical crises, such as
      respiratory distress with difficult airway, are extremely rare and will not often be
      experienced by most trainees. Moreover, when they do occur, trainees may not have enough
      supervision and hence do not receive appropriate feedback. Thirdly, clinical apprenticeship
      does not provide for standardization of training and feedback for the trainees. Lastly, most
      trainees are not allowed to view the consequences of the errors made while managing medical
      crises as most supervisors will intervene to prevent patient injury or harm [3-6].

      HST can be used as an educational tool for teaching medical crisis management. Simulation
      training has been used in other fields, such as aviation and the military, to train people to
      do complex tasks with potentially dangerous consequences [7-13]. A curriculum using HST may
      be a useful at surpassing some of the limitations of traditional training noted above[14].
      The full body human simulator such as Laerdal's Sim Man, can be programmed to present a wide
      range of physiologic conditions and physical exam findings. Using this human simulator, a
      wide variety of medical crises can be programmed to recreate real-life situations. The human
      simulator also allows the re-creation of clinically important but rare situations. The human
      simulator will also allow trainees to manage medical crises repetitively until a satisfactory
      level of proficiency can be reached.

      Most importantly, HST allows trainees to repetitively experience dangerous situations and
      practice their crisis management skills. Trainees can now benefit by seeing their management
      errors run their course without placing patients at risk. HST allows for providing immediate
      feedback. This technology is portable and hence allows for trainees from various institutions
      within a particular region to have standardized training and feedback. The 1999 Institute of
      Medicine Report, "To Err is Human," challenged the medical community to confront the issue of
      medical error. One innovative approach that was mentioned for performance improvement and
      healthcare training was the use of human simulators [15].

      Human Simulators are a valuable and valid performance evaluation tool. Human simulators have
      long been used in the field of medicine for evaluation. In particular, the field of
      anesthesia has taken the lead in terms of using advanced full body simulators for resident
      and physician training and evaluation. Instructors in the field of anesthesia have used human
      simulators to re-create dangerous and complex intra-operative crises to help their trainees
      acquire, test, and practice skills of crisis resource management without placing patients at
      risk [16-18]. By using evaluation techniques such as videotaped review and checklists,
      anesthesia instructors have been able to assess the behavioral and technical performances of
      trainees[18-21].

      The effectiveness of HST as a training tool in medical crisis management needs to be
      explored.

      Due to the success of human simulation as an educational tool for anesthesia crisis, HST is
      now being used as a tool for training medical emergency teams for dealing with medical
      crisis. Lighthall et al. has showed that HST can be used to teach crisis management to
      internal medicine residents[22]. This study showed that the majority of participants felt
      that simulator training had an educational value, but did not quantify their performance of
      technical and non-technical skills. DeVita et al. looked at the effect of HST on improving
      crisis team skills. This study found that repeated experience using the simulator with
      immediate feedback improved team performance in terms of correctly completing the steps
      necessary for patient/simulator survival[23]. There are no studies, which look at whether HST
      improves crisis management skills in a randomized study design.

      2.2 Significance The field of simulation education is highly evolved in other high-risk
      industries such as aviation and nuclear power plants. Its time is coming in medical
      education, particularly with the emerging emphasis on improved patient safety. Proven and
      practical outcome based educational programs are needed to support the cultural changes
      necessary to influence the changes in fields of education in clinically relevant domains such
      as medical crisis resource management.

      Medical crisis management skills are essential to the function of METS. HST is a useful tool
      that can safely re-create medical crises to teach and evaluate trainees in these skills.
      Although HST has been widely studied in anesthesia crisis management, there are no studies
      that look at the effect of HST on medical crisis management skills. We feel that this study
      will help to determine what effect if any, HST has on the communication, leadership,
      cognitive and psychomotor skill level needed to be effective at medical crisis management.

      The participants for this prospective, blinded, randomized cross over trial will be
      consenting critical care trainees from the MCCTP at UPMC(Appendix 1 for consent forms). All
      participants will have similar baseline education in basic airway management, management of
      cardiovascular emergencies, and difficult airway management before testing occurs. Further,
      each participant will have similar clinical experience as a critical care trainee
      participating in METS at UPMC.

      Each participant will undergo baseline testing using HST . Using 4 simulated clinical
      scenarios using the human simulator will test each participant. Participants will then be
      randomized into two groups. Control group (A) will receive no further training, while the
      intervention group ( B) will receive HST curriculum for medical crisis management. The groups
      will then be tested again after an interval of 1 month using 4 different simulated clinical
      scenarios. The groups will then be crossed over. The original control group (A) will now
      receive HST and the original intervention group ( B) will receive no further training. These
      two groups will again be tested using a third new set of simulated clinical scenarios. This
      study design is summarized in Appendix 2.

      Both testing and the intervention will occur at the Peter Winter Institute for Simulation,
      Education and Research (WISER Center). All instructors and evaluators will be critical care
      faculty or senior fellows who have undergone training at WISER and are familiar with
      simulation teaching and evaluation.

      The four medical crisis scenarios used for testing are designed to represent the most common
      medical crises experienced at UPMC. Each scenario will be programmed into the Laerdal SimMan
      human simulator. The basic physiologic problem and expected responses will be the same for
      all participants and all phases of testing; however, the scripted presentation will be varied
      to prevent pattern recognition. Participant performance will be evaluated using a checklist
      of expected actions as determined by the investigators. Each item will represent a
      communication skill, cognitive skill or a psychomotor skill. A total score as well as domain
      specific scores will be recorded at the end of each testing session for each participant.
      Blinded evaluators will perform all evaluations.

      The intervention for this study will be a HST Curriculum. The curriculum will consist of two
      parts. One is a didactic review of crisis management principles. The second part is a
      simulation-based curriculum consisting of two scenarios. Each participant will undergo both
      scenarios and receive immediate feedback regarding their communication, cognitive and
      psychomotor performance.
    
  