
    
      Patients will be given IV fluids and premedication with 500 mg metronidazole, 10 mg
      dexamethasone, and 8 mg ondansetron to prevent infection, limit pain and nausea. The femoral
      artery will be accessed and a catheter advanced into the superior mesenteric artery.
      Positioning of all catheters will be confirmed by injection of radiographic contrast
      material. Superior mesenteric angiography will be performed with images obtained through the
      portal venous phase to confirm patency and flow direction of the portal vein and determine
      the presence of aberrant supply to the right lobe of the liver by the superior mesenteric
      artery. The catheter will then be advanced into the celiac artery. Celiac angiography will be
      performed to determine remainder of the hepatic arterial anatomy. Selection of the tumor
      bearing artery will then be performed with a microcatheter which is advanced through the
      catheter in the celiac artery origin. Selection will be guided by fluoroscopy and will be at
      the lobar level or peripherally in all cases. Once the feeding vessel has been selected and
      confirmed by contrast injection, the physician will initiate embolization with LC Beads. Up
      to two vials of LC Beads will be administered. One 2 mL vial each of 300-500 and 500-700 um
      LC Beads with 37.5 mg/mL doxorubicin will be prepared. The LC Beads will be mixed with
      radiographic contrast to ensure fluoroscopic visibility during injection. Under careful
      fluoroscopic control, the vial of 300-500 um vial will be infused, followed by the vial of
      500-700 um LC Beads. If the artery reaches stasis prior to administration of both vials, the
      residual volume of LC Beads will be noted on the surgical report form. If after
      administration of the DEB, there is residual antegrade flow in the feeding artery, it will be
      treated with bland embolization similar to chemoembolization. After confirming that the
      artery is appropriately treated, all catheters and guidewires will be removed from the
      femoral artery and hemostasis obtained.
    
  