
    
      Arizona has the highest per capita rate of rattlesnake envenomation (the process by which
      venom is injected by the bite of a venomous animal) in the United States leading to millions
      of dollars in health care costs. Local tissue destruction typically manifests in the first
      few hours after snakebite and can progress over days or weeks leading to long-term
      complications such as muscle, nerve, and circulatory damage. The cornerstone in the treatment
      of rattlesnake envenomation is accurate estimation of progression of local tissue damage and
      timely administration of antivenom to halt the progression of venom effects. The initial
      decision to administer antivenom is based on clinical parameters such as edema, induration,
      bullae and blisters. The need for repeat doses of antivenom is determined by serial clinical
      assessments and laboratory parameters. However, no definitive clinical or laboratory
      parameters currently exist. The current practice is limited by inter-observer variability in
      the clinical assessment and the inability to accurately assess the extent of tissue injury.
      In a significant number of cases, it is difficult to accurately track the progression of the
      venom effects until they become more pronounced and severe. With the limitations of clinical
      assessment, administration of antivenom is delayed potentially resulting in poor patient
      outcomes. A further complicating factor is that not all rattlesnake bites result in
      envenomation. A substantial number of bites by rattlesnakes can result in "dry bite" in which
      snake venom is not transferred from snake to human and thus will not cause tissue
      destruction.4 Because of limitations of clinical assessments, these patients receive
      antivenom even though it is not necessary. This liberal and inappropriate use of antivenom is
      not cost effective and can also affect patient safety.

      Early identification of tissue injury from a rattlesnake bite is critical to prevent
      complications and reduce health care costs. Given the limitations of clinical assessment,
      there is a need to develop a more objective reproducible, anatomically detailed diagnostic
      tool for to accurately assess tissue damage and assist with timely administration of
      antivenom, if needed. Emergency physician performed point-of-care ultrasonography has been
      shown to be beneficial in the diagnosis and management of skin and soft tissue infections.
      The innovative use of bedside ultrasound technology can provide new information to
      individualize antivenom treatment and to improve patient outcomes. The quick, noninvasive
      nature and repeatability of point-of-care ultrasonography makes it an ideal objective tool
      for the assessment of emergency department (ED) patients with rattle snakebites. Ultrasound
      technology can reveal subcutaneous edema, localized fluid collections, tissue necrosis, and
      muscle contractions resulting from a rattlesnake bite.6 Point-of-care ultrasonography
      performed by emergency physicians can detect the tissue injury that is not evident on
      clinical assessment and accurately track the patterns of injury prior to their external
      manifestations. This innovative approach can expedite treatment in patients with rattle snake
      envenomation thereby preventing complications such as coagulopathy (a condition in which the
      blood's ability to clot is impaired) and compartment syndrome (excessive pressure build up
      inside an enclosed space in the body). Additionally ultrasound can eliminate the
      inappropriate use of antivenom in patients with dry bite potentially reducing health care
      costs and improving patient safety.

      Our preliminary experience and prior literature suggests that point-of-care ultrasound can
      detect subcutaneous edema, help clinicians to make an accurate assessment of proximal
      progression of local findings due to a snake bite and can expedite the consultation and
      appropriate treatment in patients with snake bite.The objectives of this study is to compare
      clinical assessment and bedside ultrasound findings in the detection of tissue injury in
      emergency department patients with rattle snakebite and determine if bedside ultrasound can
      alter management (antivenom dosing) in emergency department patients with rattle snakebite.
    
  