
    
      Background: The clinical presentation of individuals with blast-related brain injury and
      post-traumatic stress reactions can be markedly similar and thus a clear description of the
      direct consequences of explosive blast is complicated by the emotional and cognitive sequelae
      of psychological trauma. The inability to clearly separate the basis of symptoms for the two
      conditions has hampered clinicians in prescribing effective treatments that return soldiers
      to maximal functioning. Measures that directly assess neural disruption may be employed to
      differentiate blast-related brain injury from post-traumatic psychopathology and guide
      effective intervention..

      Objective/Hypothesis: We propose to use quantitative indices of brain electrical activity and
      diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to characterize the effects of blast injury on brain function
      and structure. We hypothesize that Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) soldiers injured by
      explosive blast will be distinguishable from those with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
      on measures of brain function and structure. Specifically, blast exposure will be associated
      with diminished P3a amplitudes to target stimuli during sustained attention and diminished
      lateralized frontal potentials during recognition of previously presented words. Individuals
      with PTSD will exhibit normal amplitudes of P3 and lateralized frontal brain potentials.
      Blast affected soldiers will also have compromised white matter integrity in supracallosal,
      inferior frontal, and superior frontal brain regions while PTSD will not be associated with
      these structural abnormalities. Finally, functional brain anomalies (e.g., P3a), and frontal
      white matter fractional anisotropy will be associated with the adaptive functioning of
      soldiers.

      Specific Aims: Using advanced quantitative analyses of electroencephalogram recordings we
      will determine the nature of functional neural anomalies related to sustained attention and
      memory deficits evident after injury from blast. We will determine white matter anomalies
      that are unique to blast injury as compared to PTSD. We will also determine which aspects of
      blast-related functional and structural brain abnormalities are associated with adaptive
      functioning in post-deployment. The long-term goals for the proposed program of research are
      to improve the characterization of traumatic brain injury (TBI) due to blast, describe its
      essential features in terms of neural function and structure to improve diagnosis, and
      characterize mechanisms of recovery after blast-related neural injury to facilitate the
      creation of interventions that target pathophysiology.

      Study Design: In May of 2007 over 2650 Minnesota National Guard troops of the 1/34 BCT
      completed a within-theatre survey on health, exposure to blast, and traumatic events.
      Fifty-one percent of surveyed troops reported being close enough to an explosive blast that
      they felt a heat or pressure wave, had trouble hearing, or had subsequent problems with
      attention or memory. The proposed study will be carried out over a four-year period and
      include a total of 180 subjects. To determine the neural consequences of blast exposure we
      will compare the functional and structural brain characteristics of individuals from the 1/34
      BCT who have blast injury, blast injury and PTSD, PTSD, and no blast injury or PTSD. There
      will be 45 demographically similar subjects in each group.
    
  