
    
      Levetiracetam (LEV) is widely used for the prevention and treatment of seizures given its
      favorable pharmacokinetic profile. A strong correlation between serum concentrations and
      clinical efficacy has yet to be established; however, a target of 6-20 g/mL is recommended.
      Limited evidence exists supporting an optimal dosing strategy to achieve these target
      concentrations in neurocritically ill patients. Previous pharmacokinetic models suggest LEV
      1000 mg every 8 hours achieves the highest proportion of therapeutic serum concentrations,
      but this dosing strategy has not been clinically studied in neurocritically ill patients.
      Additionally, only one phase two study has evaluated LEV pharmacokinetics in severe traumatic
      brain injury (TBI).

      The aim of this study is to describe the pharmacokinetic properties of LEV through
      measurement of serum concentrations in critically ill, severe TBI patients. Secondarily, this
      study aims to develop a population pharmacokinetic model aimed at characterizing LEV dose
      optimization in severe TBI. An exploratory aim is to evaluate LEV pharmacodynamics in severe
      TBI patients through evaluation of physiologic, electrophysiologic and biochemical changes
      using multimodal monitoring or surface electroencephalogram (EEG), as available. A subgroup
      analysis will evaluate LEV pharmacokinetics in severe TBI patients with augmented renal
      clearance (ARC).

      This prospective, single-center pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study will include
      critically ill patients receiving intravenous LEV for seizure prophylaxis following severe
      TBI. Patients with severe TBI qualifying for multimodal monitoring will receive LEV 1000 mg
      every 8 hours (LEV8) per institutional practice. All other severe TBI patients will receive
      LEV 1000 mg every 12 hours (LEV12) according to institution practice. Patients with renal
      dysfunction (creatinine clearance < 50 mL/min) will be excluded. All patients will have five
      serum samples collected following the sixth or greater consecutive dose. Patients receiving
      LEV8 will have samples collected at 0.5, 1, 4, 6, and 8 hours. Patients receiving LEV12 will
      have samples collected at 0.5, 1, 4, 8, and 12 hours. Serum concentrations will be analyzed
      with pharmacokinetic modeling and Monte Carlo simulations. LEV pharmacodynamics will be
      evaluated in patients receiving multimodal monitoring or surface EEG, as available. Analysis
      of ARC will include patients with Augmented Renal Clearance in Trauma Intensive Care (ARTIC)
      score >6 during sampling.
    
  