
    
      Potassium is a shortfall nutrient according to the 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans.
      Only 3% of Americans meet the recommended Adequate Intake of 4700 mg/d for potassium. Average
      potassium intake is approximately half of the Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA), with
      potatoes providing the highest percentage (19-20% of potassium) in the American diet.
      Recommended dietary potassium intakes were determined primarily to optimize protection
      against hypertension and secondarily to protect against stroke and coronary heart disease. In
      setting requirements for most minerals, bioavailability is usually considered. However,
      little is known about bioavailability of potassium and what is known is from supplements
      rather than food. Recently, we performed a potassium bioavailability study on white potatoes
      looking at 35 healthy, normotensive men and women at 3 levels of potassium intake as potatoes
      or potassium gluconate supplements. Bioavailability of potassium was determined from AUC of
      serial blood draws and cumulative urinary excretion. Serum potassium Area Under the Curve
      (AUC )increased with dose (P<0.0001) and did not differ due to source (p=0.52). Cumulative 24
      h urinary potassium also increased with dose (p<0.0001) and was greater with potato than
      supplement (p<0.0001), concluding that bioavailability of potassium is as high from potatoes
      as from supplements. These data allow us to evaluate the quality of the food as a source of
      potassium. However, a remaining question is whether retention of potassium from potatoes is
      higher than from the salt, which requires a metabolic balance study to determine. The effects
      of potassium rich foods on blood pressure have also been recently accessed. A controlled
      feeding study would properly capture potassium retention and balance, as well as adequately
      control for any positive benefit potassium may have on blood pressure and other vascular
      outcomes.

      Increasing potassium citrate decreased titratable acidity and improved calcium retention in a
      dose response manner in postmenopausal women. There is one Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT)
      of potassium on bone, in postmenopausal women, showing a benefit of a supplement of potassium
      chloride on protecting against bone loss. Similar studies have not been performed with food
      sources of potassium.

      This study is designed to evaluate the effect of added potassium (K) from potatoes in the
      diet on K retention , blood pressure, and parameters related to bone health including calcium
      retention and acid base balance.
    
  