
    
      Introduction: in Chile as well as in most of the world, obesity and related chronic diseases
      (cardiovascular diseases, cancer and diabetes (NCDs)) are presently the main causes of death
      and disability. Although these conditions are observed mostly in adulthood, there is now
      considerable evidence that indicates that they are rooted in the first 1000 days of life
      (from -1 to + 2yrs of life).

      Several studies show that maternal BMI before conception and during pregnancy predict future
      risk of obesity and associated metabolic conditions for both mother and offspring. Weight
      gain during the first two years of life is also critical, not only to ensure infant survival,
      but also in defining the infant's predisposition to the emergence of chronic diseases during
      adulthood. From a population perspective, the most effective approach to counteract the
      epidemic of obesity and NCDs is to prevent them. Recommendations for healthy diets and
      physical activity during pregnancy and infancy, as well as monitoring of nutrition goals are
      currently available in the Chilean primary health care system. However, most of these
      recommendations are not up to date and virtually all are poorly implemented. Objective: to
      assess the effectiveness of delivering (via primary health centers) an intervention that
      enhances compliance with up to date nutrition and health care standards (regarding diet,
      physical activity and breastfeeding promotion) during pregnancy and the first year of life.
      The main goal is that mothers achieve adequate nutritional status & metabolic control, during
      and early after pregnancy, and that infants grow and develop healthily (adequate linear and
      ponderal growth according to WHO standard, while avoiding excess BMI gains) Methods: this is
      a cluster randomized controlled trial (CRCT), designed as a public health "program
      effectiveness" study (i.e. intervention will be available through the established national
      health system under standard operating conditions). The cluster units will be 12 primary
      health care centers (PHCC) in South-East Santiago randomly allocated to: 1) enhanced
      nutrition and health care standards (intervention group) or 2) routine care (control group).

      Women seeking care before 15 weeks of pregnancy, residents within a catchment area of
      selected PHCCs, who are not planning to move in the next two years will be invited to
      participate in the study. Pregnant women classified as high risk according to the norms of
      the Chilean Ministry of Health (MoH)and/or underweight (BMI<18.5) will be excluded. We will
      recruit 200 women in each PHCC and assuming a 20% loss to f-up we will end with 960 women per
      arm of the study. After randomization, pregnant women in the intervention PHCCs starting at
      their first pre-natal visit (< 15 wks.) will receive, diet and physical activity (PA)
      counseling-support based on updated recommendations and monitoring goals for weight gain &
      glycemic control and breastfeeding (BF) promotion till 12 months postpartum. Pregnant women
      who attend control PHCCs will receive routine antenatal care according to national
      guidelines. The outcomes will be: 1)achievement of adequate nutritional status & metabolic
      control during pregnancy: a. Weight gain according to Institute of Medicine (IOM)
      recommendations, b. glycemic control based on ADA 2011 recommendations, 3. No weight
      retention at 12 months, and 2) healthy infant growth and development: a) height and BMI
      growth based on WHO standards, b) normal abbreviated psychomotor development test (TEPSI) and
      evaluation scale of psychomotor development (EEDP) at 12 months. Mothers & infants will be
      monitored to ensure the safety of the intervention (assessment of undernutrition,
      micronutrient deficiency and indices of poor nutrition). Data will be collected as part of
      routine health care activities and analyzed based on the allocation to each study group
      ("intention to treat"). Results will be presented as appropriate effect sizes with a measure
      of precision (95% confidence intervals). Further exploratory analyses will be based on those
      participants that fully follow the protocol ("per-protocol analyses"). Expected results: we
      expect that the intervention will benefit the participants in achieving adequate nutritional
      status & metabolic control, during and early after, pregnancy as well as adequate infant
      growth & development as a result of an increase in the impact of standard nutrition and
      health care practices. The results should be potentially extended to the rest of the primary
      health care system given the "program effectiveness" approach that will be taken.
      Additionally, we expect that this study will serve as a core project in which other ancillary
      projects will be nested. Gathered information should contribute to a better understanding of
      how to develop effective interventions to halt the maternal and obesity epidemic and its
      associated co-morbidities in the Chilean population.
    
  