
    
      Incisional hernia carries with life-threatening conditions such as the incarceration of bowel
      strangulation. However, incisional hernia remains the most common complication after median
      laparotomy, with reported incidences varying between 2-20%. Even higher incidences up to
      30-35% have been reported in obese and aortic aneurysm patients. Incisional hernia also
      causes life impairment and discomfort. Median laparotomy and the incisional hernia have been
      under investigation for quite some time, and information about patients' risk factors and
      suture materials has been identified. However, the risk factors associated with suture
      techniques are not yet thoroughly investigated. Many clinical tests and analyses have
      concluded that a mass closure technique involving a simple running suture is the most
      effective way to prevent incisional hernia and close a midline incision. The method is also
      easy and fast to perform compared to other layered methods involving interrupted sutures. Use
      of natural materials that are thin resorbable materials decreases the occurrence of the
      incisional hernial and lower the intensity of preoperative pain and wound infections compared
      to the use of suture materials that are non-resorbable.

      In this study the investigators aim to compare the small bites technique with a standardised
      large bites technique:

        -  Primary outcome:

             1. Incidence of Incisional Hernia postoperative.

             2. Pain scale.

        -  Secondary outcome:

             1. Quality of life, recovery, return to usual activity.

             2. Surgical site infection

             3. Time for closure.

                Study Design:

        -  Randomized Control Trial, Double blinded.

      Study area\ sitting :

      - The study will be conducted in King Fahad University Hospital, Khobar, Eastern Province,
      Saudi Arabia.

      Sample size:

      108 patients

      Number of Arms (allocation):

      2 Arms Arm1) Closure of laparotomy by small bites technique using PDS 2.0. Arm 2)
      Standardised large bites technique.

      Randomisation technique:

      Random.org

      Blinding technique:

      Double blinded. (patients and research recruiter) Follow up period: 6 months then 1 year,
      follow up by US.

      Outcome expected to measure:

      Study Subjects :

        -  Inclusion criteria:

             1. Laparotomy through a midline incision

             2. Age more than 14

             3. BMI < 40

        -  Exclusion criteria:

             1. Previous incisional hernia or fascial dehiscence with secondary healing after a
                midline incision.

             2. Abdominal surgery through a midline incision within the last three months.

             3. Pregnancy.

             4. Patient on steroids and with genetic anomalies.

             5. Malignancy patients, next exposed to radiation therapy.

      Data Collection methods, instruments used, and measurements:

      This research will include all patients who will had laparotomy through a midline incision
      according to our inclusion criteria, they will be randomised using computer generated numbers
      by using (Random.org), to either closure by small bites technique using PDS 2.0 or
      standardised large bites technique. The surgery will be done by either a consultant or a
      specialist following standard steps. A data sheet of each patient regarding their
      demographic, operation data, and postoperative recovery (pain, early mobilizing, wound
      healing, surgical site infection, retain to usual activity), then all patients will be
      followed for 6 month and 1 year postoperative by US, the endpoint is discovering of
      incisional hernia or not for 1 year follow up.

      Data Management and analysis plan:

        -  SPSS will be used for data analysis.

        -  Summary statistic will be obtained as frequency, and percentage for qualitative data,
           and means, medians and standard deviations from continuous variables.

        -  Chi square test will be used to examine the significant difference of hernia rate
           between the two study group.

        -  T test will be used to examine the difference in the mean of pain post-operative between
           the two study group.

      Ethical Considerations:

        -  Our study does not have any physical, psychological, social, legal, economic risk.

        -  The study will be reviewed by IRB, ethics committee; then the approval will be obtained.

        -  Written approval will be obtained from the patients prior to the procedure.
    
  