
    
      This study is designed as a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled monocentric study.

      Patients will be randomized to two groups; PDE5 inhibitor (vardenafil) or placebo taken as
      one tablet twice per day for 15 weeks. The analyses will be performed under blinded
      conditions by external experts not having any direct contact to the investigators or the
      patients.

      Patients with severe coronary artery disease who are judged to be unsuitable for surgical
      revascularization because of a bad general state of health or unsuitable for percutaneous
      revascularization because of the bad morphology of coronary arteries by an expert panel of
      interventionists and cardiac surgeons are eligible for this study. Eligible patients meeting
      inclusion criteria will be invited for participation. At the screening visit (Visit -1)
      demographic data, medical history, and concomitant medication are documented, vital signs are
      checked, a physical examination, an ECG, and a routine laboratory test is performed. After
      giving written informed consent for participation in the study, the patient is randomized to
      one of the two study groups - PDE5 inhibitor (vardenafil) or placebo taken as one pill twice
      per day for 15 weeks. Within three weeks after this screening visit, baseline efficacy tests
      are performed. After the last baseline test the study medication is distributed to the
      patient (Visit 0). During the treatment phase follow-up visits are scheduled after week 1, 3,
      6, and 12 (Visit 1-4). Between week 13 and 15 the same efficacy tests as performed at
      baseline will be repeated. The final visit after the last efficacy test terminates the active
      study phase at week 15 (Visit 5). During visit 0 to 5 a clinical examination, an ECG, and
      clinical routine laboratory parameters (blood chemistry, blood cell count, and coagulation
      parameters) of the patient are performed.

      For proof of efficacy the following tests will be performed at baseline and one day and 4
      weeks after discontinuation of therapy: Exercise tolerance will be evaluated by bicycle
      exercise testing. Blood tests will be performed to evaluate markers of angiogenesis
      (endothelial progenitor cells, vascular endothelial growth factor, basic fibroblast growth
      factor). The improvement of myocardial perfusion will be tested functionally as increase of
      coronary flow reserve by positron emission tomography. Moreover, changes in ventricular
      function, symptoms and quality of life will be assessed.

      Endpoints of this study are:

      Primary Endpoint:

      - Total exercise duration (bicycle exercise testing)

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  Time to 1mm ST-segment depression (bicycle exercise testing)

        -  Time to limiting angina (bicycle exercise testing)

        -  Myocardial blood flow (PET)

        -  Left ventricular ejection fraction (PET)

        -  Mean angina frequency per week

        -  Score Seattle Angina Questionnaire

        -  Natriuretic peptides
    
  