
    
      Scientific Background: Brain metastases are the most common intracranial cancer
      manifestations, affecting up to one third of adult cancer patients with systemic spread.
      Prognosis is generally poor with overall survival ranging below 6 months on average. However,
      a more detailed inspection reveals a prognostic subgroup, for which improved overall survival
      and clinical symptom control can be achieved and that is most descriptively characterized by
      favorable clinical performance (KPI ≥ 70%) and extracranially controlled disease. Whereas for
      most patients with brain metastases whole-brain radiotherapy, steroids or best supportive
      care represent the palliation treatment of choice, the abovementioned subgroup is eligible to
      profit from a locally radical therapy concept and in those cases neurosurgical resection and
      stereotactic radiosurgery have both produced favorable results. In patients unsuitable for
      neurosurgical resection, single- or multifraction, SRS has several distinct advantages over
      WBRT, the most significant being short treatment time, less posttherapeutic neurocognitive
      impairment, better local tumor control and little to no hair loss. Furthermore, SRS can be
      repeated multiple times or performed before or after WBRT. Current clinical guidelines
      recommend SRS in cases of cerebral oligometastases, defined as one to four intracranial
      lesions with an extracranially controlled systemic disease status. However, recent data
      suggests that it may be a suitable treatment for patients with five to ten or even more than
      ten lesions, being non-inferior to the SRS of four or less lesions. There are several factors
      supporting this rationale: On the one hand technical improvements in the field of SRS have
      significantly facilitated the treatment of a higher number of target lesions with little to
      no increase in toxicity and comparable clinical effort. On the other hand, the ever improving
      sensitivity of medical imaging has caused an increase in the detection of oligometastatic
      constellations, enabling their treatment in an earlier stage. For a long time the
      contrast-based high-resolution cranial computer tomography (cCT) had been the gold standard
      of detecting cerebral metastases. This was significantly improved by the introduction of
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with contrast-enhanced T1-weighted sequences. Sensitivity
      was further improved with the introduction of 3T MRI into clinical routine and the
      development of high-resolution three-dimensional gradient-echo sequences such as the
      contrast-based T1-weighted MPRAGE, featuring a slice thickness of 0.9 mm and multiplanar
      reconstruction, thus enabling the detection of very small sized lesions in the range of one
      to a few millimeters. However, the use of gradient-echo (GE) techniques to obtain
      three-dimensional high-spatial-resolution images comes at the cost of inferior contrast
      enhancement and higher susceptibility to artifacts than is the case with two-dimensional
      spin-echo (SE) techniques. Recent developments in MRI research have produced another sequence
      that might prove even superior to MPRAGE in the specific detection of very small and early
      brain metastases: Sampling perfection with application-optimized contrasts by using different
      flip angle evolutions (SPACE) is a three-dimensional fast SE sequence that combines high
      contrast enhancement superior to MPRAGE with a high spatial resolution and multiplanar
      reconstruction. Kato et al. have found this sequence to be significantly superior to MPRAGE
      in the detection of contrast enhanced parenchymal lesions, especially if those are < 5mm in
      size as is characteristic of small very-early-stage cerebral metastases.

      Trial Objectives: It is the purpose of this study to evaluate treatment response and toxicity
      after SRS of up to ten simultaneous cerebral metastases, treating either all lesions visible
      in the highly sensitive SPACE MRI sequence or only those visible in the conventional
      contrast-based MPRAGE sequence. Treatment response is evaluated with respect to the
      ineligibility for further cerebral SRS at 12 months after initial SRS, defined by
      simultaneous new occurrence or progression of > 10 brain metastases (as a surrogate parameter
      for overall local control), furthermore overall survival and cognitive function and quality
      of life.

      Patients´Selection: A total of n=200 patients will be enrolled into the trial (n=100 per
      treatment group). All patients fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      informed about the study and included into the study if they declare informed consent.
      Registration for the study must be performed before the start of RT.

      Trial Design: The trial will be performed as a single-center two-armed prospective randomized
      Phase II study. Patients will be randomized into an experimental arm and a control arm. All
      patients will receive pre-therapeutic MRI imaging as described in (Chapter 6) and imaging
      will be assessed by a radiologist. For patients in the experimental arm, all available MRI
      series, including SPACE will be taken into consideration for the definition of treatment
      target lesions. For patients in the control arm the assessing radiologist will be blinded
      with respect to the SPACE sequence and for the definition of treatment target lesions
      primarily contrast-based three-dimensional MPRAGE, complemented by all non-SPACE MRI
      sequences will be taken into consideration.
    
  