
    
      Research has demonstrated a close association between trauma exposure and 1) PTSD, anxiety &
      depression, 2) loss of affect regulation, 3) poor quality of life, and 4) high health care
      utilization (2, 3). This study will explore how a popular body-mind technique, yoga, compares
      with a attentional control group condition, Women's Health Education (WHE), in the treatment
      of [heretofore treatment- unresponsive adults with] PTSD, and measure whether yoga can affect
      "the attitudes and beliefs" that "can reduce psychological stress and contribute to positive
      health outcomes." [The study of yoga for chronic PTSD is in line with the empirical research
      that supports the notion that autonomic dysregulation plays a significant role in the
      persistence of PTSD (4), and with the hypothesis that an increased capacity for
      self-regulation is associated with a decrease in the severity of this symptom constellation].

      Primary aims.

        1. To test the short-term and long-term effectiveness of 10 weeks of yoga for treating
           treatment-resistant PTSD and compare it with attention controls receiving Women's Health
           Education (WHE).

        2. To assess the short-term and long-term effects of yoga on a) co-morbid conditions, b)
           quality of life, c) body awareness, d) health care utilization and e) heart rate
           variability (HRV), in comparison to an attention control group.

      Primary Hypotheses:

        1. Participants in the yoga condition will demonstrate a clinically significant reduction
           in PTSD symptoms at post-treatment, defined as a mean reduction of total CAPS score of
           at least 30% compared to baseline.

        2. Yoga will be more effective than attention control at improving PTSD symptoms as
           evidenced by a significantly greater drop in total CAPS score from pre-treatment to
           post-treatment for the yoga group.

           Secondary Hypotheses:

        3. Yoga will be more effective at improving comorbid conditions and quality of life and
           reducing health care utilization than attention control.

        4. Yoga will be more effective than attention control at improving HRV and body awareness.]
    
  