
    
      The universe of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) has been increasing steadily
      worldwide. And associated intimately with certain cardiovascular risk factors such as
      dyslipidemia , decreased HDL-C , hypertension , diabetes mellitus and obesity. The quality of
      the fat in the diet influences the incidence of obesity and dyslipidemia. A high intake of
      saturated fat in different populations is associated with elevated serum cholesterol
      concentration and cardiovascular mortality. However, studies have shown that extra virgin
      coconut oil (Cocos nucifera L.) despite being characterized by its high content of saturated
      fat was not associated with obesity and dyslipidemia in populations that had their high
      consumption . And this is due to the high proportion of medium chain triglycerides ,
      especially lauric acid in proportions ranging from 45-50 % , and the presence of factors
      antioxidants like vitamin E and polyphenols. Our hypothesis is that extra virgin coconut oil
      associated with a nutritional treatment has an effect on weight reduction and control of
      dyslipidemia contributes to control in secondary prevention in patients with coronary artery
      disease. All participants will be informed about the research and they must sign a consent
      form . Volunteers will be divided into two groups : a group receiving dietary treatment for 6
      months and the other beyond the dietary treatment during the 6 months starts to receive
      supplementation with coconut oil extra virgin from 3 months, both groups evaluated monthly .
      At each visit , weight assessment , compliance with diet and blood pressure measurement is
      performed. In addition , the blood will also be collected for determination of glucose,
      insulin, total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol , HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides , apolipoprotein
      A and B. The results will be analyzed by the statistical program.It is expected that the
      results obtained, the extra virgin coconut oil can be used as a coupled secondary prevention
      in patients with coronary artery disease.Our hypothesis is that extra virgin coconut oil
      associated with nutritional treatment has an effect on weight reduction and control of
      dyslipidemia contributes to control in secondary prevention in patients with coronary artery
      disease.
    
  