
    
      Abused and neglected children are at extremely high lifetime risk of psychiatric disorder
      placing a huge burden on health/social care services and society. Virtually all 92,000
      children adopted or fostered in the UK have suffered abuse or neglect, therefore risking
      profoundly negative outcomes in important areas of development including problematic social
      relationships, academic underachievement and involvement in crime. These disadvantages can
      lead to negative spirals of poor health and social inequality. Early intervention can greatly
      improve their life chances, yet there are no adequate psychosocial treatment strategies or
      care pathways to address the needs of maltreated children. Psychiatric problems of maltreated
      children are characterised by complexity. They have experienced extreme environmental risk
      and are at higher genetic risk than peers. Many also struggle to develop and maintain healthy
      family relationships. Neurodevelopmental disorders such as Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity
      Disorder (ADHD) and Autism often co-exist with disorders arising from the abuse and neglect
      such as Conduct Disorder, Attachment Disorders and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) with
      devastating consequences for lifelong mental health and development. To reflect this
      complexity, research team uses the overarching term Maltreatment-Associated Psychiatric
      Problems (MAPP).

      The proposed project is a three-phase development and exploratory trial of Clinical and
      cost-effectiveness of Dyadic Developmental Psychotherapy (DDP) for abused and neglected
      children with MAPP and their parents compared to Service as Usual (SAU). The data will be
      collected in 3 phase trial, through a mixture of qualitative and quantitative methods.

      Phase 1 Months 1-9 (9 months)

      The first phase will focus on intervention and context optimisation that will take place in 3
      sites, each representing one of the UK DDP service delivery contexts: NHS, Social Services
      and Private Practice. The research questions will be addressed through 24-36 qualitative
      interviews, and focus groups as well as review meetings at each site, with practitioners and
      managers involved in delivery of DDP and SAU. The research team will require input from the
      services practitioners and managers but also Young Peoples' Advisory Groups (YPAG) and
      Patient, Public, Commissioner Involvement (PPCI) groups.

      Phase 2 Months 10-26 (17 months)

      To examine the research questions, and minimise bias, the proposed design is a single-blind
      randomised controlled trial, with two-groups. The aim of this phase will be to respond to
      research questions such as what are recruitment and retention rates over 6 months; are the
      trial assessments and interventions acceptable to parents and professionals; are there
      functional data collection systems enabling future cost effectiveness analysis. This phase
      will also assess fidelity to the DDP model and whether the care pathways to CAMHS are
      maintained throughout.

      The research team will aim to recruit around 60 families. The potential participants will be
      identified and approached by their usual service provider. The usual service research
      administrator will ensure eligible families receive the study participant information leaflet
      to learn about the study. Once the interest of the family to take part in the trial is
      confirmed, a research nurse will contact interested families 24 hours later, to discuss the
      study further and seek consent. Families that confirm their willingness to participate will
      be invited for two study visits one at baseline, shortly after joining study and second visit
      after 12 months.

      On completion of the baseline data collection, consenting families will be individually
      randomised 1:1 to DDP or SAU, stratified by site. Individuals who consent to take part will
      have an equal chance of being randomised to either group. One group will be included in the
      DDP intervention. The second group will take part in the Services as Usual. The research
      assistant with responsibility for collecting the data will not know which group participants
      have been allocated to until the end of the study. The intervention will be delivered by the
      participant's usual health care team.

      Beside the randomised controlled trial, the data will be collected through qualitative
      research activities to explore social context supporting/hindering child mental health,
      optimising the contexts of, and processes for, DDP delivery.

      Process evaluation

      Qualitative work in phase 2 has three main aims:

        1. To keep abreast of issues and themes uncovered in Phase 1 in the three feasibility trial
           sites, to ensure ongoing compliance with guidelines for safe DDP delivery and to explore
           the social context supporting/hindering child mental health in each site including
           drivers and barriers to optimal DDP/SAU delivery. 6-10 interviews/focus groups will be
           conducted with therapists, managers and families across the sites.

        2. To explore the same topics from Phase 1 in the seven putative Phase 3 trial sites -
           optimising the contexts of, and processes for, DDP delivery in those sites and examining
           compliance with the DDP delivery guidelines established in Phase 1. 18-26
           interviews/focus groups will be conducted across the sites.

        3. To allow selection of 2-4 additional sites for Phase 3. The number of additional sites
           required for Phase 3 will be decided based on Phase 2 conversion rates from eligible to
           consented families and on statistical power considerations based on the standard
           deviation, in Phase 2, of our principle outcome measure.

      Phase 2 will also adopt case study methodology to focus more specifically on the impact of
      DDP and SAU. The research team will learn through a more in-depth investigation (individual
      interviews) about participant experience of DDP/SAU and of journeys through service
      landscapes from the perspectives of the family, therapists, and other key stakeholders
      involved in the treatment of and care pathways. A small selection of families (2-3 families)
      will be invited to take part.

      Phase 3 Months 27-53 (27 month RCT; (6 month analysis/write-up).

      The third phase will continue as a single-blind individually randomised controlled
      superiority definitive trial. The aim of this phase will be to examine the clinical and
      cost-effectiveness of DDP for improving child mental health, compared to SAU. The principle
      outcome will be child's mental health at 12 months post randomisation. The research team will
      aim to recruit additional 180 families, including phase 2. The study population,
      interventions, randomisation, data collection, measures, model fidelity and procedures will
      be as described for Phase 2 unless findings from the process evaluation suggest
      modifications.

      Qualitative evaluation (process evaluation) will continue at the same intensity as Phase 2,
      with a similar number of interviews/focus groups (24-36 across all sites), to explore
      delivery drivers/barriers in each service context. The case studies will continue, involving
      a further 10-12 interviews, to track development over time. The PPCI group and YPAG will have
      a crucial role in the Process Evaluation, during this phase, in reviewing the qualitative
      findings with the Process Evaluation Team (PET) and considering how these findings
      pragmatically feed into future service delivery. Whether or not DDP is eventually found to be
      cost-effective over services as usual, the process evaluation will yield important
      information about how mental health services can be safely delivered for maltreated children
      in different services contexts (i.e. NHS CAMHS, Social Care and Private Practice).
    
  