
    
      Research objectives:

      To compare the clinical efficacy of percutaneous microwave ablation and laparoscopic
      resection for hepatocellular carcinoma (tumor diameter 3.1-5.0cm).

      Research background:

      Liver cancer is the sixth most common tumor in the world and the second leading cause of
      death. Due to the hepatitis B epidemic, the incidence of liver cancer in China is very high,
      accounting for about half of the global statistics on the number of new liver cancer cases
      and deaths each year. Current treatment guidelines recommend surgical resection or
      transplantation as the gold standard for the treatment of very early or early HCC patients.
      Meanwhile, local ablation is gradually accepted by clinicians for its minimally invasive
      nature, safety and efficacy, and it is recommended as an alternative treatment for tumors
      within 3cm. However, the choice of treatment for 3.1-5cm HCC based on a number of current
      retrospective studies is controversial. Therefore, we designed this study to provide reliable
      prospective data to support the selection of therapeutic modalities for HCC.

      Technical introduction:

      Microwave ablation (MWA) is an ultrasound guided ablation electrode implanted in the target
      tissue, in the form of electromagnetic waves to generate microwave energy, microwave can make
      the surrounding tissue in the water molecules oscillate against the friction of heat, high
      temperature heat causes rapid coagulation necrosis of the tissue, so as to achieve the
      purpose of local tumor treatment. Compared with other ablation techniques, MWA in the
      treatment of solid tumors can achieve higher tumor internal temperature in a shorter period
      of time, with strong penetration, synergistic effect of multi-needle combined ablation, and
      little influence by carbonization and blood perfusion. Therefore, MWA has fast heat
      production, high intracellular temperature, short ablation time and large ablation range.

      Laparoscopic liver resection (Laparoscopic hepatectomy) reported for the first time in 1991
      by the professor Reich. Laparoscopic techniques in the application in benign (malignant)
      liver disease is widespread. In China, since professor Weiping Zhou and others completed the
      first laparoscopic liver resection in mainland China in 1994, there have been continuous
      literature reports, and the scope and difficulty of surgical resection have been
      increasing.The 2008 Louisville declaration states that laparoscopic liver surgery is safe and
      effective for surgeons with extensive experience in hepatobiliary surgery and laparoscopic
      surgery.

      Research methods In this study, 1134 patients were expected to be enrolled according to the
      1:1 grouping of the experimental group and the control group. The efficacy of the two
      treatment methods was evaluated by comparing the overall survival of the two groups and other
      indicators.
    
  