
    
      Metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) causes approximately 307,500 deaths
      annually worldwide. mCRPC has been defined as a clinical state in which, despite suppressed
      circulating testosterone levels lower than 50 ng/dL, the androgen receptor axis is
      reactivated. This reactivation is mainly due to the multiple signaling mechanisms in prostate
      cancer cells along with their microenvironment.

      Thus, research efforts aimed at identifying new strategies to inhibit the androgen receptor
      axis. Abiraterone acetate (ABI) is a first-in-class inhibitor of cytochrome (CYP) 17A1, a
      critical enzyme for extra-gonadal and testicular androgen syntheses. ABI has shown impressive
      efficacy in treatment of mCRPC. ABI plus low-dose prednisone was first shown to improve
      survival in mCRPC patients pre-treated with docetaxel, and the combination therapy has since
      been approved for this purpose. Moreover, ABI plus low-dose prednisone resulted in prolonged
      overall survival (OS) as compared with placebo plus prednisone in docetaxel-naive patients.
      In these patients, ABI was associated with a median progression free survival of 16 months
      and median overall survival of 35 months. However, around 40% of patients do not experience
      PSA response to ABI therapy at 3 months. This parameter has been consistently identified as a
      surrogate parameter of time to progression.

      As ABI is an oral agent that is subject to both inter- and intra-individual variability in
      bioavailability, its pharmacokinetics might be a critical parameter for its anticancer
      activity.

      Investigators first established a simple method to mesure plasma ABI concentration by HPLC.
      They then conducted a prospective observational study in which they aimed to explore the
      relationship between ABI trough concentration and PSA response in mCRPC patients and to
      identify the critical determinants for its activity.

      73 mCRPC patients, in whom treatment with ABI was indicated, were recruited from December
      2012 to December 2014 in the oncology department of Cochin Hospital in Paris, France. The
      plasma concentration of ABI was determined at baseline, and then one (M1), two (M2) and three
      (M3) months after treatment initiation. The primary study objective was to investigate the
      relationship between ABI mean plasma trough concentration (ABI Cmin) and PSA response. PSA
      response was defined as a PSA decline of at least 50% after receiving ABI for 3 months.

      In multivariate analysis, ABI Cmin was the only factor independently associated with PSA
      response: OR=1.12, [1.0-1.3], P=0.03. Based on these results, they established an optimal
      threshold of ABI C min by building a ROC curve. The treshold value of 8.45 ng/mL was
      associated with a specificity of and sensitivity of 70% [49-84] and 79% [63-81],
      respectively.

      As plasma ABI exposure is a key element of PSA response, it supports the exploration of
      benefits of a pharmacokinetically-guided dosing strategy for ABI.

      In a phase I trial, the recommended dose of ABI was 1000 mg per day as a plateau of endocrine
      effects was reported at doses greater than 750 mg. However, to their knowledge, no data
      regarding the effect of ABI on tissue androgens are available, and no dose limiting toxicity
      was identified up to 2000 mg per day which support the rational of a dose-escalation
      strategy. In a phase 2 study, 41 mCRPC patients received 1000 mg twice a day of ABI (2000
      mg/day) and the tolerance profile appeared similar than with lower dose.

      In this phase II trial, investigators aim to confirm the preliminary results presented above
      in a larger population. Moreover, their objective is to test whether a dose escalation up to
      2000 mg per day is feasible and lead to disease stabilization in progressive patients within
      the first 6 months of treatment.
    
  