
    
      Acute respiratory failure is one the most common reason for admission and mechanical
      ventilation is the most frequent procedure performed in the intensive care unit (ICU). After
      extubation, oxygen therapy is commonly used to correct residual impairment in oxygenation.
      Oxygen therapy is usually performed via a Venturi mask allowing to deliver predetermined
      oxygen concentrations. The face mask is used in the place of nasal cannula in part because
      patients with acute respiratory failure (ARF) breath preferentially through an open mouth
      rather than the nose. The mask may, however, reduce comfort and patients with ARF, who are
      often agitated and poorly cooperative, may displace or self-remove the mask. Given that
      oxygen delivered to the patient is dry, clinical practice guidelines recommend humidifying
      the oxygen when above 4 l/min in the ICU setting, because the humidification function of the
      nasal mucosa can be insufficient at high oxygen flow rates and/or the critically ill patient
      with ARF often breathes through the mouth. Breathing dry oxygen could provoke dryness of the
      mouth, nose, throat and respiratory tract, resulting in discomfort and pain that are frequent
      in the ICU setting. Breathing dry air by the nose may also lead to the alteration of the
      mucociliary transport system and cause an increase of airway resistance in healthy subjects.
      However, there are no recommendations concerning the type of humidification device to use.

      High-flow oxygen therapy is commonly practiced in the ICU. Recently, a method was described
      in which high-flow oxygen is delivered through a nasal cannula with an active humidification
      system that optimizes oxygen administration in patients with ARF (Optiflow, Fisher & Paykel,
      New Zealand). This system has several theoretical advantages. The delivery of high flows
      decreases dilution of the inhaled oxygen and, by matching patient's peak flow, allows
      accurate delivery of the set FiO2 throughout the whole inspiratory phase. In addition, a
      flow-dependent effect of continuous positive airway pressure, possibly due to an air
      entrainment mechanism, has been documented in healthy volunteers and in patients with COPD.
      Lastly, the use of high humidity levels may prevent damage to the ciliated epithelium of the
      airways, maintain mucociliary system activity, and facilitate the elimination of secretions.
      Through these effects, this new device for high-flow oxygen therapy has the potential to be
      effective and to improve tolerance to the treatment more than conventional systems for oxygen
      therapy, such as the Venturi mask.

      In the present randomized, controlled trial, the investigators will compare two devices for
      oxygen therapy, nasal high-flow oxygen therapy and the standard Venturi mask, in critically
      ill patients who need oxygen in the post-extubation period. The hypothesis is that nasal
      high-flow is superior to the Venturi mask in terms of oxygenation
    
  