
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Compare the efficacy of paclitaxel and carboplatin with or without gemcitabine, doxorubicin
      HCl liposome, or topotecan, in terms of overall and progression-free survival, in patients
      with stage III or IV ovarian epithelial or serous primary peritoneal carcinoma.

      Determine the response rate in patients with measurable disease treated with these regimens.

      Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients. Compare the complications in
      patients treated with these regimens. Determine the dose-intensity and cumulative dose
      delivery for these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

      This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified into 1 of 3 strata according
      to extent of residual disease and plans for interval cytoreductive surgery: Stratum A:
      Optimal (microscopic or macroscopic) residual disease without plans for surgery Stratum B:
      Suboptimal residual disease without plans for surgery Stratum C: Suboptimal residual disease
      with plans for surgeryPatients are randomized to 1 of 5 treatment arms. Arm I: Patients
      receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      continues every 3 weeks for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Arm II: Patients receive chemotherapy as in arm I and gemcitabine IV over 30
      minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment continues as in arm I. Arm III: Patients receive
      chemotherapy as in arm I during courses 1-8 and doxorubicin HCl liposome IV over 1 hour on
      day 1 during courses 1, 3, 5, and 7. Treatment continues as in arm I. Arm IV: Patients
      receive topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-3 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 3.
      Treatment continues every 3 weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive 4 courses of arm I
      chemotherapy. Arm V: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and
      carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 8. Treatment continues every 3 weeks for 4 courses.
      Patients then receive 4 courses of arm I chemotherapy. Patients with initial unresectable or
      suboptimal residual disease (more than 1 cm) may undergo interval cytoreductive surgery
      between courses 4 and 5 of chemotherapy. Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 4,000-5,000 patients (800-1,000 per treatment arm) will be
      accrued for this study within 3.5-5 years.
    
  