
    
      In the past decade, massive scale-up of long-lasting insecticide-treated nets (LLINs) and
      indoor residual spraying (IRS) in Africa have led to significant reductions in malaria
      mortality and mobility. However, current first-line interventions are not sufficient to
      eliminate malaria in most countries. The widespread use of pyrethroid insecticides has
      resulted in resistant vector populations, and high coverage of LLINs and IRS has led to
      increased outdoor human feeding behavior and resting behavior. These changes in vector
      ecology and behaviors have significantly limited the effectiveness of current first-line
      interventions that target indoor biting and resting mosquitoes. Furthermore, as a result of
      ecological changes and intervention measures, malaria risk in a locality is dynamic, and the
      utility of malaria intervention tools may vary as new tools are being approved and introduced
      and the cost of each tool differs among locations and over time. Such variations in malaria
      risk, vector ecology, and utility of intervention tools exemplify the need to develop optimal
      adaptive interventions tailored to local malaria risks, vector ecology and supply chains. The
      central objective of this application is to design optimal adaptive combinations of vector
      control interventions to maximize reductions in malaria burden based on local malaria
      transmission risks, changing vector ecology, and available mix of interventions approved by
      the Ministry of Health in each target country. The central hypothesis is that an adaptive
      approach based on local malaria risk and changing vector ecology will lead to significant
      reductions in malaria incidence and transmission risk. To accomplish this objective, we
      propose the following three specific aims:

        1. Measure malaria incidence and predict risk using environmental, biological, social, and
           climatic features with machine learning approaches. Hypothesis: Malaria risk prediction
           can be improved through the use of machine learning techniques that include
           environmental, biological, socio-economic, and climatic features. Approach: Each site
           will measure malaria incidence, prevalence and social economic factors through community
           surveys. Classification-based and regression-based approaches will be used to develop
           malaria risk predictive models, and model performance will be validated. Outcome: This
           Aim will establish improved malaria risk prediction models and lay an important
           foundation for developing intervention strategies adaptive to local vector ecology and
           future malaria risks using reinforced machine learning approaches.

        2. Use a cluster-randomized sequential, multiple assignment randomized trial (SMART) design
           to develop an optimal adaptive intervention strategy. Hypothesis: Malaria control
           interventions that are adapted to local malaria risk and vector ecology and are cost
           effective can be identified using a cluster-randomized SMART design. Approach:
           Cluster-randomized SMART design will be used in two high transmission areas in Kenya and
           Ethiopia to evaluate the impact of adaptive interventions that involve sequential and
           combinational use of next-generation nets, indoor spraying of non-pyrethroid
           insecticides, and larval source management for malaria control.

        3. Evaluate the cost-effectiveness and impact of an adaptive intervention approach on
           secondary endpoints related to malaria risk and transmission. Hypothesis: Intervention
           strategies adapted to local malaria risk and vector ecology will be more cost-effective
           in reducing malaria incidence and transmission risk than the currently-used LLIN
           intervention. Approach: The economic costs of individual interventions or combinations
           thereof will be assessed from both a provider and societal perspective using standard
           economic evaluation methodologies. Cost-effectiveness will be measured in terms of cost
           per person protected. The study will examine changes in drug and insecticide resistance
           and infection prevalence attributable to the adaptive interventions.

      Malaria interventions adapted to rapidly changing malaria risk and vector ecologies are
      critically needed to improve the effectiveness of malaria control measures. This study will
      use new techniques, including machine learning and a novel cluster-randomized SMART design,
      to develop optimal adaptive malaria intervention strategies.
    
  