
    
      Isolation and characterization of human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells
      (UCMSCs): Human umbilical cord tissues along with informed consent forms will be collected
      from hepatitis B, C, and COVID-19 virus-negative women with healthy pregnancies during the
      Cesarean Section surgery after completion of gestation period. The cord tissue will be
      transported in sterile 1x phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) containing 200 units/ml penicillin
      and 200 µg/ml streptomycin on ice. In the biosafety cabinet, the cord will be washed with 4-5
      changes of sterile 1x PBS and placed in a Petri plate with 15 ml PBS. The cord will be gently
      scraped with a surgical blade to remove any dead cells. A 9 cm umbilical cord will be cut
      into three equal pieces and wash thoroughly to remove blood clots, umbilical cord arteries,
      and veins. Segments will be washed three times with PBS and minced. The minced pieces will be
      incubated in 17.5 ml of collagenase solution (201 U/ml collagenase type I in serum-free
      DMEM-HG) in a 50 ml conical tube for ~3.5 hours in an incubator at 5% CO2, 95% humidity at
      37⁰C. After ~3.5 hours, the digested lysate will pass through a strainer and will be diluted
      three times with 1x PBS. Following centrifugation, the cells will be seeded into two 25 cm2
      flasks and will be placed in an incubator at 5% CO2, 95% humidity at 37⁰C. The flasks will be
      fed with fresh media (DMEM-HG supplemented with 20% FBS and 1% antibiotic solution) every
      third day. At around day 18, cells will reach up to 85% confluency and will be transferred in
      two 75 cm2 flasks with media replaced at alternate days. UCMSCs at P3 will be characterized
      using different specific antibodies. Cells at P3 will be used for transplantation in
      patients. Fifteen (15) subjects will be treated with three intravenous infusions (IV) of
      500,000 UCMSCs per Kg body weight delivered via peripheral intravenous infusion.
    
  