
    
      Objective 1:

      To assess barriers to pain control in the hospice setting.

      Using a mixed methods approach, key stakeholders including physicians, nurses, patients and
      caregivers were queried about pain control in the hospice setting, barriers to pain control
      and the desirability of an order set to address this issue.

      Objective 2:

      To develop and conduct pilot testing of an order set designed to improve pain control in the
      hospice setting.

      An opioid titration order sheet based on our previous R0-1 was modified based on the
      information derived from the interviews and questionnaires completed by the physicians,
      nurses, patients and caregivers.

      A cohort of 20 patients were enrolled on the first phase of the pilot study in order to test
      the modified pain assessment form and the feasibility administration of the study materials
      to be completed by the patient and caregiver. Forms are as follows:

        -  Patient assessment: At baseline, patients provide demographic data and complete the Pain
           Assessment Form and the Pain Communication Survey. The pain assessment form addresses
           average pain, worst pain, pain relief, hours in pain, pain-related distress, and
           barriers to pain control. Patients are asked to rate pain control. Patients also
           complete the Pain Communication Survey to assess how they communicate with healthcare
           providers about their pain. After the baseline assessment is completed, patients
           complete the Pain Assessment form on a daily basis. Pain is also assessed by the
           research nurse at least 3 times weekly (1 home visit* and 2 telephone interviews).
           Patients are followed until the time of death.

      NOTE: *If a patient is hospitalized or transferred to the inpatient hospice facility, the
      patient interview will take place there.

        -  Caregiver assessment: At baseline, caregivers complete a demographic survey, a Pain
           Assessment Form, the Pain Communication Survey, Caregiver Self-Efficacy in Pain
           Management Scale (CSEPMS), Caregiver Pain Management Questionnaire (CPMQ), and the
           Stressful Caregiver Adult Reactions to Experiences of Dying (SCARED). Caregivers are
           then interviewed by the study nurse using the Pain Assessment Form as a guideline to
           obtain more detailed information about adequacy of the patient's pain control, side
           effects of medication, barriers to pain control, and caregiver concerns and burden.
           Follow-up data from caregivers is obtained through completion of CSEPMS, CPMQ, and
           SCARED questionnaires and their assessment of patient's pain form at the end of weeks 1,
           2, and 3.

        -  Chart review: A research nurse conducts a chart review after patient's death. Cancer and
           cancer-related treatment data is obtained and documentation about pain management is
           recorded. From the time of study entry, all staff notes are reviewed to document pain
           assessment, calls to physician or other support personnel (including pharmacy calls),
           identified barriers to pain control, and treatment modifications (including medications
           to treat side effects).

      After 20 patients, it was deemed not feasible to complete the study forms and to recruit
      adequately for the trial. The study was suspended.
    
  