
    
      The fallopian tube is the physiological environment of the mature gametes and the
      preimplantation embryo. While animal and epidemiological data are accumulating that
      demonstrate the role of alterations of the fetal environment in the programming of post-natal
      development and health at adulthood, the impact of environmental perturbations during early
      development (fertilization and preimplantation development) is mainly shown by animal studies
      (apart persistent questions about health of children conceived after assisted reproductive
      technologies). Animal expositions to chemical contaminants of the environment targeted on the
      preimplantation period have been shown to alter health at adulthood. In the same way, in
      vitro short exposition of male or female gametes to some of these chemicals can impact their
      functions. It is therefore important to characterize the chemical environment of gametes and
      preimplantation embryo in the human fallopian tube.

      This project aims to demonstrate the feasibility of quantitative measurements for 3 families
      of persistent environmental contaminants at the oviduct level. In women of reproductive age
      devoid of any pathology able to alter tubal mucosa, fallopian tubes will be recovered after
      laparoscopic bilateral salpingectomy performed with the goal of sterilization. Concentrations
      in the tubal mucosa tissue will be analyzed for at least 2 representative members of 3
      chemicals families (organochlorine pesticides (DDE, HCB), polychlorobiphenyls (PCB 153 and
      138) and flame retardants (PBDE47 and 153). A comparison with the concentration obtained in
      the adipose tissue collected at the time of umbilical incision for laparoscopy and in blood
      will allow to evidence the exposition of each women to each type of contaminant. One bundle
      of hair strand will be collected from the occipital region of the head and stored for further
      analysis.

      This project is a feasibility study on 20 women but its perspectives are numerous. It is
      supported by a solid consortium that will assure the recruitment of the women in this
      indication and its technical implementation.
    
  