
    
      BACKGROUND: In the initial Mild Hypothermia Randomized Control Trial (RCT), in collaboration
      with the Organ Procurement and Transplant (OPTN) Region 5 Donor Management Goals (DMG)
      Workgroup and Web Portal, the research team was able to conduct a multi-center RCT examining
      the benefits of mild hypothermia in donors after neurologic determination of death (DNDDs) on
      the outcomes of kidney transplantation. The trial was stopped early by the Data and Safety
      Monitoring Board (DSMB) due to a significant positive benefit to kidney transplant
      recipients, including a 38% reduction in the odds of delayed graft function (DGF, the primary
      outcome measure of the trial). The results of this study have been published in the New
      England Journal of Medicine (July 2015). This research offers a zero-cost intervention that
      can substantially increase transplant success as well as the pool of potential donors.

      To expand upon the success of the hypothermia study, the team is conducting a new RCT to test
      whether hypothermia is as effective as machine perfusion (MP) of kidneys from DNDDs. In an
      RCT conducted by the Eurotransplant International Foundation in 2009 (Moers et al. NEJM), the
      protective effect of MP (OR = 0.57) was similar to that found in the Mild Hypothermia Trial
      (OR = 0.62). However, the cost of MP can be very significant for organ procurement
      organizations (OPOs) and transplant centers. MP of kidneys from deceased donors has been
      increasingly adopted by many centers even though clinical and cost effectiveness studies
      remain uncertain in the United States. Between 2012 and 2014, out of 31,798 kidneys available
      for transplant, 11,998 (38%) of them were machine perfused. Over the same three-year period,
      the number of kidneys pumped annually increased by over 20%. This is an opportune time to
      investigate the effectiveness of MP compared to mild hypothermia, as there are enough OPOs
      currently using MP that if mild hypothermia was found to be a non-inferior intervention,
      there would be considerable cost savings. Similarly, over 60% of kidneys do not receive
      machine perfusion and findings that demonstrates a benefit of machine perfusion would likely
      lead to rapid increase in use. In addition, DGF still occurs in up to 56% of high-risk
      kidneys despite using one of these protective measures and their combined use may be the best
      approach moving forward. Either way, a new evidence-based standard will be created that will
      significantly affect the way kidney transplants are handled.

      METHODS: This will be a pragmatic multi-site randomized controlled trial that bases
      enrollment on each OPO/Donation Service Area's current pumping criteria. There will be two
      main groups of DNDDs,

        1. those that are "pump eligible" based on current practice (this group typically resembles
           traditional expanded criteria donors, but is increased in some areas) and

        2. those that are lower risk and whose kidneys do not receive MP ("not pump eligible").
           Kidneys from donors who are considered"pump eligible" currently receive MP based on
           their increased risk for failure. In this trial, "pump eligible" DNDDs will be
           randomized to one of three groups

      (1) normothermia (36.5-37.5 C) plus MP of both kidneys (standard of practice control group),
      (2) mild hypothermia (34-35 C) plus MP of the left kidney only, and (3) mild hypothermia plus
      MP of the right kidney only.

      In this manner, the same number of kidneys will be randomized to each of the three treatment
      strategies (MP alone, mild hypothermia alone, or MP + hypothermia). It is important to note
      that kidneys from "pump eligible"/higher risk DNDDs will still receive one form of protection
      and possibly two.

      In contrast, "not pump eligible" DNDDs will only be randomized to one of two groups: (1)
      therapeutic mild hypothermia or (2) normothermia. Being that the Mild Hypothermia Trial was
      stopped early for efficacy in the overall DNDD population, there was insufficient statistical
      power to confirm a benefit in standard criteria donors (p=0.1 at stoppage). The purpose of
      this arm of the trial is to validate the protective effect of hypothermia in a larger sample
      size of lower-risk / "not pump eligible" donors.

      The following objectives will be addressed by the trial:

      Determine the non-inferiority of a hypothermia-only strategy to a standard pump-only strategy
      in high risk DNDDs

      Evaluate the superiority of a combined hypothermia+MP strategy to both hypothermia or MP
      alone in high risk DNDDs

      Evaluate the superiority of mild hypothermia versus standard of care normothermia in lower
      risk, "not pump eligible" DNDDs

      Determine the safety of the hypothermia strategy with respect to the function of
      "bystander"organs (e.g., heart, lung)

      This protocol has been approved by the OPTN Region 5 Research Committee. In addition, the
      following steps have been or will be taken:

      A National communication was sent via TransplantPro to allow for a two-week period for public
      comment.

      Only donors whose families and/or advanced directives (donor registry) have authorized
      research will be included in the study.

      All organ offers from DNDDs enrolled in the study will include a message in the Donor
      Highlights section of DonorNet®, a copy of the study summary will be attached to the record,
      and allocation/transplantation will occur based on standard practice.

      There will not be any interaction between the study team and the transplant recipients and no
      additional data will be collected.

      Recipient graft function data will be derived from standard UNet forms and obtained from the
      OPTN in a de-identified format.
    
  