
    
      Thousands of people each year are hospitalized for neutropenia, which continues to cause
      substantial morbidity and mortality for those affected. Neutropenia is primarily caused by
      chemotherapy and various other cancer treatments, such as radiation therapy, biotherapy, and
      HSC transplantation. Signs and symptoms of neutropenia may include high fever, chills, sore
      throat, and diarrhea. In neutropenia, the number of neutrophils, a type of granulocyte, is
      greatly reduced, weakening the body's immune system and increasing the risk of infection.
      Therefore, a method to provide adequate numbers of functional granulocytes to people with
      neutropenia could be of greatest benefit for recovery. Administration of a combination of two
      drugs, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and dexamethasone, has been show to
      stimulate the body to produce a large number of granulocytes. Granulocyte transfusions
      obtained from donors who have received these two drugs may help people with low white blood
      cell counts fight infections until their own white blood cell counts recover. However, it is
      not clear whether the benefits of granulocyte transfusions outweigh the risks of side
      effects. This study will compare the safety and effectiveness of granulocyte transfusions
      with standard antimicrobial therapy versus the safety and effectiveness of standard
      antimicrobial therapy alone in increasing granulocyte numbers and in improving survival rates
      in people with bacterial or fungal infection during neutropenia.

      Participation in the research portion of this study will last about 3 months. All
      participants who were not previously receiving treatment with standard antimicrobial therapy
      will begin therapy immediately upon study entry. Participants will then be assigned randomly
      to receive either granulocyte transfusion plus continued antimicrobial therapy or continued
      antimicrobial therapy alone. All participants will be monitored for a maximum of 42 days,
      during which they will provide information on medical history and ongoing status of
      antimicrobial therapy. Daily blood samples to measure white blood cell count will be obtained
      from participants until samples show that participants are making their own granulocytes.
      Samples will then be collected weekly until Day 42. There may be additional blood draws
      depending on the type of infection present in participants.

      Granulocyte transfusions will be given daily during the 42-day treatment period, depending on
      granulocyte donor availability. Blood counts will be checked immediately before and after
      each transfusion to measure granulocyte levels. Transfusions will be stopped if participants
      start making their own granulocytes, experience serious side effects, or show a reduction in
      infection. At Month 3 after study entry, follow-up information will be collected about all
      participants' health status through reviewing their medical records and contacting their
      physicians.

      Participation for granulocyte donors will last 1 week from the time of donation. Community
      donors may provide more than one granulocyte donation, but no more than one donation every 3
      days. Frequency of donation from a family member will be according to local blood bank
      criteria with approval from a blood bank physician. Both community donors and family donors
      are limited to eight donations each year. Twelve hours before each donation, participants
      will be injected with Neupogen, which contains G-CSF, and they will take one dose of
      dexamethasone by mouth. Participants will then undergo a blood draw, followed by a procedure
      using an apheresis machine for granulocyte collection. The procedure will last 3 to 4 hours
      and will involve the drawing of blood from each arm, the separation of granulocytes from the
      red blood cells and plasma in the machine, and the return of the red blood cells and plasma
      to the participants.
    
  