
    
      The current study comprises three parts: cross-cultural adaptation, piloting, and examination
      of psychometric properties of the ASPS-T. The researcher contacted the developers of the
      original ASPS and received written permission from the authors to translate it into Turkish.
      This study was conducted by the Helsinki Declaration and Uskudar University. Clinical
      Research Ethical Board approved the study. After receiving both written and oral information
      about the project, all the study participants provided a signed consent form.

      Phase 1: The cross-cultural adaptation process Translating the Turkish version of ASPS and
      the cross-cultural adaptation procedure was carried out under the guidance of Beaton et al.
      Translation from English to Turkish was performed by two therapists whose mother tongue is
      Turkish, also have fluent in English. Each of the translations was reviewed by three
      therapists, after the consensus on the final version, it was turned down by two native
      English-speaking translators. The final version was compared with the original version to
      reveal any inconsistencies; no discrepancies were observed. During the translation phase,
      minimal adjust were made to address linguistic.

      Phase 2: Piloting process A pre-assessment was made with a pilot study to explore
      ASPS-Turkish's cultural harmony. The translated questionnaire was completed by 20
      participants to identify any items that were not coherent. Four participants stated that they
      could not understand the meaning of avoid-kaçınmak, so investigators suggested yaşamamak, and
      this was accepted by participants. Three participants could not respond to the first item on
      factor 10, because participants had not traveled by boat or rides before, so that,
      investigators added the phrase "all types of vehicles" was added to the sentence. All the
      authors meet to compare the ASPS-T with the original version and assess its suitability after
      the minimal change, concluding that the current correction did not cause any loss of the
      meaning of the word. After the changes, pilot study participants evaluated the
      intelligibility of the scale with a 1 to 5 Likert scale, and confirm the clearness
      unanimously of them. Therefore, the final version of the ASPS-T which has minor changes was
      the best representation of the original, and each item was found to be suitable for Turkish
      patients. The pilot study participants were not included in the sample. After cultural
      equivalence had been achieved, 405 healthy individuals aged 18 and over were asked to
      complete the ASPS questionnaire.

      Phase 3: Analysis of psychometric properties Exploratory and Confirmatory Factor Analysis
      (EFA and CFA) were used to measure the construct validity of the instrument, and test-retest
      analysis (interclass correlation coefficient) and Cronbach's alpha were used to evaluate the
      reliability of the instrument.
    
  