
    
      While physician-delivered care may have the greatest impact on tobacco abstinence rates,
      recent data indicate that other health care providers such as nurses and pharmacists improve
      tobacco abstinence rates more than self-help and/or no intervention.5 Thus, pharmacists
      continue to expand their clinical practice areas to include smoking cessation interventions.
      A meta-analysis of studies involving pharmacist-delivered smoking cessation services found
      quit rates at 6 to12 months follow-up ranged from 14% to16%.6 The results of this
      meta-analysis demonstrate that pharmacists can successfully deliver tobacco-cessation
      interventions and the evidence strongly suggests they are effective in helping increase
      tobacco cessation rates. Proactive telephone counseling can be more effective at increasing
      tobacco abstinence rates than self-help or no intervention.5 Telephone counseling is an
      effective system to help increase tobacco abstinence rates for a variety of reasons. From the
      tobacco user's standpoint, there are no transportation inconveniences and fewer scheduling
      conflicts. In addition, receiving counseling in the privacy of one's own home provides
      treatment access to individuals who are less willing to seek out counseling. At Kaiser
      Permanente Colorado (KPCO), members with a history of CVD are enrolled in the Clinical
      Pharmacy Cardiac Risk Service (CPCRS). The CPCRS is a clinical pharmacy specialist-managed,
      physician-directed program which provides secondary prevention care to over 14,000 patients.
      Clinical care includes evaluating and treatment of major cardiovascular risk factors,
      including tobacco use, for members. Currently, CPCRS has no standard of care with regard to
      addressing tobacco use. Clinical pharmacy specialists working in CPCRS deliver tobacco
      cessation advice at their own discretion, through various methods. The purpose of this pilot
      study is to determine whether brief, structured, telephone tobacco cessation counseling
      delivered by a clinical pharmacy specialist increases the number of smoking cessation
      attempts compared to usual care.
    
  