
    
      This prospective study was conducted in the Department Of Anaesthesiology& Critical Care, Sri
      Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences & P.G. Institute and Mohak Hospitals, Indore, over a
      period of one year. Seventy morbidly obese patients, ASA grade II or III, aged 20-65 years
      with BMI > 40kg/m2, scheduled for elective laparoscopic bariatric surgery were selected and a
      written informed consent was obtained. All the recruited patients underwent 2D-trans-thoracic
      echocardiography and PASP was recorded. Echocardiography was performed by same cardiologist
      as this measurement is operator dependent. Patients who denied consent, those undergoing
      Emergency and/or open surgery and those requiring more than 2 attempts for intubation were
      excluded.

      Arterial line was inserted pre operatively and ABG sample was taken and hemodynamic parameter
      recording done while the patient was breathing room air. Both groups were pre-oxygenated for
      3 minutes with 100% Oxygen. Standard procedure was used for induction of anesthesia in all
      the patients. No premedication was given. All the patients were induced with i.v.
      Glycopyrolate (0.005-0.01 mg/kg), i.v. Fentanyl (2µg/kg) and i.v. Propofol. Once the patient
      became unresponsive to verbal commands, Succinylcholine was then administered in a dose of 1-
      1.5 mg/ kg. Mechanical ventilation was started with 100% oxygen. A PEEP of 10 cm H2O was
      applied using four hand technique in Study group while the control group received no PEEP.
      After one minute endotracheal intubation was done. PEEP was continued in study group after
      intubation.

      Arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis and hemodynamic parameters were recorded at following
      stages:

        1. Just after inflation of cuff of endotracheal tube

        2. 5 minutes post intubation

        3. 10 minutes post intubation

      Patients were then again divided into four groups on the basis of PASP:

      Group 1: Patients with PASP ≤ 30 mmHg receiving no PEEP (n= 11) Group 2: PASP ≤ 30 mm Hg
      receiving PEEP of 10 cm H2O (n= 11) Group 3: PASP > 30 mm Hg receiving no PEEP (n= 19) Group
      4: PASP > 30 mm Hg receiving PEEP of 10 cm H2O (n=19)
    
  