
    
      Urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder is the second most common genitourinary
      malignancy. Based on the results of a large randomized study comparing MVAC with gemcitabine
      plus cisplatin, the latter regimen became a treatment standard based on improved
      tolerability. While the tolerability of chemotherapy for patients with advanced urothelial
      carcinoma has improved, there have been no significant improvements in efficacy since the
      advent of MVAC in the 1980's and novel approaches are clearly needed.

      The current study will explore the safety and activity of lenalidomide in combination with
      gemcitabine plus cisplatin as first line chemotherapy in subjects with metastatic urothelial
      carcinoma.

      The primary objective of the phase Ib portion will be to determine the recommended phase II
      dose of the combination of gemcitabine, cisplatin, plus lenalidomide in patients with
      advanced/metastatic urothelial carcinoma. The primary objective of the phase II portion will
      be the progression-free survival at 1 year. The secondary objectives are to evaluate the
      activity (as determined by objective response rate); and to determine the safety (per the
      Common Terminology for Adverse Events version 4.0) of combination therapy with gemcitabine,
      cisplatin plus lenalidomide; to evaluate lenalidomide as maintenance treatment in patients
      achieving an objective response or stable disease following completion of 6 cycles of
      combination therapy and; to determine the impact of treatment on peripheral blood immune cell
      subsets and circulating tumor cells.

      Patients will receive gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 IV on days 1 + 8 and cisplatin 70 mg/m2 IV on
      day 1 of each 21 day cycle. Lenalidomide will be given orally on days 1-14 and the dose will
      be escalated in successive cohorts during the phase Ib portion to define the recommended
      phase II dose. Patients will continue gemcitabine, cisplatin, plus lenalidomide for up to 6
      cycles, in the absence of disease progression or prohibitive toxicity. After completion of 6
      cycles of therapy, patients who have achieved at least "stable disease" will proceed with
      "maintenance" lenalidomide given orally on days 1-21 of each 28-day cycle. Treatment will
      continue, in the absence of prohibitive toxicity, until the time of disease progression.
    
  