
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN), previously called persistent fetal
      circulation, is a birth defect affecting approximately 1 in 1250 liveborn term infants; even
      with complex and high-risk interventions, PPHN results in substantial mortality and
      morbidity. This defect results from the inappropriate muscularization of fetal pulmonary
      vessels, and experimental and human evidence consistently suggests that maternal cigarette
      smoking and antenatal exposure to NSAIDs, particularly aspirin or ibuprofen, may play a role
      in the etiology of this condition. Because these exposures are quite prevalent (e.g.,
      ibuprofen is currently taken in the first trimester or later in pregnancy by 15 percent and
      3.2 percent of women, respectively), testing these hypotheses is of considerable public
      health importance.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The multicenter study had a case-control design. There were 560 case infants with PPHN and
      four controls per case (2240). All controls were drawn from the birth hospitals of cases;
      half the controls had malformations other than PPHN, and half had normal formations. Cases
      and controls were identified within five months of birth at 88 birth and tertiary hospitals
      in the areas surrounding Boston, Philadelphia, and Toronto. Mothers of subjects were
      interviewed by telephone within six months of delivery; a standardized questionnaire inquired
      in detail about demographic factors; reproductive, medical, and pregnancy illness histories;
      medication use (including a detailed focus on use of over-the-counter analgesic/antipyretic
      medications), smoking, and nutrition. Because of emerging genetic research suggesting an
      effect of NSAIDs on pathways possibly related to the etiology of PPHN, buccal swabs were also
      collected and stored for future analyses. Exposure prevalences were compared between mothers
      of cases and controls and relative risks were estimated, controlling for potential
      confounding factors.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  