
    
      Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a combination of risk factors for chronic conditions such as
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) and type 2 diabetes (T2D). These risk factors include obesity
      (particularly abdominal obesity), high blood pressure, elevated triglycerides, low
      high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and elevated fasting blood glucose. MetS reflects
      overnutrition and sedentary lifestyles as the prevalence of MetS increases concomitantly with
      these lifestyle choices. Most recent estimates suggest that approximately 19.1% of the
      Canadian population, 34.2% of the US population, and 24.3% of the European population have
      MetS. Significantly, the prevalence of MetS in adults aged 18-39 has increased dramatically
      over the last 2 decades.

      MetS commonly precedes the development of CVD and is associated with a 2-fold increase in the
      risk of CVD mortality. MetS also increases the risk of developing T2D and is suggested to be
      extremely prevalent (90-95%) in Caucasian individuals diagnosed with T2D. Indeed, the
      presence of even one MetS risk factor early in life increases the chances of developing a
      chronic disease later in life. Currently, MetS risk factors are estimated to be present in
      4.8-7% of individuals from 18 to 30 years of age. Therefore, preventing the development of or
      treating these risk factors earlier in life could reduce the development of chronic disease.

      The pathogenic mechanisms of MetS remain to be fully elucidated, however insulin resistance
      (IR) appears to play a pivotal role in the initiation and progression of the syndrome.
      Abdominal obesity is a well-known contributor to IR. Abdominal fat accumulation increases the
      supply of free fatty acids (FFAs) to the liver and indirectly results in an increase in
      plasma low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and a decrease in HDL cholesterol. IR also
      elevates fasting blood glucose levels due to the suppression of hepatic glycogen synthesis
      and impairs postprandial glucose control by reducing insulin stimulated glucose uptake by
      peripheral tissues.

      There is a need for natural interventions that aid in the prevention and treatment of MetS
      risk factors as the prevalence of overnutrition and sedentary lifestyles continues to
      increase. This study will assess the ability of Oligopin® to improve abdominal obesity,
      fasting blood glucose, postprandial glucose and insulin response, and HDL-cholesterol levels
      as these outcomes reliably predict an individual's MetS risk. Oligopin® is a French Maritime
      Pine Bark Extract (FMPBE) obtained from the pine tree Pinus pinaster. It is rich in low
      molecular weight oligomeric procyanidins (OPC) with 20% of OPCs in the form of dimers as
      compared to the most studied FMPBE Pycogenol®, which contains only 5% of OPCs as dimers.

      Recently, Oligopin® supplementation was shown to reduce CVD risk factors. In a randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial, Oligopin® consumption increased HDL
      cholesterol levels and reduced systolic blood pressure and oxidized LDL (oxLDL) levels in
      stage 1 hypertensive individuals. This is significant as low HDL was reported to be the most
      prevalent risk factor for the development of MetS in young adults. FMPBE supplementation has
      also been shown to reduce fasting glucose levels in individuals with T2D. Interestingly,
      FMPBE is a potent inhibitor of α-glucosidase, which catalyses the breakdown of
      oligosaccharides in the small intestine to permit glucose resorption. Therefore, it is
      possible that Oligopin® may reduce fasting glucose levels and control postprandial
      hyperglycemia. This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study will determine the
      efficacy of Oligopin® to improve markers of metabolic risk in subjects with MetS.
    
  