
    
      BACKGROUND:

      All studies assessing the glycemic index (GI) of traditional dried fruit show that they are
      low-to-moderate GI foods and that the insulin response is proportional to their GI. A recent
      study compared the glycemic response of two doses of raisins (28 and 69g) versus white bread
      showing that both doses of raisins significantly reduced post-prandial glucose and insulin
      levels compared with white bread. However, the effect of combining dried fruits with high-GI
      carbohydrate foods has never been addressed. The potential impact of combining nuts (i.e.
      pistachios) and high-GI carbohydrate foods has already analyzed with positive results. The
      investigators found that a dose of 56g of pistachios consumed alone had a minimal effect on
      post-prandial glycemia, but when taken with a high-carbohydrate meal attenuated the relative
      glycemic response. Although foods with high fibre content generally have a low-GI, other
      factors also contribute to a food's glycemic response. Factors thought to contribute to the
      glycemic response of dried fruits include the viscous texture when chewed; their whole food
      matrix; the presence of phenolic compounds and organic acids and the type of sugar present.
      In the case of dried fruit, about 50% fructose (low-GI) is present. Therefore, the
      consumption of dried fruit with high-carbohydrate foods may lead to glycemic control benefits
      by lowering the GI of a food. In addition to potentially lowering the GI of a food, dried
      fruits may also affect glycemic control by providing 'catalytic' doses of fructose. Fructose,
      through its metabolite fructose-1-P, has been shown to have "catalytic" effects on hepatic
      glucose metabolism by inducing glucokinase activity in hepatocytes. In specific, fructose-1-P
      displaces fructose-6-P from glucokinase's regulatory binding protein in the nucleus causing
      the release of glucokinase from its regulatory protein, allowing it to translocate to the
      cytosol, resulting in increased phosphorylation of glucose. Infusion studies in humans have
      shown that this mechanism relates to a ~30% decrease in hepatic glucose output under
      hyperglycemic conditions in participants with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and a ~3-fold increase in
      glycogen synthesis by C13-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy under euglycemic
      conditions in healthy people. Clinical translation of these findings has proven promising.
      Catalytic doses of fructose at 7.5g and 10g have been shown to decrease the postprandial
      glycemic responses to high GI meals (oral glucose, maltodextrins, or mashed potatoes) from
      ~15-30% in healthy participants and those with pre-diabetes or diabetes . These acute effects
      have been shown to be sustainable over the longer term as well. Systematic reviews and
      meta-analyses of controlled feeding trials have shown that small doses of fructose in
      exchange for other carbohydrates decreases HbA1c at a level which exceeds the clinically
      meaningful threshold of 0.3% proposed by the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) for the
      development of new oral anti-hyperglycemic agents. Therefore, the consumption of dried fruit
      with high-carbohydrate foods may lead to glycemic control benefits by acting as a vehicle for
      'catalytic' doses of fructose.

      OBJECTIVES:

      To investigate the effect of using dried fruit to modify the glycemic response of high GI
      foods, the investigators propose the following 3 objectives:

        1. To assess the GI of 4 common types of dried fruit (raisins, sultanas, dates, apricots)
           (GI effect)

        2. To assess the ability of the 4 common types of dried fruit (raisins, sultanas, dates,
           apricots) to decrease the postprandial glycemic response to white bread by displacing
           half of the available carbohydrate (displacement effect)

        3. To assess the ability of the 4 common types of dried fruit (raisins, sultanas, dates,
           apricots) to decrease the postprandial glycemic response to white bread by providing a
           'catalytic' dose (7.5g) of fructose ('catalytic' fructose effect)

      PARTICIPANTS:

      The investigators will include male or non-pregnant female participants aged 18-75 years and
      who are otherwise healthy.

      DESIGN:

      The trial will use a randomized multiple crossover acute-feeding design in which each
      participants acts as their own control.

      PROTOCOL:

      The protocol will follow ISO 26642:2010(en), "Food products - Determination of the glycaemic
      index (GI) and recommendation for food classification". All participants will complete all
      test and control foods in the study series. An individual participant will normally complete
      1 to 3 tests per week with at least one day in between. Participants will be studied between
      7:00 and 9:30am after an overnight fast of 10-14h. On each test occasion the subject will be
      weighed, and two fasting blood samples will be obtained at -5 minute (min) intervals by
      finger-prick. Then the subject will start to consume a test meal. At the first bite a timer
      will be started and additional blood samples will be taken at 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 min
      after the start of the meal. Before and during the test, a blood glucose test record will be
      filled out with the subject's initials, ID number, date, body weight, test meal, time they
      start to eat, time it took to eat, time and composition of last meal, and any unusual
      activities. During the 2 hours the test subjects will remain seated.

      BLOOD SAMPLES:

      Each finger-prick sample consists of a total of 2-3 drops of blood obtained by finger prick
      and will be divided into two separate vials. The 2 to 3 drops of capillary blood will be
      collected into flat-bottomed 5ml plastic tubes with a push cap containing a small amount of
      sodium fluoride and potassium oxalate as an anticoagulant and preservative. These samples
      will be used for analyzing capillary blood glucose levels. The finger-prick samples for
      glucose analysis will initially be placed in the refrigerator and at the end of two hours,
      placed in a -20°C freezer until analysis which will be performed within a week. Glucose
      analysis will be done using a YSI model 2300 STAT analyzer (Yellow Springs, OH). Each subject
      will participate in a total of 15 separate test meals: 3 white bread control meals and 3
      dried fruit treatments (dried fruit - GI effect, dried fruit -displacement effect, and dried
      fruit - 'catalytic' fructose effect) for each of the 4 dried fruits (raisins, sultanas, dates
      and apricots) (Figure 1). The order of the test meals will be randomized by a coordinator
      blinded to the treatment allocation. Test meals will be separated by a minimum of a 1-day
      washout.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSES:

      Blood glucose areas will be calculated as the incremental area under the curve (iAUC) using
      the trapezoidal rule with peak heights as maximal incremental rises in glucose. The glycemic
      indices of the test meals will be calculated using the 3 bread meals as the reference food.
      Pairwise differences in GI between the white bread control and the 3 dried fruit treatments
      (dried fruit - GI effect, dried fruit - GI displacement effect, and dried fruit - 'catalytic'
      fructose effect) for each of the 4 dried fruits (raisins, sultanas, dates and apricots) will
      be assessed by the Dunnett's test in SAS (SAS Inst. Version 8.2; Gary, NC).

      EXPECTED RESULTS:

      The investigators expect that dried fruit will have a low-to-moderate GI and will reduce
      postprandial glycemic responses when consumed in combination with high-GI foods in comparison
      to high-GI foods alone. The specific aims of our study are: (1) to quantify the GI of 4
      different types of dried fruit (raisins, sultanas, dates, apricots) (GI effect); and (2) to
      assess the ability of these 4 dried fruits to decrease the postprandial glycemic response to
      white bread by either partially displacing available carbohydrate (displacement effect); or
      (3) by providing a 'catalytic' dose of fructose ('catalytic' fructose effect). The proposed
      study will help to identify mechanisms by which dried fruits can improve postprandial
      glycemia when consumed in combination with high-GI carbohydrate foods by assessing a glucose
      displacement mechanism along with a 'catalytic' fructose mechanism. The results will
      stimulate important industry innovation and improve the design of future clinical
      investigations that will ultimately lead to the use of dried fruits as an effective tool to
      modify the glycemic response of high carbohydrate foods and with it longer-term glycemic
      control in people with or at risk for type 2 diabetes.
    
  