
    
      The study team proposes to treat parkinsonian patients with gait difficulty of FOG with the
      SNRI anti-anxiety medication duloxetine for 4 weeks, followed by an additional anti-dementia
      medication donepezil for 2 weeks to determine whether antianxiety treatment alone or in
      combination with the anti-dementia medication can improve gait. Another medication with GABA
      antagonist property targeting the gait controlling area PPNa (and improving anxiety and
      cognition as well), modafinil, will be tried for 2 weeks after a 4-week washout period of the
      previous medications.

      Specifically, the investigators will propose an open label prospective pilot study using
      duloxetine to treat 22 parkinsonian patients with FOG, aiming for estimated 80% power of
      detecting 50%. Each patient will take duloxetine 30mg for 1 week, followed by 60mg qam for 1
      week, 90mg qam for 1 week, and 120mg qam for 1 week, if tolerated. The patient will be taking
      duloxetine for a total of 4 weeks, as described above. The dose of duloxetine will be reduced
      if the patient cannot tolerate a higher rank dose as designated. This principle will apply to
      the other two medications used in the study as well. Donepezil will then be added to
      duloxetine 120mg qam (or the highest dose the patient can tolerate if it is lower than 120mg)
      by 5mg qd for 1 week, followed by 10mg qd for 1 week. Each patient will visit us 3 times
      (baseline and at the end of each medication, namely 4 weeks after the duloxetine and 2 weeks
      after the donepezil), checking UPDRS-III (and PSP scale as well for PSP patients),
      stand-walk-sit, freezing of gait questionnaire, Montreal cognitive scale (MoCA) for patients
      before and after Donepezil treatment, and anxiety scale for patients before and after
      duloxetine treatment (if the patient is on dopaminergic medication). Daily falls, freezing of
      gait (by the questionnaire) and quality of life (by PDQ-39 scale) over the past week prior to
      the clinical visit will also be checked.

      After a 4-week washout period, each patient will take modafinil 100mg qam for 1 week,
      followed by 200mg qam for 1 week. Each patient will visit us twice (baseline at the end of
      the 4-week washout period, and at the end of the 2-week modafinil treatment), checking UPDRS
      (and PSP scale as well if for PSP patient), stand-walk-sit, freezing of gait questionnaire,
      MoCA, anxiety scale and Epworth sleep scale at each visit before and 1 hour after the
      dopaminergic medication(s) (if the patient is on dopaminergic medication). Daily falls,
      freezing of gait and quality of life (by PDQ-39) over the past week prior to the clinical
      visit will also be checked.

      A paired t-test will be used to compare the changes under each regimen with that at baseline,
      with primary outcome on gait difficulty of FOG frequency and severity, and secondary outcome
      on anxiety, cognition, UPDRS-III (plus PSP scale for PSP patients), and Epworth sleep scale
      (for modafinil trial) at dopaminergic medication off (after staying off the dopaminergic
      medication for over night) and on (1 hour after taking dopaminergic medication) state and
      quality of life assessment. The investigators want to see if the medications of different
      working mechanism, along or in combination, could improve the FOG and other motor symptoms,
      through the improvement of anxiety, cognitive dysfunction and wakening state at dopaminergic
      medications (for parkinsonism) off state and on state.
    
  