
    
      Acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock (AMICS) is a deadly condition
      with a historical in-hospital survival of only 50%. To date, the only therapy proven to
      benefit patients in AMICS using data from randomized control trials has been early mechanical
      reperfusion. Accordingly, current American and European guidelines confer a class IB
      indication for reperfusion therapy in the setting of AMICS. Unfortunately, little progress
      has been made on improving survival with subsequent therapies, including intra-aortic balloon
      pump counter-pulsation (IABP). This lack of progress is worrisome since the incidence of
      AMICS appears to be increasing.

      With the FDA approval of Impella (Abiomed, Danvers, MA) in AMICS, a powerful new tool has
      become available for hemodynamic support. Impella is a transcatheter axial flow pump,
      delivered percutaneous, with the ability to provide 2.5 to 4.0 liters/minute of forward flow.
      The device should provide sufficient forward cardiac flow to support vital organs in the
      majority of patients who present with AMICS. Since Impella is the only percutaneous temporary
      ventricular support device approved as safe and effective for use in AMICS, the use of the
      device has steadily grown. Unfortunately, there is little data available to providers as to
      the best practice patterns associated with the delivery and use of Impella in AMICS.

      Using the most up-to-date research, a treatment algorithm for AMICS was developed and
      subsequently implemented as a quality improvement initiative throughout southeast Michigan.
      Patient information was gathered by each of the sites and collected in a retrospective
      registry. Outcomes and results were shared during quarterly meetings and concluded with a
      41-patient pilot feasibility study. This initial pilot study revealed a 76% survival to
      discharge, a significant improvement compared to prior historical controls.

      Given the promising outcomes, leaders from around the world have implemented the treatment
      algorithm in their local clinical practices with similar results. The investigators have
      therefore launched the National Cardiogenic Shock Initiative (NCSI). The aim of the NCSI is
      to bring together experienced centers across the nation who are experts in mechanical
      reperfusion therapies and have a large experience with the use of mechanical circulatory
      support devices to systematize care in AMICS.

      Our goal is to dramatically decrease the duration patients remain in cardiogenic shock and
      attempt to decrease total usage and duration of vasopressors and ionotropic agents. The
      investigators aim to further demonstrate that rapid delivery of mechanical circulatory
      support will improve hemodynamics, reverse the spiraling neuro-hormonal cascade associated
      with cardiogenic shock, allowing clinicians to decrease use of vasopressors and inotropic
      agents and ultimately improve survival.

      Healthcare systems that have agreed to adopt the NCSI treatment algorithm are being asked to
      participate in this prospective registry so that patient outcomes can be analyzed.
      Participating investigators will be asked to voluntarily provide data from patients
      completing the treatment algorithm to be included in the NCSI Registry.
    
  