
    
      Background:

      Research samples and data collected on a treatment-intent protocol are discrete items
      associated with that protocol up until the patient comes off study, usually due to disease
      progression. These data are not stored in the patient s medical records, but are essential to
      understand tumor response to different drugs over time. Patients in the Developmental
      Therapeutics Clinic (DTC) often start other clinical trials; this protocol provides a
      mechanism to connect research data about that patient from one trial to the next as long as
      the patient remains eligible and has given his or her informed consent. No new analysis will
      be performed under this protocol.

      There is research interest in collecting pre- and post-dose research biopsies and other
      samples such as circulating tumor cells to measure dynamic drug-specific target effects
      (e.g., changes in epithelial-mesenchymal transition, DNA damage response, or
      immunotherapeutic cell infiltration), and then to evaluate molecular changes before and
      during disease progression to understand why the tumors initially respond but then became
      resistant to treatment.

      To accomplish this, we will connect research results from consecutive trials with limited
      patient information (age, gender, disease, prior therapies, protocol number/drug regimen,
      response, and duration of treatment).

      Each patient who consents to participate in this non-treatment, longitudinal sample protocol
      agrees to allow his or her Medical Record Number (MRN) to be used to track participation on
      DTC clinical trials.

      Objectives:

      Patients will be entered onto this "master" longitudinal protocol to connect research sample
      and treatment data across consecutive DTC clinical trials.

      Biopsy samples collected at time of disease progression on one research trial will be
      evaluated for use as the baseline sample for the next research trial, potentially obviating
      the need for additional biopsies.

      Eligibility:

      Adult patients who are being evaluated for and/or treated for cancer at the DTC.

      Design:

      No samples will be collected under this longitudinal protocol, no treatment decisions will be
      made based on data collected, and no new analysis will be performed.

      Specimens for research purposes, as outlined in this protocol, will be those obtained from
      tests and procedures that are done as required by the primary research protocols that a given
      patient is enrolled in. Tissue collected under DTC tissue procurement protocol 06-C-0213 will
      not be used or tracked.

      Sample location and use will be managed in the Repository at the Frederick National
      Laboratory for Cancer Research using LabMatrix software.

      Patients may remain on this longitudinal protocol for the duration of their consent.
    
  