
    
      Rhinovirus (RV) is responsible for up to 70-80% of asthmatic exacerbations in children and
      adolescents requiring urgent care or hospitalizations. Understanding the mechanism by which
      this otherwise relatively innocuous infection produces asthma exacerbations is essential
      towards mitigating these episodes. Two theories have been proposed to explain this
      phenomenon. One is that asthmatics have defective innate and adaptive immune responses to
      viral respiratory infections, leading to increased viral-associated pathology with an
      associated enhanced inflammatory response. An alternative - and not mutually exclusive -
      explanation is that RV indirectly exacerbates an ongoing allergic response to bystander
      allergens. Dupilumab blocks type 2 inflammatory responses and is known to prevent asthma
      exacerbations. It both attenuates the reduced innate immunity observed in asthmatics and also
      reduces the ability to engage a type 2 allergic inflammatory response to bystander allergens.
      Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that RV mediated worsening of asthma will be
      attenuated in the presence of dupilumab. This study examines cellular and molecular mediators
      of these interactions, which could help understand the intimate mechanism(s) underlying
      dupilumab's protective effect in asthmatics.

      A total of 60 patients with mild persistent asthma will be enrolled and randomized in this
      study (30 active treatment and 30 placebo).

      The double-blind, randomized design minimizes any sources of bias. The placebo group provides
      a reference for the interpretation of study results, so the net effect of dupilumab could be
      discerned. The dupilumab dose regimen selected for this study (300 mg q2w after an initial
      loading dose of 600 mg) is consistent with the approved dose for patients with asthma. The
      primary objective of the study is to evaluate the effect of dupilumab on innate antiviral and
      type 2 inflammatory biomarkers, epithelial barrier repair, and adaptive immune responses
      following rhinovirus infection in asthmatic patients. The exploratory objectives include
      evaluating the effect of dupilumab in reducing the severity of rhinovirus-induced respiratory
      symptoms, its effect on lung function (eg FEV1, FEV1/FVC) and asthma control. As well as
      evaluating the effect of dupilumab on other biomarkers and viral load. The sample size was
      selected empirically, informed by similar successful studies conducted in the past. For
      example, in a previous double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized trial of omalizumab in the
      prevention of RV-induced asthma exacerbations, a total n of 20 (10 per group in the final
      analysis) was sufficient to achieve a secondary endpoint based on FEV1/FVC ratio). These data
      demonstrate the intrinsic power of the viral challenge model. The population included in the
      current trial has been further enriched (mild to moderate persistent asthmatics, on ICS ±
      other long-term controllers).
    
  