
    
      Background:

        -  Targeted therapies designed for specific genetic alterations, known as cancer driver
           mutations, have changed the treatment paradigm in advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma
           (NSCLC). Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are
           effective in NSCLC with activating mutation in the EGFR. Although most patients achieve
           robust responses to EGFR TKIs with tumor shrinkage and symptomatic relief, drug
           resistance eventually develops in the majority of patients.

        -  Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) transformation has been reported as one of the mechanisms
           of acquired resistance to EGFR TKIs.

        -  Several phase III trials showed durable response with poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase
           (PARP) inhibitors in the breast and ovarian cancer with BRCA mutation, a tumor
           suppressor gene involving homologous recombination repair (HRR) pathway, and several
           PARP inhibitors are now FDA approved for these cancers.

        -  Immune checkpoint blockade appears to be most effective against hypermutated tumors,
           suggesting that clinical responses correlate with an increased propensity to produce
           neoantigens.

        -  EGFR-mutated transformed SCLC is an aggressive cancer whose clinical course is similar
           to that of SCLC. There are no standard treatments for this disease and prospective
           studies have not been conducted to date. Immune checkpoint inhibitors alone are not
           effective for EGFR-mutated transformed SCLC. Analyses of EGFR transformed SCLC tumors
           suggest that these tumors are HRR deficient.

      Objective:

      -To assess the efficacy of a combination of durvalumab and olaparib with respect to best
      overall response (BOR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria (RECIST 1.1) in patients
      with EGFR-mutated non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) that transform to SCLC and other
      neuroendocrine carcinomas.

      Eligibility:

        -  Subjects with initial diagnosis of EGFR-mutated non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC)
           and histologically or cytologically confirmed transformation to small
           cell/neuroendocrine tumors following treatment with EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor.

        -  Subjects should have received platinum-based chemotherapy with or without immunotherapy
           for small cell/neuroendocrine transformation or refused such therapy.

        -  Age greater than or equal to18 years.

        -  Subjects must have measurable disease.

        -  ECOG performance status

      Design:

        -  This is an open label Phase II study

        -  Patients will be treated with durvalumab (1,500 mg), IV, every 28 days and olaparib (300
           mg BID for total daily dose of 600 mg) in a 28-day cycles.

        -  Patients will be evaluated for toxicity every 4 weeks by CTCAE v5.0, and for response
           every 8 (+/-1) weeks by RECIST 1.1

        -  Treatment will continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  