
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the tumor response (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST]) at
      4 months in patients with relapsed/refractory sarcoma. (Cohorts 1 and 2) II. To determine the
      event-free survival (EFS) rate at 4 months after initiation of the treatment in patients with
      relapsed/refractory osteosarcoma receiving novel immunotherapeutic agents. (Cohort 3)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) rate at 12 weeks after initiation of the
      treatment in patients with relapsed/refractory sarcoma receiving novel immunotherapeutic
      agents.

      II. To estimate the tumor response (Immune-related Response Criteria [irRC] and RECIST) in
      patients with relapsed/refractory sarcoma.

      III. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of receiving novel immunotherapeutic agents in
      patients with relapsed/refractory sarcoma.

      IV. To estimate the median PFS and overall survival (OS) in patients with relapsed/refractory
      sarcoma receiving novel immunotherapeutic agents.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine expression of biomarkers (including but not limited to CD73, PD-1 and PD-L1)
      in pre & post treatment (tx) samples.

      II. Quantification and characterization of the immune infiltrate (and other histologic and
      immunohistologic changes) from tissue samples prior to treatment initiation and post
      treatment (biopsy at week 6).

      III. Identification/quantification of immunologic changes (CD4+, CD8+, Teff, Treg cells and
      NK cells) in peripheral blood.

      IV. Determining an immunoscore based on baseline tumor sample (identification of molecular
      response/resistance patterns/future therapy options).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive oleclumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour every 2 weeks for 5 doses, then
      every 4 weeks thereafter. Patients also receive durvalumab IV over 1 hour every 4 weeks.
      Cycle repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 3
      months for up to 5 years.
    
  