
    
      This study plans to learn more about a medical problem called thyroid stunning. Thyroid
      stunning is a temporary decrease in the function of thyroid cells after small doses of
      radioiodine, a radioactive drug that is commonly used to treat thyroid cancer. Thyroid
      stunning can be an important medical problem in patients who have thyroid cancer that has
      spread beyond the thyroid gland (metastases). In patients with thyroid cancer metastases,
      some researchers believe it is good to give the maximum safe dose of radioiodine in order to
      have the greatest chance of destroying the cancer. The maximum safe dose is the highest dose
      of radioiodine that a patient can safely receive, and this dose is unique to each person.
      This special personalized dose is determined by first doing a dosimetry study. Dosimetry
      study is a planning study that calculates the safest dose that the patient can receive.
      Currently, it is not known whether the small dose of radioiodine that is used for the
      dosimetry study may stun the cancer cells and make the thyroid cancer treatment less
      effective.

      There are two important types of radioiodine. I-123 is a form of radioiodine that is used to
      take pictures of the thyroid gland. I-131 is a form of radioiodine that is used to treat
      thyroid cancer. It is hoped that this study will produce important information that may be
      the first step in resolving the thyroid stunning question. Investigators will use I-123, a
      form of iodine that is currently not known to cause thyroid stunning, before thyroid cancer
      treatment with I-131. Investigators will try to prove that I-123 does not cause thyroid
      stunning and does not make the thyroid cancer treatment less effective.

      Patients are being asked to be in this research study because they have differentiated
      thyroid cancer, and they have no evidence of thyroid cancer that has spread to the other
      parts of their body. As a result, those patients thyroid cancer treatment with radioiodine
      will be a smaller amount than what is needed to treat patients with thyroid cancer that has
      spread to other parts of the body. Thyroid stunning is not a medical problem for patients
      like these. However, by participating in this study, the information investigators gather
      from those patients treatment of thyroid cancer may help those patients with thyroid cancer
      metastases.
    
  