
    
      25-hydroxyvitamin D (vitD) insufficiency is associated with cognitive decline and has
      long-been considered important in schizophrenia susceptibility. VitD supplementation has been
      suggested for those at-risk, and recent studies have demonstrated that vitD insufficiency
      extends into both adolescent and adult schizophrenia.

      The mechanism by which vitD deficits confers risk is unknown. However, vitD is a
      transcriptional regulator, and the investigators recently found that vitD significantly
      up-regulates PRODH gene expression. This is important because the highest known genetic risk
      of schizophrenia is conferred by hemizygous microdeletion of chromosome 22q11, to which PRODH
      maps. Furthermore, PRODH encodes proline oxidase, which catalyzes proline catabolism. Proline
      is a neuromodulator at glutamatergic synapses, and peripheral hyperprolinemia has been
      associated with learning and memory deficits and neurotransmitter dysregulation in animal
      models, and in humans, with decreased intelligence quotient (IQ), cognitive impairment, and
      schizoaffective disorder. The investigators recently found that >25% of schizophrenia
      patients were hyperprolinemic and hypothesized a causal relationship between vitD, proline
      elevation, and schizophrenia, such that vitD insufficiency causes decreased PRODH expression
      and hyperprolinemia. Measuring fasting plasma 25hydroxyvitD and proline in 64 patients and 90
      controls, the investigators found that vitD insufficiency (<30ng/ml) was significantly
      associated with schizophrenia (OR:2.1, p=0.044), vitD levels were negatively correlated with
      proline (p=0.01), and vitD insufficient subjects had three times greater odds of
      hyperprolinemia (p=0.046). Moreover, they demonstrated that hyperprolinemia explains >37% of
      the association between vitD insufficiency and schizophrenia, signifying that vitD
      insufficiency increases schizophrenia risk, at least in part by elevating proline. These
      findings advocate that targeting schizophrenia-associated hyperprolinemia by alleviating vitD
      insufficiency, may improve symptoms including neurocognitive deficits.

      The Specific Aims of this study are:

      Aim 1) To Evaluate a clinical response to vitamin D3 (vitD3) treatment, targeting patients
      with both vitD insufficiency and hyperprolinemia.

      Aim 2) To Evaluate the relationship between fasting plasma proline change, PRODH expression,
      and symptoms, for development of an efficacy biomarker.

      The aims will be accomplished via a ten week, double-blind, placebo controlled trial, in
      which schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder subjects who are both vitD insufficient and
      hyperprolinemic, will be randomized to vitD3 (4,000 international units (IU)/day n=40) or
      placebo (n=40) as an adjunct to their antipsychotics.
    
  