
    
      Annually, an estimated 200,000 babies are born with Sickle Cell Anemia (SCA) worldwide.
      Affected children often suffer repeated acute illnesses and chronic ill health from vascular
      occlusive phenomenon. In particular, they are at a high risk of stroke due to the development
      of sickle cell cerebral vascular (SCV) injury. SCV can also cause neurocognitive impairment.
      Stroke risk may be predicted by abnormal cerebral arterial flow detected by transcutaneous
      Doppler ultrasound (TCD).

      The specific aims are:

      Aim 1: Determine the impact of hydroxyurea therapy on the frequency and severity of SCV in a
      cohort of children treated for three years, as measured by 3 distinct outcomes: abnormal TCD,
      neurocognitive impairment and primary stroke, compared with baseline.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the impact of hydroxyurea on structural SCV using MRI and MRA in a randomly
      selected subset of this cohort.

      Aim 3: Assess changes to anemia, malnutrition status, C-reactive protein and other
      inflammatory markers during hydroxyurea therapy, over time, compared with baseline levels.

      Design: This will an open label, single arm trial of hydroxyurea to test the three year
      impact of hydroxyurea treatment in children with SCA on each of three clinically important
      outcomes: abnormal cerebral arterial flow, neurocognitive impairment and primary stroke.

      In aim 1, there will be enrollment of a new longitudinal cohort of 270 children ages 3-9
      years selected randomly from among eligible patients attending Mulago hospital SCA clinic
      (MHSCC) roster, without evidence of prior stroke by examination. The hypothesis is that
      hydroxyurea therapy will prevent, stabilize or improve Sickle Cell Vasculopathy(SCV) and its
      effects. Eligible subjects will be evaluated by TCD, stroke-focused neurological examination
      and neurocognitive testing at baseline. Following initial assessments, study subjects will
      begin standardized hydroxyurea therapy. Overtime, changes in the frequency and severity of
      each distinct measure of SCV with baseline by repeating these three tests at 18 and 36 months
      and against the age specific prevalence of SCV in children who did not receive any
      intervention in the earlier BRAIN SAFE I observational study (our historical cohort).

      In Aim 2, a subset of the study subjects, a randomly selected subset of 90 subjects, will
      undergo brain imaging at baseline and at 36 months to assess structural findings over time.
      The hypothesis is that prospective brain imaging by MRI and MRA provides critical structural
      definitions [1,2] of SCV changes or stabilization over three years compared to baseline,
      while on hydroxyurea. Results of brain imaging and biomarkers will be correlated with these
      outcomes over time.

      In aim 3, there will be prospective examination for risk factors of SCV overtime. Biomarkers
      for risk of SCV may include severe anemia, the inflammatory marker C- reactive protein (CRP)
      and malnutrition status. The hypothesis is that a higher burden of anemia, inflammation and
      malnutrition predispose African children with SCA to greater burden of SCV than in the West.
      Changes in the values of these biomarkers will be assessed over time while on hydroxyurea

      Site: Participants will be recruited from Mulago hospital Sickle Cell Anemia Clinic in
      Kampala, Uganda.

      Follow up: Participants will be on study medication and follow-up for 36 months.

      Data Analysis: The investigators will estimate the effects of hydroxyurea for each distinct
      endpoint, (stroke, abnormal TCD or impaired cognition) by comparing against the age specific
      prevalence in children who did not receive any intervention in the earlier BRAIN SAFE I
      study. To assess the risk of stabilization or reduction in SCV, time to event analyses using
      Cox proportional hazards modelling will be used after Kaplan Meier curves are generated.
      Multilevel regression models will be used to asses within and between subject changes over
      time for continuous measures of TCD velocity and cognitive z-scores.
    
  