
    
      The purpose of this project is to conduct a community-based intervention and evaluate the
      independent and combined effects of two intervention strategies on primary and secondary
      prevention of colorectal cancer (CRC) among members of rural Appalachian churches. Many
      regions of Appalachia have high poverty, low education, and high unemployment. Health
      disparities are great in this region and social and behavioral factors put many individuals
      at high risk for increased mortality from CRC.

      The sampling frame consists of all churches in a 7 county area of western West Virginia.
      Eligible churches will have at least 180 active members, will not share a common pastor, and
      have no CRC control activities. Using a 2x2 experimental design, churches will be divided
      into two separate clusters, those with and without an existing parish nurse program. Then
      churches from each cluster will be randomized to one of two conditions, a natural helper or
      control condition.

      Eligible church members will be adult males and females who are identified through member
      lists provided by the recruited churches. Because the primary outcome variable is CRC
      screening, at least half of the recruited church members must be age 50 and older, report no
      history of CRC, and have not recently completed CRC screening. Interested members will be
      asked to complete an informed consent form detailing participation in either the intervention
      or control arm of the study. The control group will be offered other health promotion
      interventions through the church and the CRC educational materials after data collection is
      completed.

      Data will be collected before and after the intervention activities. Study participants will
      complete a paper and pencil survey at the church at each measurement point (baseline,
      follow-up). The baseline survey will assess sociodemographics, psychosocial information,
      stage of change, self-efficacy, health beliefs, barriers to change, health behavior knowledge
      and practices involving diet, physical activity, and CRC screening. The follow-up survey will
      assess body mass index, dietary intake, physical activity level, and CRC screening by FOBT,
      flexible sigmoidoscopy, and colonoscopy.

      The primary hypothesis to be tested is that the combination of these two community-based
      intervention strategies will be most effective overall. To evaluate the effectiveness of the
      intervention strategies, the proportions in outcome measures between each intervention, the
      combined intervention, and control groups will be compared.
    
  