
    
      All participants will be asked to come to Healthy Eating and Activity Laboratory for 1,
      30-minute screening session, and then for 2, 40-minute meal sessions, with approximately one
      week occurring between each session. Sessions will be scheduled between 11:00am and 5:00pm,
      Monday to Friday. During the screening session, interested participants will sign the consent
      form. After signing the consent from, eligibility will be confirmed by taking height and
      weight measures. Participants will also be given questionnaires related to demographics.
      Prior to the start of the first meal session, eligible participants will be randomized to one
      of the two orders (Order 1 and 2), using a random numbers table. Participants will be
      instructed for the meal sessions to stop eating a minimum of two hours prior to the scheduled
      meal sessions and only consume water during that period.

      During both meal sessions, instructions on how to use Sony Smarteyeglass will be provided to
      participants. These instructions will include how to wear and use the eyeglasses.
      Participants will be instructed that, after putting on the Smarteyeglass, to initiate the
      recording via the controller of the Sony Smarteyeglass. After the recording is initiated and
      prior to starting to eat, participants will be instructed to look at each provided food at
      the table. Then, participants will also be instructed to turn their head toward the left
      shoulder, look at each food from the side, and then repeat the same step for turning their
      head toward the right shoulder. Participants will be asked to start the meal by taking one
      bite of each provided food. For the first bite of each food, participants will be instructed
      to hold the food, either in their hand or on a fork or spoon (depending on the food),
      approximately 12 inches in front of the eyeglasses and to look at the food. Following taking
      the first bite of each provided food, participants will be instructed to eat normally until
      satisfied. Participants will be given 30 minutes to eat. The investigator will leave the room
      while the participant is eating. The investigator will check in with participants every 10
      minutes. At the end of 30 minutes, participants will be instructed to again look at each
      provided food on the table at three different angles (looking straight at each food, from
      left side and the right side) following the exact same procedure at the beginning of the
      meal.

      On the day following each meal session, participants will be called to complete a 24-hour
      dietary recall, which will take 20 minutes to complete. Instructions will be provided to
      participants at the end of each meal session about how to complete the dietary recall and a
      two-dimensional visual aid will be provided to aid participants in estimating the consumed
      portions for each food and beverage item consumed.

      The second meal session will follow the same procedure as the first session. At the end of
      second meal session, participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire to provide
      feedback on their use of the Sony Smarteyeglass.

      For the first and second meal session, the meals will contain foods that are categorized into
      two food shapes (Regular and Irregular) and two food complexities (Single food and Mixed
      food). Each meal will contain four foods with the four foods representing the four potential
      food categories (regular-shaped single food, irregular-shaped single food, regular-shaped
      mixed food, irregular-shaped mixed food). Along with the four foods, participants will be
      given 20oz of water in each meal session. Foods will be weighed prior to being provided to
      participants and the amount provided to participants will be within +/- 3g of the amount
      calculated. Mixed foods will be broken down into their individual food components and
      measured. Each meal will provide approximately 50% of daily estimated energy need for each
      sex. The Estimated Calories Needed Per Day for males and females aged 19 to 35 years are 2450
      kcal/day and 1900 kcal/day, respectively. Thus, each meal will provide approximately 1225
      kcal for males and 950 kcal for females. Each food will provide approximately 25% of the
      energy for each meal.
    
  