
    
      For several years, we have been wondering about the potential deleterious effects of
      bisphenol A (BPA) on our organism. Known as an endocrine disruptor, its action has been
      demonstrated at different levels of the human body and by different mechanisms. Its endocrine
      activity is due to its structure close to that of estradiol. Cytotoxicity is the property of
      a chemical or biological agent to be toxic to cells, possibly destroying it. Bisphenol A
      (BPA) has received increasing attention in recent years. It is used in the monomer
      manufacturing process of composites customary in orthodontics, as a precursor of Bis-DMA and
      Bis-GMA, but is not normally found in pure form in these composites. In the mouth, these
      materials are subject to numerous degradation constraints, initial and long-term: thermal
      variations, pH change, mechanical wear, enzymatic, bacterial and salivary attack. They are
      therefore responsible for the possible release of BPA, found in many human biological fluids,
      including saliva. The monomers present in the composite resins are released in 2 stages:
      immediate release where the non-polymerized monomers are found in the saliva for a few hours
      after the treatment, delayed release where the monomers can be released following the
      treatment by the various mechanisms of wear and degradation of the composite. If the BPA is
      mainly released in saliva within three hours after the establishment of the dental
      restoration, the long-term release remains to be determined, which explains the patient's
      follow-up time of 6 months.

      The main objective of this research is the quantification of the Bisphenol A monomer released
      during the placement of a mandibular orthodontic compression in order to raise awareness
      among professionals. The study relates to the analysis of patients followed in the dental
      department at the Pitié Salpetrière hospital. The study briefing note will be presented to
      patients during the visit. Non-opposition will be collected and notified in the patient's
      medical file after a 15-day cooling-off period.

      The salivary samples will be collected at 5 defined times: before removal of the orthodontic
      brackets (T0), after removal (T1), just after application of the compression (T2), then at
      one hour (T3), one month (T4) and 6 months (T5), as part of the end of their orthodontic
      treatment. Control samples will be taken from patients who do not have a composite
      restoration in their mouth. The inclusion criteria are patients undergoing orthodontic
      treatment (multi-attachment device) with planned debagging and requiring compression with
      mandibular bonded wire from canine to canine and maxillary groove, without composite
      restoration in the mouth, with good hygiene and not gingival inflammation. The exclusion
      criteria are patients requiring maxillary bonded compression, with composite restoration in
      the mouth, carious lesions, smokers, with chronic pathologies and / or drugs, with chronic
      exposure to Bisphenol A (construction sites, service stations ... ). The composite cartridges
      will be weighed before and after their use, to have the exact quantity of material placed in
      the mouth. For laying the compression wire, the protocol will also be identical to the
      bonding protocol in adhesive dentistry.

      The samples are analyzed by liquid chromatography (HPLC) on the Bioprofiler platform
      (Metabolism Platform) of the Functional and Adaptive Biology Unit - CNRS UMR 8251 at Paris
      Diderot University.

      The analytical method chosen for the identification and quantification of the compounds is
      high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). This method allows the separation of the
      constituents of a very complex mixture. The HPLC consists of two pumps which maintain a
      mobile phase under pressure in a column (stationary phase). The sample is injected into the
      circulation system of the mobile phase and passes into the column where the different
      constituents are more or less retained. The nature of the mobile phase and of the column
      allows separation according to the physicochemical properties of the constituents of a
      mixture.

      Developments and optimizations of extraction and dosage methods allowing the analysis of the
      release of bisphenols by orthodontic materials in saliva samples were carried out on this
      platform.
    
  