
    
      Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is an autoimmune blistering disease characterized clinically by the
      presence of severely itchy, tense blisters located over the trunk and extremities. BP is the
      most common of the autoimmune blistering diseases with an incidence of approximately 10 per
      1,000,000 population(1;2). In addition, BP occurs more frequently in the elderly. Routine
      histopathology reveals a sub-epidermal blister most often with large numbers of eosinophils.
      Direct immunofluorescence of the skin of patients with BP reveals a linear band of C3 and IgG
      at the basement membrane zone. Examination of the sera of patients shows the presence of a
      circulating anti-basement membrane zone autoantibody. This antibody has been found to be
      directed against a 180 kd protein of the basement membrane zone type XVII collagen (BPAg2)
      and against a 230 kd protein (BPAg1) found in the epidermal hemi-desmosome(3;4).

      BP is a severe disease most often requiring therapy with high dose systemic corticosteroids
      (0.75 - 1.0 mg/kg/day) often for months(5). In addition, relapses are common and the
      additional use of immunosuppressive drugs such as azathioprine, methotrexate, cyclosporine A
      and others are needed to minimize the dose of systemic corticosteroids. The 1-year mortality
      of BP has been estimated to range from 10 - 30%(1;6). Currently treatment of patients with BP
      consists of initial use of systemic corticosteroids (0.75 - 1.0 mg/kg/day). Control of
      symptoms and new blister formation is most often achieved within 1 month and systemic
      corticosteroids are then tapered. As many as 33 - 50% of patients may not be able to be
      tapered to clinically acceptable levels of systemic corticosteroids, requiring the addition
      of systemic immunosuppression often with azathioprine. Approximately 66% of patients require
      long term treatment with immunosuppressive medication to maintain control of their
      blistering.(5;7;8) The need for long term systemic corticosteroid therapy often with systemic
      immunosuppression in an elderly population results in a significant morbidity and mortality
      in patients with BP. New therapeutic interventions that would potentially allow for the more
      rapid discontinuation of prednisone, avoidance of systemic immuno- suppression and perhaps
      earlier clinical relapse would be of substantial benefit to patients with BP. The clinical
      and laboratory data has demonstrated that BP is an autoantibody mediated blistering disease.
      Taken together these observations suggest that the use of anti-CD20 antibody (Rituxan) may be
      useful in the treatment of patients with BP. We have previously treated a patient with BP and
      graft versus host disease with anti-CD20 and anti-CD25 and were able to achieve clinical and
      serological remission within 4 weeks of initiation of therapy(9). In addition, others and we
      have successfully utilized Rituxan for the treatment of pemphigus vulgaris, another
      autoantibody mediated, autoimmune blistering disease(10-15)
    
  