
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you agree to take part in this study, about 35-60 days after the transplant, you will
      receive brentuximab vedotin by vein over about 30 minutes on Day 1 of each 21-day study
      cycle. You may receive up to 6 cycles of brentuximab vedotin.

      At Cycles 3 and beyond, you will receive a higher dose of the study drug than you received
      during Cycles 1 and 2.

      Study Visits:

      About 5 days before Day 1 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam. As part of the physical exam, you will be checked for
           graft-versus-host disease (GVHD -- when transplanted donor tissue attacks the tissues of
           the recipient's body). You may have an additional blood draw to check for GVHD as part
           of your standard of care.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check how the
           transplant has taken.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons each time) will be drawn before and after your dose of study
           drug to check the immune system.

      On Days 3 and 5 of Cycle 1, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to check the immune
      system.

      About 5 days before Day 1 of Cycles 2-6:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check the immune
           system.

      If your doctor thinks it is needed, you may have a skin biopsy or endoscopy to check for GVHD
      and/or graft failure. You will sign a separate consent form that explains the procedures and
      risks.

      Length of Study:

      You will be taken off study 1 year after the transplant. You will no longer be able to take
      the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, if you develop
      an infection (such as cytomegalovirus [CMV] that does not respond to treatment), or if you
      are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      About 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after the transplant, you will have follow-up visits as part of
      your standard of care after your transplant. At these visits:

        -  You will have a physical exam

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests, to learn how the transplant
           has taken, and to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have a computed tomography (CT) scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy and aspiration to check the status of the disease and
           for cytogenetic testing. To collect a bone marrow biopsy/aspirate, an area of the hip or
           other site is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow and bone is
           withdrawn through a large needle. Cytogenetic testing looks at how genetic changes to
           cells may affect how the disease may react to the study drug.

      This is an investigational study. Brentuximab vedotin is FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma and ALCL. It is investigational to give
      brentuximab vedotin at an earlier time after a transplant.

      Up to 20 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  