
    
      Patients with Tetralogy of Fallot have various degrees and levels of right ventricular
      outflow tract obstruction. They undergo surgical removal of the obstructing structures, which
      includes the pulmonary valve. The repair of the outflow tract is done utilizing a
      transannular patch. This approach, which is considered the standard of care, results in free
      pulmonary insufficiency, which may become severe and lead to right heart overloading and
      subsequent dilatation and dysfunction. This chronic overloading results in progressive
      tricuspid insufficiency and a suspected decline in effective pulmonary blood flow, cardiac
      output and right ventricle functional capabilities. Many patients develop progressive
      exercise intolerance, arrhythmias and severe cardiomegaly leading to dilated cardiomyopathy.
      The progressive decline in patient clinical status results in recommendations of pulmonary
      valve replacement to interrupt further dysfunction of the ventricles. Clinical improvement is
      generally seen among the patients and cardiac function is measurably improved in many cases,
      however the timing of surgery remains undefined and its impact on function improvement and
      recovery post -valve replacement is under serious debate and continuous discussion.

      Preliminary work suggests that Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) determined right to left
      ventricular volume ratio's of greater than 2:1 with associated tricuspid regurgitation, right
      ventricular regurgitant volumes of greater than 50%, and right ventricular ejection fractions
      less than 45% are common among patients with severe right ventricular failure and
      dysfunction. These patients are in need of pulmonary valve replacement and have routinely
      been referred for surgical intervention.

      Patients with Aortic Coarctation have a localized malformation characterized by deformity of
      the aortic media, causing narrowing, usually severe, of the lumen of the vessel. Surgical
      repair or removal of this malformation is the treatment of choice however; the use of MRI to
      better determine the extent of damage or malformation would allow the surgeon to plan an
      operative strategy prior to opening the chest.
    
  