
    
      Background:

        -  Efforts to incorporate anti-tumor immunotherapy at stages of minimal residual disease
           (MRD) burden are limited by profound host immune depletion associated with standard
           anti-cancer therapies.

        -  Allogeneic blood and marrow stem cell transplantation (SCT) can be curative for a number
           of hematologic malignancies. Part of the success of this approach is an allogeneic
           immunologic reaction that has been demonstrated to play a role in the eradication of
           residual malignant disease after transplant in certain cancers (the so called
           graft-versus-leukemia, GVL, or graft-versus-tumor, GVT, effect). Nonetheless, relapse
           remains the primary cause of treatment failure after allogeneic SCT.

        -  The Wilm's tumor 1 (WT1) gene product is a tumor-associated antigen that represents a
           potential target for immunotherapy in a wide array of cancers. WT1 is expressed in most
           cases of acute leukemia and in many cases of chronic myelogenous leukemia and
           myelodysplastic syndromes. Importantly, WT1 has limited expression in normal tissues
           beyond embryogenesis. This trial represents an attempt to incorporate antigen-specific
           immunotherapy in the setting of allogeneic adoptive cell transfer.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the safety, toxicity, and feasibility of donor-derived dendritic cell
           vaccination and donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) after allogeneic SCT.

        -  To determine the frequency and severity of graft-vs.-host disease (GVHD) in patients
           treated with peptide-loaded donor-derived dendritic cell vaccination and donor
           lymphocyte infusion (DLI).

        -  To evaluate whether immunologic responses to WT1-specific peptides can be generated by
           peptide-loaded donor-derived dendritic cell vaccination and DLI after allogeneic SCT.

        -  To evaluate whether clinical responses to WT1-specific peptides can be generated by
           peptide-loaded donor-derived dendritic cell vaccination and DLI after allogeneic SCT.

        -  To evaluate whether immunologic and/or clinical responses may be associated with the
           degree of WT1 expression by malignant cells or pre-existing donor anti-WT1 immunity.

      Eligibility:

        -  HLA-A2 plus patients may be enrolled on this trial if they have relapsed or residual
           disease following allogeneic SCT for a WT1 expressing hematologic malignancy.

        -  Donors from the previous SCT, related or unrelated, must be 5- or 6- antigen genotypic
           HLA-matched (single HLA-A or B locus mismatch allowed) and HLAA2 plus.

      Design:

        -  This is a pilot study, the primary aim of which is to assess safety and feasibility of
           this novel vaccine strategy aimed to enhance the GVL effect after allogeneic SCT.

        -  Donor-derived dendritic cells prepared from peripheral blood monocytes will be loaded
           with a combination of three WT1-derived peptides. These peptides are each comprised of
           one WT1-derived oligomeric epitope known to bind to HLA-A2 and an 11-mer protein
           transduction epitope known to enhance peptide loading and antigen presentation.

        -  Patients will receive donor-derived dendritic cell vaccines every 14 days for 6 doses.
           Donor leukocyte infusions (DLI) will also be administered with the vaccine.

        -  Study endpoints will include toxicity, feasibility, antigen-specific immunity, and
           disease response.

        -  This is an exploratory pilot trial. Up to 12 patients will be treated.

        -  Stopping rules will take effect if excessive toxicity (e.g., GVHD) or inability to
           generate vaccines are observed.
    
  