
    
      Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with its accompanying adverse sequelae is one of the most
      common causes of morbidity and mortality in the world .

      Although reperfusion techniques for ST- elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI ) are
      constantly improving, no-reflow can still lead to poor prognosis .

      At present, the exact mechanism of no-reflow remains unclear, but clinical and laboratory
      findings suggest that it is related to the embolism of the capillary bed, ischemic injury,
      vascular endothelial dysfunction, production of oxygen free radical , and other factors .

      The no-reflow phenomenon is one of complications of poor functional and clinical outcomes for
      patients with (AMI) .

      The no-reflow phenomenon is present in 25% to 30% of patients with (AMI) underwent successful
      coronary recanalization, as shown by angiography . The myocardial no-reflow phenomenon is
      associated with a reducution of antegrade myocardial blood flow inspite of an open
      infarct-related artery in patients with (STEMI ) undergoing (PCI) . Importantly, no-reflow is
      known to be related to unfavorable clinical outcome and prognosis . The cause of this complex
      phenomenon is the variable combination of four pathogenetic components: distal
      atherothrombotic embolization, ischemic injury, reperfusion injury and susceptibility of
      coronary microcirculation to injury . As a consequence, appropriate strategies are expected
      to prevent or treat these components are expected to avoid the no-reflow. Coronary
      reperfusion therapy is widely performed in patients with (AMI) . However, in spite of patency
      of the infarct-related artery , there is no guarantee of salvage of myocardium at risk of
      ischemia .The no-reflow phenomenon is found in >30% of patients after thrombolysis or
      catheter-based (PCI) for (AMI) . It is important, therefore, to be able to predict which
      lesions are high risk for no reflow before beginning PCI .

      Many of the well-accepted risk factors for no-reflow are similar to other well-accepted
      cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension, smoking, dyslipidemia, diabetes, and other
      inflammatory processes. As such, there are some generally accepted measures associated with a
      lower incidence of no-reflow following PCI for STEMI. For example, in patients with diabetes,
      optimal blood sugar control before the procedure can reduce the occurrence of no-reflow .

      There are numerous recognized risk factors for the development of coronary artery disease
      (CAD), one of the best known is the association between blood lipids and CAD . Several
      prospective studies have established that the risk of cardiac morbidity and mortality is
      directly related to the concentration of plasma cholesterol. ' The most prevalent view is
      that the increased risk of myocardial infarction associated with elevated plasma cholesterol
      levels can be adequately explained on the basis of the increase in number and severity of
      coronary atherosclerotic vascular lesions . .

      Hyperglycemia is associated with The increased mortality in patients with acute myocardial
      infarction which caused by a larger infarct size, a high incidence of congestive heart
      failure, and cardiogenic shock, and death after AMI., . However, the underlying mechanisms of
      these deleterious effects of hyperglycemia are not well understood Uric acid (UA) is a
      byproduct the terminal steps of purine catabolism, . uric acid synthesis is increased under
      tissue ischemia. Therefore, elevated uric acid may affect prognosis of (AMI). A few studies
      have doucomented that UA is associated with therapeutic results in patients with AMI. UA
      level is appeared to be related to infarct size and hemodynamic derangement. Although prompt
      restoration of myocardial blood flow is very important for patients with AMI, high levels of
      UA are doucoumented to be significantly associated with the presence of slow coronary flow
    
  