
    
      Patients

      The University-Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf is a specialist reference centre for the treatment
      of patients with esophageal carcinoma in Germany. A prospective database for all patients
      with surgically resectable esophageal carcinoma was established in 1992 at the Department for
      General, Visceral and Thoracic Surgery at the University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany.
      Only patients without perioperative chemotherapy and histologically proven esophageal cancer
      were included into this study. The demographic, clinical, operative and postoperative courses
      of each patient were collected. Informed consent was obtained from all patients before
      including them in the prospective database. The study was approved by the Medical Ethical
      Committee of the chamber of physicians of Hamburg.

      Surgical procedures in patients with esophageal carcinomas encompassed either transhiatal
      (TH) or thoracoabdominal (TA) esophagectomy. The thoraco-abdominal (Ivor - Lewis)
      esophagectomies were performed by right-sided thoracotomy, median inverse T-shaped
      laparotomy, and left-sided cervicotomy for collar anastomosis until mid 2003. From mid 2003
      onward the anastomosis was done highly intrathoracically. A wide peritumoral resection was
      performed including an en bloc subtotal esophageal resection with dissection of the
      right-sided paratracheal, aortopulmonary window, subcarinal, mediastinal, and paracardial
      lymph nodes. The azygos vein was also resected. An extensive lymphadenectomy of the upper
      abdominal compartment (D-II lymphadenectomy, including the paracardial nodes, the left
      gastric artery nodes along with the lymph nodes of the lesser curvature of the stomach, the
      celiac trunk, the common hepatic artery, and the splenic artery) was conducted.

      The transhiatal esophagectomies consisted of an inversed T-shaped laparotomy, followed by
      wide peritumoral dissection of the distal esophagus and abdominal lymph node dissection of
      the upper abdominal compartment (D-II lymphadenectomy), and a dissection of the lymph nodes
      of the posterior mediastinum extending as far as the main carina of the trachea. Above the
      tracheal bifurcation, the dissection was continued bluntly using digital dissection and
      staying close to the esophageal wall.

      Follow-Up

      Postoperative follow-up was conducted in all patients at three months intervals for the first
      two years and at six-month intervals thereafter, and included physical examination, plain
      chest radiography, abdominal ultrasonography, endoscopy, endosonography, computed tomography
      of the chest and abdomen as well as PET-CT after January 2006 in selected cases, studies of
      tumor markers (carcinoembryonic antigen and CA 19-9), and bone scanning. Recurrence was
      diagnosed if proven by biopsy or unequivocal evidence of tumor masses (newly appearing
      metastases or local recurrence) with a tendency to grow during further follow-up and/or
      follow-up until death. Events considered were death, local recurrence, and distant
      metastasis. When no events were recorded, the patients were censored at the last contact. The
      last general follow-up of survivors was done at the end of April 2011. Overall patient
      survival, defined as time from operation to death or last follow-up, was used as a measure of
      prognosis.

      Statistical Analysis

      We used the SPSS 17.0 for Windows for statistical analysis. Tumor stage and grade were
      classified according to the 6th and 7th edition of the TNM classification of the UICC.

      Associations between categorical variables at surgery were assessed by Fisher exact test. The
      Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the occurrence probability of an event (death,
      recurrence). Point and interval estimates for survival probabilities at 60 months were
      calculated. Differences between patient groups with respect to their survival were assessed
      using log-rank tests, and the difference was considered to be statistically significant at
      P<0.05. Apart from patient's sex and age at surgery, those covariates with a P value < 0.05
      in univariate survival analysis (log rank test) were entered into multivariate Cox
      proportional-hazards analysis to assess the independent influence of these covariates. In
      this case, significance statements refer to P values of 2-tailed tests with a P-value ≤0.05.
    
  