
    
      This study is designed for the evaluation, diagnosis, and long-term follow up of selected
      patients with primary immune deficiencies and other conditions associated with fungal, and
      more specifically with Candida spp. infections. The primary immune deficiencies to be studied
      include, but are not limited to, autoimmune polyendocrinopathy candidiasis ectodermal
      dystrophy (APECED), chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis (CMC), myeloperoxidase deficiency
      (MPO), immune dysregulation polyendocrinopathy enteropathy X-linked (IPEX), Job s syndrome,
      chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), and biotinidase deficiency. Diabetic patients and
      infants also show increased susceptibility to such infections and might be studied. Patient
      participants (who we will refer to as patients in this study) will undergo evaluations that
      include history/physical, blood sampling, genetic testing, and possible tissue sampling. We
      may use some of the blood cells to investigate the utility of induced pluripotent stem cells
      (iPS) for immune cell derivation and targeted gene correction. First or second degree
      genetically related family members (limited to mother, father, siblings, grandparents,
      children, aunts, uncles, and first cousins of an affected patient and who we will refer to as
      relatives in this study) might also be screened for clinical, in vitro, and genetic
      correlates of immune abnormalities. Healthy volunteers will be enrolled as a source of
      control samples for research testing. Among the aims of this protocol are to better
      understand the genetic and pathophysiologic factors that lead to defects in host defense, and
      to use modern and evolving methods in molecular and cellular biology to elucidate the
      pathogenesis of this particular susceptibility. A better understanding of primary
      immunodeficiency could allow for the rational development of novel therapies for such
      diseases and to benefit future patients, but it might not benefit current patient
      participants directly. Routine follow-up may occur every 6 months -with evaluation and blood
      sampling. Under some circumstances, we may provide treatment that relates to the immune
      deficiency. These treatments will follow standard medical practice.
    
  