
    
      Intradetrusor injection of onabotulinumtoxinA, which is performed thorough a cystoscopic
      procedure, has been demonstrated to be efficacious in the treatment of both neurogenic and
      non-neurogenic overactive bladder (OAB), and is FDA approved as a treatment for OAB.
      Intradetrusor of onabotulinumtoxinA is currently standard of care in patients with persistent
      OAB symptoms despite behavioral therapies and oral medication treatments for OAB. As one of
      the main adverse events associated with intradetrusor injection of onabotulinumtoxinA is UTI,
      and published guidelines for cystoscopic procedures with manipulation recommend the use of
      prophylactic antibiotics, a single dose of prophylactic antibiotic is administered prior to
      this procedure as the current standard of care. However, the guideline recommendations are
      primarily based on data from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) involving antimicrobial
      prophylaxis during transurethral resection of the prostate, and does not address cystoscopic
      injection procedures like onabotulinumtoxinA injection. Studies have reported that up to 50%
      of antibiotic usage is inappropriate, leading to unnecessary exposure of patients to
      potential complications of antibiotic therapy, including Clostridium difficile infection
      which can cause recurrent diarrhea that may progress to sepsis and death, increasing
      antibiotic resistances, as well as dermal/allergic and gastro-intestinal manifestations. In
      an effort to optimize antibiotic usage, antimicrobial stewardship is required in nursing
      facilities, acute-care and critical care hospitals, as well as ambulatory care centers. These
      efforts highlight the importance of re-evaluating our current practice standard of
      prophylactic antibiotic administration in urologic procedures. A prospective study that
      included patients undergoing intradetrusor onabutulinumtoxin injections who were not
      symptomatic for UTI and did not receive antibiotic prophylaxis demonstrated that the rate of
      post-procedure UTI within 6 weeks of treatment was not significantly different in those with
      a sterile urine culture compared to those with asymptomatic bacteriuria, suggesting that in
      patients who are not symptomatic for UTI, antibiotic prophylaxis may not be necessary prior
      to intradetrusor onabotulinumtoxin injection. To date, there have been no randomized studies
      that evaluate differences in outcomes when prophylactic antibiotics are not given prior to
      onabotulinumtoxinA injection. Therefore, in an effort to optimize antibiotic use, the
      investigators propose a prospective, randomized study to formally investigate whether there
      is a difference in the rate of symptomatic post-procedure UTI after intradetrusor
      onabotulinumtoxin when antibiotic prophylaxis is given compared to when antibiotic
      prophylaxis is not given in patients who are not symptomatic for UTI and have a negative
      urinalysis. The proposed study seeks to evaluate the current practice standard of antibiotic
      prophylaxis prior to intradetrusor onabotulinumtoxin injection.
    
  