
    
      UC is a chronic inflammatory bowel disorder with relapsing and remitting course. The
      incidence of UC in Hong Kong has increased by 30-fold in the past three decades. The efficacy
      of mesalazine in preventing relapse in patients with UC is well-known and supported by
      randomized studies. However, mesalazine can be associated with side-effects. In addition,
      drug compliance is suboptimal, especially when disease is not active. Without mesalazine, the
      risk of relapse in UC in one year is approximately 60-70%. Repeated flares are disabling for
      the patient, and lead to increased hospitalisations, anatomical extension of disease, and
      increased cancer risk. In Hong Kong, 90 percent of patients with UC have low to medium
      compliance to mesalazine, and 50 percent would prefer the use of a complementary or
      alternative therapy to maintain disease remission. Identification of a natural product that
      is effective, acceptable, inexpensive and non-toxic remains an unmet need in patients with
      UC.

      Curcumin is a natural phytochemical derived from the Indian spice turmeric. It is widely
      used, has potent anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant and anti-tumour properties. Preclinical
      studies in experimental animals showed that curcumin is effective in preventing colitis. We
      reported in a randomized study that curcumin is effective in the induction of remission in
      patients with mild to moderately active UC. Although curcumin is popular amongst patients
      with inflammatory bowel disease, its efficacy in maintaining disease remission in UC is
      uncertain. We propose a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to assess the efficacy of
      curcumin in preventing clinical relapse in patients with UC. Patients will be randomised to 2
      gram curcumin once daily or an equivalent placebo for 12 months. The primary outcome is the
      rate of clinical relapse at 12 months. Secondary outcomes include adverse events, endoscopic
      remission, fecal calprotectin levels and time to relapse.

      Because the use of curcumin is already popular in Asia, this important clinical question will
      not be a priority of pharmaceutical companies. If proven, this industry-independent trial
      will be a landmark study that identifies an alternative effective treatment to maintain
      disease remission in patients with UC. Regardless of the outcome, it will inform clinical
      practice and provide invaluable data to international guideline committees on the management
      of this chronic inflammatory disease.

      The aims of this double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized trial is to assess the efficacy
      of curcumin in the prevention of relapse in patients with ulcerative colitis (UC).
    
  