
    
      BACKGROUND:

      A finding from the Cholesterol Lowering Atherosclerosis Study (CLAS), a clinical trial,
      indicated that common carotid intima-media thickness responded more rapidly and more markedly
      to LDL-C lowering treatment than angiographic coronary stenosis or carotid roughness. New
      data from a primate model also showed ultrasound detection of intimal thickening in response
      to a hypercholesterolemic diet within twelve months. These findings suggest that carotid IMT
      is a reliable and rapidly responding marker of extent of atherosclerosis. However, less than
      a third of the observed therapeutic benefit on carotid IMT found in CLAS was explained by
      change in LDL-C and HDL-C, suggesting that related (or other) factors are more directly
      linked to atherogenic mechanisms. In addition, a Finnish epidemiologic study found that LDL-C
      was predicative of rate of progression in carotid IMT only in persons with high serum levels
      of (pro-oxidant) copper. . These and other data support a model of atherosclerosis in which
      intracellular accumulation of modified LDL is promoted/retarded by serum
      pro-oxidants/antioxidants.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study tested the specific hypotheses that the positive association between rate of
      increase in carotid IMT and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (beta deltaIMT/LDL) was
      greater in persons with [1] higher levels of serum pro-oxidants (relative to persons with
      lower levels of serum pro-oxidants), [2] lower levels of serum antioxidants, [3] lower levels
      of dietary antioxidants; and [4] that regression of carotid IMT associated with smoking
      cessation would be detected in 30 months. Hypothesis were tested with the longitudinal
      observation of carotid IMT in Hispanic and non-Hispanic white women and men. The inclusion of
      Hispanics and women was motivated by their prevalence in the study population (18 percent
      Hispanic, 40 percent women), and by the then recent report that incidence of hospitalization
      for myocardial infarction was elevated in Hispanics. Seventy three persons from each of four
      ethnicity-sex groups aged 40-60 years (n-292), and 83 smokers and recent quitters (n-166)
      were recruited from employees in an ongoing study. Baseline blood, diet and potential
      confounder variables were related to 18 and 36 month (6, 12, 18, 24 and 30 month in smoker(s)
      changes in carotid IMT. Levels of antioxidant vitamins, including alpha-tocopherol,
      ascorbate, and beta carotene, in the plasma were measured at baseline. Plasma levels of
      negatively charged LDL were measured in a sub-sample of subjects with the most rapidly
      progressing common carotid intima-media thickness and in an age-sex matched subsample with
      the least rapidly progressing common carotid intima-media thickness. Finally, an ultrasound
      measurement of carotid arterial stiffness, another indicator of early atherosclerosis, was
      developed to address the role of blood pressure.

      The Los Angeles Atherosclerosis Study (LAAS) has been renewed through February, 2004 to
      continue follow-up of the cohort for a total of seven years with two additional measures of
      arterial dysfunction, including endothelial function of the brachial artery and
      distensibility or stiffness of the common carotid artery.
    
  