
    
      BACKGROUND Migraine headaches affect more than 28 million persons in the United States
      (Foundation). Approximately 25% of women and 9% of men experience migraine headaches
      (Rasmussen BK, 1991) (Lipton RB, 1993) (Ramadan NM, 2002). Individuals with migraine
      headaches lose an average of 4 to 6 working days each year resulting in a total annual loss
      nationwide of 64 to 150 million workdays. It is estimated that the direct and indirect cost
      of migraines is nearly $17 billion (Hu XH, 1999) (RK., 1999). Headache is responsible for
      approximately 2% of all visits to emergency departments (Goldstein JN, 2006).

      Migraine headaches are typically described as recurring, unilateral headache with untreated
      attacks lasting from 4 to 72 hours. The international headache Society Classification of
      Headaches list the following diagnostic requirements for migraine headache: at least two of
      the following features: your lateral location, throbbing character, worsening pain with
      routine activity, and moderate to severe intensity and at least one of the following
      features: nausea and/or vomiting and photophobia and phonophobia (Society, 1988).

      TREATMENT There is no cure for migraine headaches. The treatments for migraine headaches are
      typically divided into non-pharmacologic and pharmacologic treatments. The non-pharmacologic
      treatments are designed to target those actions and behaviors known to trigger migraine
      headaches. The non-pharmacologic treatments include: regular sleep patterns, regular
      exercise, and the avoidance of known triggers. Triggers for migraine headaches can include:
      red wine, aged cheeses, exposure to chemical odors i.e. perfumes and cleaners. Non-
      pharmacologic therapies also include relaxation training, biofeedback, cognitive - behavioral
      therapy, hypnosis, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, cervical manipulation, and
      hyperbaric oxygen.

      The pharmacologic treatments for migraine headaches are typically divided into abortive
      therapies and prophylactic therapies. The abortive therapies are usually divided into
      nonspecific medications used to treat migraines: analgesics/NSAIDS (acetaminophen, aspirin,
      ibuprofen, naproxen sodium, ketorolac), and narcotic analgesics (meperidine and butorphanol),
      adjunctive therapy (metoclopramide, prochlorperazine). Migraine specific abortive therapies
      include ergotamine derivatives (ergotamine, caffeine plus ergotamine, dihydroergotamine) and
      the Triptans (Sumatriptan, Naratriptan, Rizatriptan, and Zolmitriptan) (Aukerman, 2002).
      Unlike the abortive therapies, which are taken to treat an existing headache, prophylactic
      therapies are taken (usually daily) to reduce the frequency and intensity of migraine
      headaches. Prophylatic, or preventive medications are generally divided into the first-line
      agents and second-line agents. First-line therapies for migraine prophylaxis in adults
      include propranolol (Inderal), timolol (Blocadren), amitriptyline, divalproex (Depakote),
      sodium valproate, and topiramate (Topamax) (Modi & Lowder, 2006). Agents that could be used
      as second-line therapy for migraine prophylaxis in adults (listed by evidence of
      effectiveness) include gabapentin (Neurontin), naproxen (Naprosyn) or naproxen sodium
      (Anaprox), timed-release dihydroergotamine mesylate (DHE-45), candesartan (Atacand),
      lisinopril (Zestril), atenolol (Tenormin), metoprolol (Toprol XL), nadolol (Corgard),
      fluoxetine (Prozac), verapamil (Calan), magnesium, vitamin B2 (riboflavin), coenzyme Q10,
      hormone therapy (estradiol topical gel [Estrogel]), and botulinum toxin type A (Botox)
      injections (Modi & Lowder, 2006).

      PATHOGENESIS OF MIGRAINE Despite extensive research in the area of migraine headaches, the
      precise pathogenesis of migraine remains unknown. The list of potential candidates for the
      pathogenesis of migraines is extensive. For many years the excepted pathogenesis of migraine
      headaches was that they were due to extracerebral vasodilation. This theory proposes that the
      auras associated with migraine headache were due to an initial vasoconstriction which is
      followed by a vasodilatation of extracerebral vessels which resulted in the pain of a
      migraine headache. Others (Blau, 1984) have proposed that migraine is a primary neurological
      disturbance with secondary vasomotor changes. Migraine is likely a multi-genic condition with
      a complex pathophysiology in which both central and peripheral components of trigeminal pain
      pathway play a role in the signs and symptoms. In the past two decades the trigeminal
      vascular system (TVS) has been proposed as a possible component of migraine attacks. Nitric
      oxide has also been proposed as a potential mechanism for migraines, supported by the
      production of typical migraine headaches in migraneurs treated with nitroglycerin (NTG).
      5-hydroooxytryptamine (5-HT) has been implicated in migraine pathophysiology. The role for
      5-HT metabolism in migraine is supported by a low central 5-HT disposition associated with
      increase in 5-HT release during an attack (Panconesi, 2008). Weir and Cader (2011) have
      proposed that channelopaties may play a role in migraine headaches, especially those with a
      genetic association. Cortical spreading depression has been implicated as a cause for
      migraine aura (Weir 2011). The Neurogenic inflammation (NI) theory proposes that,
      vasodilation and plasma protein extravasation in tissue receiving trigeminal innervation
      occurs when vasoactive peptides are released from nerve endings (Buzzi, 2005). Burstein, et
      al., 2011 has proposed that peripheral sensitization is a major contributor to
      hypersensitivity in many painful syndromes including migraine headaches. In this state
      primary afferent nociceptive neurons exhibit increased responsiveness to external stimuli at
      the original site of inflammation or injury. A large number of chemical mediators produced at
      a site of inflammation or tissue injury can promote excitation and sensitization of
      nociceptors. These chemical mediators include bradykinin, histamine, serotonin (5-HT), and
      prostaglandins. Cytokines (interleukins 1, 6 and 8 [IL-1, IL-6, IL-8] and tumor necrosis
      factor alpha [TNF-alpha]) are inflammatory mediators known to promote peripheral
      sensitization (Burstein, et al., 2011). Central sensitization which occurs in two distinct
      phases, the initiation phase and the maintenance phase may play a role in migraine headache.
      This sensitization is mediated by the excitatory amino acid glutamate and neuropeptides such
      as substance P and neurotrophic factors. The enhanced neuronal excitability in central
      sensitization involves the phosphorylation of intracellular and extracellular kinases and the
      enhanced production of cyclooxygenase. The list of chemical mediators involved in the
      pathogenesis of migraine is extensive. The scientific investigations required to elucidate
      the exact mechanisms responsible for migraine headaches continues as an important part of
      ongoing clinical trials.

      GLUCOSE METABOLISM AND MIGRAINE The relationship between migraine headaches and hunger is an
      accepted and well documented phenomenon. Missing meals can precipitate or trigger a migraine
      in susceptible individuals. Shaw et al., 1977 showed that migraine patients had impaired
      tolerance to glucose during migraine attacks compared with control studies. There was an
      elevation of plasma free fatty acid (FFA) levels during the migraine attacks. Growth hormone
      and cortisol were elevated and insulin was depressed during attacks. Patients with migraine
      have impaired insulin sensitivity (Rainero, et al., 2005). During the oral glucose tolerance
      test (OGTT), glucose plasma concentrations were significantly higher in migraineurs than in
      controls. Insulin sensitivity (measured by ISI-stumvoll and OGIS-180 indexes) was
      significantly altered in migraine. Cavestro et al. (2007) reported that headache patients had
      elevated blood glucose levels when compared to controls. They also documented that insulin
      levels were elevated in migraineurs when compared to control patients and other headache
      patients. Additional studies are needed to explore the role of impaired glucose metabolism in
      migraine including the role that glucose metabolism may play in the development of new
      therapies for migraine.

      ROLE OF HISTAMINE IN MIGRAINE In 2003, Gazerani, et al. demonstrated a correlation between
      migraine, histamine, and immunoglobulin E. Serum samples were collected (for histamine levels
      and Immunoglobulin E levels) from 70 patients (18 - 58 years) with migraine during an attack
      and during remission and from 45 healthy volunteers. The migraine patients were divided into
      two groups according to their history of allergies (60% having a history of allergies and 40%
      without a history of allergies). Plasma histamine levels were significantly elevated (P ≤
      0.0001) in patients with migraine both during symptom-free periods (Error! Reference source
      not found.) and during migraine events (Error! Reference source not found.) when compared to
      the control group.

        -  RATIONALE FOR THE USE OF STUDY DRUG IN THE TREATMENT OF STUDY DISEASE In 1991, Guerrero,
           et al. carried out an initial study that provided evidence for the beneficial effects of
           histamine in migraine prophylaxis (Millan-Guerrero RO, 1999). Their data showed that
           subcutaneous administration of low doses (1-10 ng) of histamine induced significant
           relief from migraine symptoms, with no secondary effects. The possible mechanisms of
           histamine migraine prophylaxis, can be explained by histamine control of mast cells; the
           antidromic stimulation of trigeminal nerve endings induces the release of substance P
           and other neuromodulatory peptides, which in turn stimulate the release of histamine
           from mast cells. In meningeal blood vessels, activation of H1-receptors by histamine,
           results in vasodilatation and plasma protein extravasation, causing neurogenic
           inflammation (Akerman S, 2002). Krabbe and Olesen (Krabbe AA, 1980) and Lassen et al.
           (Lassen LH, 1995) showed that on migrainous subjects, intravenous administration of
           relatively high doses of histamine (0.5 mg/kg per minute for 20 min) caused an immediate
           headache during the infusion, followed by a delayed migraine attack which was abolished
           by pre-treatment with the H1-R antagonist, mepyramine. However, degranulation of mast
           cells and neuropeptide release from C fiber endings are inhibited by the histamine at
           low-concentration interaction with H3-receptors (H3-R), and probably reflects a local
           feedback circuit between C-fiber nerve endings and mast cells, which control neurogenic
           inflammation (Dimitriadou V, 1994) (Arrang J-M, 1983) (Arrang J-M G. M.-C., 1987)
           (Placeholder21). Guerrero, et al. proposed that the administration of low doses of
           histamine, to achieve and maintain low-circulating concentrations, may lead to a
           selective interaction of histamine with H3-R. Histamine could constitute a new
           therapeutic drug in migraine prophylaxis that acts by limiting the excessive
           inflammatory response involved in migraine pathophysiology.
    
  