
    
      The main device class used in this study will be an app that was designed by one of the
      investigators. The app is called "WAVES" and can be run on either an Android or iOS platform.
      The program presents a split screen of flashing lights with a different frequency on each
      half screen. The frequency of the lights can be changed according to either standard
      parameters or parameters set by EEG metrics. Audio stimulation will also be added in a second
      phase of the study. The audio stimulation consists of clicks given to each ear at different
      frequencies.

      The study will have several stages. The participants will be told what stage of the project
      they will be participating in.

      Stage 1: Open-label feasibility-this stage will include about 10-15 individuals who will be
      test participants for new protocols. This may include change in frequency of stimulation
      around a new baseline such as the individual theta frequency or the individual alpha
      frequency. All session parameters will be restricted, e.g. no more than 40-minutes of total
      stimulation per session.

      Stage 2: Sham controlled single-blind randomized onsite. This stage will include participants
      who receive up to 40-minutes of visual stimulation given either through a protocol determined
      in Stage 1 as an effective paradigm or as random frequency stimulation. The participants will
      be blinded to study allocation. The principal investigator will not be blinded in order to
      have tighter oversight on safety.

      Stage 3: Sham controlled double-blind randomized at home with cross over study. This stage
      will involve sending the participants home with a smartphone app and pre-fitted head mounted
      virtual reality frame. The participants will receive a kit that contains the accessories and
      smartphone. Allocation will be 1:1 real to sham stimulation. After a preset trial duration
      (generally 2-weeks) the participants who were give sham stimulation will be cross-overed to
      real stimulation. The individuals who underwent real stimulation will be cross-overed to sham
      stimulation for 2 weeks. Both will then be given the option of doing 2 weeks of open label
      stimulation and then tapered to off over 2 weeks. This will provide an assessment of
      stimulation efficacy of 2 weeks vs 4 weeks as well as the sham response rate. Each week of
      sessions entails 5-10 sessions per week.

      The participants will be completing online study questionnaires through a personalized
      weblink on RedCap or SurveyMonkey.

      EEG recordings will be made at baseline, conclusion, and in between sessions to monitor the
      correlation between symptoms and EEG features.
    
  