
    
      Participants: Healthy middle age group (50-65 years) Method: Demographic information of all
      participants (age, gender, body mass index), educational level (primary, undergraduate,
      graduate), history of falling (at least in 6 months), comorbidities (hypertension, diabetes,
      kidney diseases, etc.), drug using (how many per day, which one) to be examined by
      questionnaire and also visual impairment, the use of glasses will be recorded. Motor skills
      of participants; muscle strength, range of motion (ROM), gait speed (14m), Functional Reach
      Test will be evaluated. The Mini Mental Test and the Stroop test will be used to evaluate
      cognitive skills. Single and dual task performance will be evaluated by FSST.

      The participants performed the FSST;

        1. FSST single: This test is consist of only FSST.

        2. FSST motor: FSST is combined with a motor task (carrying a cup of water)

        3. FSST cognitive: FSST is combined with a cognitive task (auditory N-back test) As
           prioritization affects dual task performance, in this study the prioritization will be
           used in dual task's evaluation. Therefore the dual task will be perform as;

      1-With no prioritization 2-With prioritization (focus on balance task) 3-With prioritization
      (focus on cognitive task) 4-With prioritization (focus on motor task) Note: Balance task is
      FSST. Cognitive task is auditory N-back test. Motor task is carrying a cup of water.

      Statistical Analyses:

      The data will be analyzed with Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) 21.0
      package program. Descriptive statistical information will be given as mean (X) ± standard
      deviation (X ± SD) and minimum (min), maximum (max) frequency (f) and percentage (%). The
      variables will be tested for normality using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. When the
      parametrical test assumptions are obtained, the correlation between the FSST single, FSST
      motor and FSST cognitive is evaluated by Pearson Correlation Analysis, if the parametrical
      test assumptions are not obtained, Spearman Correlation Analysis will be used. Multiple
      linear regression analysis will be applied to determine which potential factor is effective
      in performance in each FSST test. As a result of the power analysis using the effect size
      value in the reference study for the study, it was calculated that 85% power could be
      obtained at 95% confidence level when at least 60 people.
    
  