
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of three pre-planned arms of continuous,
      intermittent, and pulsatile selumetinib with paclitaxel as second-line treatment in patients
      with stage IIIB or IV NSCLC.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the preliminary clinical response of continuous, intermittent, and pulsatile
      selumetinib with paclitaxel as second-line treatment in patients with stage IIIB or IV NSCLC.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      II. To determine progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients
      treated with selumetinib/paclitaxel.

      II. To assess correlations between cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) molecular
      features from blood and molecular features and pathways from the biopsy samples, and use this
      as a surrogate measure of tumor response and duration of response as evaluated in the primary
      and secondary objectives.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-finding study of selumetinib. The goal is to find out what dose and
      dosing schedule is the most effective in this population. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3
      treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 and paclitaxel
      intravenously (IV) over a fixed rate on days 1 and 8.

      ARM II: Patients receive selumetinib PO BID on days 1-5, 8-12, and 15-19 and paclitaxel as in
      Arm I.

      ARM III: Patients receive selumetinib PO BID on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17 and paclitaxel as
      in Arm I.

      In all three arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients experiencing clinical benefit from study
      treatment may continue treatment based on the principal investigator (PI) approval on a
      patient-by-patient basis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 8 weeks for
      12 months, and then every 3 months thereafter.
    
  