
    
      AIMS :

      To study the effect of a Probiotics administration in reducing the incidence of first episode
      of SBP among cirrhotics who have low protein(<1 gm/dl) ascites.

      To study the effect of a Probiotics administration in reducing the incidence of second
      episode of SBP among cirrhotic who have already developed at least one episode of SBP.

      Study design : Prospective randomized placebo control efficacy study.

      Inclusion criteria: All patients with liver cirrhosis with ascites having either history of
      prior SBP or ascitic fluid protein <1 gm/dl will be included in the study irrespective of
      etiology.

      Exclusion criteria :

        -  Patients chronically treated with antibiotics or lactulose during past 30 days.

        -  Patients having risk factor of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth other than
           cirrhosis - diabetes mellitus, history of abdominal surgery, immunomodulator drugs.
           Alcoholic cirrhotics who continue to take alcohol.

        -  Patients with active or recent G.I. bleed (within prior 7 days).

        -  Patients with advanced HCC, renal failure and portal vein thrombosis

      Patients in primary prophylaxis group will be randomly allocated to receive either a
      Probiotics or placebo. While patients in secondary prophylaxis group will be randomized
      between Probiotics and norfloxacin.

      The Probiotics used in this study will be VSL#3. The control will be given similar looking
      capsules containing galactose powder.It will be used in the form of capsules. A total dose of
      450 billions CFU will be used. Norfloxacin will also be used as similar looking capsules. The
      drugs and placebo will be given for one year or till the end points of the study as mentioned
      below.

      Monitoring Each patients will be tested for SBP( Ascitic fluid cell count as well as culture)
      at the interval of every 6 weeks till the end point of the study.The effect of Probiotics on
      gut flora will be assessed objectively by jejunal fluid culture analysis baseline at 6 months
      and 1 year of the start of the treatment. This will be done on some of the representative
      sample from both the groups. Development of an episode of SBP, hepatic encephalopathy and
      variceal bleeding will be noted.All patients will be prospectively followed up from the date
      of enrollment to see the primary outcome that is development of SBP. The secondary outcome of
      the study will be the development of encephalopathy, variceal bleeding ,renal failure and
      death of the patients.

      End Points :

        1. completion of one year.

        2. development of an episode of SBP.

        3. Death.
    
  