
    
      TAVR is a very commonly performed procedure throughout the world; it has become standard of
      care as the treatment for aortic stenosis and is performed in hundreds of thousands of
      patients annually. TAVR affords patients therapies that prolong life and improve quality of
      life; furthermore, these therapies afford certain patients who are not candidates for
      surgical options hope for the future. Adults undergoing TAVR may suffer the complication of
      requiring a pacemaker after the procedure, in up to 30% of cases. Interventionalists still
      don't understand how to best predict this complication; in fact some patients that ultimately
      need a pacemaker don't get one after the procedure and some that get a pacemaker are found to
      ultimately not have really needed it. A better understanding of who does and who does not
      need pacemakers will help prevent complications of high grade block in those without
      pacemaker (death, syncope and trauma) and also the complications of unnecessary pacemaker
      implantation (infection, tricuspid regurgitation).

      Primary hypothesis: EP studies (EPS), which studies when performed before and after TAVR adds
      independent incremental value, above and beyond other parameters, for the prediction of
      high-grade heart block after TAVR. The goal is to understand conduction disease changes
      before and after TAVR, coupled with other patient and procedural factors that can help create
      a management algorithm for conduction disease after TAVR.

      Primary endpoint: to find correlation coefficients between a) absolute and delta values of
      various EPS findings, and b) clinical endpoint of high-grade conduction disease as diagnosed
      clinically, by ECG, by event monitor, or by interrogation of permanent pacemaker implanted
      after TAVR.

      Methods: Patients will receive EPS immediately before and after TAVR (while on the
      catheterization lab table for TAVR procedure) and then again the next day; this information
      will help determine whether the patient gets a pacemaker, a 30-day event monitor, or neither,
      and we will study which parameters obtained during the EPS, in addition to other
      known/suspected predictors of conduction disease after TAVR, best correlate with serious
      problems with the heart's electrical conduction system as determined by clinical follow-up.

      Anticipated findings: that the EPS findings add incremental and independent value in
      predicting which patients will develop high grade conduction disease.
    
  