
    
      Introduction. The phenomena of biological adaptation and overtraining are closely related
      terms, that is why in sport it is possible to identify two types of overtraining. The first
      of these is known as short-term overtraining, which is required as a state of peripheral
      fatigue induced by repeated sessions of physical activity in short periods of time that are
      related to mechanisms of metabolic type (e.g. low levels of glycogen), is considered
      desirable and normal, by allowing mechanisms of adaptation to be activated depending on the
      nature and administration of the loads, which allow reaching higher yield quotas. The second,
      long-term overtraining, is characterized by a series of signs and symptoms of exhaustion and
      persistent fatigue that take place at the level of the central nervous system and that are
      produced by the imbalance between demanding physical work and recovery periods.

      This type of condition is also known as, general syndrome of overtraining (GSO), unexplained
      low performance syndrome, staleness or burnout, which is propitiated by the need to achieve
      maximum physical performance and the performance of physical activities in a uncontrolled
      that cause an interruption to the processes of biological recovery that attenuate the
      obtaining of the physical form wished, reason why the sportsman experiences a decrease of the
      physical and mental performance, manifested in a clinical picture that reflects muscular
      inflammation, headache, elevation sudden blood pressure, loss of functional capacity,
      alterations of the central nervous system (CNS), metabolic, endocrine and immune systems. The
      neurotrophic factor derived from the brain (BDNF) influences different types of neurons in
      the CNS, promoting their differentiation, growth, survival, and neuroprotection by activating
      the mechanisms of synaptic plasticity.

      BDNF decreases when performing specific physical exercises with intensities under the
      interval (mixed) and high-intensity method; as those who are employed in competitive cycles.
      For its part, stretching is commonly used as a method of physical rehabilitation in patients
      with musculoskeletal injuries of various origins. Its effect reflects the restoration of
      motor control by interacting with the intervention and order centers that are located in
      different parts of the CNS that are associated with the modulation of the discharge of the
      motor neurons involved in the activation of the muscle spindle, which allow the reflex for
      the execution of the movement and the control of postures. The information regarding the
      relationship with the GSO, the stretching and the expression of BDNF in the regenerative
      capacity in those over-trained subjects and their compensatory mechanisms during the
      different cycles of physical exercise, is null, making necessary the investigation of the
      effects that can produce in the decrease of factors that indicate GSO and, consequently,
      build support systems for the athlete with the purpose of returning it to a level of adequate
      physical performance.

      Problem Statement. The training cycles are configured with the purpose of achieving a greater
      adaptation to the physical activity that is performed. However, those closest to the
      competition have more intensity and physical demands. However, the achievement of maximum
      performance and the GSO are phenomena deeply related to the adaptability of the organism. The
      strategies commonly used to recover an athlete with GSO, are directed to the care of diet and
      rest, however, do not make clear by what methods and means it is possible to perform a
      restoration of regenerative processes and muscle contraction to decrease of chronic fatigue
      and in turn the maintenance of physical performance achieved in previous cycles.

      Research question. What are the effects of a stretching training program on BDNF expression
      and its relationship with biochemical and physiological markers that indicate GSO?

      General objective. To analyze the effects of a stretching training program on the expression
      of BDNF and decrease of biochemical and physiological markers that indicate GSO.

      Methodology. A clinical trial, with simple blinding.

      Type of sampling. Probabilistic, simple random (tombola).

      Sample size. 72 subjects, 36 subjects per group, which was estimated through the equation for
      comparison of means.

      Selection criteria. To be a university student, males from 18 to 25 years of age, to lead a
      moderately active or sedentary lifestyle, to sign an informed consent form, to take the
      physical fitness level test and to have been diagnosed as healthy in the clinical assessment.

      Attention to adverse effects. These will be classified into three types, milder, will be
      those muscular discomforts present but tolerable, e.g. delayed muscle pain (stiffness),
      edema, localized fatigue, loss of mobility, loss of strength. Moderate, physical damage that
      interferes with physical activities, such as, first or second-degree sprain and first-degree
      muscle tear. Severe, those injuries and/or physical damage that incapacitates the subject to
      perform physical activities of any kind, such as ruptures, severe muscular, ligamentous and
      cartilaginous of the third degree, dislocations and fractures. If one of the two previous
      cases are presented, the subjects will be assisted by the sports doctor who is part of the
      research protocol and channeled to the corresponding family medical clinic.

      Instruments. Questionnaire PAR Q & YOU used to know the state of health and habits of
      physical activity. The biochemical tests will be carried out with a blood sample of 5 ml
      using a BD Vacutainer yellow tube model 368159 with gel separator and coagulation activator,
      which will estimate the concentrations of creatine phosphokinase, testosterone, cortisol, and
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which will be quantified with the ELISA method. The
      physiological determinants will be measured with the general stretching index test (GSI),
      which is calculated by the sum of the stretching in sitting, standing and lying down
      multiplied by the body surface. The level of physical fitness will be assessed with the
      Tecumseh step test and the VO2max with the Astrand-Rhyming test.

      Physical training program. The study subjects will perform a physical exercise for 12 weeks
      divided into three blocks of 4 periods, organized in 3 weeks of training, plus 1 rest, which
      simulate physical loads similar to the periods of competition used in high-performance
      sports. The evaluations will be made prior to the training (basal measurement) and at the end
      of each of the blocks during the rest period. The physical load will be organized as follows:
      The control group (CG) will perform muscle strength exercises with intensities of 45 to 90%
      of 1RM, as well as aerobic resistance with efforts of 60 to 90% of the theoretical maximum
      heart rate, which will be controlled with a Polar brand heart rate monitor model FT7. Like
      the CG, the experimental group (EG) will perform the same physical load of muscular strength
      and aerobic resistance in combination with specific stretching exercises.

      Statistical analysis. Kolmogorov Smirnov test to check the normality of the data, in case of
      presenting a normal distribution (p <0.05) the repeated measures ANOVA test will be applied,
      otherwise the Kruskal Wallis test will be applied. The correlation level will be established
      with the Pearson or RhO Spearman test. Factorial analysis of the relationship between
      variables and individuals will be applied through Hj-biplot. The analysis of variables will
      be carried out with the SPSS v 20.0 program, establishing a level of p <0.05 as the level of
      statistical significance.

      Ethical considerations. The protocol was approved by the Research and Ethics in Research
      Committee of the State Institute of Cancerology, with registration number
      CICC-090218-BDNFMRS-05. Financing. $ 94,764.76. At the moment there are two ELISA kits for
      BDNF analysis and $ 44,286.76 are being managed with the Movimiento es Salud Foundation for
      the purchase and/or maquila of the testosterone, cortisol and CPK samples.
    
  