
    
      Renal cell carcinoma is a chemotherapy and radiotherapy resistant neoplasm that has a poor
      prognosis. Immunotherapy with the biologic agent IL-2 consistently produces a response rate
      of 10-15 %. Currently, for patients with locally advanced disease or patients with solitary
      metastases, the only treatment modality with a curative potential is surgical resection.
      There is presently no approved agent for use as adjuvant therapy after surgical resection to
      decrease the risk of recurrence. Peptide-based vaccine approaches offer an attractive
      treatment option.

      The high prevalence of G250 in RCC, the definition of an HLA-A2-restricted epitope (the most
      common HLA type), and its immunogenicity makes it the most attractive candidate for
      peptide-based vaccine approaches in RCC therapy. The promising preclinical and clinical
      evidence provides the rationale for the use of IL-2 to potentiate the antitumor effects of
      cancer vaccines.

      There is presently no conclusive data on the best dose of IL-2 to use as an adjuvant to
      cancer vaccines. One paradoxical finding in preclinical and clinical trials is that despite
      the enhancement in the antitumor effects of cancer vaccines, the number of antigen-specific
      CTL is not increased when IL-2 is given with a cancer vaccine 35]. In contrast, patients
      treated with peptide vaccines (without IL-2) in some melanoma trials had evidence of high
      levels of antigen-specific CTL, with no tumor regression observed 36]. Some possible
      explanations include capillary leak from high dose IL-2 resulting in CTL leaving the
      circulation and the possibility that high dose IL-2 decreases efficient T-cell priming. A
      more recent explanation has been proposed through advances in the mechanism of 1-cell
      activation. As their level of activation increases, T-cells become more susceptible to
      apoptosis. This phenomenon is known as activation-induced cell death (AICD) IL-2 may then
      have a role in the amplification and downregulation of the immune response. High dose IL-2
      may help in augmenting the increase in the activation of CTL, but this may lead to increase
      their susceptibility to AJCD. The evidence in animal models that low doses of IL-2 were
      sufficient in increasing the potency of DC-based immunizations provides the rational for our
      study.

      In our current study, the lowest dose of IL-2 (1 x 106 IU) is similar to the doses used by
      Yee et al. in their adoptive I cell therapy. This dose has been shown to expand and maintain
      CTLs in both preclinical and clinical models. The highest dose (11 x 106 IU) was chosen based
      on the expected toxicities from higher doses of IL-2 and our experience with this dose as a
      single agent in RCC.

      Our hypothesis is that immunization with G250/Montanide/GM-CSF plus IL-2 can lead to an
      expansion of G250-specific CTL and result in killing of 0250 expressing micrometastatic RCC.
      We propose a dose finding study of escalating low doses of IL 2 (subcutaneous), since no
      prior study has specifically evaluated the use of low dose IL-2 as a cytokine adjuvant and
      attempted to establish a correlation between dose and immunolgic response.
    
  