
    
      The proposal is to conduct a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study to
      evaluate the effectiveness of cannabidiol on the management of endometriosis-related pain.

      Subjects will be pre-screened from new and existing patients as well as from referral sites
      for the diagnosis of endometriosis. Potential subjects will be pre-screened for moderate to
      severe endometriosis associated pain (VAS > 3) greater than 6 months. Those meeting all
      inclusion and exclusion criteria that who are willing to participate will receive a detailed
      history and physical exam, appropriate bloodwork and undergo informed consented at the
      Screening Visit. Baseline survey data will be collected. During Screening, the patient's will
      be asked to complete their daily electronic diaries and screened for daily reporting
      adherence.

      Randomized subjects will receive either (1) placebo (2) low dose CBD (3) high dose CBD. This
      study will include an 8-week intervention period during which subjects will be asked to
      record daily electronic VAS scores, pain medication use and a number of other parameters.
      Subjects will return at week 12 for a 4 week post-treatment visit, where they can also chose
      to enroll in an optional pharmacokinetic study. Participants will complete the Endometriosis
      Health Profile-30 (EHP-30), Patient Global Assessments (PGAs), the Patient Global Impression
      of Change (PGIC) surveys and, if partnered and sexually active, the Female Sexual Function
      Index at various time points. Patients will also have bloodwork done to assess for
      circulating markers of inflammation, circulating CBD concentration levels and liver
      dysfunction throughout the study duration. Subjects will be screened for side effects and
      asked to record pain medication use throughout the duration of the study. Study drug
      compliance will be assessed.

      At the completion of the study, all subjects will be offered the opportunity to do
      pharmacokinetic testing with sublingual CBD until a maximum number of 4 patients are
      enrolled. The testing will include 24 hours of monitoring with sequential blood draws to
      determine the pharmacokinetic parameters of sublingual CBD after administration and one
      salivary pH. They will be discharged at 24 hours and asked to return to the clinic at 48
      hours for one final lab draw.
    
  