
    
      Background: Obesity increases the prevalence and severity of cardiovascular risk factors such
      as hypertension, diabetes, and metabolic syndrome. It is also a leading contributor to cancer
      and osteoarthritis. Obesity and overweight are highly prevalent among VHA patients: As with
      the general population, over two-thirds of VHA users are either overweight or obese. There is
      good evidence that intensive weight reduction programs can have a modest-but clinically
      significant-impact on weight. VHA has developed a comprehensive weight management program
      known as MOVE! to address obesity among its patients. MOVE! evaluations to date have
      demonstrated success in helping Veterans lose weight, but participation is low. In the
      investigators' preliminary work, the investigators found that the timing (daytime) and
      location (ZVAMC) of MOVE! activities were viewed by eligible patients as barriers to
      participation. In addition, previous research has often demonstrated significant rebound in
      weight at the end of formal program activities, which may be mitigated if there is a
      convenient place for ongoing weight monitoring and healthy activities with peers.

      Objectives: The overall goal of the project is to increase participation in the ZVAMC MOVE!
      program by implementing an innovative community-based program known as MOVE OUT. MOVE OUT
      will incorporate the key elements of the proven MOVE! program (education, peer support, and
      planned physical activity), but in settings closer to the homes of eligible Zablocki
      patients. The investigators have the following objectives:

        1. To reduce the mean weight of high-risk overweight or obese Veterans who receive primary
           care at ZVAMC.

        2. To improve the physical activity and diet of high-risk overweight or obese Veterans who
           receive primary care at ZVAMC.

        3. To demonstrate that an innovative community-based program can increase the proportion of
           ZVAMC users who participate actively in a moderately intensive weight management program
           as recommended by the National Institutes of Health Consensus Conference on Obesity.

      Methods: The investigators will use a cluster randomized trial design. The investigators will
      allocate groups of eligible Veterans from ZVAMC to either a MOVE OUT invitation or a standard
      MOVE! invitation. The investigators will use clinically gathered weight data to determine
      overall rates of weight loss in the randomly assigned Veterans. In addition, the
      investigators will recruit a sample of Veterans from each randomized group to participate in
      a study of the effectiveness of the weight management program to which they are assigned. The
      investigators will use established methods to assess changes in diet, exercise and attitude,
      as well as physiologic outcomes including weight, blood pressure, Hemoglobin A1c, and lipid
      values. The investigators will use qualitative methods to learn what aspects of the two
      programs are most effective.

      Impact: The investigators will demonstrate that VHA can deliver effective weight management
      services in a community-based fashion. If this study finds that such a delivery approach
      leads to an increased number of at-risk Veterans participating in weight control programs, it
      will guide program design throughout VHA. Although weight management is particularly well
      suited to a disseminated delivery model, lessons learned from this research are likely to
      help VHA improve its ability to help patients self-manage a variety of chronic diseases.
    
  