
    
      The association of scaling and root planing (SRP) with systemic metronidazole (MTZ) and
      amoxicillin (AMX) has been advocated as one of the most promising therapeutic protocol for
      the treatment of advanced periodontitis, since the early 2000's. More recently, probiotics
      has also been suggested as a promising adjunctive treatment for periodontitis due to their
      antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties. Therefore, the aim of this study is to
      evaluate the clinical, microbiological and immunological effects of probiotics as an adjunct
      to SRP alone or in combination with MTZ and AMX in the treatment of periodontitis. In this
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, subjects with periodontitis will be
      randomly assigned to receive (i) SRP alone, or combined with: (ii) two probiotics lozenges a
      day for 90 days (Prob), (iii) 400 of MTZ, plus AMX (500 mg) thrice a day (TID) for 14 days
      (MTZ+AMX), or (iv) Prob and MTZ+AMX. Subjects will be monitored up to 1 year post-therapy.
      Nine subgingival plaque samples will be collected at baseline and at 3, 6 and 12 months
      post-therapy; three samples in each of the following pockets categories: shallow (probing
      depth [PD]≤3 mm), moderate (PD=4-6 mm) and deep (PD≥7 mm). The microbiological samples will
      be analyzed by checkerboard DNA-DNA hybridization for 40 bacterial species. Two
      non-contiguous diseased sites (i.e PD and CAL ≥ 5mm, bleeding and probing [BOP] and no
      furcation involvement) and two non-contiguous healthy sites (i.e. PD and clinical attachment
      level [CAL] ≤ 4 mm without BoP and/or marginal bleeding) will be randomly chosen per patient
      for gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) sampling, from the same sites selected for the
      microbiological monitoring. Peripheral blood samples will also be collected one week after
      clinical examination. The GCF and blood samples will be analyzed using a multi-analyte method
      by means of a 17-multiplex fluorescent bead-based immunoassay for 17 cyto/chemokines. The
      significance of differences over the course of the study will be sought using repeated
      measures ANOVA and Tukey multiple comparison tests, and at each time point (among groups)
      using either ANOVA and Tukey multiple comparison tests or ANCOVA with adjustments for the
      baseline values. The Chi-square test will be used to compare the differences in the frequency
      of gender, and to compare the differences in the frequency of subjects achieving the clinical
      endpoint at 1 year and of self-perceived adverse effects. A stepwise forward logistic
      regression analysis will be performed in order to investigate the impact of predictor
      variables on the clinical endpoint for treatment, i.e., "presence of ≤4 sites with PD≥5 mm at
      12 months post-therapy (yes/no)". The Number Needed to Treat (NNT) with adjunctive antibiotic
      in order to obtain treatment success (≤4 sites with PD ≥5 mm) will be calculated. The level
      of significance will be set at 5%.
    
  