
    
      Namely, the failure of many different tumor types to show a lasting response chemotherapy or
      radiotherapy might be attributable to a lack of oxygen supply (called "hypoxia" from hereon)
      in a large part of the cancer cells.

      Tumor hypoxia is a well-known factor negatively influencing outcome in many solid tumors,
      including lung cancer, head and neck cancer, etc. Hypoxic cells are more radio-resistant,
      more chemo-resistant and more prone to develop distant metastases than normoxic cells.

      Nitroglycerin, due to it's vasoactive effects, tends to redistribute the blood supply to the
      tumor, increasing tumor blood flow, hereby theoretically decreasing hypoxia.

      It has been shown that NO donating drugs can alter tumor blood flow and oxygenation status in
      animal models [7]. In a randomized phase 2 trial by Yasuda nitroglycerin has been
      successfully combined at a dose of 25 mg daily for 5 days each chemo cycle with cisplatin and
      vinorelbine in non small cell lung cancer, enhancing chemotherapy response, possibly due to
      better delivery of the anti-cancer drugs in the tumor[5]. The toxicity profile between the 2
      arms was not significantly different.

      The effects of nitroglycerin or other donating drugs on cancer have been found to be
      numerous: not only is there an increase in tumor bloodflow, also direct effects on
      stabilization of p53 and degradation of Hif-1 alpha have been found[6]. Decreased hypoxic
      biomarkers (eg VEGF, P-glycoprotein) have been found in patients with NSCLC treated with
      nitroglycerin patches for 3 days prior to surgery when compared to non-treated individuals
      [8]. There might also be a supplementary effect on the MHC-molecules, rendering tumor cells
      more "visible" to the immune system [9].

      Furthermore, hypoxia has been shown in vitro to increase the invasiveness of cancer cells in
      an NO-mediated manner, which can be blocked by NO-donors.[10] An interesting study in this
      respect is a non-randomized phase 2 trial by Siemens et al, in which a very low dose of
      nitroglycerin (Minitran 5 patch (18 mg) cut in 6 pieces, delivering 0.033 mg/h in stead of
      0.2 mg/h normally) was given to patients with biochemical recurrence (PSA-failure) after
      primary therapy. After 24 months the PSA doubling time was more than 31 months versus 12.8
      months before the start of therapy, demonstrating the inhibitory effect of nitroglycerin on
      prostate cancer cells. [11]

      Due to these effects and the effect on tumor bloodflow and decrease of hypoxia nitroglycerin
      might also be interesting as a radiosensitizing agent.

      Currently a Mexican phase 2 trial is recruiting 40 patients to evaluate the efficacy of
      nitroglycerin added to concurrent chemoradiotherapy in NSCLC stage III. (Clinical trials.gov
      identifier NCT00886405).

      The aim of the present study is not only to demonstrate the effect of nitroglycerin on
      perfusion and hypoxia through (HX4-)scanning of patients, but also documenting the efficacy
      of the approach of giving nitroglycerin in an on/off (12h/12h) schedule to people receiving
      (chemo-)/radiotherapy, whilst monitoring toxicity.

      The on-off schedule is chosen because of the existence of a tolerance effect on the vascular
      system, hence diminishing the effect of nitroglycerin already after the first 24 hours.
    
  