
    
      The investigators will approach the research question with parallel agnostic and targeted
      approaches.

      In the agnostic approach the presence of auto-antibodies in patient serum and sputum to
      inactive and activated eosinophils, with and without post-translational modification, will be
      examined by indirect immunofluorescence.

      In the targeted approach the investigators will examine by enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA)
      the presence/absence of antibodies to pre-selected candidate eosinophil and base membrane
      proteins both in native form and post-translationally modified. Proteins to examine will be
      chosen based on literature review (e.g. eosinophil peroxidase and collagen V) and
      eosinophil-specific proteins identified by FANTOM5 (Functional Annotation of the
      Mouse/Mammalian Genome) geneset analysis (FANTOM Consortium et al. 2014).

      Both blood and sputum samples from highly-characterised patients with severe eosinophilic
      asthma and/or EGPA will be examined given the possibility of compartment-specific immune
      responses.

      Once candidate auto-antigens have been identified in the selected group of patients with
      severe eosinophilic asthma and EGPA, the investigators will then examine their prevalence in
      serum samples from a wider selection of patients with eosinophilic airways diseases including
      mild-to-moderate asthma, severe eosinophilic asthma, EGPA, nasal polyposis and eosinophilic
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as well as healthy controls. Length of disease,
      atopy, presence/absence nasal polyps, gender, age will be examined as co-variates.
      Correlations with highest blood eosinophil counts, requirement for oral corticosteroids and
      presence of other auto-antibodies, e.g. anti-MPO (myeloperoxidase) ANCA (anti-neutrophil
      cytoplasmic antibody), will be examined. In particular the investigators will look for the
      presence of novel autoantibodies in specific patient subsets: i) ANCA negative, ii) ANCA
      positive by immunofluorescence but negative for anti-MPO and anti-PR3 (proteinase-3)
      antibodies, iii) ANA (anti-nuclear antibody) positive but ANCA and extractable nuclear
      antigen (ENA) negative; since patients in all three groups may have novel, as yet
      undetermined autoantibodies. ROC (receiver operator characteristic curve) AUC (area under
      curve) analyses will be conducted to ascertain the predictive value of blood auto-antibodies
      for diagnosis of eosinophilic airways disease.
    
  