
    
      Participants This cross-sectional study was conducted in 368 postmenopausal women aged
      between 40 and 65 years. This study was carried out in family health centers in Istanbul.
      Participants who have not had menstrual bleeding for the last 1 year and, with FSH levels
      above 30 mlU / ml were included in this study. My exclusion criteria in the study were
      illiterate women. All participants were given informed consent about the aim and methods of
      the study.

      Study design Data were collected via face-to-face interviews by the researcher.
      Socio-demographic data ascertained included age, Body Mass Index (BMI), marital status,
      tobacco and alcohol use, medication use, presence of chronic disease, age of menopause onset,
      and educational level. All participants were recorded frequency and severity of low back
      pain, depressive symptoms, anxiety, quality of life and sleep quality. Outcome measures are
      described in more detail below. According to the power analysis results, when the number of
      enough participants was reached, the study was stopped. Ethics committee approval for the
      study was obtained from the Istanbul Science University Ethics Committee for Clinical
      Researches (IBU17.02.2015/28-210).

      Outcome measurements Pain To determine the frequency of current pain, all eligible
      participants were evaluated and asked to report whether they had had pain. All participants
      were evaluated for severity of pain using an 11-point numeric visual analog scale (VAS; 0= no
      pain; 10=worst pain imaginable). Participants were asked to characterize their pain severity
      along a horizontal, 10-cm line. Participants were questioned about the severity of low back
      pain during rest, during activity and at night. Statistics were made by categorizing the
      severity of low back pain during rest, activityand at night. Low back pain intensity were
      classified that according to the cut-off point of the VAS. (0.1-3.8 mild pain, 3.9-5.7
      moderate pain, 5.8-10 severe pain).

      Emotional Status Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) was used to determine the level
      of anxiety and depression of the participants. It contains 14 items, seven related to
      depression and seven to anxiety. Each item is rated in a 4 point scale. A subscale score of
      0-21 and to a total score of 0-42. Scores of 11 or more on either sub-scale is considered to
      be a significant "case" of psychological morbidity, while scores of 8 to 10 represent
      "borderline" and 0 to 7 "normal". It was originally developed in 1983 by Zigmond and Snaith
      in order to evaluate the risk for anxiety and depression in patient and to measure the level
      and severity of anxiety/ depression. The validity and reliability of Turkish version of the
      HAD Scale was tested in 1997 by Aydemir.

      Quality of Life Nottingham Health Profile (NHP) was used to determine quality of life of the
      participants. NHP is a general health status scale (health-related quality of life), which
      aims to measure a patient's perceived emotional, social and physical health status. This
      scale consists of 38 items formed as yes-no questions that cover 6 subscales of the quality
      of life. These six subscales are sleep (5 item), energy level (3 item), emotional status (9
      item), social isolation (5 item), physical mobility (8 item) and pain (8 item). Each section
      is scored from 0-100. 0 indicates the best health status, 100 indicates the worst health
      status. In the study, the sub-scores of NHP and total NHP scores were evaluated. Total NHP
      score was obtained from the sum of the sub-scores. The scale was developed by Hunt et
      al.(1981). NHP is an easy-to-use scale and the validity and reliability of Turkish version
      was by Küçükdeveci at al.(2000).

      Sleep Quality Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) was used to determine sleep quality of
      the participants. PSQI was originally developed by Buysse et al.(1989). PSQI was adapted into
      Turkish by Ağargün et al.(1996). PSQI is consisting of 24 items, 19 of which are
      self-assessment questions and the rest 5 are answered by patient's spouse or roommate. The
      scored 18 items covers 7 components, namely subjective sleep quality, sleep latency, sleep
      duration, habitual sleep efficiency, sleep disorders, use of sleeping medication and daytime
      dysfunction. Each component is evaluated on a 0-3 interval scale whereby 3 reflect the
      negative extreme on the Likert Scale. The total score obtained from the seven components are
      equivalent to the total scale score. The total score ranges between 0 and 21; higher scores
      indicate worse sleep quality.
    
  