
    
      Settings:

      The data collection will be obtained from the data base available at the department of Oral
      and Maxillofacial Radiology, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University. CBCT images will be
      obtained from Egyptian patients who were referred to the CBCT unit in oral and maxillofacial
      radiology department for different purposes.

      Variables:

      •Prevalence of extra root canals in mandibular anterior teeth - Classification and prevalence
      of observed types -

      Data Sources / Measurements:

        -  Retrospective Data Analysis will be performed after the CBCT images are pooled from the
           computer database.

        -  Exposure parameters of the scans will vary depending on patients' sizes (according to
           the manufacturer's recommendations). images with 0.2 voxel size will be reviewed.

        -  For proper visualization of the canals number and configuration in anterior mandibular
           teeth, scrolling through the three orthogonal cuts and oblique reformatted planes.

        -  CBCT images will be interpreted by two oral and maxillofacial radiologists (with
           different experiences) independently; blinded from demographic data of the patients and
           from the results of each other.

        -  Vertucci classified the canal configurations of mandibular anterior teeth into four
           types (Vertucci, 1974) :

      Type I: Single canal is present from the pulp chamber to the apex. Type II: Two separate
      canal leaves the pulp chamber, but join short of the apex to form one canal.

      Type III: One canal leaves the pulp chamber, but it divides into two within the body of the
      root, the canals merge again to exist as one canal.

      Type IV: Two separate and distinct canals are present from the pulp chamber to apex.

      Type V: A single canal leaves the pulp chamber but divides into 2. Type VI: 2 separate canals
      leave the pulp chamber, join at the midpoint, and then divide again into 2 with 2 separate
      apical foramina.

      Type VII: 1 canal leaves the pulp chamber, divides and then rejoins within the root, and
      finally redivides into 2 separate canals with 2 separate apical foramina.

      Type VIII: 3 separate and distinct canals begin from the pulp chamber to the root apex.

        -  Each radiologist will evaluate the images for presence of extra root canal with a time
           lag of two weeks between the two reading sessions. If present, its configuration
           (classification) will be registered. Any disagreement will be solved by consensus
           between the two observers.

        -  If extra root canals type II , type IV or type VI is detected, then the distance between
           the canal orifices will be measured using built in measuring tool in the software.

        -  The measurements will be carried out by one observer (PY) and will be repeated 2 weeks
           later for intra-observer reliability assessment. Bias No source of bias.

      Study Size:

      Based on the Iranian paper by Haghanifar et al., 2017, the prevalence of two root canals in
      mandibular anterior teeth (12.1%) Using a precision of 5, a design effect set at 1 with 95%
      CI (confidence interval) a total sample size of 170 mandibular anterior tooth will be
      sufficient. The sample size was calculated by Epi info 7 software.
    
  