
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether de-intensified chemoradiation for early stage squamous cell carcinoma
      of the anal canal (SCCA) is able to maintain excellent 2-year disease control of 85% or
      higher while improving anorectal health-related quality of life (HRQL), compared to
      standard-dose chemoradiation therapy (CRT), as measured by the change in the Fecal
      Incontinence Quality of Life scale (FIQoL) instrument coping/behavior domain from baseline to
      1 year.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare changes in patient-reported outcomes (as per Fecal Incontinence Severity Index
      [FISI], Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System [PROMIS], International
      Index of Erectile Function [IIEF], Sexual Function-Vaginal Changes Questionnaire [SVQ], and
      Vaginal Assessment Scale [VAS]/Vulvar Assessment Scale [VuAS] instruments) between the
      experimental and control arm.

      II. To compare patterns of failure (local and regional relapse versus distant; in-field
      versus out-of-field of radiation), disease control, and overall survival between experimental
      and control arm.

      III. To correlate vaginal dilator use during radiation delivery with sexual function.

      IV. To measure changes in serum total testosterone from baseline to up to 12 months after
      radiation.

      V. To validate the utility of image features of inguinal and pelvic lymph nodes obtained
      prior to treatment as a prognostic indicator that can identify patients with early-stage anal
      squamous cell carcinoma for whom treatment with de-intensified chemoradiation is appropriate.

      VI. To determine whether an online, interactive educational tool (eContour) may improve the
      quality of radiation target delineation for anal cancer.

      VII. To determine the incidence of and predictors for cardiovascular toxicity in patients
      receiving fluorouracil (5-FU) or capecitabine.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A (STANDARD-DOSE CHEMORADIATION): Patients undergo 28 fractions of intensity-modulated
      radiation therapy (IMRT). Within 24 hours, patients also receive mitomycin intravenously (IV)
      over 30 minutes or less on day 1 and either fluorouracil IV over 24 hours on days 1-4 and
      29-32 or capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) 5 days per week (Monday - Friday) until
      completion of IMRT in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B (DE-INTENSIFIED CHEMORADIATION): Patients undergo 20 or 23 fractions of IMRT. Within 24
      hours, patients also receive mitomycin IV over 30 minutes or less on day 1 and either
      fluorouracil IV over 24 hours on days 1-4 or capecitabine PO BID 5 days per week (Monday -
      Friday) until completion of IMRT in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, every 3 months for
      years 1-2, every 6 months for year 3, then annually for years 4-5.
    
  