
    
      Each patient will undergo detailed clinical evaluation according to a structured proforma.
      Seizure type, frequency, age at onset, perinatal details, family history, developmental
      status and treatment history will be recorded. Corticosteroids or ACTH (if patient is already
      on) would be tapered off 2 weeks before starting LGIT. All co-medications will be changed to
      carbohydrate free preparations, wherever available only in the intervention group.

      Eligible patients will be randomized in to two groups: the intervention and the control arm.
      Both groups will undergo a baseline four week observation period, during which parents will
      be asked to maintain a daily seizure log; recording seizure type, duration and frequency. In
      the intervention arm, the children will be started on low glycemic index diet after this
      4-week baseline period. The control group will receive their usual diet without any
      alteration. No changes will be made to the patients' antiepileptic medication during the
      4-week baseline or the 3-month study periods in both the intervention and control groups,
      unless medically indicated; e.g. drug side effects, or status epilepticus; in which case
      appropriate changes will be made to their medications and same will be documented. The drop
      out from the intervention group will be documented along with the reason for the same. At the
      end of the 3 month study period patient in the intervention arm will be continued with the
      LGIT but that will not come under the purview of this study. At the end of three months study
      period, patients in the control arm will be offered the option of low glycemic index diet
      treatment.

      Low glycemic index diet administration

        1. Three day food intake by recall method will be documented

        2. The calorie requirement would be calculated as per the recommended daily allowance (RDA)
           for the ideal weight for that age

        3. Diet regime will be explained to the parents

        4. Patients (wherever applicable) and their parents will be given diet counseling

        5. LGIT will be started on out patient basis.

        6. Medium and high-GI carbohydrates (GI >55) will be eliminated from the diet and only food
           items with low glycemic index (GI <55) will be allowed. Parent will be given a list of
           low glycemic index food items33. They will also be given a list of food items (medium
           and high glycemic index) which should be avoided. (Appendix)

        7. Total carbohydrates intake will be restricted to 10% of caloric intake/ day (maximum
           40-60 g/day).

        8. Carbohydrate values of various food items will be explained in detail, and carbohydrate
           exchange lists will be provided to the parent. Three to four 15 gram carbohydrate
           exchanges will be allowed in a day. (Appendix)

        9. Fats (e.g. cream, butter, oils and ghee) can be taken by the patient without any
           restriction.

       10. Proteins intake will be allowed up to 30% of the total caloric intake per day (cheese,
           fish, eggs, chicken and soya products).

       11. Sample menu will be discussed with the parent.

       12. Clear carbohydrate free fluids will not be restricted.

      Follow up Children will be reviewed as outpatients at 1, 2 and 3 months. A three day dietary
      intake chart will be reviewed at each visit to compute calorie and carbohydrate intake, and
      to evaluate and reinforce compliance with the prescribed diet. Weight will be checked at each
      visit.
    
  