
    
      Opioid dependence is a serious public health problem, particularly with the dramatic rise in
      prescription opioid abuse, but long-term opioid agonist maintenance with methadone or
      buprenorphine (BUP) may not be optimal for many prescription opioid abusers. Yet current
      opioid detoxification strategies are limited by high relapse rates and/or lack of efficacy in
      relieving subjective symptoms. In addition, antagonist maintenance with naltrexone (NTX),
      which may be an optimal longer-term strategy for this population, requires prior opioid
      detoxification and has been associated with relatively poor outcomes in heroin abusers. This
      application takes a novel, broad approach to address the problem of prescription opioid
      dependence by determining the 1) utility of adjunct gabapentin (GBP) during outpatient BUP
      detoxification to improve initial outcomes and 2) feasibility of transitioning prescription
      opioid -dependent patients to depot NTX following detoxification, which may improve
      longer-term outcomes. GBP, an N-type calcium channel blocker with low abuse potential,
      potentiates opioid analgesia, decreases both postoperative morphine consumption and
      movement-related pain, and reverses tolerance to the antinociceptive effects of morphine. GBP
      is also well tolerated and effective in reducing craving and illicit opioid use in pilot
      detoxification trials. The efficacy and tolerability of adjunct GBP during BUP-assisted
      detoxification and the feasibility of subsequent transition to depot NTX therapy in
      prescription opioid -dependent participants will be assessed. This 12-week, randomized,
      placebo-controlled clinical trial will determine the potential utility of adjunct GBP in 150
      prescription opioid -dependent individuals undergoing outpatient BUP detoxification and
      whether transition to short-term depot NTX therapy is feasible. Our three specific aims are
      to determine (1) the efficacy and tolerability of GBP to reduce craving and illicit use of
      opioids in prescription opioid-dependent individuals undergoing outpatient BUP
      detoxification; (2) acceptability and feasibility of transition to, and short-term
      maintenance on, depot NTX following detoxification; and (3) prognosticators of completion of
      the BUP taper, successful induction onto depot NTX, symptomatology, and longer-term outcomes.
      Currently, the only FDA-approved medications for the treatment of opioid withdrawal are the
      opioid agonists methadone and BUP, both of which have abuse liability, and NTX, which can
      produce low levels of withdrawal-like symptoms, especially early in treatment. Findings, if
      positive, will support further development of GBP as an adjunct medication as well as provide
      an integrated, seamless approach to outpatient prescription opioid-dependence treatment.
      Ultimately, this work could impact the addiction field by providing both procedural and
      pharmacological tools for treating prescription opioid dependence that significantly improve
      outpatient detoxification outcomes and markedly enhance access and transition to NTX therapy.
      This would shift clinical practice, establishing an effective adjunct regimen for BUP
      detoxification and an integrated approach for transition to NTX therapy. GBP may also be
      clinically useful for other situations where opioid withdrawal is a concern.
    
  