
    
      This study is a multi-centred, cluster randomized, controlled, single-blinded, fixed sample
      trial.

      The project will involve several large Canadian and American employers. Participating work
      units within the organizations will be randomly assigned to either the training program
      (intervention group) or not (control group). Randomizing geographically separate work units
      works best to prevent contamination of supervisors selected to be the control group. However,
      the employer will decide what constitutes a work unit (e.g., separate building, division,
      etc.). The work units will be pair-matched into clusters based on number of employees, gender
      proportions, and work tasks as best as possible. A total of 86 work units (43 work unit
      pairs) including approximately 350 supervisors is required to achieve the primary objective,
      with fewer work units and supervisors required to achieve the secondary objectives. Within
      each cluster, one work unit will receive the training program and the other will act as the
      control. All supervisors within those work units randomized to receive the intervention will
      attend a four-hour supervisor training session. Before training is administered to the
      randomly assigned work units, all supervisors (intervention group and control group) will
      receive an email with an attached information pamphlet about principles for successful return
      to work. The purpose of the information pamphlet is to minimize the Hawthorne Effect, whereby
      subjects change their behaviour in response to the knowledge that they are being studied or
      monitored.

      The work disability outcomes (duration of lost-time injuries in days, and cumulative
      incidence of lost-time injuries and sick leave days) will be determined from workplace
      records, and outcomes data will be extracted and analyzed at the level of the work unit.
      Since the intervention is a training program, it is impossible to blind the participating
      supervisors. However, the data extractor and individuals working in each employer's
      Occupational Health & Safety Department will be blinded to the results of the work unit
      randomization and no other workers will be informed if the supervisors in their work unit
      received the training program or not.

      To collect information about the hypothesized mediating variables, consenting supervisors
      will be asked to complete three online questionnaires: baseline and two follow-up
      questionnaires (three and six months post-randomization). The baseline and follow-up
      questionnaires will also collect information on potential moderating and confounding factors
      including workplace safety culture, supervisor autonomy, corporate disability management,
      leadership style, workplace social capital, and workers' physical work demands, supervisor
      demographics, and characteristics of supervised workers (e.g., number, gender proportions,
      unionization status). Analysis of the mediating variables will be conducted at the level of
      the work unit. Data for the process evaluation will be obtained from a brief exit training
      program evaluation survey distributed to participants in the intervention group as well as
      the three and six month follow-up questionnaires.

      This is a pragmatic, intent-to-treat trail, so participants will be analyzed according to the
      group they were randomly assigned to. However, the investigators will also obtain information
      about supervisor transfers among work units (and the direction of the transfers) for the one
      year period post-randomization to understand how such transfers may have influenced the
      results.
    
  