
    
      Osteoarthritis is a degenerative joint disease associated with pain and disability that
      occurs in 25% of the population over 18 years of age Worldwide. It is expected that
      osteoarthritis will be the fourth most common cause of disability in the World by 2020.
      Osteoarthritic joint has pathological changes such as damage of joint cartilage tissue,
      thickening of the subchondral bone, osteophyte formation, inflammation of synovium at
      different levels, degeneration of ligaments and meniscal structures and hypertrophy of joint
      capsule. In recent years, studies that relate chronic pain to neuroplasticity have
      demonstrated changes in the structure, function and somatotopic organization of the primary
      motor and sensory cortex of osteoarthritis patients with chronic pain. In addition to this,
      osteoarthritis studies showed that the pain does not originate solely from joint problems;
      the central nervous system is also responsible for the formation of pain sensation. Changes
      in the cortical sensorimotor areas include sensory disturbances, perceptual problems
      (differentiation of body image), and motor influences, and these changes are associated with
      severity and duration of pain. When the central nervous system targeted, pain may decrease
      better. Action observation therapy is a method which activates mirror neurons.

      In this project, investigators aim to investigate the effects of action observation therapy
      on pain, fear of movement, functional level and brain hemodynamics in patients with knee
      osteoarthritis. The study is unique in that this method, which has already been used for
      post-surgical or motor healing, aims at long-term administration for the first time with
      chronic pain and objective visualization of the results. This study will create a new
      perspective to understand the physiology of pain, which has attracted much interest in the
      literature in recent years, and will shed light on the studies that can be done in this
      regard.
    
  