
    
      Corona virus (CoV) may have deleterious effects on the nervous system. As the number of
      individuals infected by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is
      increasing, more and more neurological, neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric symptoms are
      being reported in COVID-19 patients. Neurologists and psychiatrist, in turn, may increasingly
      find themselves involved in caring for patients with the novel virus.

      Sars-CoV-2 usually enter the body via the enzyme angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) in
      alveolar cells in the lungs. However, ACE2 is expressed in a number of other tissues and
      cells, such as mucous membranes of the eyes, nose and oral cavity, neurons, glia cells and
      endothelial cells, including those in the brain, making it a potential target of the virus.

      There are several possible mechanisms for nervous system affection in COVID-19. Firstly,
      transneuronal transport of viruses through the olfactory nerve to the brain can induce direct
      injury. Sars-CoV-2 has been detected in cerebrospinal fluid in patients with encephalitis and
      meningitis. A second type of injury may result from an excessive immune response in the form
      of a "cytokine storm". Cytokines can cross the blood-brain barrier and are associated with
      acute necrotizing encephalopathy. A third mechanism of nervous tissue damage results from
      unintended host immune response effects after an acute infection. Examples of this type of
      indirect CNS injury are Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) and brain and spine demyelination. A
      fourth mechanism is an indirect viral injury that results from the effects of systemic
      illness, hypoxia and in some cases hypercoagulability, a prominent feature of severe
      COVID-19. Most cases of COVID-19-related neurologic complications appear to fall into this
      category. Severely ill patients in the intensive care unit may develop neurologic symptoms
      such as encephalopathy, critical illness myopathy, and neuropathy. This is common in both
      COVID-19 and in other diseases.

      There have been several reports of nervous system manifestations in COVID-19. In a
      retrospective study from Wuhan China with 214 consecutive hospitalized patients, 1/3 had
      neurologic manifestations and nearly one half of those with severe infection. Common central
      nervous system (CNS) symptoms were dizziness, headache, and impaired consciousness or
      symptoms of acute cerebrovascular disease. The most common peripheral nervous system (PNS)
      symptoms included impaired taste, smell, or vision, and nerve pain. Skeletal muscular injury
      symptoms were also frequently reported. COVID-19 patients with CNS symptoms had lower
      lymphocyte levels and platelet counts and higher blood urea nitrogen levels compared to their
      counterparts without CNS symptoms. This may be indicative of immunosuppression in patients
      with COVID-19 and CNS symptoms or it may be manifestations coexisting in the same patient.
      Systematic brain imaging and measurements of neuron- or brain-specific biomarkers may
      increase the knowledge regarding nervous system manifestations in COVID-19 but were not
      performed in this study. Case report series with types of CNS or PNS manifestations, such as
      ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke, Guillain Barré syndrome, encephalitis, meningitis and toxic
      hemorrhagic necrotizing encephalopathy have been described. Furthermore, post infection
      surveillance will be necessary to identify possible post-COVID neurologic syndromes.

      Moreover, COVID-19 is a significant psychological stressor, which may in addition to the
      neurological manifestations contribute to neuropsychiatric and neuropsychological sequela.
      Past respiratory viral pandemics have been associated with neuropsychiatric symptoms that may
      arise acutely or after variable periods of time. The long-term effect on neuropsychological
      functioning and the prevalence of neuropsychiatric symptoms due to COVID-19 are currently
      unknown. However, patients with COVID-19 are at risk of developing delirium that may cause
      long term cognitive impairment. Furthermore, Sars-CoV-2 proteins have been shown to interact
      with human proteins in multiple aging-related processes and CNS symptoms in patients with
      COVID-19 may put them at risk of neurocognitive complications. Given the global burden of
      COVID-19, long term neurocognitive complications are of importance to recognize.

      Previously anxiety, depression and trauma related symptoms have been associated with CoV
      outbreaks. In survivors of SARS-CoV-1 active psychiatric illnesses were diagnosed in more
      than 40%, (PTSD (54%), depression (39%), somatoform pain disorders (36%), panic disorder
      (32%) and OCD (15%)) post-infection compared to pre-infection prevalence of less than 3%, and
      more than 27% had fatigue symptoms. Moreover, antibodies against CoV have been found in both
      psychoses and affective disorders. However, it is not known to which extent
      neuropsychological and psychiatric symptoms and disorders after COVID-19 are related to the
      psychological stressor or to CNS sequela after Covid-19 or to both.

      Our hypotheses in this project are:

        1. Nervous system manifestations and neurological sequelae are common after COVID 19.

        2. Biomarkers in blood can be used to assess neurological manifestations and sequelae in
           COVID-19 patients at 6- and 12-months follow-up.

        3. Severe COVID-19 infection predicts neurological manifestations and sequelae at 6- and
           12-months follow-up.

        4. Psychiatric disorders, especially anxiety and depressive disorders, but also psychotic
           and somatoform disorders are common after COVID-19, either due to CNS sequelae or
           manifestation or to perceived distress/strain.

        5. Neuropsychological sequelae are common after COVID-19 either due to CNS sequelae or
           manifestation or to perceived distress/strain.

        6. Biomarkers and imaging findings can be used to predict neuropsychiatric manifestations
           after Covid-19 at 6- and 12- months follow up.

        7. Biomarkers in blood and imaging findings can be used to predict neuropsychological
           manifestations after Covid-19 at 6- and 12- months follow up.

        8. Severe COVID-19 infection predicts neuropsychiatric and psychiatric disorders at 6- and
           12-months follow-up.

        9. Severe COVID-19 infection predicts neuropsychological sequelae at 6- and 12-months
           follow-up.
    
  