
    
      Child maltreatment has well-established, wide-ranging, and long-term negative effects on
      children. Most children who have experienced maltreatment and are receiving services through
      the Child Welfare System (CWS) remain in their homes with their caregivers. While the need
      for parenting services is extensive, few intervention programs have proven to be efficacious
      in reducing child abuse and neglect within the CWS population, especially for infants and
      toddlers. It is essential that social service practitioners within the CWS delivery system
      are equipped to provide brief interventions to maltreating parents. This grant, "Training
      Social Work Providers: Intervention for Maltreating Families of Infants and Toddlers," is an
      evaluation of a training program for social welfare providers to implement a brief attachment
      theory-based intervention to families who have been investigated for child abuse and neglect
      by Child Protective Services. The program (Promoting First Relationships [PFR]; Kelly,
      Buehlman, & Caldwell, 2000) will be tested at two levels: through social welfare practice and
      at the level of outcomes for children and families.

      Social service providers will be trained to deliver PFR to families under investigation for
      maltreatment by the Department of Social and Health Services, in two counties in Washington
      State. Subsequently, families under investigation by CPS will be recruited into the study and
      randomly assigned to the experimental group (receiving the PFR intervention) or to the
      comparison group (receiving resources and referrals).

      The specific aims of this study are to (1) Test the effectiveness of training community
      social welfare service providers in the use of attachment-based interventions by measuring
      their pre-training and post-training service provision strategies and interactions with
      maltreating families; (2) To test the effects of a relationship and attachment-based
      intervention with infants/toddlers of parents identified as maltreating by comparing them to
      a control group on rates of re-referral to CPS, severity of referral, and foster care
      placement; and (3) To conduct a test of the effectiveness of an attachment-based intervention
      on child well-being by comparing experimental and comparison groups on important outcomes
      (attachment security, emotional regulation, behavior, and developmental functioning).

      RELEVANCE Child maltreatment is a serious public health issue, affecting close to a million
      children nationally every year. The establishment of effective evidence-based interventions
      for high-risk families is essential to curtail the devastating long-term effects of
      maltreatment. The proposed study tests the feasibility and effectiveness of a well-documented
      relationship-based intervention (Promoting First Relationships) in improving outcomes for
      families referred to CPS for maltreatment.
    
  