
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:I. To determine the time to progression of the combination of the EGFR
      inhibitor erlotinib and radiation therapy. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:I. To determine objective
      response rate, locoregional control rate, duration of response, patterns of failure, overall
      survival, toxicities and quality of life outcomes of the combination of erlotinib and
      concurrent radiation therapy.II. To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of erlotinib.
      Additional analyses of the pharmacokinetic data on patients receiving daily erlotinib
      treatment via their feeding tube will be conducted. III. To determine the effect of treatment
      and dose of treatment on biologic correlates in tumor tissue and/or surrounding mucosa, EGFR
      expression and phosphorylation status, serum markers of angiogenic activity VEGF, sVEGFR-2,
      sKIT, ICAM, PDGF, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for ERBB2 for gene amplification,
      DNA-sequencing of EGFR and ERBB2 genes from DNA extracted from pretreatment biopsy material
      for mutation screening, gene expression profiling on pre-treatment biopsy material to
      identify predictors of response to treatment, apoptosis (TUNEL assay), Ki67 (nuclear
      proliferation antigen)IV. To determine the utility of the comprehensive geriatric assessment,
      in predicting tolerance to treatment in patients >= 65 years included in this trial. OUTLINE:
      Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally or via gastrostomy tube once daily in weeks
      1-9 and then for 2 years following completion of radiation therapy. Beginning on day 1 of
      week 2, patients undergo radiation therapy once daily, 5 times a week, for 5-7 weeks.
      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.After
      completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 months, every 3 months for 2
      years, and then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  