
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Over the last two decades, allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) has emerged as
      an important treatment for a number of malignant and non-malignant disorders. Unfortunately,
      several complications, including graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and pulmonary dysfunction,
      limit the utility of this aggressive form of therapy. Infectious and non-infectious lung
      complications occur in 25% to 55% of HCT recipients and account for up to 50% of
      transplant-related mortality. In about half of affected patients, no infectious organisms are
      identified in the lungs. Two major types of non-infectious pulmonary injury are recognized:
      acute idiopathic pneumonia syndrome (IPS) and sub-acute lung injury (obstructive airway
      disease or bronchiolitis obliterans [BrOb] and restrictive lung disease). The current study
      will examine the use of etanercept in patients with IPS.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Eligible patients will be randomized to receive one of two arms of therapy: (A) etanercept
      plus corticosteroids, or (B) placebo plus corticosteroids. Patients will receive a total of
      eight doses of etanercept (or placebo) over a 4-week period. The initial dose of etanercept
      (or placebo) will be administered intravenously on Day 0, with subsequent doses administered
      subcutaneously (SQ). Dosing will be administered twice weekly over 4 consecutive weeks. The
      placebo will be the inert diluent used for the etanercept formulation.

      Additionally, patients in both arms will receive corticosteroids (2 mg/kg/day) Day 0 through
      Day 7, with subsequent taper as clinically indicated. Chest radiographs shall be obtained
      weekly through Day 28. Plasma cytokine profiles will be obtained on Days 0, 7, and 28.

      For patients < 30 days post-transplant: If the patient's clinical condition is such that a
      broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL) is deemed "not possible to be performed" by the treating
      physician (or pulmonologist), then the "on study" BAL may be waived. In such circumstances,
      the patient may register and be randomized to study therapy without the BAL being undertaken.

      For patients not on mechanical ventilation: If a BAL is not done, appropriate virology
      studies on a nasal swab (or nasal washing) are required as a minimum procedure to study
      entry.

      For patients on mechanical ventilation: Microbiologic studies of a deep endotracheal aspirate
      are allowed in lieu of a formal bronchoscopy procedure. However, no protocol-specified
      biologic studies (see Section 4.4) will be done on these specimens.

      For patients 31-180 days post-transplant: An "on study" bronchoscopy is required in all
      cases.

      If, at any point following initiation of study drug therapy, previously obtained BAL fluid
      cultures or other BAL fluid analysis become positive for an infectious pathogen, study drug
      therapy shall be discontinued at that point, and not re-instituted. The patient will
      discontinue study drug therapy, but will still be followed for outcome.

      The primary study endpoint is response at Day 28. Patients who discontinue study drug therapy
      for any reason will still be followed for primary and secondary study endpoints.
    
  