
    
      Design: This pilot study will take the form of a 2 group randomised controlled trial
      (intervention vs treatment as usual). Measures will be administered at baseline, midpoint,
      post-intervention and 2 month follow-up.

      Setting: Outpatients' clinic. Target population: Adults with oesphagectomy in the previous
      3-12 months for oesophageal cancer.

      Exclusion Criteria: In receipt of a psychological intervention; have had a reoccurrence of
      the disease since their surgery; evidence of cognitive impairment impeding ability to engage
      with the intervention.

      Health technology: A group-based acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) intervention. There
      will be 2 intervention groups, both of which will receive an 8 week (1.5 hours per week)
      intervention.

      Measurement of costs and outcomes: Participants will be allocated to treatment or control
      using a randomisation procedure, generated by a statistician outside the research team.

      According to the COMET initiative, there are no recommended core outcomes available for use
      in oesophageal cancer. Work to develop these outcome measures is currently underway and the
      investigators will contact the authors of this work for the latest updates prior to
      submitting a full application to ensure that our choice of outcome measures is commensurate
      with any recommendations they are about to make. In the absence of this work being advanced
      sufficiently to inform this proposal, the following reliable and valid measures will be used:
      EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire and Oesophageal Cancer Module, Acceptance and Action
      Questionnaire II, which provides a measure of psychological inflexibility, and (secondarily)
      Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale.

      Sample size: A sample size of 50 (25 per study arm).[42] This will also allow us to estimate
      a participation rate of 70% to within a 95% confidence interval of ±13%, which will inform
      the design of the definitive trial.

      Current pathway: Patients can seek support for emotional issues from the specialist nurses in
      the service.

      Expertise: Multidisciplinary team including cancer specialist nurses, a service user
      representative, health economist, statistician, psychologists and with expertise in the
      intervention to be tested, trials methodology, qualitative and quantitative methods, and
      research among people with oesophageal cancer
    
  