
    
      Knee osteoarthritis (OA) is one of the major causes of physical disability commonly
      influencing people aged above 50 years. Acupressure is proposed for alleviating knee OA
      symptoms because of the low cost of intervention, accessibility, and safety.

      Objectives: 1. To examine the short- and medium-term effectiveness of self-administered
      acupressure taught by a short training course on relieving knee OA pain in middle-aged and
      older adults. And to evaluate the subjects' compliance with self-administered acupressure for
      knee OA.

      Hypothesis: self-administered acupressure group would have a greater pain relief compared to
      the knee health education control in subjects with knee OA at week 4 (short-term) and 12
      (medium-term).

      Design and subjects: A randomized, parallel-group, control trial. 314 subjects with knee OA
      will be recruited; 157 per group. All eligible subjects will be randomized to either
      self-administered acupressure or knee health education control group in 1:1 ratio.

      Interventions: Subjects in the self-acupressure group will attend two 2-hour training
      sessions to learn self-acupressure and will practice self-acupressure twice a day for 12
      weeks; subjects in the education control group will receive two 2-hour training sessions to
      learn the health information related to knee OA. They will be told to follow the knee health
      instructions for 12 weeks.

      Main outcome measures: The primary outcome measure is the numerical rating scale for knee
      pain. Other measures include Western Ontario and McMaster University Osteoarthritis Index
      (WOMAC), Short-Form Six-Dimension (SF-6D), Timed Up & Go Test (TUG) and Fast Gait Speed
      (FGS). Acceptability of two training courses will also be evaluated.

      Data Analysis: Differences in the questionnaire scores will be examined using a linear
      mixed-effects model. Intention-to-treat analyses will be conducted. Effect sizes will be
      computed by dividing the difference in means by the pooled standard deviation. Incremental
      costs and incremental effects will be compared between the self-acupressure and knee health
      education groups and and plotted the results in a cost-effectiveness acceptability curve.
    
  