
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common malignancy worldwide and the fourth leading
      cause of cancer related death, with rates being highest in Western countries. Colonoscopy is
      considered the golden standard in colorectal cancer screening and endoscopic resection of
      precursor lesions (polyps) has been shown to reduce colorectal cancer death. Polyps extending
      over 10mm, also referred to as lateral spreading lesions (LSL) if non-pedunculated, more
      often demonstrate advanced histological features and are considered to be at greater risk for
      malignant transition as compared to their smaller counterparts. Incomplete endoscopic
      resection of advanced adenomas may lead to adenoma recurrence and contribute to the
      development of so called 'interval cancers', which occur during the 6 - 36 month period
      following complete colonoscopy. Interval cancers account for up to 6% of newly diagnosed CRC
      cases, highlighting the importance of complete resection.

      Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) is a well-established inject and resect method for the
      removal of LSLs using chromo-gelofusin based submucosal lift and subsequent cauterisation
      assisted snare excision. Lesions up to 25mm in size may be removed enbloc, whereas larger
      lesions are generally removed in a piecemeal fashion. Contrary to enbloc resection, piecemeal
      EMR is historically associated with relatively high recurrence rates of 15-20%. A recent four
      centre trial led by Westmead Hospital published in gastroenterology (impact factor 20.8) has
      shown that application of snare-tip soft coag (STSC) to the EMR defect margins considerably
      improves recurrence rates to around 7% in adenomatous LSL. Common complications of EMR such
      as intra-procedural bleeding (IPB) or clinically significant post-procedural bleeding (CSPB),
      deep mural injury (DMI) and post-polypectomy coagulation syndrome (PPCS) are largely related
      to the use of cauterisation for tissue transection. Although complication rates have improved
      and effects can often be managed endoscopically, further optimization of the EMR safety
      profile is needed in the background of an aging target population with multiple
      co-morbidities and widespread use of anticoagulants.

      Cold snare polypectomy (CSP) has become the standard of care for removal of subcentimeter
      polyps. CSP relies on the use of dedicated stiff thin wire snares that are able to swiftly
      cut through mucosal tissue without the need for cauterisation, leaving intact the muscularis
      mucosa and the deeper submucosal layers, virtually excluding the risk of perforation. The
      absence of delayed cauterisation effect significantly reduces the risk of post-polypectomy
      bleeding, even in patients on anticoagulant therapy. Complete resection rates of polyps
      ranging from 6 to 10mm in size were found to be non-inferior in CSP as compared to
      cauterisation based resection. Moreover, resecting a sufficient margin of normal mucosa
      surrounding the polyp (i.e. >1mm) yields an excellent 98% complete resection rate in polyps
      <10mm in size without increasing the risk of delayed bleeding. Meta-analysis demonstrated a
      significantly shorter procedure time when applying the cold snare resection technique in
      small polyps. Snare size limitations of dedicated cold snares however do not allow for
      en-bloc resection of polyps >10mm.

      Recently, cold snare piecemeal EMR was shown to be safe and effective for the removal of
      large sessile serrated polyps (SSP). Combined evidence from a limited number of small single
      centre mostly retrospective studies investigating cold snare piecemeal polypectomy in
      adenomas over 10mm demonstrated recurrence rates of around 11% whilst maintaining an
      excellent safety profile with minimal complication rates. However, recurrence rates rise to
      22% in the subgroup of polyps over 20mm. Thus far cold snare piecemeal polypectomy of
      lateral-spreading adenomas has not yet been compared to conventional EMR in prospective
      randomized fashion.
    
  