
    
      Current application rates suggest that more than half of Operation Enduring Freedom/Operation
      Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF) Veterans will eventually apply for some form of service-connection,
      with approximately 100,000 Veterans per year being evaluated for psychiatric conditions.
      Veterans applying for service-connection for psychiatric conditions are in distress, and
      often are having occupational difficulties, but these are unaddressed during a typical
      Compensation and Pension evaluation. Counseling that addresses beneficiaries' concerns about
      losing compensation payments if working for pay, when supplemented by vocational supports,
      has been associated with increased employment among people disabled by chronic psychiatric
      conditions. This group has developed an online Benefits Counseling intervention tailored to
      help Veterans applying for service-connection engage in work-related activities. The
      investigators have demonstrated the efficacy of a face-to-face version of Benefits Counseling
      in a completed Rehabilitation Research & Development-funded six-month clinical trial in which
      Veterans assigned to Benefits Counseling worked significantly more days than controls,(p<.05,
      effect size = 0.69), reflecting an average of three more days of employment at six month
      follow-up. The investigators then used a supplement from Rehabilitation Research &
      Development to develop a web-based version of this counseling, so that the counseling could
      be delivered without a counselor on-site. The web-based intervention was modified based on
      user feedback, but the extent to which it will be used by Veterans at home and how it will
      impact their behavior is unknown. In the proposed clinical trial, Veterans working two or
      fewer days per week who are presenting for a Compensation & Pension examination for a
      psychiatric disorder will be assessed at baseline and then urged to log in afterwards to a
      website for random assignment to either Remotely-Delivered Benefits Counseling (n=65) or
      Veterans Benefits Administration web sites (n=65), and will then be assessed at 4, 12, and 24
      weeks after randomization in order to calculate standardized group mean differences between
      the slopes over time. The primary outcome measure will be the treatment-by-time slope of
      hours of paid work. Exploratory analyses will estimate associations of potential mediators of
      treatment response with this outcome. The proposed study will provide estimates of the
      efficacy of remotely-delivered Benefits Counseling initiated at Compensation and Pension
      examinations, a widely-used point of contact with VA.
    
  