
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of cabozantinib s-malate (cabozantinib) combined with nivolumab
      and ipilimumab in the first or second-line (and beyond) setting for patients within each of
      the rare genitourinary (GU) variant histology group of interest, as measured by objective
      response rate (ORR).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) for patients treated with cabozantinib
      combined with nivolumab and ipilimumab within each rare variant histology.

      II. To estimate the overall survival (OS) for patients treated with cabozantinib combined
      with nivolumab and ipilimumab within each rare variant histology.

      III. To estimate the clinical benefit rate (defined as complete response [CR] or partial
      response [PR] or stable disease [SD]) for patients treated with cabozantinib combined with
      nivolumab and ipilimumab within each rare variant histology.

      IV. To assess the safety of treating patients with rare variant histologies with cabozantinib
      combined with nivolumab and ipilimumab.

      V. To support tissue banking and collection of clinical follow-up data for GU tract rare
      histological variants.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess effects of treatment in patients with bone-only disease by bone scan.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive cabozantinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 of cycles 1-4 and on
      days 1-28 of subsequent cycles. Patients also receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30
      minutes on day 1 and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-4. Patients then
      receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for cycles 1-4 and every 28 days for subsequent cycles for 2 years in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 5 years.
    
  