
    
      Objective 1: Generation of a common European database and biobank. The existing national
      programmes to collect data on chILD in three countries (France, Germany, UK) will enable the
      consortium to swiftly adapt current frameworks to a functionally appropriate pan-European
      web-based database and biobank. Importantly, compatibility with ongoing United States chILD
      data base developments will be factored in.

      Objective 2: Continuous assessment and implementation of guidelines and treatment protocols.
      Our Standards Working Group will convene regularly. Initial tasks will establish (a) specific
      diagnostic pathways, including detailed protocols for gathering clinical information, blood
      testing, imaging and pathology ("Best Practice Checklist"); (b) international panels of
      clinicians, geneticists, radiologists and pathologists who will review every diagnosis to
      quality control the data; and (c) detailed protocols for follow up to generate natural
      history data.

      Objective 3: Recruitment of a carefully characterized cohort of chILD patients. European wide
      recruitment and interdisciplinary critical peer review of all diagnoses submitted from across
      Europe is imperative. Each case will be given a diagnosis independently; if no firm diagnosis
      is possible, we will review the case periodically as new information becomes available.
      During the first year of the study, clinicians´ decisions according to local practice and
      outcomes will be independently monitored and assessed.

      Objective 4: Determine the value of outcomes used in chILD. We will systematically optimize
      and clarify the relative weight of a large spectrum of single and composite clinical outcomes
      (using both clinician and carer scoring), sequential limited chest CT (to minimise radiation
      exposure), lung function testing, histopathological categorization of lung biopsies, serum
      markers and genetic tests. Variability, reproducibility and the effects of training on
      reading images will be investigated.

      Objective 5: Assess treatment variations used, deliver data from defined protocols and linked
      outcomes. This project will analyse in detail treatment and outcomes within and between
      subjects using data collected. Analysis of the collected data will enable us to support the
      definition of trial protocols planned in the future.
    
  