
    
      Mother's Own Milk (MOM) is recommended for preterm babies. However, on average, mothers
      giving birth preterm are able to provide less than half their baby's milk requirements.
      Standard clinical practice is to make up any shortfall in MOM with either pasteurised Human
      Donor Milk (HDM) or Preterm Formula (PTF). Which option is more beneficial to clinical
      outcomes is unknown.

      Pasteurisation reduces or destroys many biologically active components and HDM, unlike PTF,
      is very variable in composition. Clinicians who use HDM do so primarily in the hope that
      despite pasteurisation it will reduce bloodstream infection and necrotising enterocolitis, a
      serious, devastating inflammatory disease characterised by bowel death and multisystem
      failure. These are two of the most feared conditions in newborn medicine as described above.
      Landmark nutritional trials in the early 1980's suggest positive effects of human milk on
      insulin sensitivity, and other metabolic outcomes. Clinicians who prefer PTF believe it
      benefits growth, including brain growth, and improves neurodevelopmental outcome.

      Neonates born below 32 weeks gestational age will be randomised to receive fortified HDM,
      unfortified HDM, or PTF to make up any shortfall in MOM until 35 weeks postmenstrual age with
      a sample size of 22 in each group. The trial is designed to reflect current preterm feeding
      practice. The trial will take place in neonatal units in London and parent consent obtained
      within 48hr of birth. Permission will be sought for long term follow up, initially from
      parents (later from children themselves). Outcomes will be body composition using magnetic
      resonance imaging and other imaging techniques. This pilot study will specifically assess
      feasibility by testing 1) provision of HDM by Human Milk Banks in London 2) acceptability to
      parents and clinicians using feedback on trial design 3) recruitment to target and 4)
      retrieval of clinical data for all recruited babies form the National Neonatal Database.
    
  