
    
      Due to increasing age, BMI and increased focus on obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) in
      the background population, an increasing number of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) patients are
      expected to occur in the coming years. This is accompanied by a need for multiple deliveries
      of CPAP equipment, which is the recommended treatment. A large proportion of patients are
      young and healthy with their OSA. There is an increased focus on telemedicine and much of the
      control of patients has been transferred to ambuflex, where treatment effect or treatment
      problems can be more easily detected. Socioeconomically, the deliveries, together with the
      medical examination, are resource-intensive and they also take up a lot of the patient's time
      and often at distant times. The quality of disclosure and information varies greatly in both
      time and amount of information. The large amount of information can be difficult to remember
      for patients and relatives. Most investigations require more visits to the hospital and
      therefore potentially provide several days away from work.

      A similar trial has never been made, but randomized studies have been made in the past where
      the delivery of CPAP or low compliance patients has been supported by a motivational video or
      teaching with good effect. Studies have also been conducted that have attempted to identify
      CPAP dropout and compliance based on gender, age, educational level and personality, with
      unemployment being the only contributing prognostic factor in the negative direction. It is
      well-studied that if patients suffer from insomnia, the onset of CPAP can be difficult and
      this patient group should be monitored more closely and possibly. have additional help for
      startup.

      The video in this study provides a brief review of illness and treatment, instruction on
      assembling and adapting equipment, and answers to the most frequently asked questions. Both
      groups are given the same telephone numbers as usual, for questions and here it will be
      included in the study if there is a difference in the amount of contacts to the ambulatory.
      The video has been tested in the relevant setting before starting the project. M Gaglianos
      made in 1988 is a literature review showing that video teaching is good and more effective
      than traditional teaching methods, with effects on short-term but not long-term memory.
    
  