
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether the addition of photodynamic therapy to standard brain tumor care
           (surgical resection, postoperative radiotherapy, and chemotherapy) will result in a
           significant prolongation of time to recurrence and survival in newly diagnosed malignant
           supratentorial gliomas.

        -  Compare the effect of high or low light dose photodynamic therapy on survival of
           patients with recurrent malignant supratentorial gliomas.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter, two part study. Patients are stratified according
      to clinical center.

      Newly diagnosed patients (Study 1)

        -  Patients are randomized to receive either high light dose photodynamic therapy (arm I)
           or no photodynamic therapy (arm II):

             -  Arm I: Patients receive porfimer sodium (Photofrin) IV one day prior to surgery.
                Craniotomy and tumor resection are performed. Upon completion of resection,
                patients undergo intracavitary photoillumination with a high light dose.

             -  Arm II: Craniotomy and tumor resection are performed. Postoperatively, all patients
                receive external beam radiotherapy 5 days per week for 5-6 weeks. After completing
                radiotherapy, patients receive nitrosourea (carmustine or lomustine) chemotherapy.

      Recurrent tumor patients (Study 2)

        -  Patients receive Photofrin IV one day prior to surgery. Craniotomy and tumor resection
           are performed.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive high dose light therapy during surgery.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive low dose light therapy during surgery. Patients receive
                chemotherapy with procarbazine for 28 days beginning 2-4 weeks after surgery.
                Courses repeat every 56 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

      Patients are followed on both studies at 4 weeks postsurgery, then every 3 months until death
      or for 1 year after study closure.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 150 patients with newly diagnosed tumor will be accrued for
      this study within 4 years (Study 1). A maximum of 120 patients with recurrent disease will be
      accrued within 4.5 years (Study 2)
    
  