
    
      The present study will be a 6-month randomized controlled trial that will be carried out
      between March 2017 and Aug 2017 in a regional hospital (secondary care setting ) of the
      province of Malaga, Spain. Participants scheduled for shoulder surgery and those that fulfil
      inclusion criteria will be asked for participating in this study. The outcomes will be
      assessed at baseline (in the week preceding surgery) and at 3 follow-ups times (1 week, 1
      month and 6 months' post-surgery t1-t4 ).

      All patients scheduled for shoulder surgery in the participating hospital and meeting the age
      criteria will be contacted by telephone and interviewed after having given consent. The
      initial telephone interview serves to provide a verbal description of the project and to
      screen potential study participants for in- and exclusion criteria (see above). People deemed
      likely to be eligible and willing to participate in the study will be scheduled for baseline
      assessments in the week before surgery. Furthermore, they will receive written information
      about the study via mail or e-mail. Prior to undertaking the baseline assessments, they will
      have the opportunity to ask questions and will be asked to provide written informed consent.
      Anonymized age, gender and visual analogue scale- verbal numerical rating scale (VAS-VNRS)
      for pain will be collected for those participants who decline to take part in the project, to
      assess the external validity of the recruited sample of participants.

      Participants are not expected to start new treatments or medication other than their usual
      pre- and postoperative care 3 weeks prior to and during study participation. Participants
      will then complete several questionnaires at baseline, 1 week, 1 month and 6 months'
      post-intervention apart from biomedical education or PNE intervention. Retention of
      participants will be encouraged by researchers providing written feedback to all participants
      about the results of the "health screenings", maintaining the interest in the study through
      materials and mailings sent to participants during all the process and using reminders of the
      upcoming data collection. Participant data files will be stored in numerical order and in a
      secure and accessible place and manner. Participant files will be maintained in storage for a
      period of 3 years after completion of the study.
    
  