
    
      An SPF 30 sunscreen and a proprietary after sun lotion both containing a combination of
      plankton extract and micrococcus lysate (kindly provided by ATEIA AG, Vaduz, Liechtenstein)
      was used in a pilot study of intensified photoprotection in patients with multiple skin
      cancers. Thirteen patients (8 women and 5 men), between 37 and 81 years old, who had had a
      history of multiple skin cancers were enrolled in the study. Five of the patients had
      xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) (complementation group: A, 2; C,1; and non-classified 2); one
      patient XP variant, 3 patients basal cell nevus syndrome, and four patients no skin cancer
      syndrome. Patients were instructed to apply their sunscreen regularly before sun exposure and
      4.5 ml of the after sun lotion to their face and arms daily, as close to mid-day as possible
      for a period of up to 24 months. The patients were examined in 3-month intervals and the new
      appearance of actinic keratoses and skin cancers was recorded. New lesions were removed at
      these visits and the pathology was confirmed by histological examination, except in the cases
      of (multiple) actinic keratoses, whenever patients agreed. The number of skin tumors during
      the 24 months of the study was compared to the number in the preceding 24 month-period before
      study entry. The data were obtained from patient charts and/or electronic files. There was a
      statistical trend for less BCCs during the study period compared to the prestudy period. In
      addition, the patients received at each of the 3-month visits a questionnaire and were asked
      to rate the status of their skin on face and arms during the last 3 months for various
      parameters on a scale from -2 (maximum worsening) to +2 (maximum improvement). The patients'
      ratings revealed a statistically significant improvement for several parameters: smoothness,
      color spots, wrinkles, burning, irritation, teleangiectasia, infections, warts, and skin
      lesions or sores, starting as early than at the first 3-month visit with a maximum effect
      seen at 12 months. No adverse effects were noted during the study.
    
  