
    
      This study will have two phases, with an added usability test after Phase I and before Phase
      2. Phase 1: Cognitive Interviews in Spanish. Phase 2: Personalized Genomic Testing for Skin
      Cancer (PGT-SC).

      The overarching goal of this study is to learn more about how to maximize the availability,
      comprehension and appropriate uptake of personalized genomics among different populations in
      New Mexico. The study has been funded as an R01 by NCI for three years.

      Aim I: To examine the personal utility (that is, how does personal genomic testing help the
      individual) of Personal Genomic Testing for Skin Cancer (PGT-SC) in terms of short-term
      (three months after testing) sun protection, skin screening (i.e., behaviors), communication,
      melanoma threat and control beliefs (i.e., putative mediators of behavior change). Guided by
      Protection Motivation Theory, the investigators hypothesize that behaviors and putative
      mediators will be higher in those who test, compared to those who decline testing or
      wait-list controls.

      Aim Ia. An important challenge of personal genomics involves the potential for those who
      receive "negative" genetic feedback to increase risky behaviors. To examine this potential
      unintended consequence of testing, the investigators will conduct a subgroup analysis among
      those who receive average risk PGT-SC findings, examining sun protection at three months as
      the outcome. Predictors will include baseline skin cancer threat and control beliefs, skin
      cancer risk factors, and demographics. These findings will be used in future studies to
      develop messages for groups that receive average risk feedback, which accounts for large
      segments of those tested for moderate risk susceptibility factors across many diseases.

      Aim II: To examine differential reach of PGT-SC across Hispanics and Non-Hispanics, and
      potential explanations for any differential reach. Reach is defined as the extent to which
      genomic testing is spread throughout the population. Reach will be measured in individuals as
      the consideration of the pros and cons of testing and registration of test decision.
      Additional assessments of reach include baseline survey completion and decision to pursue
      PGT-SC testing. The investigators hypothesize that those who are self-identified Hispanic
      will show reduced reach, but that differences in health literacy, health system distrust, and
      Hispanic sociocultural factors including cancer fatalism, family health orientation, and skin
      cancer misperceptions will explain differences in reach between Hispanics and Non-Hispanics,
      and provide guidance for future PGT-SC modifications for Hispanics.

      Aim III: Among those who undergo testing, to examine (two weeks after PGT-SC test result
      receipt) test comprehension, recall, satisfaction, and cancer-related distress, and whether
      these outcomes differ by ethnicity (Hispanic versus Non-Hispanic) or health literacy,
      distrust, sociocultural, or demographic factors. The investigators hypothesize, based on
      prior work delivering this intervention in primary care, the results will reflect high test
      comprehension, accurate feedback interpretation, and low test distress in those who get
      tested.

      Background. Personalized genomics currently has extremely limited reach. First, most gene
      discovery has not engaged diverse research cohorts. Second, the few translational research
      efforts that address "real world" genomic challenges and opportunities have engaged those
      with higher socioeconomic status and health literacy. Third, ethnic and racial minorities are
      less likely to participate in basic genomics research, and are also less likely to utilize
      available genomic technologies, even when they are offered. Ideally, the investigators should
      all have fair access to the knowledge gained from sequencing the human genome, but if these
      trends continue, the investigators will know little about how to maximize availability,
      comprehension, and appropriate uptake of personalized genomics across large subpopulations
      that stand to benefit from it.

      To begin to address this, The Multiplex Study led by the National Human Genome Research
      Institute (NHGRI) used population-based recruitment strategies in Detroit, Michigan to
      evaluate an Internet-provided offer of genomic testing for common diseases, including
      melanoma, the most serious form of skin cancer. Study findings indicate that this approach is
      feasible - resulting in high test comprehension, accurate feedback interpretation, and low
      test distress in those who sought testing. Yet this study did not include Hispanics nor
      assess behavioral outcomes.

      Personalized genomic testing for skin cancer (PGT-SC) is an ideal context to extend Multiplex
      to a new population, and new outcomes. Skin cancers are preventable, curable, very common in
      the general population, and disproportionately increasing in Hispanics. The NHGRI Multiplex
      Study offered testing for melanoma risk via the melanocortin 1 receptor gene (MC1R) because
      MC1R is common in the general population (50% >1 high risk variant), interacts with sun
      exposure, and confers risk (2-3 fold; consistent with most moderate risk variants), even in
      those with darker skin types. MC1R feedback is a promising vehicle to raise risk awareness
      and protective behavior in the general population, including Hispanics who are largely
      unaware of their melanoma risks. The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial
      examining internet presentation of the risks and benefits of PGT-SC (shown to be feasible in
      Multiplex) versus wait-list controls who are not offered testing, comparing personal utility
      and reach in a general population, English or Spanish-speaking cohort in Albuquerque, New
      Mexico, where there is year-round sun exposure.

      Prior investigator collaborations. This transdisciplinary effort will bring together the
      combined expertise of investigators - many of whom have productive, longstanding
      collaborations already - to integrate up-to-date research findings from their respective
      disciplines, a necessary step given that the rapid unfolding of new cancer genomic,
      communication, and behavioral science findings is the expected reality of these fields. The
      investigators employ a Multiple PI Plan. Dr. Jennifer Hay, Principal Investigator is an
      expert in risk communication and behavior change who has worked with Dr. Marianne Berwick,
      Principal Investigator, a genetic epidemiologist and a leader in the field of the genetic
      factors in melanoma for over 10 years. Drs. Hay and Berwick conducted studies examining
      family communication and health behavior change (screening, sun protection) in melanoma
      families, and found a high rate of discussion about melanoma risk in melanoma families, that
      different patterns of family communication after melanoma diagnosis influence adoption of
      prevention strategies, inconsistent adoption of such strategies in survivors, and that
      behavioral outcomes associated with hypothetical melanoma genetic testing differ based on
      positive versus negative risk feedback.

      Pilot research conducted by the investigators at the University of New Mexico (UNM) indicate
      that primary care patients are receptive to skin cancer genomic communication; UNM Hispanics
      report higher skin cancer misconceptions. Drs. Hay and Berwick conducted this pilot study in
      the UNM 1209 Clinic to examine 1) patients' receptivity to behavioral research studies in
      skin cancer and genetics, 2) to document levels of sunscreen and protective clothing use,
      shade-seeking, and health provider skin cancer screening examinations, 3) to examine prior
      health information-seeking and family cancer discussions, and 4) prevalence of accurate skin
      cancer beliefs. Most (71%) participants were female and they ranged in age from 19-81 years
      (n=50), with racial/ethnic subgroups consistent with the Albuquerque population (46% were
      Hispanic, 35% were Non-Hispanic White, 6% Native American, 3% African American, and 10%
      other). Nine percent had not completed high school, and 55% had household incomes less than
      $30k/year. About one third (30%) reported a family skin cancer history and 7% a personal skin
      cancer history. About two-thirds (66%) reported interest in behavioral skin cancer research,
      and while few (17%) had heard of genetic testing marketed directly to consumers, two thirds
      (76%) said they would be interested in learning more about genetic testing for skin cancer.
      Sun protection and skin cancer screening levels were consistent with recent national data;
      29% reported that they consistently used sunscreen, 62% wore a shirt with sleeves, 34% a hat,
      and 47% sought shade often or always while outside on a sunny day. Even fewer (26%) had ever
      received a health provider skin examination. Non-Hispanic Whites reported more consistent use
      of sunscreen, and were more likely to have received a prior health provider skin examination
      than Hispanics and other racial/ethnic groups (all p values <0.01). Two-thirds (62%) reported
      that they were moderately or highly likely to develop skin cancer. Predominant reasons for
      heightened risk included current or past sun exposure, fair skin, and family history or
      genetic factors. Spontaneous health information-seeking was common, with 72% reporting that
      they had ever sought information on medical topics, predominantly via the internet. Over half
      (62%) had sought cancer information. About half (55%) had talked about cancer risk, and 37%
      about skin cancer risk, in their family. Those with higher perceived skin cancer risk talked
      more about it with their family (r=0.34, p=0.001) and were more interested in skin cancer
      behavioral research participation (r=0.26, p=0.01). The investigators assess skin cancer
      misconceptions as an explanation for reduced PGT-SC reach in Aim II of the current study,
      because Hispanics reported more skin cancer misconceptions than Non-Hispanic Whites in the
      investigators' UNM pilot study. Over half of Hispanics endorsed confusion about which skin
      cancer recommendations to follow, and significant proportions of Hispanics agreed with the
      statement "it seems likely almost everything causes skin cancer" (24%); and "people with skin
      cancer would have pain or other symptoms prior to diagnosis" (24%). Also in the
      investigators' prior work with nationally representative samples, the investigators found
      that Non-Hispanic Whites had higher awareness of accurate skin cancer causes, prevention
      strategies, and symptoms than Hispanics. Hispanics reported higher levels of information
      overload and misconceptions.
    
  