
    
      The effects of thiazolidinedione on the diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy:

      Overall Goal and Specific Aims

      The overall goal of this study is to examine the effects of thiazolidinediones on the
      diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy.

      The specific aims are:

        1. To investigate the short-term effects of thiazolidinediones on the macular thickness
           measured by optical coherence tomography and the long-term effects of thiazolidinediones
           on the clinically significant macular edema and diabetic retinopathy documented by color
           photography and fluoroscein angiography.

        2. Short-term effects of thiazolidinediones on the change of urine albumin excretion and
           serum cardiovascular risk profiles and long-term effects of thiazolidinediones on the
           estimated GFR change and progression to overt diabetic nephropathy.

      Objectives

      Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) are insulin sensitizers that decrease plasma glucose in type 2
      diabetic patients. Thiazolidinediones can cause fluid retention and peripheral edema in
      diabetic patients, and the systematic fluid retention can be manifested as diabetic macular
      edema (DME). The overall goal of this study is to examine the effects of thiazolidinediones
      on the diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy.

      Study design

      This is a prospective, randomized, open-labeled, controlled design to assess the effects
      thiozolidinediones on the diabetic retinopathy and nephropathy. The investigators will
      recruit 300 type 2 diabetic patients without significant retinopathy, nephropathy and
      cardiovascular disease. Inclusion criteria are type 2 diabetes, age between 30-80 years old,
      with microabluminuria, no significant retinopathy, on submaximal dose of sulphonylureas and
      metformin treatment, and A1C between 7-9%. Exclusion criteria are on insulin treatment,
      significant retinopathy and significant nephropathy. Patients with cardiovascular diseases,
      malignancy, pregnancy, in acute intercurrent illness, congestive heart failure, myocardial
      infarction, received PCI or CABG. All subjects will receive EKG and CXR before randomization.

      These subjects will be randomized equally to 3 groups: acarbose, rosiglitazone and
      pioglitazone. The investigators will follow up for 6 months to investigate the short-term
      effects and 5 years to evaluate the long-term outcomes. The primary study end point of
      short-term study will be the macular thickness changes measured by optical coherence
      tomography, the changes in the level of urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio, circulating
      metabolic parameters and adipocytokines during thiozolidinediones treatment. Secondary end
      point will be fasting blood glucose, A1C levels, development of clinically significant
      macular edema, serum creatinine change in patients with no history of diabetic retinopathy
      and nephropathy at baseline.

      The primary study end point of long-term study will be the development of clinically
      significant macular edema and the time from the base-line visit to the first detection of
      overt nephropathy. Secondary end points include the development of greater than moderate
      NPDR, the time to the first event of the time from the base-line visit to a doubling of the
      serum creatinine concentration, end-stage renal disease, or death.

      The investigators also monitor the long-term safety issue, such as congestive heart failure,
      myocardial infarction, any cardiovascular event, and fracture.

      Expected Results

      TZDs can decrease plasma glucose in type 2 diabetic patients, but the major side effects are
      able to cause fluid retention. This prospective study will be able to test whether
      thiozolidinediones causes macular edema and to evaluate whether thiozolidinediones delays
      onset of diabetic retinopathy. The investigators also will be able to find the changes in the
      level of urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio, circulating metabolic parameters and
      adipocytokines between the treatment of TZDs and Acrbose. The investigators can compare the
      time from the base-line visit to the first detection of overt nephropathy, the time to the
      first event of the composite end point of the time from the base-line visit to a doubling of
      the serum creatinine concentration, end-stage renal disease, or death.
    
  