
    
      Blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN), with a synonym of blastic NK-cell
      lymphoma, agranular CD4+ natural killer cell leukaemia, blastic natural killer
      leukaemia/lymphoma, and agranular CD4+CD56+ haematodermic neoplasm/tumour, has been
      classified under "acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and related precursor neoplasms" since 2008
      according to the World Health Organization (WHO) classification and among "myeloid neoplasm
      and acute leukemia" following 2016 revision of WHO classification. The plasmacytoid dendritic
      cells originates professional type I interferon-producing cells or plasmacytoid monocytes.
      Therefore, the prerequisite for diagnosis of BPDCN is the CD4+ and CD 56+ co-expression
      without common lymphoid or myeloid lineage markers1,2. This rare type of malignancy affecting
      predominantly elderly man, is reported to comprise 0.44% of hematologic malignancy3 and 0.7%
      of cutaneous lymphomas4, and the leukemic presentation or transformation is observed at
      initial presentation or even in the course of disease progression5.

      Skin in¬volvement is a predominant clinical feature of BPDCN ranging in appearance from small
      bruise-like areas to patches, nodules, and ulcerated masses, but lymphadenopathy,
      splenomegaly, hepatomegaly are also commonly observed. There is no definite treatment
      guideline for BPDCN. Retrospective studies including acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)/lymphoma-like chemotherapy for management of BPDCN reported
      53-89% of high complete remission rates but an eventual very poor overall survival of 12-23
      months, with a preponderance of ALL/lymphoma- over AML-like treatment5. Recently, targeted
      therapy with SL401, an IL-3 fusion protein which binds to CD123, is promising and the results
      of the clinical trial will be unveiled in the near future6.

      Although several retrospective and small case series has been published so far7,8, there is
      still no multicenter study on BPDCN classified after 2008 WHO classification in Asian
      population. This study aims to retrospectively collect data of BPDCN patients from centers
      participating the Consortium for improving survival of lymphoma (CISL) and analyze the
      clinical features and treatment outcomes in this rare type of hematologic malignancy.
    
  