
    
      Objectives:

        1. A longitudinal observation of clinical- and radiological development with 5- and 10
           years follow-up. Variables predicting clinical deterioration or improvement, and outcome
           measurements including time from inclusion to time for surgery, will be analyzed. We
           will use predictive models appropriate to the type of data each prognostic outcome
           measure represents. For example the repeated pain and disability measures will be
           analysed using linear mixed models. Logistic regression models with no more than 1
           variable per 10 events will be used to analyse associations between prognostic factors
           and disability. Multivariate analysis will identify the predictive prognostic factors in
           the demographic, physical, social and radiological domains. The number of factors that
           will be entered in the multivariate analysis will be condensed by univariate pre-testing
           and omitting highly correlated factors. The prognostic value of both single and combined
           variables will be addressed by calculating sensitivity, specificity, positive and
           negative likelihood ratios in a standard way.

           Time to surgery will be modeled using Kaplan-Meier plot. Depending on number of treated
           patients the effect of selected covariates on time to surgery will be evaluated using
           the Cox model.

        2. 1) To investigate differences between patients in the observational cohort and patients
           treated surgically in NORDSTEN-SST and NORDSTEN-DS, by comparing baseline demographic-,
           clinical-, and radiological data. Patients in the NORDSTEN-OS with lumbar spinal
           stenosis and a verified degenerative spondylolisthesis of ≥ 3mm will be compared to
           patients in the NORDSTEN-DS. Patients in the NORDSTEN-OS with lumbar spinal stenosis
           without degenerative spondylolisthesis will be compared to patients in the NORDSTEN-SST.
           We will use descriptive statistics to compare the patient groups. For each of the
           variables we will compare measures of central tendency such as mean and median, and
           measures of variability such as variance and quantiles. We will also plot distributions
           of certain variables using histograms or fitted densities, in order to easier compare
           and see similarities and differences between the groups.

        3. A specific aim will be to compare patients from NORDSTEN-DS, randomized to midline
           preserving decompression without fixation, to patients with DS from the observational
           cohort after 2 years. Radiological data and and PROM data at baseline and at 2 years
           will be analyzed. We will fit a linear mixed model and test for interaction between time
           and group, to test whether there is a difference in displacement change between the two
           groups.

      Baseline data Demographical data: Age, gender, BMI, education and native language. Status
      regarding: marriage, smoking, work and disability benefits.

      Clinical data: duration of symptoms (back pain and leg pain) and use of analgetics, Patient
      reported outcome measures: Oswestry Disability Index (ODI 2.0), Zurich Claudication
      Questionnaire, EQ-5D and Numeric Rating Scale for leg pain and back pain. Hopkins symptom
      check list (HSCL-25) HSCL-25 is a PROM for assessment of psychological variables. It covers
      emotional distress, scores range from 1 to 4, with lower scores indicating less severe
      symptoms.

      Radiological data: Standing x-rays; anterior-posterior (AP), lateral and functional images
      (lateral- extension and flexion) and MRI.

      Radiological evaluations Standing x-ray with functional images and MRI will be performed at
      baseline-, 5-, and 10 years follow-up. Additionally, patients with lumbar spinal stenosis and
      concomitant degenerative spondylolisthesis at baseline undergo functional radiographs at 2
      years follow-up. One musculoskeletal radiologist and two surgeons (Orthopedic surgeon and
      Neurosurgeon) will perform the radiological interpretations using Picture Archiving and
      Communication System (PACS), Sectra, Sweden.

      MRI of the lumbar spine, including T1 and T2 sequences in the axial and sagittal planes. The
      following variables will be measured:

      Measurements quantifying the degree of stenosis:

      Dural sac cross-sectional area (DSCSA) is measured on axial T2 weighted images in the
      stenotic levels.

      Morphologic grading according to the method described by Schizas et al. The grading is based
      on the cerebrospinal fluid/rootlet ratio, and is scaled from A-D, where A is no stenosis, B
      moderate stenosis, C severe stenosis and D extreme stenosis.

      Measurements from sagittal plane T1 MRI sequences for grading of foraminal stenosis using the
      method of Lee et al.

      The presence or absence of redundant nerve root sign. The presence of intraspinal cysts
      impinging the dural sac or nerve roots.

      Measurements when degenerative spondylolisthesis is present:

      Measurement of the facet joint orientation will be done by MRI images in the transverse plan
      using the method of Berleman et al.

      Degree of disc degeneration according to Pfirrmann et al and Modic et al. Qualitative
      measurement of facet joint fluid.

      Qualitative measurement of disc height.

      Skeletal x-rays:Standard images; frontal and lateral view of L1 to S1 in standing
      position.Extension- and flexion images; lateral view of L1 to S1 with respectively maximal
      flexion and maximal extension.

      Measurement of lumbar lordosis (L1-S1), pelvic incidence, sacral slope and pelvic tilt.

      Measurements from the radiographs for calculating vertebral sagittal olisthesis and segmental
      instability will use the method of Dupuis et al.
    
  