
    
      Background

      Genomic sequencing (GS) is considered the 'next step' towards personalized medicine,
      providing an opportunity to improve the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of disease.
      Across Canada, clinicians are increasingly using GS to identify treatments and management
      approaches likely to benefit patients based on molecular makeup, especially in oncology. GS
      offers increased sensitivity over classic genetic tests. For example, multi-gene sequencing
      has been shown to increase the sensitivity of identifying clinically actionable mutations in
      breast cancer patients by 50% to 60% when compared to testing for BRCA1/2 alone. Often breast
      cancer patients who test negative for BRCA1/2 will be offered GS to identify causative
      mutations. In addition, GS can also be used to analyze the molecular profile of a patient's
      tumour (somatic GS) to identify therapeutic targets.

      However, the process of decoding the genome an individual or their tumour may incidentally
      reveal information about inherited predispositions to other cancers and diseases, including
      genetic variants/changes associated with current (undiagnosed) disease, drug response, risk
      for future diseases and variants of unknown clinical significance. Increasing policy guidance
      suggests that 'medically actionable' results should be offered to patients undergoing
      clinical sequencing, with calls to offer additional incidental results based on patient
      preferences. There is limited evidence on the psychological harms and clinical benefits of
      returning incidental GS results to patients.

      Psychological distress: Single-gene and multiplex testing for hereditary cancers,
      neurological and cardiac disease appears to have minimal psychological impacts. A recent
      study found that few participants report distress from GS results. However, these findings
      are based on individuals who agreed to be tested for particular genes, and were prepared
      through counseling or otherwise to receive these results. This may not translate to
      incidentally-discovered genetic risk, which individuals did not anticipate or choose to learn
      a priori. Distress related to receiving incidental GS results remains unknown.

      Personal utility: Studies suggest that individuals want to learn their GS results because
      they expect them to offer 'personal utility'. Personal utility is considered an increasingly
      important precursor of clinical utility, which is believed to offer richer self-knowledge and
      motivate risk reducing behaviors. Most studies focus on the hypothetical return of incidental
      GS results, little is known about individuals' actual perceived value of receiving GS
      results.

      Health benefits: Single-gene and multiplex testing for low risk single nucleotide
      polymorphisms (SNPs) and high penetrance susceptibility alleles appears to influence the
      uptake of diet and medication changes, risk-reducing surgeries and surveillance. However,
      these findings are based on individuals who requested testing for selected genes, and may not
      represent individuals who learn incidental results.

      Clinical Utility: Due to the challenges of applying traditional measures of clinical utility
      (quality adjusted life years, life years gained) in the context of genomic medicine, an
      'intermediate outcome' of utility has emerged based on the 'usefulness and added value to
      patient management decision making,' of results captured by clinical actions or altered
      medical recommendations. Preliminary evidence shows GS holds great promise to enable
      personalized treatments and efficient diagnoses, has demonstrated to facilitate diagnosis in
      cases of rare diseases with unclear etiology, and strong potential to inform personalized
      drug therapies compatible with patients' genotypes. The utility of germline GS has largely
      been examined in limited clinical contexts, such as paediatrics and rare diseases. GS results
      have been shown to alter clinical management, such as by informing specialist referrals. In a
      study among a small sample of physicians, providers expressed that while they viewed the
      current utility of GS as low, they expect it to become more commonplace and more useful in
      the future. The actual and perceived utility of GS will ultimately determine its clinical
      implementation, and more evidence in broader clinical settings is needed to inform GS'
      optimal translation into clinical practice.

      Economic Analysis: A lack of evidence remains around the costs and cost-effectiveness of GS.
      Some believe GS has potential to reduce overall healthcare spending by streamlining the
      diagnostic process enabling tailored treatments, and informing specific prevention efforts.
      Others, however, believe that GS will increase healthcare expenditures with limited clinical
      benefits, as sequencing and variant interpretation costs remain high and results may trigger
      cascades of additional testing and screening procedures. Out-of-pocket costs may be incurred
      by patients including medications, counseling, and peripheral costs such as lost wages and
      transportation. Cost-effectiveness studies have predominately been conducted in the context
      of tumour sequencing for pharmacological applications; the cost-effectiveness of germ-line GS
      for primary indication has been examined in few clinical contexts. Regarding incidental
      findings, cost-effectiveness studies have been conducted for fewer than one third of
      conditions whose disclosure is recommended by the American College of Medical Genetics and
      Genomics (ACMG). Modelling predicts incidental finding disclosure may be cost-effective for
      diagnostics but not currently for general population screening. Further investigation into
      the utility, costs, and cost-effectiveness of GS is necessary to inform health service
      delivery and funding decisions.

      Rationale

      It is unknown whether incidental GS results will be perceived as useful, and whether they
      motivate the intent or uptake of risk-reducing behaviours. The clinical utility of GS results
      has not been fully explored, and there is a lack of evidence around cost-effectiveness and
      costs associated with GS to patients and the healthcare system, which poses a barrier to its
      clinical implementation.

      Research Question

      Do patients receiving incidental GS results experience higher levels of distress and engage
      in more risk reducing behaviours? What is the diagnostic yield of GS, and how do GS results
      influence clinical decision making? What are the short-term and long-term costs associated
      with receiving GS results to patients and the healthcare system?

      Objectives

        1. Evaluate the psychological distress of receiving incidental GS results

        2. Evaluate the personal utility and impact of receiving incidental GS results on
           subsequent risk reduction behaviours.

        3. Evaluate the clinical utility of GS:

           a. Assess the diagnostic yield of GS results: i. Related to primary cancer indication.
           ii. Medically actionable incidental findings. iii. Incidental findings with implications
           for reproductive decisions, lifestyle and relatives.

           b. Explore the nature and extent of clinical activity triggered by primary and
           incidental GS results (referrals to specialists, laboratory testing, scans and screens,
           etc.).

           c. Explore patient and provider perspectives of the perceived and actual clinical
           utility of primary and incidental GS results.

        4. Examine the short-term (1 year) and long-term (5 year) costs associated with genomic
           sequencing:

             1. Costs to the healthcare system.

             2. Personal costs.

      Study procedures

      Patients will be recruited from familial cancer clinics in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA),
      consented by a genetic counselor, and randomized. Following randomization, participants in
      the intervention arm will have the option to select which categories of incidental results
      they would be willing to receive, with a genetic counselor. Participants' genomes will be
      sequenced and interpreted. Results will be returned by a genetic counselor. Referrals will be
      made based on sequencing results. Outcomes will be measured at multiple time points before
      and after the return of results.
    
  