
    
      OBJECTIVE - Current treatment of benign thyroid is oral levothyroxin by suppression of
      thyrotropin secretion and so that tumor growth. Although current consensus is taking thyroxin
      one hour before meal because the PH value of gastrointestinal tract will affect drug
      absorption, some patient suffered from epigastric discomfort when taking thyroxin with empty
      stomach, and wish to take it postprandial. However, there is no direct evidence showing if
      taking thyroxin at different time point significantly affects treatment outcome. Besides, the
      response to thyroxin therapy differs among people. The purposes of this study are to evaluate
      the clinical significance of different time points of thyroxine intake and to search factors
      relating to thyroxin response of benign thyroid tumors.

      RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS - We will include patients who have benign thyroid tumors
      diagnosed with fine needle aspiration cytology and have normal thyroid function into our
      study. After informed consent, patients will be randomly assigned into two groups. Patients
      in the first group will take thyroxin one hour before breakfast until thyrotropin level
      stabilized between 0.5 and 1.0 mU/L for 3 months. Then thyroxin will be discontinued.
      Patients will restart thyroxin therapy three months later but after breakfast. Patients in
      another group will take thyroxin postprandial, discontinue thyroxin and then one hour before
      breakfast. Questionnaire interviews about diet and life style, blood samples and fine needle
      aspiration cytology samples will be obtained. Changes of thyroid nodules will be evaluated
      with thyroid echo.

      STATISTIC ANALYSIS - Descriptive data will be described as means and SDs for continuous
      variables, and analysis of variance and Chi-square tests were used for assessing the
      significances. A p-value below 0.05 was considered significant.

      Keywords: benign thyroid tumor, thyroxin, preprandial, postprandial.
    
  