
    
      This is an open label phase IB/II clinical trial designed to determine the safety and
      clinical activity of Ibrutinib in combination with GA101 - Obinutuzumab. Safety, tolerability
      and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) will be evaluated during the initial cycle of treatment
      (Cycle 1; Day 1-28) as part of the phase Ib of this study (safety run-in).

      In the phase II the response rate will be determined in all subjects that have received
      treatment. The study will enroll 32 subjects previously untreated who have active disease
      requiring treatment (as defined by IWCLL 2008 criteria for initiation of therapy). The study
      will include a Screening Phase, a Treatment Phase, and a Follow-up Phase. The Screening Phase
      assessments will be performed within 28 days prior to treatment. The Treatment Phase will
      extend from first dose until completion of all planned cycles of treatment (#6) or study drug
      discontinuation.

      All subjects will receive Ibrutinib 420 mg (3 x 140-mg capsules) orally once daily for up to
      6 cycles. The treatment with Ibrutinib will continue after cycle 6 for the following 3 years
      until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or other reason for treatment
      discontinuation.

      Subjects will undergo response assessment two months after completion of the study treatment.
      The initial follow-up evaluations will be made (after the response assessment) every 3 months
      during 9 months and later every 6 months until initiation of new treatment for CLL, consent
      withdrawal or death. During the long-term follow-up phase, subjects will be followed for
      survival (PFS, TFS and OS). The long-term follow-up phase will continue until disease
      progression, death, loss to follow up, consent withdrawal, or study end, whichever occurs
      first.

      An evaluation of the End of Study will be performed due to initiation of new treatment for
      CLL or withdrawal of consent.
    
  