
    
      Rare heterozygous mutations in cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA4) lead to a monogenetic
      defect that presents with a heterogeneous clinical phenotype of recurrent infections,
      lymphoproliferation, autoimmunity, and lymphocytic infiltration of target organs. Management
      is challenging and focuses on treating infections, autoimmune complications, and end organ
      damage due to lymphocytic infiltrates. Experience with the natural history of the disease and
      therapies for underlying complications are limited. There is no established standard of care
      for these patients.

      Abatacept is a biologically engineered CTLA4-mimetic that is approved as an intravenous (IV)
      infusion to treat adult rheumatoid arthritis, adult psoriatic arthritis, and juvenile
      idiopathic arthritis. Given that abatacept mimics CTLA4 function, we hypothesize that the
      drug will prevent T-cell hyper-activation, restore regulatory T-cell function, and thereby
      treat the autoimmune and immune dysregulatory manifestations of CTLA4 deficiency.

      This study is a phase 1/2, double-blind, randomized, intra-patient dose-escalation,
      placebo-controlled trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of abatacept in
      participants with CTLA4 deficiency and cytopenia. Participants will come to the NIH Clinical
      Center

      monthly for 210 days to receive infusions of study agent or placebo and to undergo safety and
      research evaluations, including blood draw for cytopenia evaluation and scoring of disease
      severity. Before and after the treatment period, participants will also have imaging,
      pulmonary function testing, bone marrow biopsy, and endoscopy (symptomatic participants
      only). Primary endpoints will be evaluated at Day 210. After completing the blinded treatment
      trial, participants will be offered the option to enroll in a 6-month open-label extension
      study for long-term safety evaluation of abatacept.
    
  