
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      Inflammation in the periphery and in brain may be a predisposing factor for major depressive
      disorder (MDD). For example, MDD (even in the absence of medical illness) is often associated
      with raised inflammatory markers, and inflammatory medical illnesses are associated with
      greater rates of MDD. Moreover, patients treated with cytokines for various illnesses are at
      increased risk of developing MDD.

      Translocator protein 18 kDa (TSPO) is a highly expressed protein in inflammatory cells of the
      brain: activated microglia and reactive astrocytes in brain. TSPO is, thereby, a potential
      biomarker of neuroinflammation. This protein can be accurately quantified using positron
      emission tomography (PET) and [C(11)]PBR28, a TSPO tracer synthesized in our laboratory.

      The aim of this study is to assess whether subjects with MDD have increased TSPO binding in
      brain as an indirect marker of neuroinflammation.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      This protocol will study up to 40 patients with MDD and 30 healthy volunteers. We will
      recruit up to 40 MDD subjects to achieve 30 completers. The remaining 10 MMD subjects
      included in the total - account for subjects who sign consent (and therefore contribute to
      the accrual ceiling) but do not complete the study for a variety of reasons.

      About half of the MDD subjects will be taking antidepressant medication and half will be
      unmedicated.

      We will exclude subjects (approximately 10% of the population) that have low affinity for
      PBR28 ( non-binders ), based on a blood test or genotyping.

      All healthy volunteers must not have any current serious medical condition.

      DESIGN

      For absolute quantification of TSPO, both MDD subjects and healthy controls will have
      arterial blood sampling concurrent with PET imaging using 11C-PBR28. We will try to minimize
      the recruitment of new healthy controls by relying on our historical database of healthy
      controls already scanned with [C(11)]PBR28.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      To assess absolute quantitation of TSPO with 11C-PBR28, we will primarily use the
      distribution volume (VT) calculated with compartmental modeling. As the primary goal, we will
      compare VT values obtained in MDD subjects with those from healthy controls. As secondary
      goals, we will assess 1) the effects of medication treatment in the MDD patients and 2) the
      relationship between CRP levels and TSPO binding in both MDD patients and healthy subjects.
    
  