
    
      According to Feigin and employees, in 2013 there were 25.7 million people worldwide who
      survived a stroke. In order to regain independence in everyday life after a mild to severe
      stroke, a rehabilitation phase is recommended. Rehabilitation is a holistic process with the
      aim of maximising participation in the daily life of the affected person. Tailor-made
      interventions with a focus on impairment, activity and participation should be carried out
      for this purpose. The International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health
      (ICF) was developed in a worldwide consensus and declared by the WHO as a generally accepted
      framework for describing function and health. In rehabilitation, it is considered as standard
      and is used to speak a uniform language between the disciplines, to understand the needs of
      patients, to adapt the corresponding interventions to the needs and to measure outcomes. In
      order to optimally plan the process, Stroke Guidelines recommend to define goals together
      with the patient and to use standardized and valid assessments. So far, the following
      assessments have been used for the neurorehabilitation of stroke patients: Barthel Index,
      Functional Independence Measure and Functional Assessment Measure as well as the Modified
      Ranking Scale, but according to Ottiger and her colleagues there was a lack of
      multidisciplinary assessments with good psychometric properties and which are based on ICF.
      For this reason, the ICF-based multidisciplinary observation scale (LIMOS) was developed in
      Lucerne. It consists of four multidisciplinary components based on the following ICF domains:
      motor function, cognition, communication and coping with everyday life. Due to its good
      psychometric properties, LIMOS was recommended as a multidisciplinary assessment for
      neurorehabilitation. The Rehabilitation Clinic Zihlschlacht (RZS) has an interprofessional
      team. Each discipline carries out subject-specific assessments and plans the necessary
      therapy units based on empirical values. So far, however, there has been no algorithm that
      records the deficits of a stroke patient on an interdisciplinary basis and uses the results
      to determine the main therapeutic areas. In RZS, patient satisfaction with the therapy plan
      in 2017 was 77%. The reasons for dissatisfaction were: Lack of inclusion of needs, lack of
      adaptation to changing needs, time aspects, lack of information and the proportion of
      cognitive and motor therapies. Now the therapy planning system is to be optimized. The LIMOS
      classification should help to record the patient in an interdisciplinary manner and to
      visualize focal points. Together with the patient, goals are discussed which are weighted on
      the basis of LIMOS. These results, together with evidence-based subject-specific treatment
      pathways, are integrated into an algorithm (GOAL) that creates a goal-oriented treatment
      plan.

      The aim of this feasibility study is to investigate whether target-oriented treatment
      planning can be maintained in the rehabilitation of stroke patients using the existing
      classification and evidence-based specialist treatment pathways. If the goal-oriented
      treatment planning cannot be adhered to, reasons for failure should be investigated.
    
  