
    
      Angiogenesis plays an important role in cancer development. The VEGF family and their
      receptors (VEGFR) are well characterized for their role in neoplastic angiogenesis. VEGFR2
      belongs to type V receptor tyrosine kinase encoded by KDR gene, and is expressed in vascular
      endothelial cells. It is a primary responder to vascular endothelial growth factor signal
      that regulates endothelial migration and proliferation. The expression of VEGFR2 can be found
      in multiple tumor types, including angiosarcoma, Kaposi sarcoma. In epithelial carcinoma,
      VEGFR2 expression can be found in mesothelioma, non-small cell lung cancer, and embryonal
      carcinoma. Targeting angiogenesis using either small molecule inhibitors or biological agents
      have been widely used in current cancer management. Current approved anti-angiogenesis
      biological agents include bevacizumab, ramucirumab, aflibercept. Among them, ramucirumab
      (IMC-1121B) targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2). Ramucirumab has
      been approved for use in combination with paclitaxel for second-line treatment of patients
      with advanced gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma.

      Although ramucirumab has been approved for gastric cancer, its improvement in overall
      survival is still not satisfactory. It prolongs the overall survival by 6 weeks when combined
      with paclitaxel. So far, there is not biomarker available to predict the efficacy of
      ramucirumab. Therefore, a new monoclonal antibody also targeting VEGFR2 might provide better
      efficacy for cancer patients.

      HLX06 is a new, fully human monoclonal antibody targeting VEGFR2. It has better binding
      affinity to VEGFR2, and also binds to different region in VEGFR2. In vitro studies have
      demonstrated the growth inhibition of human endothelial cells, and HLX06 has shown growth
      inhibition of tumors in xenogeneic studies.

      Nonclinical studies up to weekly 150 mg/kg in cynomolgus monkeys for 13 weeks have shown good
      tolerability without evident toxicities (please refer to Investigator's brochure). HLX06
      shows cross-reactivity to both monkey and human VEGFR2, but does not bind rodent VEGFR2. The
      investigators expect that HLX06 will provide a better alternative than ramucirumab for
      patients with advanced cancers.

      However, HLX06 has not yet been tested in humans. Therefore, the investigators propose this
      first-in-human phase 1 study. In this study, the investigators intend to monitor the safety
      and tolerability of HLX06 in humans, and hope to identify the maximum tolerated dose, and
      determine the recommended phase 2 dose for future study. At the same time, the investigators
      would like to collect information of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of this drug
      and its potential immunogenicity.

      To minimize the risk of patients who volunteer to receive this experimental drug, the
      investigators have selected 250 mg flat dose as the starting dose. The reason for using flat
      dosing instead of body weight-adjusted dosing is based on previous population pharmacokinetic
      studies for multiple monoclonal antibody drugs. The 500 mg flat dose was conservatively
      selected to provide sufficient safety factor in the FIH study, based on 1/6 of the human
      equivalent dose (1/3) of the highest non-severely toxic dose (HNSTD) in 3 month repeat-dose
      studies in cynomolgus monkeys.

      To investigate the dose required to reach maximal effect, the investigators propose a dose
      escalation sequence. The purpose of the dose escalation is to obtain the pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamics of HLX06 at different dose levels, and investigate its relationship with
      adverse reactions. Also, the investigators intend to identify the MTD. The information from
      the dose escalation is crucial to determine the optimal dose in future studies and potential
      indications for HLX06.
    
  