
    
      A dysregulation of the balance between excitatory and inhibitory neural activity (i.e. an E/I
      imbalance) underlies ASD pathology. Neural hyper-responsiveness and impaired top-down
      modulation represent the E/I imbalance, underpinning the ASD clinical characteristics. One of
      the most frequent ASD characteristics is atypical sensory responsiveness, including
      exaggerated behavioral responses to sensory stimuli (i.e. sensory hyper-responsiveness). In
      healthy subjects, sensory hyper-responsiveness was found to be associated with pain
      hyper-sensitivity.This study project aims to study whether : (1) the individuals with ASD
      exhibit pain hyper-sensitivity, namely a pro-nociceptive profile, supported by the E/I
      imbalance. (2) the pain sensitivity will be positively associated with ASD clinical
      characteristics, and (3) sensory hyper-responsiveness will be found to be a contributing
      factor to pain hyper-sensitivity in ASD individuals.

      We will perform a multi-method, comprehensive psychophysical and neurophysiological
      evaluation of pain sensitivity along with self-reports of clinical characteristics, daily
      function, and quality of life. The participants will be high functioning ASD (HF-ASD)
      individuals (IQ >80). Pain processing by means of pain hyperalgesia and pain inhibition
      capability, along with EEG activity at rest and in response to noxious stimuli (pain-evoked
      potentials), will be compared between ASD subjects and healthy controls. The best
      pain-related psychophysical and/or neurophysiological measures differentiating between groups
      will be tested for correlations with the ASD clinical characteristics. In order to test the
      contributing role of sensory hyper-responsiveness to pain sensitivity in ASD, the
      aforementioned psychophysical and neurophysiological evaluation will be performed in 4
      homogenous groups: ASD with and without sensory hyper-responsiveness, and controls with and
      without sensory hyper-responsiveness.
    
  