
    
      Up to 250 children and adolescents ages 5 to 18, meeting DSM IV criteria for schizophrenia,
      schizoaffective disorder, and psychotic disorder not otherwise specified, are currently under
      study in our group. The purpose of this protocol is to allow systematic outpatient, and
      subsequent inpatient, screening evaluation to establish an accurate diagnosis for research,
      obtain clinical and neurobiological research measurements, evaluate the patient s response to
      open treatment with antipsychotic(s), and allow longitudinal follow-up. Subjects and
      first-degree relatives may then be enrolled in Protocol 89-M-0006, Brain Imaging of Childhood
      Onset Psychiatric Disorders, Endocrine Disorders and Healthy Controls, and Protocol
      84-M-0050, Biochemical, Physiological, and Psychological Measures in Normal Controls and
      Relatives of Psychiatric Patients. If additional research protocols are available, this
      screening protocol will represent an entry point for them.

      The evaluation process will include a one-day outpatient psychiatric screening interview with
      proband and family. If it is thought that the child is likely to meet criteria for childhood
      onset psychoses, an inpatient evaluation will then be offered for clarifying the diagnosis.
      This may involve: 1) Up to 3 weeks of inpatient observation on the child s current medication
      regimen. 2) Tapering of psychotropic medications (1-4 weeks, depending upon type and dosage).
      3) Observation for up to 3 weeks drug free, in order to confirm the diagnosis, and 4) Once
      the diagnosis is confirmed, two to ten weeks of treatment with antipsychotic(s); 5) Discharge
      to the care of his/her community psychiatrist. Treatment will be guided by what is considered
      the subject s best clinical interest. During the inpatient stay, or occasionally as part of
      the outpatient screening, we will obtain neurocognitive testing, research blood draws
      including blood for genetic testing of the proband, and a research brain MRI scan. A skin
      biopsy may be obtained either during the inpatient stay or a follow up visit.

      This protocol also includes a study 100 non-schizophrenic children ages 6-13 with psychotic
      symptoms (e.g. hallucinations or delusions) to extend our studies of early
      neuro-developmental biomarkers and of the factors that either promote or stop the progression
      to full schizophrenia (resilience or conversion factors). These children will be recruited
      from the local community, evaluated as outpatients and followed prospectively for five years.
      Measures will include diagnostic interviews, clinical ratings, neurocognitive testing,
      anatomic and functional imaging, and blood for routine and genetic testing.
    
  