
    
      This is a pilot, prospective, controlled, two-parallel arm, randomized, double-blind design
      and multicentric clinical trial comparing a CRT-D or CRT-P ON group vs. CRT-D or CRT-P OFF
      group in HF with reduced ejection fraction patients with NICD.

      Patients will be included in twelve French centers (Clermont-Ferrand University Hospital,
      Côte Basque Hospital, Bordeaux University Hospital, Saint-Augustin Clinic, Limoges University
      Hospital, Grenoble University Hospital, Nantes University Hospital, Nantes New Clinic, Rennes
      University Hospital, Saint-Etienne University Hospital, Tours University Hospital, Toulouse
      University Hospital).

        1. At baseline a preimplantation evaluation is performed: clinical examination, ECG, six
           minute walk test, biology analysis, quality of life assessment, echocardiography, peak
           oxygen consumption.

        2. At 6 months, evaluation of efficacy which is the secondary assessment criteria:

             -  Quality of life: Minnesota Living With Heart Failure Questionnary: MLWHFQ) :
                improvement of at least 20 points

             -  Functionnal capacity :

           NYHA classification reduction ≥ 1 class, 6-minute walk test improvement of at least 10 %
           in distance, Peak oxygen consumption increased by 1.0 ml/kg/minNYHA response to CRT is
           the primary endpoint. It is a composite primary endpoint, including modification of:
           Quality of Life Score (MINNESOTA scale), NYHA functional status , 6-minute walk test and
           volume of the left ventricle.

           - Percentage of hospitalizations for HF, for cardiovascular reasons and for all causes
           Decrease >15% in end-diastolic and/or end-systolic volumes of the left ventricle.

        3. At 12 months, comparison of the proportion of improved, unchanged and worsend patients
           (Packer Score) in both group which is the primary endpoint and new evaluation of the CRT
           efficacy (same as 6 months)
    
  