
    
      Lysosomal storage disorders are inborn errors of metabolism characterized by defects in
      lysosomal function. Lysosomes contain acid hydrolases whose function is to break down complex
      molecules in the cell into simpler ones. A deficiency in the activity of any of these enzymes
      results in the progressive accumulation of substances that cause a storage disease.

      Pompe disease is a progressive muscle disease that is often fatal, caused by a deficiency of
      lysosomal alpha glucosidase (also known as acid maltase) activity. This leads to the
      accumulation of glycogen in many tissues, most notably in skeletal and cardiac tissues and in
      muscle tissue. It is therefore also a glycogen storage disease (type II).

      It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and was the first lysosomal storage disease
      to be identified. The incidence rate varies by geographic area and ethnic group, and is
      estimated to be between 1/300,000 to 1:40,000.

      It has a broad clinical spectrum that varies with respect to age of onset, rate of
      progression and extent of organ involvement.

      The adult onset form can occur between the second and sixth decades of life as a form of
      proximal myopathy, predominantly in the pelvic girdle area. Sometimes the first symptoms are
      shortness of breath and diaphragm weakness which herald progressive proximal muscle weakness.
      The heart and liver are not affected.

      Serum CK (Creatine Kinase) activity is 2 to 10 times higher than normal. EMG (electromyogram)
      testing usually reveals a myopathic pattern and muscle biopsy may show vacuoles containing an
      accumulation of glycogen that is not broken down.

      Until fairly recently, an assay of acid maltase activity using cultured fibroblasts after
      biopsy of skin or muscle tissue was required for diagnosis, as leukocytes contain a renal
      isoenzyme that is not absent in these patients and which can mask the deficit and result in
      false negatives. In recent years this problem has ben solved by the introduction of acarbose,
      an inhibitor of renal α-glucosidase; it is also used in the dried blood spot method, which
      measures acid maltase activity using maltose and acarbose as inhibitors and
      4-methylumbelliferyl-D-glucopyranoside as substrate.

      Diagnosis is based on clinical suspicion, determination of lysosomal acid alpha-glucosidase
      activity and confirmation of a mutation in the gene for this enzyme, located on chromosome
      17.

      Glycogenosis type II is a multisystem disorder and therefore requires a multidisciplinary
      approach for its treatment. Motor recovery, ventilatory support and nutritional management in
      patients with gastrointestinal involvement, are seen as fundamental to the treatment. Since
      2.000, enzyme replacement therapy with alpha-alglucosidase has been used, whose safety and
      effectiveness, especially in childhood, has been published in several papers.
    
  