
    
      The prevalence of chronic dialysis patients is increasing worldwide because of the rising
      incidence of end stage renal disease, it is burdened by high cardiovascular risk, it is
      associated with a very high morbidity and mortality and it determines enormous costs for the
      community.

      The improvement in the management of metabolic and cardiovascular complication associated to
      chronic kidney disease (CKD) since the early stages of the disease becomes mandatory in order
      to delay the start of dialysis and to ameliorate the whole patient outcome.

      Dietary protein restriction represents a basic therapeutic approach in CKD, by reducing the
      accumulation of nitrogen catabolic substances, the phosphorus retention and the consequent
      hyperparathyroidism, the metabolic acidosis, the salt intake and the consequent hypertension,
      the proteinuria, and by improving the anemia and the glycemic tolerance, but the effects of
      the low protein diet on renal failure progression rate have not been definitely demonstrated.

      Dietary effective reduction of just 0.2 g/kg/day of proteins is effective in ameliorating
      blood urea nitrogen, metabolic acidosis and hyperphosphoremia, and the very low protein diet
      (VLPD) allows a further improving of the metabolic control of uremia, it is safe, not
      affecting the nutritional status, and it is cost saving. VLPD has been suggested to delay the
      start of renal replacement therapy with respect to standard low protein diet, by mean of
      either secondary analysis of clinical trials or retrospective analysis.

      Large randomized clinical trials (RCT) on this issue lack, and the effect of VLPD on renal
      death remain to be addressed. As well, information on patients' compliance to VLPD
      prescription and on the impact of VLPD on the quality of life are needed. Finally, also the
      effects of VLPD on both cardiovascular risk factors and mortality remain to be completely
      evaluated.

      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate, by mean of a RCT, the effect of the very low
      protein diet on the renal death in renal patients affected by chronic renal insufficiency of
      moderate to advanced degree (CKD stages 4 and 5). Secondary aims are to evaluate the effect
      of VLPD on cardiovascular risk factors, morbidity and mortality, the adherence to VLPD, and
      the relationship between VLPD and quality of life.
    
  