
    
      Hypothesis Pediatric patients with septic shock have a high incidence of failure to respond
      to the ACTH test and would benefit of steroid replacement.

      Design Randomized double-blind placebo controlled clinical trail. Outcome Primary: number of
      days free of vasoactive support after 7 days of septic shock diagnosis.

      Methods

      Study population:

      All children admitted to PICU will be possible enrolled. Inclusion criteria will be (I) age
      between 1 month and 16 years; (II) septic shock according to the definitions of pediatric
      septic shock 2005; (III) inotrope requirement, as in dopamine > 5 mcg/kg/mim, dobutamine > 5
      mcg/kg/min or any dose of noradrenaline or adrenaline after adequate fluid resuscitation.
      Exclusion criteria will be patients with (I) baseline disease associated to HPA axis
      dysfunction; (II) steroid use in the past 4 weeks; (III) previous use of etomidate; (IV)
      formal indication for steroids use, and (V) formal contraindication to steroid use.

      Stratification criteria:

      Patients will be stratified by age, gender, PRISM category, failure to respond to ACTH test,
      surgical patients, chronic patient, baseline cardiac and oncological disease and presence of
      ARDS.

      Intervention:

      Hydrocortisone 6 mg/kg/day, 8 hourly, during 7 days or during the vasoactive drug infusion.
      The control group will receive placebo.

      Randomization:

      Randomization will be carried through numbered envelopes, randomized prior to the study
      beginning, in blocks of 10, ratio 1:1.

      Protocol:

      Identical vials with hydrocortisone or placebo will be prepared in an industrial pharmacy and
      labeled using alphabetic letters (A, B, C, D) before the beginning of the study. Each vial of
      hydrocortisone will have 100 mg of hydrocortisone ponder to be diluted in 10 ml of normal
      saline 0.9% Each vial of placebo will content a innocuous ponder, also to be diluted in 10 ml
      of normal saline 0.9%. The drug and its referent letter (A, B, C, D) will be controlled by
      two lists, handed in by the pharmacist to the researchers inside closed envelopes before the
      beginning of the study. After enrollment and randomization, children joining the study will
      have baseline cortisol and ACTH measured. ACTH testes (1 mcg/ 1.75m2 and 250 mcg) will be
      performed, 4 hours apart. After this, patients will receive the study drug (either
      hydrocortisone or placebo), 0.2 ml/kg/ dose, 8 hourly. This will last the period the patient
      requires vasoactive support, or a maximum of 7 days. Daily routine blood results will be
      noted, as well as a further ACTH test on day 3 if the patient is still on vasoactive support.
      Demographic data will be collected on enrollment.
    
  