
    
      After dramatic progress in recent years, HIV care for patients in resource limited settings
      is rapidly evolving to newer models of care delivery. Governments, non-governmental
      organizations and charitable foundations are placing increasing scrutiny on the programmatic
      costs associated with delivering antiretroviral therapy (ART). Given these realities, if the
      global ART roll-out is to continue successfully, we must develop innovative new ways of
      providing HIV care and ART that are more efficient, more cost-effective, and tightly
      integrated within country-level health systems. We must treat more patients with fewer
      resources, and we need sustainable simple models for ART delivery.

      These goals can be accomplished building on several existing knowledge points. First,
      initiating ART at earlier disease stages and at higher CD4+ cell counts may prevent
      irreversible immunologic damage, prevent opportunistic infections and non-AIDS-associated
      morbidities, and may prevent death. International and national HIV policy bodies have
      increasingly recognized this and adjusted recommendations in this direction. Second, ART
      initiation at higher CD4+ cell counts is less complex, triggers fewer complications, and is
      less costly to healthcare systems. Third, patients responding to therapy and doing well
      require fewer physician-administered follow-up visits. This can allow for "task-shifting" to
      non-MD providers, and the establishment of tiered healthcare delivery down the spectrum of
      medical acuity. Fourth, the lack of viral load monitoring is responsible for major structural
      problems in how we deliver ART, causing delays in recognizing ART failure, preventing
      clinicians from diagnosing HIV drug resistance, and making the decision to switch a patient
      to a new ART regimen very error-prone.

      The EARLI study is a pilot study that will address and investigate all of the above critical
      issues. This study will focus exclusively on asymptomatic patients with CD4 cell counts ≥250
      cells/uL. These relatively healthier individuals are well suited to a more streamlined
      approach to ART delivery and healthcare provision.

      Primary Objectives:

      A. To evaluate the 48 week efficacy of ART initiated in asymptomatic individuals with high
      CD4+ cell counts (CD4+ > 250 cells/uL) and provided in a "streamlined" mode of care.

      B. To evaluate the programmatic costs of streamlined ART delivery to asymptomatic high CD4+
      count individuals.

      Secondary Objectives:

      A. To evaluate the 96 week efficacy of ART initiated in high CD4+ cell count individuals.

      B. To identify predictors of retention in care among high CD4+ cell count ART initiators.

      C. To assess adverse events among high CD4+ cell count ART initiators.

      D. To assess medication adherence among high CD4+ cell count ART initiators.
    
  