
    
      Despite the availability of evidence-based guidelines for asthma management and effective
      asthma therapies, asthma continues to cause a significant morbidity and burden to our
      society. Growing deployments of Electronic Health Records (EHRs) systems have established
      large practice-based longitudinal datasets, which allow for the identification of patient
      cohorts for epidemiological investigations and population-based management. Natural Language
      Processing (NLP; automated chart review using computer program) has received great attention
      and has played a critical role in secondary use of EHRs for clinical care and translational
      research. For example, we recently developed an NLP algorithm for the Predetermined Asthma
      Criteria (PAC) that can ascertain asthma status without manual chart review.

      The primary goals of this proposed clinical trial are 1) to implement the asthma-Guidance and
      Prediction System (a-GPS) on Asthma Management Program (AMP, a current care coordination
      program for asthma care of children aged 5-17 years at Mayo Clinic) and 2) assess the impact
      of a-GPS on the primary and secondary end points for a one-year study period. These goals
      will be accomplished by conducting a randomized clinical trial with block design for three
      groups of children as the groups (blocks) of children are significantly heterogeneous in
      terms of receiving asthma care.

      The a-GPS program includes 1) natural language processing (NLP) capabilities (i.e., automated
      EHR review to identify asthma status (yes vs. no) and monitor asthma activity (onset,
      remission, and relapse) in real time), 2) temporal and geospatial trends analysis of asthma
      outcome and care, and 3) asthma care optimization through predictive analytics.

      The primary end points include asthma outcome using quarterly measured age-appropriate asthma
      control questionnaire (ie, Asthma Control Test (ACT; validated for children aged ≥ 4 years)
      scores for children ≥ 4 years: a total duration of ACT scores > 19, or Test for Respiratory
      and Asthma Control in Kids (TRACK; validated for children under 5 years) scores for children
      <4 years: a total duration of TRACK scores < 80), care quality (timely care in response to
      asthma-related events), and costs (total costs per member). For those in Block 3, the rate of
      a physician diagnosis of asthma during the study will be also compared between the
      intervention and control groups as a measure for quality care.
    
  