
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the effect of omega-3 fatty acids on markers of breast cancer progression
           in women with newly diagnosed ductal carcinoma in situ and/or atypical ductal
           hyperplasia.

        -  To determine the effect of omega-3 fatty acids on specific targets identified by
           microarray in breast cancer cells and in primary cultures from benign and malignant
           breast tissue biopsies.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral omega-3 fatty acid capsules 3 times daily for up to 8
           weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo olive oil capsules 3 times daily for up to 8
           weeks.

      Patients complete questionnaires at baseline, weekly during study treatment, at the
      completion of study treatment, and then at 30 days after completion of study treatment. These
      questionnaires include the Fish Oil Adverse Event Questionnaire, the Diet and Family History
      Questionnaire, the Changes to Diet and Medications Questionnaire, and the Post-Intervention
      Questionnaire.

      Patients undergo blood, urine, nipple aspirate, and tissue sample collection at baseline and
      after completion of study treatment for translational research studies. Blood samples are
      analyzed for genetic markers for breast cancer risk and progression by microarray analysis
      and red blood cell (RBC) fatty acids. Nipple aspirate samples are analyzed for fatty acids to
      determine the extent to which omega-3 fatty acid supplementation alters the fatty acid
      profile of breast tissue. Tissue samples are analyzed for the presence of ductal carcinoma in
      situ and/or atypical ductal hyperplasia or invasive cancer. Leftover blood, urine, nipple
      aspirate, and tissue samples are stored for future research studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days.
    
  