
    
      The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate the acceptability and feasibility of the
      intervention, to assure that procedures are adequate for a subsequent full size randomized
      controlled trial (RCT), and to determine the likely size of the trial comparing an ADHD
      specific parenting peer co-led intervention for parents of children with ADHD symptoms.

      Specific objectives are:

      (I) investigate whether parents of children recently diagnosed with ADHD are willing to be
      randomized to the intervention, (II) whether sufficient numbers of families can be recruited
      and retained such that a full-scale RCT is likely to be feasible, (III) whether research
      procedures and efficacy measures are feasible and acceptable to participating families and
      the outpatient clinics, and (IV) whether families participating in the intervention are
      satisfied with the intervention.

      This feasibility study is not designed to detect a treatment effect, therefore a maximum of
      50 parents will be recruited. The measurements will be taken in the children (at baseline and
      3 months) and parents (at baseline, two weeks, pre-post intervention and 3 months follow-up)
      to determine the feasibility and acceptability. These measures are chosen because they
      address key components of the intervention (activation, quality of life and psychological
      well-being). Multiple measures of similar constructs will be administered where possible
      (e.g., psychological well-being and quality of life) to determine which measure to include in
      the definitive trial according to feasibility, acceptability, and sensitivity.

      Feasibility assessments:

        -  Feasibility of recruitment.

        -  Acceptability of randomization and procedures will be determined by measuring loss to
           follow-up (post-test and 3-month follow-up), and reasons for withdrawal will be used
           collected.

        -  Acceptability of the intervention will be determined based on the number of sessions
           attended by participants in the peer co-led education. We will also reported on
           satisfaction with the program.

        -  Feasibility of quantitative measures will be deemed acceptable if no questionnaires are
           missing in full in more than 25% of the participants and if reliability was higher than
           0.70.

        -  Follow-up response rates (post-intervention and 3 months follow-ups).
    
  