
    
      This is a feasibility study that is being performed to determine if a full randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) can be successfully conducted and if it should be conducted. The
      definition of a feasibility study highlights the question, "Can this study be done?" The
      SPIRIT statement and the CONSORT statement- extension to pilot and feasibility randomized
      study will be followed in the planning and reporting of the protocol and the manuscript of
      this feasibility study respectively.

      The study will be assessor blind two-arm feasibility clinical trial study. Ethical approval
      was obtained from the Nepal Health Research Council (NHRC) and University of Otago Human
      Ethics Committee. The study will be conducted in the Sahara Rehabilitation Hospital,
      Kathmandu, Nepal which is a private hospital in Kathmandu, Nepal.

      Overview of the study: Advertisement of the study will be made in social media. Interested
      candidates will be screened for eligibility. Eligible patients with LBP will be enrolled in
      the study. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups. All the
      participants in the experimental group will receive pain education and those in the control
      group will receive usual (evidence based) physiotherapy care. All the participants will be
      assessed at baseline, and follow-up assessment approximately after a week of randomization.

      Participant screening and recruitment: Consecutive participants with non-specific low back
      pain will be invited to participate in this study. Interested candidates will be explained
      the study purpose, benefits and harms of the intervention, time required for the completion
      of the study, follow-up duration, voluntary nature of participation, cost of participation,
      and the rights to withdraw from the study at any point. A participant information sheet will
      be provided to all potential participants. If the potential participants are interested in
      participating, they will be screened for eligibility by a research assistant who is a
      physiotherapist. If the participants are found eligible, informed consent will be obtained.
      For those who cannot sign the consent, a witness will sign on their behalf, or the study
      participant will provide a thumb print on the form for those who cannot write or sign the
      form as per the ethical guidelines provided by NHRC. Patients with no education and who
      cannot sign an informed consent will be included in order to increase the inclusion of
      uneducated or low education group, given that 31% people in Nepal who are five years old or
      more cannot read and write. Additionally, exploration of feasibility of pain education in
      those with no schooling or low educational attainment is important in order to inform
      clinical practice.

      Participants will be informed that they will receive one of the two treatments randomly. It
      will be highlighted that both of the treatment options are thought to be effective for low
      back pain, and that the goal of the main study is to compare the interventions, however the
      current study will more specifically evaluate the feasibility of such a study. There will be
      no restriction on the participants on both the groups in the pharmacological interventions
      they receive, however, participants in the intervention group will be restricted on receiving
      other physiotherapy interventions on day 1 only. All the participants will continue to
      receive the regular interventions provided by the centre from the second visit after
      follow-up assessment in the second week.

      Group Allocation, Randomization and Blinding: Random number sequence will be generated by a
      researcher not involved in data collection or providing treatment using www.random.org.
      Allocation concealment will be performed using opaque, sealed envelopes. The participants
      will be allocated to one of the two groups by a hospital staff who is not the assessor. The
      two groups are: Group 1: Pain education group (PEG); and Group 2: Control group (CG).
    
  