
    
      Investigators at Northwestern University will partner with Omron Healthcare Co., Ltd.
      (hereinafter referred to as "Omron") to conduct a pragmatic pilot test of a remote patient
      monitoring system (RPM) for blood pressure measurement for Medicare patients with
      hypertension. The primary objective is to better understand how patients' remote monitoring
      of blood pressure and the direct transmission of this data to a healthcare system's EHR can
      be used by the patient and the care team to support optimal hypertension care. The procedures
      that will be evaluated are routine healthcare services that are currently reimbursable by
      Medicare. However, the optimal ways to: integrate these tools into primary care practice,
      promote clinician and patient uptake, and put this information to use in the clinical
      environment to best control hypertension are not fully understood. This pilot study which we
      will conduct in two Northwestern Medical Group (NMG) primary care practices will: evaluate
      the integration of Omron's remote monitoring system into Northwestern Medicine's electronic
      health record (so that clinical data can flow directly from the patient's monitor to the
      EHR), evaluate the use of billing work flows for covered Medicare services, build and deploy
      clinical decision support to aid with patient identification and ordering of the remote
      patient monitoring system, and evaluate the uptake and clinical effects of this system in the
      pilot practices compared to matched patients selected from non-pilot control practices.

      The remote patient monitoring (RPM) system will be provided by Omron Healthcare to eligible
      patients at no charge. This will include a Bluetooth enabled home blood pressure monitor, a
      simplified smart phone connected to the Verizon network and, if requested, a Bluetooth
      enabled scale. Patients who are agreeable to using this RPM system will have this service
      ordered by their clinician will have this equipment mailed to their homes. Payments for
      reimbursable remote monitoring services will be billed by Northwestern Medicine to Medicare
      and supplemental insurance coverage in the fashion that is permitted under Medicare rules.

      The investigators will conduct a pragmatic non-blinded, non-randomized pilot study with
      contemporaneous controls among NMG outpatient clinics that provide adult primary care. We
      will make comparisons of data obtained through the course of routine care delivery from pilot
      and non-pilot practices.
    
  