
    
      In this clinical trial subjects are enrolled, who are suffering from pain due to
      osteoarthritis of the hip or the knee that is not sufficiently controlled with either a non
      steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) or paracetamol or a weak opioid. This clinical trial
      tests the pain relieving effectiveness of OROS hydromorphone, a once-daily formulation of a
      strong opioid against placebo in patients, who previously did not receive any strong opioids.
      The drug class of opioid analgesics can broadly be classified into strong and weak. Weak
      opioids (for example tramadol, codeine, dihydrocodeine and tilidine) are useful for mild to
      moderate pain and the strong opioids (for example morphine, fentanyl and hydromorphone) are
      useful for moderate to severe pain of different origin. OROS hydromorphone is an opioid,
      which is available in a prolonged-release tablet in different dosage strengths. The primary
      aim of the study is to test the efficacy of OROS hydromorphone against placebo at an
      individual dose sufficient to control the pain and to establish the usefulness of a new
      low-dose formulation of OROS hydromorphone (4 mg hydromorphone per tablet) for initiating the
      treatment and for dose titration. The clinical trial tests the effect of the treatment on
      symptoms of pain, stiffness and physical function. The effect of the treatment on parameters
      on health related quality of life as well as quality of sleep will be measured. The safety of
      the treatment will be recorded by measuring blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory
      rate.This clinical trial is a placebo-controlled trial, meaning that one group of patients
      will receive the drug to be tested (OROS hydromorphone) while the control group receives an
      optically identical tablet with no active ingredient, a so-called placebo. A total number of
      270 patients will be enrolled in this clinical trial and assigned to one of two treatment
      arms at an equal ratio (i.e. 135 patients per treatment). Patients will be randomly assigned
      to one of the two treatment arms, like flipping a coin to decide which treatment they will
      receive. Neither the patient nor the doctor will know to which of the two treatment arms the
      patient is assigned to and neither the patient nor the doctor can influence the assignment to
      the treatment arm. During the whole treatment period paracetamol will be allowed to be taken
      as needed in case of pain. Medical history and physical exam will be conducted during the
      screening visit, followed in 1 week by the baseline visit where after completing several
      questionnaires assessing pain, physical functioning quality of life and sleep quality, the
      patient will be assigned to one of two treatment groups. After starting the study treatment
      the patient will visit the doctor 7 times: at week 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, 16 and at a follow-up
      visit after the end of the treatment period at week 16. At week 16 questionnaires will again
      be completed and the results will be compared to the baseline findings. 4, 8, 12, 16, 24 or
      32 mg of OROS hydromorphone tablets or matching placebo tablets taken for 16 weeks. All
      tablets are taken by mouth at the same time each day in the morning. Tablets have to be
      swallowed whole without chewing or crushing. After completion of the treatment duration (or
      at early withdrawal), the study medication is gradually tapered down over a maximum of 6
      days.
    
  