
    
      Background: Over 50% of injuries are accompanied by musculoskeletal injuries that are
      life-threatening, require amputation or lead to major extremity dysfunctions. Some barriers
      exist to deliver evidence-based care in the trauma group. Based on recent research findings,
      this project will be an evidence-based project and evaluation of care bundles combined with e
      health care to establish and refine evidence-based care guidelines for patients with
      extremity injuries in Taiwan.

      Aims: To examine the effects of evidence-based care bundles combined with the internet
      platform in patients with extremity injuries.

      Methods: A longitudinal and two group experimental design will be used. The trauma care
      bundles combined with internet platform will be implemented over 24-hour admission and ended
      in 10-14 days after hospital discharge. Participants will be patients with extremity injuries
      that meet the criteria. The experimental group and the control group will be given the same
      routine care except for the trauma care bundles. Both groups will be followed up at 3 and 6
      months after hospital discharge. Fifty-eight participants for each group will be expected.
      The generalized estimating equations will be used to analyze the data. Outcome measures for
      the trauma care bundles will use the Barthel's Index, the Posttraumatic Diagnostic Scale, and
      the World Health Organization Quality of Life questionnaire.

      Expected outcomes: This is an innovation project as it combines a comprehensive trauma care
      bundles with internet platform, and applied in the biggest injury population in Taiwan. It
      may be the pioneer study to integrate care bundle and e-health care in trauma care. The
      results may influence health policy and clinical practice, and a wide range of injured
      patient outcomes. The internet platform established by the research team may be an important
      template for domestic e-health in hospital-based settings and long-term care facilities.
    
  