
    
      18F-Fluciclovine is a synthetic L-leucine amino acid used clinically for PET imaging in
      patients with biochemical recurrence of prostate cancer following definitive therapy. The
      pancreas accumulates striking amounts of Axumin, where it is considered a normal finding.
      Pancreatic beta-cell function may be slow to recover following pancreatic transplantation and
      may vary as a function of perioperative steroid administration, acute rejection, inadequate
      islet cell transplantation, allograft pancreatitis or compromised blood supply. The viability
      of the allograft is a common clinical concern and is difficult to assess based on insulin,
      C-peptide, and blood sugar levels. Rapid identification of compromised allograft viability is
      critical in the management of these patients.

      Pancreas transplants are usually assessed via ultrasound as a first-line modality. However,
      visualization is largely obscured due to the intraperitoneal location of the transplant.
      There is often overlying gas and due to the depth of the transplant, there is poor
      visualization with ultrasound. Additionally, the transplant lacks a capsule

      which results in its being ill-defined and difficult to distinguish from adjacent structures.
      Computed tomography can also be used to assess pancreas transplants, however, most transplant
      patients often have concurrent renal transplants which limits the use of intravenous
      iodinated contrast. On non-contrast CT, it can be difficult to assess and distinguish the
      pancreas transplant from the adjacent bowel. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) can be useful
      and has better soft-tissue contrast compared to CT. However, it has a similar issue with
      regards to limited intravenous gadolinium contrast administration due to concurrent renal
      transplant in this group of patients. In all three modalities, there is no functional
      assessment of the allograft and whether there is still appropriate pancreatic function.

      This is the reason for our proposed study, given that 18F-Fluciclovine is readily taken up by
      the pancreas and it would help radiologists readily identify where the allograft is located,
      whether it is viable, and whether there is a normal function of the allograft. It should be
      noted that leucine serves both as a fuel, as well as in a regulatory capacity for pancreatic
      beta-cell function. However, uptake of 18F-Fluciclovine in the pancreas is not likely to be
      specific for beta-cell function since acinar cell function requires L-amino acids. However,
      overall pancreatic viability is relevant to both acinar cell and beta-cell function.
    
  