
    
      Background: Evaluating the impact of complex procedures of patient care for chronic disease
      patients is one of the objectives and priorities defined in the French framework of the
      Public Health Act of August 2004. The relevant indicators that predict the impact of the
      medium-term hospitalization on the quality of life remain to be explored.

      Preliminary data showed that care satisfaction, usual indicator of quality of care, was
      associated with quality of life away from the hospital, especially in the field of
      orthopedics (prosthetic surgery). Satisfaction is an indicator currently collected in routine
      periodic surveys in all establishments. This project will test the hypothesis of the
      prognostic role of this satisfaction after a medical or a surgical treatment in people
      hospitalized for chronic disease.

      Objective: The objective of this research is to investigate the prognostic value of
      satisfaction with care on the quality of life of patients with chronic disease hospital, at 6
      months and 1 year of discharge.

      Patients and methods: A multicenter cohort of 1520 patients hospitalized in medical and
      surgical units for chronic disease (in the field of cardiovascular, musculoskeletal,
      nephrology, urology, digestive, pulmonary or endocrine). Patients will respond to PJHQ
      satisfaction questionnaire at the waning of their hospital stay. The quality of life (SF-36)
      will be measured at 6 months and 1 year after hospitalization.

      The socio-demographic characteristics, diagnosis, anxiety state (HAD), optimistic /
      pessimistic personality (LOT-R), comorbidities (Charlson and Functional comorbidity index),
      major health events (rehospitalization, death ) and the characteristics of the stays and care
      structure (cluster services) who welcomed them will be saved.

      The number of subjects required was calculated based on a cluster sampling (13 poles or
      services between institutions) to highlight with a power of 80% a difference of 5 points of
      quality of life among the satisfied and less satisfied subjects.

      Statistical analysis will study the relationship of satisfaction scores with QoL dimensions
      at 6 months and 1 year, in hierarchical regression multilevel models adjusted for confounding
      variables.
    
  