
    
      For 15 years, the prevalence of the extended-spectrum β-lactamases producing
      Enterobacteriaceae (ESBLE), resistant to the 3rd generation cephalosporins, has constantly
      increased worldwide. Since 2010 an additional threat appeared with the emergence of the
      bacteria resistant to carbapenems, the antibiotic of choice in case of infection due to
      ESBLE. To treat the infection due to these extremely resistant strains, there are still only
      few molecules, as the colistin. Very quickly, the colistin resistance appeared, especially a
      plasmid-born resistance described in December 2015 and which has already spread a lot, most
      probably from an animal reservoir. The control of the resistance dissemination requires
      reliable tools for detection of colistin resistant isolates, in particular in
      immunocompromised patients, as those of intensive care unit (ICU) or oncohaematology ward,
      that are often exposed to multidrug resistant strains. Currently, the colistin resistance is
      difficult to detect and that is probably why it was underestimated for a long time and has
      already diffuse worldwide. Some recent tests for the detection of colistin resistant isolates
      have been developed and tested in laboratory. They have now to be evaluated in clinical
      situation in order to be correctly used and interpreted. From rectal swabs of patients
      admitted in ICU and oncohaematology ward, investigators will use first a new culture medium
      (SuperPolymyxin) for screening the colistin resistant Gram negative bacteria and then a new
      rapid test (Rapid Polymyxin NP test) to confirm this resistance. These tests will be compared
      to the reference test of MIC (Minimal Inhibitory Concentration) determined by the broth
      micro-dilution (BMD) method. The isolates will be collected on the screening medium, during
      12 months, from 4 centers (Mont de Marsan, Limoges, Dax, Bordeaux) and sent to Bordeaux
      University Hospital where the rapid test and the BMD method will be centralized.
    
  