
    
      COVAPID is a multicenter cohort study with two retrospective control groups. No intervention
      will be performed in included patients, only patient characteristics and data on VA-LRTI will
      be collected.

      Patients with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 community-acquired pneumonia, admitted to the
      participating ICUs from the start of COVID epidemic will be eligible for this study. Those
      admitted before the beginning of this study will be included retrospectively, and those
      admitted after the beginning of the study will be included prospectively. 10-20 patients per
      center will be included in this group. SARSCoV2 infection will be confirmed by a
      nasopharyngeal PCR or respiratory secretions (tracheal aspirate or bronchoalveolar lavage)
      PCR. Two retrospective groups will be constituted in order to give some insight of potential
      impact of SARS-CoV2 infection on the incidence of VALRTI :1) Influenza group : patients with
      influenza (A or B) community-acquired pneumonia. All patients with influenza community
      acquired pneumonia and admitted in the same ICU will be eligible in this group.

      The number of patients included in this group per center will be similar as that of patients
      included in the SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia group (10-20 patients). These consecutive patients will
      by identified using the files of Virology Lab. The first included patient will be the last of
      the current influenza season (2019-2020), and others will be taken consecutively back to 2019
      of 2018 if necessary. PCR (nasopharyngeal or respiratory secretions) confirmation of
      influenza (A ou B) is required for patients in this group. 2) No viral infection group:
      patients with no viral community acquired pneumonia. All patients receiving invasive
      mechanical ventilation for more than 48h before COVID epidemic, for any reason other than
      viral pneumonia are eligible for this group. The number of included patients in this group
      will be similar as that of patients included in the SARS-CoV-2 group in the same center
      (10-20 patients) These consecutive patients will be included starting at the end of January
      2020 and going back to 2019 if necessary. VAT and VAP are defined using clinical,
      radiological and quantitative microbiological criteria.
    
  