
    
      This project is a trial of a novel device, in the form of a stick-on patch containing
      miniature accelerometers and microphones, designed to detect sounds produced by disturbed
      blood flow in stenosed coronary arteries. Initially, acoustic data will be collected from a
      small group of healthy volunteers to confirm proof of concept. Recordings from the patch will
      then be made on up to 100 patients who, having presented with chest pain to the Barts Heart
      Clinic, are undergoing simultaneous CTa investigations to determine the presence or absence
      of occlusive CAD.

      The purpose of the study is to determine if the nature of the signals recorded by the patch
      makes it possible to distinguish those patients who have identifiable CAD, as detected by CTa
      (the reference method) from those in whom no occlusive lesions can be seen in the CTa images.
      The measurements on patients will be preceded by a trial on 20 healthy volunteers to
      establish base line readings and to ensure the reliability of the patch and the associated
      data acquisition system, in the field.

      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death worldwide. In Europe alone in
      2014 the resulting cost of health care, and lost production was around €100 billion per year
      (Nichols. M et al. 2014). Existing diagnostic methods apart from ECG require skilled
      operators and expensive equipment.

      Recent advances in cCTA make it possible to detect and localise occlusive lesions with high
      accuracy and precision, whilst minimising the use of contrast media, albeit at the cost of
      some exposure to ionising radiation. Of equal or greater concern is the fact that
      approximately 2/3 of symptomatic patients are found, on investigation, to be occlusion-free
      (Patel et al. 2010), representing a great waste of resources and thus a loss of productivity
      for the healthcare system and the patients themselves, to say nothing of their distress on
      facing a false positive diagnosis and the risks associated with contrast injection and
      exposure to unnecessary ionising radiation.

      The non-invasive system proposed here would be applied to symptomatic patients with stable
      chest pain attending a cardiac outpatient clinic with the intention of screening out the 2/3
      mentioned above, resulting in large cost and time savings.

      More generally, prevention of CAD, facilitated by routine screening in a primary care setting
      would also have the potential to relieve the economy of a major burden. Thus, there is scope
      for enormous life and cost saving in the early-days detection and mitigation of CHD. Apart
      from the immediate cost savings the longer term benefits include, for example, more
      appropriate allocation of imaging infrastructure, streamlining of patients in intermediate
      risk categories who require a more refined risk stratification; a novel technology with
      potential application to other near surface sites (e.g. carotid stenosis) and with potential
      development for deep sites (e.g. femoral stenosis); a sensing device suited to the
      localisation software being developed by co-workers arising from our previous EPSRC funding.
      There is also the potential for a 'take home' diagnostic kit which can collect and report
      data via domestic WiFi.

      Current assessment of patients with symptoms of CAD who are referred to cardiac clinics is in
      most cases recommendation for a non-invasive imaging test, followed, if positive, by invasive
      coronary angiography. In 2010-2012 at Barts Health only 25% of coronary CT angiography scans
      were followed by invasive confirmation of advanced disease or treatment with either coronary
      angioplasty or bypass graft surgery (Villadsen et al. 2016). This was observed in a
      population of patients "appropriately referred" to testing, according to current NICE
      clinical guideline 95. www.nice.org.uk/guidance/CG95.

      This percentage is in keeping with a large US multicentre registry where around 65% of the
      patients were found to be free of occlusive vascular disease following angiographic
      investigation (Patel et al. 2010). This study also showed that, although some demographic and
      clinical characteristics could be useful in determining the likelihood of obstructive
      coronary artery disease, the incremental value of non-invasive tests (resting ECG,
      echocardiography, imaging stress tests and coronary CT angiography) was limited. The
      implications are two-fold: whilst clinical assessment alone is insufficient to diagnose or
      exclude the presence of disease, imaging tests have an exceedingly low diagnostic yield. It
      was estimated that the volume of unnecessary non-invasive tests performed in the US in the
      decade between 2000 and 2010 cost the US economy more than $500m (Ladapo, Blecker, and
      Douglas 2014).

      Despite impressive technological advances in medical imaging equipment introduced over the
      last years, translating into better accuracy and precision, we are witnessing a paradoxical
      increase in the number of imaging tests performed per year, which also includes multiple
      testing in the same patient (Andrus and Welch 2012).

      Given the financial pressure on the healthcare system, large numbers of unnecessary imaging
      tests are unsustainable, as are the productivity losses related to hospital visits, the risks
      of false positive findings, and unnecessary referrals to invasive procedures which expose
      patients to the risk of complications (e.g. bleeding, contrast induced nephropathy, stroke,
      repeat radiation exposure).

      We propose a non-invasive system to pre-screen symptomatic patients attending a cardiac
      outpatients' clinic. This approach is aimed at supporting a more appropriate use of imaging
      resources, refining the identification of patients requiring an imaging test and/or an
      invasive procedure, reducing the number of unnecessary imaging tests and angiographic
      investigations, resulting in large cost and time savings.
    
  