
    
      Introduction: Uterus transplantation (UTx) is the only causative treatment for congenital or
      acquired uterus absence, i.e. absolute uterine factor infertility (AUFI). Feasibility of
      uterus transplantation from o live donor and possibility of healthy child birth have been
      proven in previous clinical study in Sweden. The present study is supposed to extend the
      swedish experience by including UTx from both live donors and from deceased donors after
      brain death.

      Aim: Treatment of absolute uterine factor infertility that has no other therapy option by
      uterus transplantation. Extending basic knowledge on UTx. Possible introduction of UTx into
      clinical practice.

      Indications: UTx can be offered to patients with congenital uterus absence - aplasia uteri et
      vaginae, also called Mullerian aplasia or Rokitansky-Mayer-Kuster-Hauser syndrome (RMKH), in
      whom previous neo-vagina was created. UTx can be performed also in women with acquired uterus
      absence on the basis of previous hysterectomy e.g. for myomas, endometriosis, post-partum
      bleeding, cervical cancer, uterus malformations or intrauterine adhesions. Ovarian function
      must be preserved and stable male partner is required for in vitro fertilization (IVF).

      Ethics: Uterus retrieval from a deceased brain-dead donor does not endanger retrieval of
      other life-saving organs. Live donor does not loose a vitally important organ. The only
      alternative is adoption of a child. Surrogacy is illegal in many european countries. UTx is
      the only causative treatment of AUFI. It is is an ethically justifiable life-promoting
      transplantation. UTx improves quality of live of both the recipient and the live donor by
      giving an opportunity to have an own child. Board certification for this study was obtained
      from the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic and from the local Ethics Committee.

      Methods: Twenty UTx will be performed in total in 2 parallel arms: 10 UTx from a live donor
      (LD UTx) and 10 UTx from a deceased brain-dead donor (DBD UTx). Patients who have no suitable
      live donor will be wait-listed for a deceased donor. Compatible blood group and negative
      cross-match test is required. AB0 incompatible or pair exchange transplantations are also
      possible. Donors and recipients will be examined by clinical, laboratory and imaging methods.
      All diagnostic and therapeutic procedures will be performed according to a protocol. Risk and
      benefit will be assessed by a multi-disciplinary team. Informed consent will be signed. Time
      period between UTx and embryo transfer is supposed to be about 1 year depending on condition
      of the recipient and the graft, e.g. level of immunosuppression, rejection or infection
      episodes. Adverse events will be monitored and addressed. Number of possible pregnancies and
      child births is estimated to be up to 2. The uterus graft will be removed in the end. Overall
      time interval of keeping the uterus graft in situ and exposure to immunosuppressive therapy
      is estimated to be up to 5 years.

      Immunosuppression: Induction immunosuppression is based on thymoglobuline and
      corticosteroids. Maintenance immunosuppression is based on tacrolimus, mycophenolate and
      corticosteroids. Temporary anti-infective prophylaxis will be administered. Minimalization of
      immunosuppression is needed before pregnancy (monotherapy with tacrolimus). Protocol cervix
      biopsies to look for possible rejection will be performed. Immunosuppression will be
      discontinued after graft hysterectomy.

      Phases of the UTx procedure: in vitro fertilization (IVF phase I) - cryopreservation of
      embryos - uterus retrieval from a live donor or from a deceased donor - orthotopic uterus
      transplantation with open technique - follow up period - embryo transfer (IVF phase II) -
      pregnancy - child birth via Cesarian section - later graft hysterectomy - life long follow
      up.

      Merit: Individual cases of uterus transplantation performed so far showed favourable
      outcomes. Introduction of UTx into clinical practice may enable women with uterine
      infertility to have their own children.
    
  