
    
      Definitions Glaucoma represents a group of diseases defined by a characteristic optic
      neuropathy that is consistent with excavation and undermining of the neural and connective
      tissue elements of the optic disc and by the eventual development of distinctive patterns of
      visual dysfunction .Pre-perimetric glaucoma is a term that is sometimes used to denote
      glaucomatous changes in the optic disc in patients with normal visual fields.

      Glaucoma and cataract incidence increases with age. Special considerations are needed when
      choosing which surgical strategy to undertake when either of these two conditions requires
      surgical management. When performed prior to cataract surgery, trabeculectomy increases the
      risk of cataract formation by up to 78%, while subsequent cataract surgery may increase the
      risk of elevated intraocular pressure or trabeculectomy failure. By contrast, when cataract
      surgery alone is performed in glaucoma patients; an early postoperative intraocular pressure
      spike sometimes requiring medical treatment is commonly reported. Therefore,
      phacotrabeculectomy, a procedure that combines the management of these two conditions
      together in one surgery, may be considered in these situations.

      When to Consider Combined Surgery

      Combined cataract extraction and glaucoma surgery (trabeculectomy, glaucoma drainage implant
      surgery, or any of the newer surgical approaches for glaucoma) should be carefully selected
      and individualized depending on clinical findings in each case:

        -  Cataract surgery alone is sufficient for patients with well controlled in intraocular
           pressure in the setting of early to moderate optic nerve damage.

        -  Patients with uncontrolled intraocular pressure in the presence of severe optic nerve
           damage should receive glaucoma surgery first, followed by cataract extraction a few
           months later

        -  Combined surgery may be best suited for a patient with a visually significant cataract
           with uncontrolled glaucoma despite maximal medical therapy and/or laser trabeculoplasty.
           Cost is often an issue for many patients and eliminating medications can help reduce the
           financial burden. Poor compliance with glaucoma medications can also be an issue to
           consider both procedures together.

      The indication for phaco-trabeculectomy was the simultaneous presence of a visually
      significant cataract and open angle glaucoma requiring medications, poor patient compliance,
      advanced glaucomatous optic nerve damage or visual field loss, or medically uncontrolled
      glaucoma.

      Effect of cataract surgery on anterior segment:

      Cataract surgery and intraocular lens implantation lead to significant increases in anterior
      chamber depth and anterior chamber angle.

      Trabeculectomy lead to significant decrease in anterior chamber depth and anterior chamber
      angle.The effects of trabeculectomy on anterior segment parameters measured by optical
      biometry in Primary open-angle glaucoma and pseudoexfoliation glaucoma and found in primary
      open angle glaucoma , intraocular pressure and anterior chamber depth decreased at the 1st
      and 3rd months significantly. Conclusion: Trabeculectomy cause some differences in anterior
      segment parameters in both primary open angle glaucoma and pseudoexfoliation cases and the
      differences between these changes in both groups were found to be insignificant.

      Anterior Segment - Optical Coherence Tomography is a useful tool to evaluate filtering blebs
      or glaucoma drainage devices in the postoperative period. Clinically , blebs can be described
      as diffuse, cystic, encapsulated, or flat. However, these descriptions are subjective and
      there may be cases in which clinical appearance does not correlate with bleb function.
      Therefore, visualizing intra bleb morphology with anterior segment imaging may enhance our
      understanding of different surgical outcomes and wound healing. The noncontact anterior
      Segment - Optical Coherence Tomography scanning provides a significant advantage over
      ultrasound biomicroscopy in eliminating direct trauma to the bleb or reducing the risk of
      potential infection that could occur with the use of an eye-cup or probe .In addition, the
      higher scanning resolution of allows differentiating the subconjunctival fluid collection and
      the supra sclera fluid space. The anterior segment - optical coherence tomography used to
      describe intra- bleb morphology and structures, including bleb wall thickness,
      subconjunctival fluid collections, supra sclera fluid space, sclera flap thickness, and
      intra-bleb intensity. Anterior segment - optical coherence tomography allows visualization of
      the glaucoma drainage devices in the anterior chamber to assess their position or potential
      occlusion .

      Effect of phacotrabeculectomy on anterior chamber depth:

      Phacotrabeculectomy lead to increases in anterior chamber depth and anterior chamber angle.
      Poon, Linda Yi-Chieh et al studied comparison of surgical outcomes after phacotrabeculectomy
      in primary angle-closure glaucoma versus primary open-angle glaucoma found; the primary angle
      closure glaucoma group had an anterior chamber depth that was significantly shallower than
      the primary open-angle glaucoma group prior to surgery. However, after surgery, the mean
      anterior chamber depth in the primary angle closure glaucoma group increased to a depth
      similar to the primary open-angle glaucoma group.

      Imaging of the anterior segment of the eye Imaging of the anterior segment of the eye offers
      an objective method for visualizing the angle and adjacent anatomical structures. In addition
      to qualitative analyses, some imaging modalities permit quantitative analyses that can be
      used to monitor change or progression over time.

      Ultrasound Biomicroscopy uses high frequency ultrasound (35-100 MHz) to provide high
      resolution images of the angle. Ultrasound Biomicroscopy has shown good agreement with
      gonioscopy in assessing the anterior chamber angle. Although is a useful technology capable
      of providing both qualitative and quantitative analyses, its major advantage lies in its
      ability to visualize structures posterior to the iris to detect various causes of secondary
      angle closure, such as plateau iris, ciliary effusions, or irido-ciliary masses. The
      disadvantages of ultrasound biomicroscopy include required supine position, use of
      anesthesia, need for a skilled examiner, longer image acquisition time, and contact with the
      eye using a cup with a coupling medium or a probe that can lead to corneal abrasion or
      potential infection.

      Anterior Segment Optical Coherence Tomography uses the principle of low-coherence
      interferometry instead of ultrasound to produce, cross sectional, non-contact,
      three-dimensional, high-resolution imaging modality of the anterior segment of the eye. The
      technique measures the delay and intensity of the light reflected from the tissue structure
      being analyzed and compares it with the light reflected by a reference mirror. The
      combination of these two signals results in interference phenomenon. The signal intensity
      depends on the optical properties of the tissues, and the device uses these signals to
      construct a sagittal cross-section image of the structure being analyzed. OCT technology was
      initially used to produce images of the posterior segment of the eye by using a wavelength of
      820nm. In 2001, the wavelength was altered to 1310nm to allow better penetration through
      light retaining tissues such as the sclera and limbus and to improve visualization of the
      anterior segment. Compared with ultrasound biomicroscopy , this technology provides a higher
      axial resolution and faster sampling rate (2.0 kHz versus 0.8 kHz). Another main clinical
      advantage over ultrasound biomicroscopy is its ability to provide non contact scanning in a
      seated, upright position..The major drawback for anterior segment optical coherence
      tomography is its inability to visualize structures posterior to the iris due to blockage of
      wavelength by pigment. This limits its application in screening several secondary causes of
      angle closure, such as plateau iris, ciliary body cyst or tumor, lens subluxation, or ciliary
      effusions.

      Biometric parameters which can be measured with the anterior segment optical coherence
      tomography:

      Iris thickness ,iris cross- sectional area ,iris curvature ,AC depth ,AC width ,angle opening
      distance , angle recess area , scleral thickness, trabecular meshwork ciliary process
      distance ,trabecular iris angle , lens vault.
    
  