
    
      This will be a prospective randomized, controlled, single blinded study that will take place
      at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore (CHAM) in the Pediatric Emergency Department (PED).
      Patients who present to the PED, are confirmed to have a forearm fracture requiring closed
      reduction in the PED and meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be eligible for the
      study. The decision to perform a closed reduction procedure in the PED will be made by the
      consulting orthopedic surgeon who will perform the procedure. All eligible patients' pain
      will be reassessed and managed as necessary as per standard of care The eligible patient or
      parent/guardian will be approached by the treating physician or consulting orthopedic
      resident for written consent. Written assent will be obtained from minors older than 7 years
      of age. After enrollment into the study, patients will be randomized to either the
      experimental group (ultrasound guided fracture reduction) or control group (standard of care
      forearm fracture reduction without real-time imaging). Allocation of patients to intervention
      and control arms will be accomplished by a computer-generated permuted block randomization
      scheme.

      Consulting orthopedic residents will be trained to perform musculoskeletal sonography for
      this study and will be considered study-trained physicians. All patients will undergo
      procedural sedation and/or pain management for closed reduction as per standard of care in
      the PED. The medication used for sedation and/or pain will be determined by the treating PEM
      physician. Study patients that are randomized to the ultrasound guided group will undergo a
      point-of-care ultrasound, performed by a study trained physician using a Sonosite Edge
      ultrasound machine with an L38 linear 10-5 MHz transducer probe.

      Prior to the reduction procedure in patients randomized to the experimental group, ultrasound
      images of the fracture site will be obtained and the maximum degree of displacement will be
      measured. Both longitudinal and transverse views of the injured area will be obtained. The
      trained physician will then perform real-time ultrasound imaging as needed during the closed
      reduction procedure. Once the orthopedic resident determines that he/she has obtained optimal
      alignment and prior to casting, a post-reduction ultrasound image will be obtained and the
      angle of displacement will again be measured. All ultrasounds performed prior to and after
      the reduction will be recorded, and the images obtained will include video clips of the
      ultrasound as well as a saved still picture of the best image of the suspected fracture site.
      The study-trained physician who performed the ultrasound will then record his/her findings on
      the data collection form immediately after the procedure and prior to reviewing plain
      radiographs.

      While it has been our experience that the majority of reduction procedures performed in the
      PED are done without the use of any real time imaging, some orthopedic surgery residents
      employ the use of the c-arm (fluoroscopy) and/or a portable x-ray machine during the
      reduction procedure. At his/her discretion, the orthopedic resident may use either of these
      modalities in both the ultrasound and control group as per standard of care in the PED. The
      use of these modalities will be recorded.

      After the reduction procedure in the ultrasound group and prior to reviewing the post
      reduction x-ray, the orthopedic resident will complete a brief questionnaire. Patients in
      both groups will then undergo a post-reduction x-ray. Based on the degree of displacement on
      the x-ray, the orthopedic surgeon will determine whether the patient needs a repeat
      reduction, as per routine standard of care. If a repeat reduction is required, the treating
      physician can choose to use ultrasound at his/her disgression. The angle of displacement will
      be measured on the post-reduction x-ray by an orthopedic surgeon. Additionally, the angle of
      displacement measured on the post-reduction ultrasound will be measured and compared to the
      angle of displacement on the post-reduction x-ray. An expert sonographer will review cases
      where the ultrasound and x-ray results do not correlate.
    
  