
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by central nervous system
      (CNS) inflammation, demyelination, and axonal damage. Its pathogenesis consists of an initial
      T cell priming against myelin antigens in secondary lymphoid organs (induction phase)
      followed by migration of auto-reactive T cells and other immune system cells through the
      blood brain barrier into the CNS (effector phase). MS attacks are self-limiting, illustrating
      the existence of a regulatory network in which regulatory T cells (Treg) play a key role.
      Treg cells, which comprise 5%-10% of peripheral cluster of differentiation (CD)4+ T cells,
      inhibit effector T cell responses and can suppress MS. One of the immune abnormalities
      observed in MS is a reduction in the number and suppressive functions of Tregs. Furthermore,
      an abnormal Treg proliferation and metabolic profile was described in MS patients
      characterized by altered interleukin (IL) 2- IL 2 receptor - STAT5 signaling, and activation
      of the mammilian target of rapamycin (mTOR) metabolic pathway. More recently, the risk of MS
      has been associated with several environmental factors, including obesity and diet. Current
      treatments are only partially effective in controlling disease activity in
      relapsing-remitting (RR)-MS patients and no drugs are available that prevent or slow the
      progressive forms of MS. There remains an urgent need for new and safe therapies for patients
      that do not respond optimally to current drug treatments. In recent times, it has become
      evident that the control of orexigenic and anorexigenic circuits not only affects the
      regulation of body weight but also dramatically influences other important physiological and
      dominant functions, including immune homeostasis. In particular, several cytokines, hormones,
      neuropeptides and transcription factors play relevant roles in both metabolism and immunity.

      It has been shown that dietary intervention can alter autoimmune disease progression, indeed
      dietary indoles suppress delayed-type hypersensitivity by inducing a switch from
      pro-inflammatory Th17 cells to anti-inflammatory Treg cells. Recent reports have shown that
      caloric restriction (CR) can significantly increase the survival and reduce clinical
      progression in EAE. CR induces multiple metabolic and physiologic modifications, including
      anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and neuroprotective effects that could be beneficial in MS. A
      recent report has shown that dietary restriction improves repopulation but impairs lymphoid
      differentiation capacity of hematopoietic stem cells in early aging, by inhibiting the
      proliferation of lymphoid progenitors, resulting in decreased production of peripheral B
      lymphocytes and impaired immune function. Moreover prolonged fasting (PF) or a fasting
      mimicking diet (FMD) lasting 2 or more days have been shown to increase protection of
      multiple systems against a wide variety of chemotherapy drugs; PF or FMD reverses the
      immunosuppression or immunosenescence effects of either chemotherapy or aging by a
      hematopoietic stem cell-based regenerative process. Chronic CR, a ketogenic diet (KD) and
      intermittent fasting have been shown to prevent EAE, reducing inflammation, demyelination,
      and axon injury - without suppressing immune functions, when administered prior to disease
      induction or signs. CR associates with increased plasma levels of corticosterone and
      adiponectin, and with reduced concentrations of IL-6 and leptin. The effects of CR in EAE in
      the monophasic Lewis rat model show that upon calories restriction by 33% or 66%, EAE can be
      totally inhibited in the latter group, in which a depressed immune function with fewer T
      cells in lymphoid organs, impaired proliferation and cytokine production are observed. CR
      could benefit EAE through multiple metabolic and cytokine/adipokine changes that ultimately
      lead to a reduced inflammatory response. Other possibilities include CR-associated increase
      in ghrelin, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and endocannabinoids - all of which can dampen EAE and are
      increased during CR and starvation. Environmental factors are believed to play a role in the
      pathogenesis of MS, which is more prevalent in the Western world, where increased intake of
      saturated fats of animal origin is common. Although there has been speculation that diet may
      alter the course of MS, only a few randomized, controlled studies of dietary alterations in
      autoimmunity have been published, and none involving CR. Yet, dietary intervention might be
      attractive in MS, i.e. with CR associated with adequate nutrition, which can be safely
      accomplished through proper monitoring and could provide additional benefits such as improved
      insulin sensitivity, lower low-density lipoprotein, cholesterol, blood pressure and,
      importantly, reduced inflammation.

      In conclusion, in spite of the above robust experimental evidence, no specific studies have
      been performed to dissect at cellular level the mechanism of action of CR in the context of
      autoimmunity and MS. This study aims at investigating this specific point to pave for a wider
      utilization of the nutritional approach to alter MS progression and activity to be associated
      to first line drug treatments.

      Rationale and specific aims.

      Several disease modifying drugs are approved for RR-MS treatments and have shown to reduce
      relapse rates by modulating immune responses; however, their impact on long-term disease
      progression and accrual of irreversible neurological disability remains largely unclear,
      underlining the need for novel therapeutic strategies.

      The aim of this pilot study is to investigate the cellular and molecular mechanism of action
      of metabolic manipulation through CR accompanied or not to removal of specific antigenic
      foods (gluten/cow's milk) and their impact on RR-MS progression during treatment with
      conventional first line drugs.

      the objective of this study is to improve the outcome of RR-MS and the efficacy of first line
      drug treatments (either dimethyl fumarate or glatiramer acetate) by altering the metabolic
      state of the host via a mild CR (15-20% caloric restriction of the ideal diet for the
      individual) accompanied or not to removal of specific foods from diet (gluten and cow's milk
      derivatives), with the aim to re-equilibrate immune/inflammatory responses of the patients.

      Specifically, will be analyzed the following read outs in patients before and after specific
      treatments:

      Aim 1) The impact of CR on the immunophenotype of different subclasses of circulating immune
      cells from the blood of RR-MS patients, and its correlation with the clinical status of the
      patients (ie. disease duration, number of relapses since onset, grade of disability and
      severity based on expanded disability status score (EDSS), MS severity score (MSSS) as well
      as presence of disease activity based on MRI imaging (gadolinium enhancing lesions) and
      overall lesion burden (T2 lesion volume)), and immuno-metabolic parameters (ie. circulating
      leptin, adiponectin, adipokines, etc);

      Aim 2) The capacity of CR to affect T cell and regulatory T cell function/activity
      (activation, proliferation, suppression, Foxp3 induction) and molecular signalling pathway
      involved and possibly altered upon T-cell receptor (TCR) stimulation (ERK-mTOR-p27kip1 etc);

      Aim 3) The effect of CR on the metabolic asset of circulating T cell populations (ie.
      measurement of glycolysis, oxidative phosphorylation and fatty acid oxidation);

      Aim 4) The advanced proteomic profile, including protein modifications such as
      phosphorylation, acetylation, methylation, ubiquitination and glycosylation in conventional T
      cells and Treg cells from RR-MS subjects;

      Aim 5) The effect of CR on the composition of the intestinal microbiota in RR-MS patients.

      Patients will be enrolled at diagnosis before starting "first line" drug treatment (either
      Tecfidera or Copaxone). After starting pharmacological treatments, patients will be
      randomized in the following 3 groups:

        1. 40 naive to treatment RR-MS (30 on Tecfidera + 10 Copaxone treatment) Free Diet Controls
           (FD);

        2. 40 naive to treatment RR-MS (30 on Tecfidera + 10 Copaxone treatment) on mild Caloric
           Restriction (15-20% caloric restriction);

        3. 40 naive to treatment RR-MS (30 Tecfidera + 10 Copaxone treatment) on mild Caloric
           Restriction as above in which Cow's Milk and its derivatives and Gluten have been
           removed (15-20% caloric restriction- plus excluding from diet cow's milk, its
           derivatives and gluten).

      The patients will be enrolled in 10-12 months and followed for 24 months. Each group will
      have an equal distribution in age, gender and body mass index. Blood samples for the
      cellular, molecular and metabolic assessment of immune cells as well as the flow-cytometric
      extended analyses and proteomics will be obtained at baseline (T0), months 6 (T1), months 12
      (T2) and months 24 (T3) after baseline. Besides the immunological studies, blood aliquots
      will be used for routine blood tests to control for concomitant infections. For the same
      purpose, urinalysis will be obtained at each time point. MRI scans will be performed for
      clinical practice at screening (Visit 0) and at months 6 (Visit 2), months 12 (Visit 3) and
      months 24 (Visits 4).
    
  