
    
      The trial is a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicentre clinical trial
      investigating efficacy and safety of inhaled molgramostim (rhGM-CSF) in autoimmune pulmonary
      alveolar proteinosis (aPAP) patients.

      The primary objective is efficacy on the Alveolar-arterial oxygen difference after 24-weeks
      treatment. Secondary objectives are tolerance to exercise, effect on Quality of Life, time to
      Whole Lung Lavage (WLL), effect on pulmonary function, effect on dyspnea and cough, and
      effect on computed tomography (CT) scoring. Number of reported adverse events (AEs), serious
      AEs, and adverse drug reactions will be monitored.

      The trial will include two phases; a Double-blind treatment period consisting of up to eight
      trial visits (Screening, Baseline, and at Weeks 4,8,12, 16, 20 and 24 after randomisation)
      and a Follow-up period consisting of up to five trial visits (at Weeks 4, 12, 24, 36 and 48
      post-treatment).

      In the Double-blind treatment period, eligible subjects will be randomised to treatment for
      up to 24 weeks with either: 1) inhaled molgramostim (300 µg) once daily, 2) inhaled
      molgramostim (300 µg) and matching placebo administered intermittently (seven days on and
      seven days off) or 3) inhaled placebo once daily. During the trial, WLL may be applied as
      rescue therapy in case of significant clinical worsening. In the Follow-up period, open-label
      treatment with molgramostim will be provided.

      Brief risk assessment:

      There is currently no approved pharmacological treatment for patients with PAP, and therefore
      an unmet need for further treatment modalities exists.

      Results from pre-clinical studies with inhaled molgramostim nebuliser solution showed the
      expected pharmacological effects on white blood cell (WBC) populations locally and
      systemically in line with observed effects after IV administration of molgramostim. No
      severe, serious or dose-limiting AEs were observed in the first clinical study in humans
      (MOL-001). The most common AE was cough, which was reported at a similar incidence for the
      molgramostim nebuliser solution and placebo. Increases of WBC populations in the blood
      consistent with the known mechanism of action were observed; most of which were considered
      not clinically significant. Only two cases (total WBC increased and eosinophilia) were
      reported as AEs. No development of anti-drug antibodies was observed.
    
  