
    
      OBJECTIVES

      The primary objectives of the pilot trial are to demonstrate feasibility of recruitment and
      to demonstrate efficacy potential. The primary objectives of the definitive trial are to
      determine if Thoracic Paravertebral with Pecs II blocks (TPVB+PecsII) will reduce opioid
      consumption and chronic pain compared to a TPVB+Sham block in patients undergoing mastectomy
      with IBR using tissue expanders or implants. Secondary objectives of the definitive trial
      include assessment of opioid consumption, patient-reported postoperative pain scores,
      postoperative nausea and vomiting, length of stay, and patient-reported quality of recovery.

      HYPOTHESIS

      In breast cancer patients undergoing mastectomy with immediate implant-based breast
      reconstruction, the addition of a Pecs II block to a thoracic paravertebral block
      (TPVB+PecsII) will reduce acute and chronic patient-reported postoperative pain as compared
      to a thoracic paravertebral block with sham Pecs II block (TPVB+Sham).

      Secondary hypotheses include: the TPVB+PecsII over TPVB+Sham will decrease opioid
      consumption, postoperative nausea and vomiting, decrease patient-reported postoperative pain
      scores, length of stay, and improve patient-reported quality of recovery in patients
      undergoing total mastectomy with IBR using tissue expanders or immediate implants.

      JUSTIFICATION

      The definitive trial will determine if TPVB+PecsII improves postoperative acute and chronic
      pain and reduces opioid use for patients undergoing mastectomy with IBR using tissue
      expanders or immediate implants.

      International Consensus guidelines for ERAS in breast reconstruction make a strong
      recommendation for multimodal, opioid-sparing analgesia postoperatively based on high-level
      evidence. Increased total opioid analgesic use has been shown to increase length of stay in
      hospital. Reduced opioid consumption results in less postoperative nausea, vomiting, and
      constipation, supports early ambulation, shortens hospital stays, and improves psychological
      well being. Current ERAS protocols for alloplastic breast reconstruction are successfully
      opioid-sparing and address acute recovery. However, opioids continue to play an important
      role in peri-operative protocols for achieving adequate pain control, which suggests further
      adjunctive strategies may be beneficial. Furthermore, the effects of peri-operative protocols
      on the development of chronic pain are lacking. By evaluating the effectiveness of
      TPVB+PecsII in alloplastic reconstruction, our proposed study would help to establish an
      important additional feature to the ERAS pathway for our hospital and other institutions.

      STUDY DESIGN

      The design of the pilot RCT is the same as the future definitive trial, a parallel-group,
      double-blinded RCT. The target population includes patients undergoing mastectomy with IBR
      using tissue expanders or immediate implants.

      The study will compare two arms:

        1. TPVB using local anesthetic infiltrate with Pecs II using local anesthetic infiltrate
           (TPVB+PecsII, the intervention arm).

           OR

        2. TPVB using local anesthetic infiltrate with Pecs II using normal saline infiltrate
           (TPVB+Sham, the control arm).

      The pilot trial will be conducted at Mount Saint Joseph Hospital (MSJH). The assignment of
      intervention will be determined by randomization through REDCap.

      Each participant will be assigned a consecutive Study ID at time of enrollment. Patients will
      be randomized 1:1 to either TPVB+PecsII or TPVB+Sham. Patients undergoing symmetrizing
      procedures as part of a bilateral breast surgery will not have a regional block on the
      symmetrizing side (which is not IBR). Patients undergoing bilateral IBR surgery using
      implants or expanders on both breasts will not be included in the study due to risk of local
      anesthetic toxicity with bilateral TPVB.

      The randomization sequence will be created using REDCap-generated 1:1 randomization with
      permuted blocks of varying size (4 and 6). The assignments (TPVB+PecsII or TPVB+Sham) will be
      placed in order in opaque, consecutively numbered envelopes. The sequence and envelopes will
      be created by an independent research assistant who will not be involved in the remainder of
      the study implementation.

      Study participants, Operating Room (OR) anesthesiologists, surgeons, research assistants, and
      nurses in the OR, Post-anesthesia Care Unit (PACU), and ward will be blinded as to whether a
      participant receives TPVB+PecsII or TPVB+Sham block. At MSJH, the anesthesiologists in the
      operative theater are separate from the team of regional anesthesiologists performing
      regional blocks in the preoperative area. Only the regional anesthesiologist and anesthesia
      assistant in the preoperative block area, who will administer the regional block, will be
      unblinded.

      On the day of surgery, the regional anesthesiologist at MSJH will be provided with the Study
      ID specific sealed envelope which will assign the patient to receive either the TPVB+PecsII
      or TPVB+Sham block. The regional anesthesiologist will prepare local anesthetic or normal
      saline injections for infiltration based on the random assignment. For all patients, the
      regional block will be performed as outlined in the Procedure Protocols (See Appendix 1:
      Nerve Block). All participants will receive general anesthesia following the nerve block. All
      other parameters and protocols will be identical.

      Currently, at MSJH, approximately 4 - 5 cases of mastectomy with IBR are performed per week.
      We do not anticipate difficulty with enrolment into this study. This internal pilot will
      generate initial recruitment data to enable an early review and validation of our recruitment
      projections and study population target prior to transition to formal RCT.

      Additional Details of Study Design

      Participants will also be given at the time of consent a post operative package. This will
      contain the Quality of Recovery-15 Questionnaire (Form 7), Recovery Booklet (Form 5) and Pain
      Burden Index (Form 8).

      The Quality of Recovery-15 Questionnaire (see Form 7) is to be completed at 24 hours after
      surgery in paper format or electronic format (based on their preference). This 24 hour time
      point will be marked on the QoR-15 form. If paper format is preferred, the QoR-15 will be
      provided with a paid-postage envelope to return once completed at 24 hours after surgery. The
      pain NRS at 24 hours will be recorded from the chart. The envelopes will be addressed to the
      research coordinator at UBC Hospital office. If the participant prefers electronic format,
      the questionnaire will be sent to their provided email address using secure online format
      (REDCap developed questionnaire).

      Recovery Booklet (see Form 5) will include: a) schedule for taking prescription pain
      medications; b) a postoperative 7-day symptom diary (for recording pain on NRS at 24 hours,
      episodes of vomiting, nausea, and use of prescribed medications). Patients will be provided
      with a paid-postage envelope to return their Recovery Booklet via mail once completed 7 days
      after surgery. Patients will be reminded to complete the Recovery Booklet (Form 5) in 3-4
      days and once again at 14 days to return the envelope.

      The Pain Burden Index questionnaire (see Form 8) asks specifically about pain in four
      surgically related body areas and to calculate the Pain Burden Index (PBI). The PBI is
      calculated by summing the pain severity scale (0-10) at each of four locations (breast,
      axilla, chest wall, arm) multiplied by the frequency of the pain at each site. The PBI
      questionnaire will be sent to participants via mail as paper format (with paid-postage
      envelope to return once completed) or email as electronic format (as per their requested
      preference) to be completed 3 and 6 months after their surgery. Details of present adjuvant
      treatments (radiation and chemotherapy) will also be included in the questionnaire.

      Secondary outcomes data including opioid consumption and side effects, length of stay in
      hospital (hours), rescue medications, failure of early discharge, complications and adverse
      events and time-based outcome measures (time in PACU, time under general anesthesia, time to
      perform ultrasound-guided TPVB+PecsII, failure of discharge from PACU and requiring
      admission) will be collected through participants' charts and EMR.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

      Patient characteristics and outcome measures will be summarized by group. An 80% confidence
      interval for the difference in average pain score over 24 hours will be calculated.
    
  