
    
      In patients who have suffered a traumatic brain injury, the current management strategies
      focus on the maintenance of normotension and normoxia and a normalized intracranial pressure
      (ICP). Recent evidence calls into question the utility of ICP monitoring in these patients.
      More advanced cerebral monitoring such as the use of invasive brain tissue oxygen monitors
      have not found their way into widespread clinical practice. Cerebral oximetry monitoring
      utilizes the different absorption characteristics of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood to
      measure global brain oxygen levels.

      While clinicians have no ability to reverse the primary brain injury, they can mitigate the
      secondary injury effects, namely hypoxia and hypotension. It is well known that maintaining
      normal blood pressure and oxygen saturation can prevent secondary brain injury. However, it
      is also known that despite the appearance of normal hemodynamics, brain oxygen delivery in
      the ischemic penumbra may be inadequate. This secondary brain injury is likely related to
      decreases in cerebral oxygenation (rSO2).

      There have been a number of studies that have examined a link between intraoperative
      decreases in rSO2 and adverse perioperative outcome. These studies suggest that decreases in
      rSO2 may be related to both adverse neurologic and non-neurologic sequelae. All of these
      studies suffer from similar flaws, however. They are typically small in size, have varying
      definitions of what constitutes a cerebral desaturation event, and have incompletely, or
      poorly defined complications. Also lacking is a mechanistic explanation for the cerebral
      desaturations as peripheral oxygen saturation typically remains near normal.

      The brain can be considered the organ of highest priority when it comes to tissue
      hypoperfusion during shock states. When oxygen delivery to the brain is decreased below a
      critical value, cerebral desaturations occur. In the context of TBI, cerebral desaturation
      may be the hallmark of secondary injury. Consistent with this hypothesis, in the largest
      cerebral oximetry trial to date, Murkin and colleagues discovered that the incidence and
      magnitude of cerebral desaturations was related to major non-neurologic organ morbidity.

      Two questions arise in relation to this prior research. First, are these cerebral
      desaturations causative of the adverse outcomes, and second if these desaturations were
      treated (i.e. if cerebral oxygenation was normalized) would outcome be improved (i.e. or are
      cerebral desaturations merely an epiphenomenon)?

      This study will determine the incidence and severity of cerebral desaturation in traumatic
      brain injury patients admitted to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit. We will examine factors
      associated with cerebral desaturation such as ICP and blood pressure, and will determine if
      decreases in rSO2 are helpful in prognostication of traumatic brain injury.
    
  