
    
      The survival in younger myeloma patients improved in the nineties with the introduction of
      high-dose melphalan with autologous stem cell support (HDT). However, all patients will
      eventually experience relapse after HDT and there is a need for improvement of the response
      after HDT. The choice of induction treatment before HDT affects the outcome after induction
      therapy as well as the outcome after HDT.

      Clarithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic frequently utilized in the treatment of respiratory
      tract infections and is often used in patients with known hypersensitivity to beta-lactam
      antibiotic. Besides antibiotic activity, clarithromycin may exert immunomodulatory and
      anti-inflammatory effects. The toxicity profile of clarithromycin is favourable and the cost
      is very low.

      Studies on cell lines have shown that clarithromycin attenuates autophagy in myeloma cells
      and a recent study has demonstrated that treatment with clarithromycin enhanced
      bortezomib-induced cytotoxicity in myeloma cells. Phase II studies without control groups
      have indicated that clarithromycin might enhance the effect of the thalidomide and
      lenalidomide. A case-matched analysis compared patients at one centre receiving
      clarithromycin, lenalidomide and dexamethasone with an equal number of patients at another
      centre receiving lenalidomide and dexamethasone. This study indicated a favourable effect of
      clarithromycin with a higher frequency of complete response, very-good-partial-response or
      better response and progression-free survival. However, there is a need for controlled
      studies to determine whether clarithromycin might enhance the effect of other myeloma agents.

      This randomized placebo-controlled study will include 160 patients with newly diagnosed
      multiple myeloma eligible for HDT. The study evaluates the potential synergic anti-myeloma
      activity of clarithromycin when combined with VCD induction therapy in patients with newly
      diagnosed multiple myeloma, and is conducted by the Danish Myeloma Study Group (DMSG) at
      seven clinics in Denmark. The first patient was included in May 2015 and enrolment is
      expected to continue until October 2016. The study ends when the last included patient has
      been followed for two months after HDT.
    
  