
    
      The best available treatment for social anxiety disorder is exposure therapy; however, 25% of
      socially anxious patients do not respond to an adequate course of exposure therapy and it is
      unclear why. Prior attempts to identify non-responders using clinical and demographic
      features have been largely unsuccessful, highlighting the need to examine constructs that are
      more closely tied to the mechanism of treatment (i.e., extinction learning and recall) and
      the organ of dysfunction (i.e., the brain). The neurobiology of extinction learning and
      recall is well understood from decades of animal and pre-clinical laboratory work, which has
      highlighted the importance of the amygdala, dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC), and
      ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC). However, this knowledge has not been leveraged to
      improve exposure therapy response, despite the assumption that response relies on extinction
      learning and its successful recall.

      Thus, a critical long-term goal is to improve exposure therapy response by tailoring therapy
      based on the neurobiological profile of each patient. This project addresses that goal by
      directly linking neurobiological profiles of extinction learning and recall with clinical
      symptoms and therapy response. A major objective of this project is therefore to build a
      mechanistic predictive model of exposure therapy response based on the neurobiology of
      extinction learning and recall.

      To accomplish this goal, the investigators will recruit 80 adults with social anxiety
      disorder who will be randomized to 10 sessions of exposure-focused therapy or waitlist. The
      primary clinical outcome measure will be the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale (LSAS), a
      validated and widely used measure that assesses anxiety and avoidance symptoms. Pre-therapy,
      participants will also undergo an experimental protocol for extinction learning and recall.
      Participants will first view a neutral abstract image repeatedly paired with a loud aversive
      noise, and another image that is never paired (fear acquisition phase). Following this,
      participants will view the same images without aversive consequences (extinction learning
      phase). Better extinction learning will be defined as greater reductions in skin conductance
      within the extinction learning phase. Brain activation during extinction learning will be
      assessed in the amygdala, dACC, and vmPFC. Finally, participants will view the same images
      without aversive consequences one week later (extinction recall phase). Better extinction
      recall will be defined as less skin conductance during extinction recall relative to fear
      acquisition. The central hypothesis is that greater activation in the vmPFC during extinction
      learning will predict both extinction recall and therapy response over and above symptom
      severity.
    
  