
    
      The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Istanbul University Faculty of
      Dentistry in accordance with protocol no. 2019/37-Rev/2. All participants will be informed
      about the study and will sign the written informed consent prior to the first treatment.

      The tested materials are the universal adhesive systems: Single Bond Universal (3M ESPE, St.
      Paul, MN, USA) and G-Premio Bond (GC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan). Both adhesive systems will
      be used in selective-etch approach. All restorations will replaced by a single experienced
      dentist. In this study PASS 11 Software was used to calculate the sample size. At least 230
      restorations (n=115) will be included for this study.

      The patients will be given local anesthesia if required to prevent discomfort during the
      intervention. Prior to the restorative procedure the teeth will be cleaned with a pumice
      water slurry, using a rubber cup. The walls of the lesions are gently and superficially
      roughened using a round coarse diamond bur before adhesive procedures. Isolation of the tooth
      will be achieved by the use of cotton rolls and a saliva aspirator, a retraction cord
      (Ultrapak, Ultradent Products, Inc., South Jordan, USA). Both adhesives will be applied in
      manufacturer' s instructions with random order, by which the first randomly selected adhesive
      will be used to restore the tooth with the lowest tooth number (according to the FDI system),
      and the alternative adhesive will be used for the tooth with the second lowest tooth number.
      This method will be used for every other tooth requiring a cervical restoration. After
      adhesive procedures, resin composite will be placed and each increment light cured for 20
      seconds (Elipar S10, 3M ESPE, St.Paul, MN, USA). The restorations are then finished and
      polished.

      Restorations will be assessed 7 days after placement (baseline) and after 6, 12, 18, and
      24months. Clinical examination will be performed by two blinded examiners, who were not
      involved in the treatments. Each restoration will be evaluated clinically using a dental
      loupe according to FDI World Dental Federation criteria. Three main groups- esthetic,
      functional, biological properties- and their sub-categorizes of FDI World Dental Federation
      criteria will be scored on a scale of 1 to 5.

      Esthetic properties: Surface lustre, surface staining, marginal staining, color match and
      translucency, esthetical anatomical form

      Functional properties: Fracture of material and retention, marginal adaptation, wear,
      approximal anatomical form, patient's view.

      Biological properties: Post-operative sensitivity, recurrence of caries, erosion, abfraction,
      tooth integrity, periodontal response, adjacent mucosa, oral and general health.

      Statistical analysis will be performed using IBM SPSS V23 Software. The data is analyzed with
      Chi- Square, Friedman Test, Bonferroni Test adjustment, Wilcoxon Tests (p < 0.05).
    
  