
    
      Introduction:There are few clinical trials on pharmacotherapies in marijuana dependence.
      There is no randomized and double-blind trial on N-acetylcysteine efficacy in marijuana
      withdrawal.Aims:The first aim is to assess the efficacy in human (n=150 outpatients) of
      N-acetylcysteine versus placebo during 4 weeks in cannabis withdrawal.The secondary aims
      are:a-Assessing the abstinence during the next 5 months of follow-up.b-Assessing the
      correlations between genetic characteristics: cytochrome CYP2C9 and CYP3A4, CNR1 receptor,
      Fatty Amide Hydroxylase (FAAH), dopamine DAT transporters and Catechol-O-MéthylTransférase
      (COMT); and three phenotypes : 1. cannabis level consumption, 2. cannabis abuse and
      dependence (DSM-IV), and 3. cannabis withdrawal.c-Assessing tobacco consumption (Fagerström
      test), NICOTINIQUE receptor CHRA3 and cannabis quitting success.Subjects:150 cannabis
      outpatients, seeking treatment in LARIBOISIERE hospital cannabis setting, to cut down their
      cannabis use.Inclusion criteria: > 18 year old, not pregnant or breast feeding, cannabis
      abuse or dependence diagnosis (DSM-IV), acceptance of the trial and consent signed, validated
      by ethic committee.Methods:Randomized and double-blind trial.Visit 0: Clinical assessment and
      trial presentation, Validate inclusion and non- inclusion criteria.Visit 1: Consent signed.
      Blood and urine analysis. Questionnaires assessing cannabis and tobacco's craving.NAC and
      placebo doses will be increased if craving decreases <25% compared to previous visit. The
      doses start at 200 mg x 4/24h to 800 mg x 4/24h.Visit 2 to 5: Medication safety and cannabis
      craving and withdrawal assessment during 4 weeks.Visit 5: Blood and urine analysis.Visit 6 to
      8: abstinence assessment during 5 months.Goals:Efficacy assessment of N-Acetylcysteine in
      cannabis withdrawal and abstinence compared to placebo. Assessment of NAC efficacy in
      cannabis craving. The length of the study is 6 months to evaluate abstinence persistence.
      Evaluation of clinical, biological and genetic factors associated with abstinence
      success.Statistic :Sample size : A two group continuity corrected c2 test with a 0.050
      two-sided significance level will have 80% power to detect the difference between a Group 1
      proportion, p1, of 0.250 and a Group 2 proportion, p2, of 0.500 (odds ratio of 3.000) when
      the sample size in each group is 66. Taking into account a rate of lost of follow-up around
      15 % the total sample size of the study has been fixed at N= 150 patients.Main criterion and
      binary secondary criteria will be analysed by Chi-square tests or Fisher's exact probability
      test. Relationships between genotype and phenotypes will be analysed by multivariate logistic
      models
    
  