
    
      Study design Prospective, comparative, randomized, non intervention study

      Patients

      Patients older than 18 years

      Cardiac Surgery anesthetized using Extracorporeal Circulation

      Randomization

      There are 10 independent boxes at the Postoperative Cardiac Intensive Care Unit. (Each of
      these boxes have single beds). Every year, the Cardiac Reanimation Unit of our hospital
      received 500 patients, post heart surgery.

      After getting the permissions needed to make the research, the Medixair® system has been
      placed in 5 of these units, and the comparison group will be the other 5 beds without
      Medixair®. Patients have been assigned randomly to either (Medixair® and NO Medixair®).

      The endpoint is:

      -To compare the infection rates after a cardiac surgery, on patients located in boxes with
      and without a Medixair® system.

      The aim is to see if there are fewer catheter infections, less bacteraemia, fewer urinary
      infections, less site of surgery infections, and fewer pneumonias in patients who have spent
      their first days after a heart surgery in a box with Medixair® system than without it. The
      infection rates in the intensive care unit will be followed, as well as the whole stay at
      hospital, as there might be fewer infections if there were fewer microorganisms around.

      Other objectives are:

        -  Identifying preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative risk factors to develop an
           infection illness after cardiac surgery, as well as which increase the length of stay at
           hospital and the mortality rate.

        -  Making an economic study of using this system against not using it.

      A further aim is to measure the following variables:

        -  Dependent variables (Outcome variables): infection

        -  2º Outcome variables: colonization

        -  Independent variables will be a risk factor for infection:

        -  Preoperative: age, sex, any preoperative illness, immunosuppressor treatment, including
           corticosteroids.

        -  Intraoperative: antibiotic prophylaxis, surgical technique, length of cardiopulmonary
           bypass, length of aorta clamped, temperature during cardiopulmonary bypass, hematocrit
           at the end of cardiopulmonary bypass.

        -  Postoperative: length with mechanical ventilation, time spent in hospital, time spent in
           an intensive care unit, any organ complication (pulmonary insufficiency, renal failure,
           low cardiac index), septicemia, invasive techniques used, positive microorganism
           cultures.

      All of the patients will be treated in the same way

      Estimated number of patients

      Nowadays, the infection rate after cardiac surgery is around 5%, so following the current
      hypothesis that the Medixair® system, because of its ultraviolet emissions, is going to lower
      the infection rate after cardiac surgery, 419 patients are needed in each group to be able to
      demonstrate a significative 5% reduction in infection rates, with an alpha error of 0.05 and
      a beta error of 0.2 to have a power of 80%.

      As this is a preliminary study, in order to demonstrate a 5% reduction in the infection rate,
      half the number of patients (half of 419) will be used. As the patient volume is 500 a year,
      the number will be rounded up to 500, in order to be able to consider a complete year.
    
  