
    
      This project will utilize two powerful technologies for diagnosing endocrine diseases:
      proteomics and genetic (RNA and DNA) markers. Proteomics is a relatively new, rapidly
      expanding and exciting area of biomedical research (Robin et al, 2009, Frolich et al, 2009).
      Posttranslational modifications of proteins are critical for function. Modified proteins may
      be markers of cancer phenotypes and therefore be useful tumor markers (Narimatsu et al,
      2010). Proteomic research in thyroid cancer is in its infancy (Krause et al, 2009). The
      available studies on thyroid cancer have utilised tissue rather than serum samples,
      nonetheless the results are encouraging (Brown et al, 2006, Wang et al, 2006, Netea-Maier et
      al, 2008, Krause et al, 2007, Moretz et al, 2008).

      Genomic markers of thyroid cancer have been described and are increasingly being used on
      biopsy material for accurate diagnosis. Among the described markers point mutations (BRAF
      V600E, NRAS codon 61, HRAS codon 61), gene rearrangements (RET / PTC1, RET / PTC3, PAX8 /
      PPARgamma) and other polymorphisms have been found to be useful (Nikiforova and Nikiforov,
      2009, Ohori et al, 2010). There is good evidence that in recurrent thyroid cancer small
      numbers of thyroid cancer cells can be detected in peripheral blood, in sufficient quantities
      to detect thyroid-specific mRNA by RT PCR (Karavitaki et al, 2005, Barbosa et al, 2008, Milas
      et al, 2009). Most of these studies have focused on the detection of thyroglobulin mRNA with
      moderate success. A significant difficulty with this approach is that detection of
      thyroglobulin mRNA in peripheral blood cannot distinguish between the presence of normal
      thyroid tissue or thyroid cancer.

      The project is a collaborative venture between Newcastle Biomedicine, the NHS, and
      Biosignatures Ltd (a North-East based proteomics diagnostics company). Biosignatures has
      invested a great deal of research in optimizing sample handling and sample analysis, thus
      giving rise to plasma proteomic protocols that are stable and suitable for large comparative
      studies (Elliott et al, Jackson et al, 2010, Bramwell et al, 2007). The data generated from
      plasma 2D gel electrophoresis and mass spectroscopy is analysed by proprietary "supervised
      learning" technology. The system is given multiple examples of group classes (disease cases)
      and from this derives a signature pattern ('proteomic fingerprint') that allows the classes
      to be discriminated. This signature will then be validated against a novel patient dataset to
      ensure robust disease status discrimination. The combination of this research and technology
      can produce blood derived signatures of disease in an applied clinical setting (Cash and
      Argo, 2009, Borthwick et al, 2009).

      Thyroid cancer affects 2000 new patients in the UK per annum (Cancer Research UK). Once the
      initial treatment of thyroid cancer is completed (thyroidectomy followed by radioiodine
      ablation), monitoring is essential to detect residual disease or recurrence. Recurrence rates
      in thyroid cancer are as high as 30% (Mazzaferri and Kloos, 2001) and can declare themselves
      decades after initial treatment, so that patients have to be monitored regularly for life.
      Monitoring for disease recurrence consists of iodine scans, an ultrasound scan of the neck
      6-8 months after initial treatment, and 6-12 monthly blood tests thereafter for the serum
      marker thyroglobulin. Thyroglobulin is a valuable marker in many people with thyroid cancer
      (Spencer and Fatemi, 2006). Unfortunately in approximately 30% of patients antibody
      interference with the assay renders this test unreliable (Spencer and Fatemi, 2006). In such
      cases patients are subjected to repeated scans, though a negative scan has a far less
      predictive value than a negative thyroglobulin blood test when the analyte can be measured
      reliably. We have selected thyroid cancer as the primary topic of study for proof of concept
      for the following reasons:

        -  Current diagnostics technology (measurement of serum thyroglobulin) suffers from
           interference of measurement of the analyte in 30% of cases, rendering this tumour marker
           entirely unreliable when such antibodies are present. Attempts using conventional
           biochemical analytical technology to overcome this problem over the past 3 decades have
           failed. Thus a proteomics/genomics approach has only to perform with a better than 70%
           specificity to provide a superior diagnostic test.

        -  The potential cost savings to the NHS by the development of such a diagnostic test (by
           avoidance of expensive scans) will be considerable.

        -  Exposure of patients to radiation from repeated scans will be reduced with obvious
           safety benefits.

        -  The study is non-interventional, will induce no additional discomfort, and is expected
           to have no impact on the care received by participants at this stage.

        -  Extrapolation of such technology to the evaluation of thyroid nodules (present
           clinically in 5% of the adult population) and even screening of the population for
           thyroid malignancy, would have profoundly beneficial preventative and public health
           consequences.
    
  