
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the percentage of patients experiencing a decrease in left ventricular
      ejection fraction (LVEF) of 10 percent from baseline or decrease in LVEF below the normal
      limit of 50% during treatment with dexrazoxane (dexrazoxane hydrochloride) combined with
      cladribine, idarubicin, cytarabine, and Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin) within the first
      6-months of treatment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the incidence of these cardiac symptoms while on dexrazoxane combined with
      idarubicin-based treatment: clinical heart failure, exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, S3 gallop,
      acute coronary syndrome, acute pulmonary edema and life-threatening arrhythmias.

      II. To assess and monitor the change of troponin I (while still standard of care at MD
      Anderson) and high-sensitivity troponin T during treatment.

      III. Collect safety/toxicity profile. IV. To assess rates of complete remission (CR)/complete
      remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi). (Cohorts 1-3) V. Other efficacy
      endpoints of interest include overall response, overall survival, event-free survival and
      remission duration. (Cohorts 1-3) VI. To assess the recurrence-free survival rate at 6
      months. (Cohort 4)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the metal chelation effects of dexrazoxane combined with chemotherapy (Mylotarg,
      cladribine, idarubicin, and cytarabine) by quantifying concentrations of toxic and essential
      metals and isotopic abundance ratios of blood and bone marrow before and during treatment.

      II. To study and describe the relationship between pretreatment patient / disease
      characteristics (including cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities) and clinical outcomes.

      III. To identify molecular biomarkers predictive of response to therapy. IV. To study and
      describe the relationship between patient / disease characteristics, use of intrathecal
      prophylaxis, and incidence of leptomeningeal disease.

      V. To observe rates of fungal and other infections on the regimen. VI. To study environmental
      exposure data based on an environmental health assessment survey.

      VII. To explore the impact of minimal residual disease (MRD) on relapse.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION PHASE: Participants receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours
      on days 1, 4, and 7, cladribine IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-5, dexrazoxane hydrochloride IV
      over 15 minutes on days 1-3, idarubicin IV over 30 minutes on days 1-3, and cytarabine IV
      over 2 hours on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 3-7 weeks for up to 2 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION PHASE: After induction phase, participants receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV
      over 2 hours on day 1, cladribine IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-3, dexrazoxane hydrochloride IV
      over 15 minutes on days 1-2, idarubicin IV over 30 minutes on days 1-2, and cytarabine IV
      over 2 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 3-7 weeks for up to 6 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE PHASE: Participants who go into remission or who are already in remission receive
      gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 1 of course 1 and then every 2-3 months as
      needed. Participants also receive dexrazoxane hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes and idarubicin
      IV over 30 minutes on day 1, and cytarabine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7. Courses repeat
      every 3-7 weeks for 32 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 6-12 months.
    
  