
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma
           treated with continuous combination chemotherapy comprising oxaliplatin, leucovorin
           calcium, and fluorouracil (OxMdG) or oxaliplatin and capecitabine (XELOX) with vs
           without cetuximab vs intermittent combination chemotherapy with OxMdG or XELOX as
           first-line therapy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare time of disease control and progression- and failure-free survival of patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the cost effectiveness of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open label, randomized, controlled study. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (continuous chemotherapy): Patients receive 1 of the following combination
           chemotherapy regimens of their choice (or as per participating center):

             -  OxMdG: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV over
                2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on days 1 and 2. Courses repeat
                every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  XELOX: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral capecitabine
                twice daily on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (continuous chemotherapy and cetuximab): Patients receive OxMdG or XELOX as in
           arm I. Patients also receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1 and 8 (for patients
           receiving OxMdG) OR days 1, 8, and 15 (for patients receiving XELOX). Treatment with
           OxMdG and cetuximab repeats every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Treatment with XELOX and cetuximab repeats every 21 days in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm III (intermittent chemotherapy): Patients receive OxMdG or XELOX as in arm I.
           Treatment with OxMdG repeats every 14 days for up to 6 courses (12 weeks). Treatment
           with XELOX repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses (12 weeks). Patients with disease
           progression after 12 weeks of therapy are removed from study treatment. Patients with
           stable or responding disease after 12 weeks of therapy stop treatment and undergo
           clinical evaluation at least every 6 weeks (treatment break) until disease progression
           or clinical deterioration. Upon evidence of disease progression or clinical
           deterioration, patients restart treatment with OxMdG or XELOX as before and continue to
           alternate 12 weeks of treatment with treatment breaks in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity Quality of life is assessed at baseline, 6 weeks,
           12 weeks, and then every 12 weeks thereafter.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 12 weeks for survival.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,421 patients (807 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3.5 years.
    
  