
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      This is a prospective intervention cohort study with historical controls. Since this is pilot
      study to inform a future intervention, up to 200 participants will be enrolled total: up to
      100 to receive the intervention and up to 100 historical controls extracted from electronic
      clinic records. We are using historical controls because we don't feel it is appropriate to
      randomize vouchers at a site as this will likely cause ill will in the clinic and the clinic
      was not willing to do this. We also do not have the resources to get data from a second
      clinic and we felt that given this was a pilot study we would likely increase confounding if
      we went to another clinic for a comparison group. While the procedure is changing at the
      clinic to move to Option B+, we do not anticipate being able to begin the actual intervention
      until late February or March. This will allow for a sufficient number of historical controls
      to accrue under option B+ to use as a relevant control group. No patient matching will occur.

      STUDY SITE Hikhensile Clinic is a primary health care clinic in Region A of Johannesburg,
      South Africa, operated by the City of Johannesburg Department of Health. Hikhensile primarily
      serves clients living in Ivory Park (Ward 77) in Midrand.

      Hikhensile Clinic offers antenatal and postnatal care, HIV testing and treatment on-site, as
      well as other primary care services. HIV care is integrated with antenatal care for pregnant
      women, with assessment for and initiation of ART occurring within antenatal care. HIV testing
      occurs during a woman's first antenatal visit and, per national guidelines, all pregnant
      women will be initiated on lifelong antiretroviral therapy (Option B+) as of in January 2015.
      Hikhensile does not perform deliveries, so all women who receive antenatal care at Hikhensile
      are designated to deliver at Tembisa Hospital and Ethafeni Hospital. The hospitals do not
      routinely report delivery information back to Hikhensile. Following delivery, patients return
      for postnatal care and HIV treatment services at Hikhensile for 10 weeks and then resume
      general adult care, all within the same facility and using the same clinic file. Mothers and
      infants make three postnatal care visits together: 3-7 days after delivery; six weeks after
      delivery for an infant polymerase chain reaction HIV test to determine the HIV status of the
      baby; and 10 weeks after delivery for infant HIV results.

      STUDY POPULATION The study population will consist of up to 200 HIV-positive pregnant women.
      Up to 100 will be recruited consecutively and enrolled prospectively during routine antenatal
      care at Hikhensile Clinic in Johannesburg, South Africa. Patient records for up to 100
      HIV-positive pregnant women from Hikhensile will be extracted to serve as the historical
      control group for comparison.

      At the enrollment visit, the following procedures will occur:

        1. Pregnant women will be recruited and screened for eligibility for the study by study
           staff.

        2. Women who provide informed consent for participation will be enrolled into the study.

        3. The questionnaire (attached in the Appendix) will be administered by trained study
           staff. The questionnaire is designed to elicit information that is not already collected
           routinely, including questions related to demographic information, attitudes about the
           study, and behavioral and socio-economic factors that may influence retention in care.
           The questionnaire will take about 30-45 minutes to administer.

        4. Patients will be reminded that we will also access their medical records to collect
           information about their medical history and that we may do so up to one year after
           enrollment to see if their health changes in any way.

        5. Study staff will explain how the intervention works, reminding the patient that they
           must return to the clinic within 10 weeks of delivering their baby to receive the
           voucher.

        6. Staff will also remind the participant that the voucher is a one-time incentive, they
           will not receive any additional incentives after the initial voucher. They will also be
           reminded they will not receive the voucher if they return later than 10 weeks after
           delivery.

      Follow-up activities at the first postpartum visit (within 10 weeks of delivery)

        1. At the first postpartum visit, it is standard procedure to record the date and details
           of delivery. If the participant returns to the study clinic within 10 weeks of delivery
           of the baby, study staff will provide the participant with a R50 supermarket voucher for
           returning to the clinic. She will need to sign a form that states that she received the
           form and understands that she will not receive another voucher from the study team or
           the clinic staff. To receive the voucher a woman must return within 10 weeks of the
           estimated delivery date as women are supposed to receive 10 weeks of postnatal care at
           the clinic before transferring to adult HIV care. We will extend the data collection to
           14 weeks to see if any women return in the 4 weeks after the intervention period ends.
           These women will not receive a voucher.

           Follow-up activities approximately 14 weeks after delivery

        2. Clinical records will be assessed for all participants a minimum of one month following
           the scheduled 10-week postpartum visit. If the participant did not return within 14
           weeks of delivery, she will be considered to have completed no postpartum visits.
    
  