
    
      This study will include 8 vent dependent subjects with comparable diagnoses and nutritional
      levels. Of the subjects selected, 4 subjects will be placed on Freedom Beds and 4 will be
      placed on standard hospital beds for a period not less than 6 months. A waiver of informed
      consent is required prior to bed placement and data collection. Consented subjects will have
      primary and secondary diagnosis recorded, pressure mapping in supine 30-degree elevation,
      assessment of ventilator / oxygen support measured, oxygenation levels, nutrition levels, and
      estimated cardiac condition. Subjects will receive daily skin assessments and treatment as
      prescribed by the attending physician with weekly measurements and reporting of values.
      Subjects will continue until they reach one of the study endpoints: 1) discharge from the
      vent unit, or 2) withdrawal of informed consent, or 3) completion of the 6-month study.

      Subjects placed on the Freedom Bed will be automatically turned in accordance with positions
      determined as optimal by initial pressure mapping and approved by the attending physician.
      All programmable turning angles, dwell times, head and leg elevations must be "dialed in"
      within a week of the study beginning. Any modification to the program during the study must
      be approved by the care team and documented accordingly.

      Subjects placed on standard hospital bed will require manual re-positioning every 2 hours.
      All turning and/or re-positioning must be timed and documented.

      Subjects who experience either development of pressure injuries, or worsening of their skin
      condition to the point a specialty bed is required will be deemed a test failure.

      The primary and secondary outcome measures documented on each subject throughout the week
      will be collected by the Clinical Research Coordinator (CRC) on a weekly basis and submitted
      to the Principal Investigator. The weekly reports will then be consolidated by the CRC into a
      monthly report and submitted to the Institutional Review Board (IRB), Principal Investigators
      (PI) and Supervising Authorities (SA) for review.
    
  