
    
      Far from being only an Italian problem, harmful alcohol consumption puts a heavy burden on
      people's health. Risky behaviors and socio-economical conditions are closely linked and,
      thus, during critical economical periods, such as this, alcohol related problems increase
      significantly.

      Screening and Brief Intervention is a very effective method to screen and counsel risky
      people at primary care level but, nevertheless, general practitioners and other health care
      professionals don't utilize it.

      This is mainly due to the fact that the National Health Services should include it into
      financial agreements for reimbursement or adopt other incentives that, in this critic period,
      are difficult to be taken into consideration.

      What are the alternatives? Utilizing existing resources to propose a different approach at
      little or no cost: the web and the local communities.

      Computers are in almost every house and, if not, the local community can offer their use
      within libraries or social centres.

      Computers are definitely utilized by young people and youngsters are the first to suffer from
      risky alcohol use. Older people are more and more using them maybe just to surf the web but,
      if not, its use could be facilitated by their general practitioners.

      As stated before, no scientific evidence exists on its effectiveness in respect to the GPs
      work. For this reason we decided to compare the efficacy of a web based "brief intervention"
      with a face-to-face brief intervention performed by general practitioners.

      We would like to see if a web based approach is, at least, as good as, or not inferior to GPs
      work.

      This project could have an important impact at regional and national level. It could be the
      starting point of a different way to provide alcohol related health services, utilizing up to
      date working tools, such as smart phones or iPads, giving a different role to the GPs and
      improving the action of local social services.

      The work of general practitioners could also benefit and more integration with the
      territorial services could bring to increased visibility of Local Authorities.

      The supervision of national and international high-level experts will assure an outstanding
      quality to the project and the possibility of future inclusion of its results within national
      or international guidelines for primary care alcohol related services.

      This study is a part of a wider community program aiming at involving GPs and Local
      Authorities for its implementation whose objectives are out of the scope of this RCT.
    
  