
    
      Radiation therapy (RT) is an integral component of the management of brain tumors, but
      cognitive deficits following cranial irradiation are well documented. There is an association
      between damage to neural progenitor cells (NPC) and neurocognitive dysfunction. NPC are
      similarly known to play an important role in recovery from damage to the brain, including
      radiation-induced damage. However NPC are extremely sensitive to radiation. In spite of this
      information, current RT planning techniques do not limit the radiation dose to the NPC
      containing regions. Recent human studies have demonstrated that it is possible to use
      intensity modulated radiation therapy to reduce the radiation dose to NPC containing regions
      during RT for brain tumors, without compromising coverage of the tumor. We hypothesize that
      NPC-sparing RT will reduce neurocognitive decline following treatment for brain tumors,
      without compromising tumor local control. However, there is conflicting data regarding the
      role of NPC in the development of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Some studies suggest that
      GBM are derived from NPC whereas others have associated NPC with improved tumor control
      following therapy for GBM. Prior to evaluation of neurocognitive outcomes with NPC-sparing
      RT, it is therefore imperative to evaluate whether NPC-sparing RT techniques lead to
      increased LR in the spared NPC containing niches of the brain.

      The proposed study is designed to evaluate LR in the spared regions of the brain following
      NPC sparing RT in patients with newly diagnosed GBM. Our research will consist of 3 specific
      aims: 1) Determine the LR rate at 1 year in the spared NPC containing niches in patients
      treated with NPC sparing RT for GBM; 2) Quantify the extent of radiation dose sparing to the
      NPC containing regions that is possible without compromising tumor coverage in patients with
      GBM; 3) Determine if it is feasible to evaluate cognitive function prospectively in patients
      undergoing NPC sparing RT for GBM.

      The long term goal of this research is to establish whether NPC sparing RT techniques improve
      neurocognitive outcomes compared to conventional RT for brain tumors. If the proposed study
      demonstrates that NPC sparing RT is not associated with increased LR in the spared regions of
      the brain compared to conventional RT, it will ideally serve as the foundation for a future
      multi-institutional randomized controlled trial comparing neurocognitive outcomes in patients
      treated with NPC-sparing RT versus conventional radiation therapy.
    
  