
    
      Objective: The purpose this study is to evaluate the preliminary (1) effectiveness of an
      implementation strategy for Internet-based Self-help Interventions and (2) clinical outcomes
      of a specific Internet-based self-help program for insomnia, SHUTiTM, in VA Connecticut
      outpatient primary care. The primary hypothesis is that the experimental implementation
      strategy the investigators are developing, relative to a control strategy, will result in
      higher rates of program engagement by patients, greater provider adoption through referral to
      the program, greater program completion, and improved patient insomnia outcomes.

      Research Design: The investigators will employ a hybrid implementation-effectiveness study
      design through which the investigators will primarily test the effectiveness of the
      implementation strategy, while secondarily evaluating the clinical effectiveness of the
      SHUTiTM program. The investigators will use a quasi-experimental pre-/post-cohort design
      whereby SHUTiTM will initially be implemented using a low-intensity (control) strategy,
      followed by implementation using the experimental strategy. The SHUTiTM program's association
      with clinical response will be evaluated in an uncontrolled pre-/post-format.

      Methodology: Internet-based self-help programs are personalized, self-guided interventions
      delivered over a computer, mobile device, or other Internet platform and focused on improving
      knowledge, awareness, or behavior change for a mental or physical health problem. Through
      previous and on-going projects at VACT, the investigators are developing a general strategy
      for implementing Internet-based Self-help programs in VA primary care, specifically among
      Patient Aligned Care Teams (PACT) and Primary Care Mental Health Integration (PCMHI)
      providers. An implementation strategy is defined as a systematic intervention to integrate
      evidence-based health innovations into usual care. The strategy the investigators propose to
      test consists of four core components: (1) a clinical intermediary for patient support, (2)
      provider/staff facilitation and education, (3) patient education, and (4) stepped-care for
      those requiring additional treatment. The investigators' currently approved protocol (#0002)
      involves interviewing VA providers, administrators, and staff in order to expand and modify
      the components of this strategy. In the proposed study, the investigators will compare this
      strategy to a low intensity (control) strategy with respect to the implementation related
      outcomes of patent engagement, provider adoption through referral to the program, and patient
      completion, over a six-month active implementation period. Use of the program will continue
      and implementation outcomes will be gathered over an additional one-year sustainment phase.
      The investigators will target the very common clinical problem of insomnia and use the
      SHUTiTM program, a 6-week self-guided program utilizing standard cognitive-behavioral therapy
      (CBT) techniques for the treatment of chronic insomnia. The program has been shown to improve
      insomnia severity and other sleep related outcomes in a number of controlled trials. The
      clinical effectiveness of SHUTiTM will be evaluated using clinical insomnia outcomes obtained
      on all patients enrolled over the 6-month active implementation periods.

      Impact/Significance: The development and testing of evidence-based implementation strategies
      for Internet-based self-help programs in VA outpatient care is essential given that (1) there
      is an increasing number of Internet-based self-help programs providing evidence-based
      treatment for a variety of mental and behavioral health disorders, (2) VA has committed to
      improving access to care, especially evidence-based and self-care resources, and (3) there is
      a Congressional mandate that VA implement Internet-based care. This will be first controlled
      trial of an implementation strategy for Internet-based self-help programs in a VA primary
      care (PACT/PCMHI) context.
    
  