
    
      Bloodstream infections are a common and serious problem, increasing length of hospital stay
      by 2-3 weeks, adding $25,000-40,000 in excess hospital costs, and tripling the risk of death.
      At the same time, antibiotic overuse is also a common and serious problem, in that 30-50% of
      antibiotic use is unnecessary or inappropriate, and results in avoidable drug side effects
      such as kidney failure, Clostridioides difficile infection, increased costs, and spiralling
      antibiotic resistance rates. The greatest contributor to antibiotic overuse is excessive
      durations of treatment.

      Extensive research has demonstrated that shorter duration antibiotic treatment (less or equal
      to 7 days) is as effective as longer duration treatment for a variety of infectious diseases,
      but this question has not been directly studied in the setting of bloodstream infection.
      BALANCE team's systematic review of the medical literature, national survey of Canadian
      infectious diseases and critical care physicians, multicentre retrospective study and BALANCE
      pilot RCT, all support the need for a randomized controlled trial comparing shorter (7 days)
      versus longer (14 days) antibiotic therapy for bloodstream infections. Prior to performing
      the main trial, Investigators completed a pilot trial in ICU patients to establish the
      feasibility of the research design, and to optimize the definitive trial. Investigators also
      completed a pilot trial of non-ICUs patients to test the feasibility, compare the patient
      population in two settings and to assess the reasonableness of expanding the main BALANCE
      Trial to non-ICU wards. The overall recruitment rate of the non-ICU ward pilot RCT exceeded
      the recruitment rate in the BALANCE ICU pilot RCT with a protocol adherence of 90%. The
      results of this pilot were used to estimate the necessary sample size recalculation, after
      merging the BALANCE ward trial with the BALANCE main trial, with the principle of maintaining
      an equal to smaller non-inferiority margin by the trial's completion. With the completion of
      this pilot RCT, the eligibility criteria for the BALANCE trial are also modified to broaden
      the inclusion of all bacteremic patients admitted to hospital. By defining the duration of
      treatment for bloodstream infections, BALANCE research program will help maximize the
      clinical cure of individual patients, while minimizing their risk of drug side effects, C.
      difficile, and antibiotic resistance. Since this intervention would require no new
      technology, and would reduce (rather than increase) health care costs, it would offer
      immediate benefits to patients and the healthcare system.

      The BALANCE RCT will randomize hospitalized patients with bloodstream infection to 7 versus
      14 days of adequate antibiotic treatment; the antibiotic drugs, doses, routes and interval
      will be left to the discretion of the treating team. Although placebo controls are not
      feasible, prolonged allocation concealment to day 7 will be used to mitigate selection bias.
      The primary analysis will assess whether 7 days is associated with non-inferior 90 day
      survival as compared to 14 days of treatment. Participants from the vanguard BALANCE pilot
      RCTs will be included in the BALANCE main RCT, and participating Canadian sites will continue
      to enrol patients. BALANCE international collaborators include New Zealand, Australia, Saudi
      Arabia, the United States, Israel and Switzerland.
    
  