
    
      ASTHMA TREATMENT:

      As regards the pharmacological management of asthma, inhaled corticosteroids (eg budesonide,
      fluticasone and beclomethasone) underlying the maintenance therapy, while beta-2 agonists are
      the long-term preferred additional treatment. Other common medications are systemic
      corticosteroids, beta-2-agonist short duration (eg salbutamol) oral beta2-agonists,
      long-lasting, methylxanthines, converters leukotrienes, colors and anticholinergics.

      The main clinical advantages of transport and deposition of the drug directly to the lungs
      associated with the safety and efficacy: the side effects associated with the systemic
      circulation zero, while high concentrations of the active substance can be directly
      attributed to the points of action. Furthermore, the onset of action of inhaled beta2-agonist
      is faster that of oral beta-2 agonist and the therapeutic response is achieved faster.
      Finally, require lower doses of the drug, due to the efficiency of this direct lungs,
      reducing the problems of poor absorption and metabolism by the liver.

      COPD TREATMENT:

      Effective management of COPD involves four steps: (1) assessment and monitoring of the
      disease, (2) minimize the risk factors, (3) stabilization of disease, and (4) the treatment
      of an exacerbation.

      ELPENHALER:

      A new multi-single dose inhaled dry powder (Elpenhaler ®) has been designed, developed and
      patented by the Elpen Pharmaceutical Co. Inc (Pikermi, Greece). The new inhaler is suitable
      for the performance of a range of drugs for asthma, such as budesonide, formoterol and
      fluticasone.

      OTHER TREATMENT APPROACHES:

      Most asthma medications are administered in the form of inhalers. There are various forms of
      devices that facilitate the administration of inhaled medications in young children. The
      correct use of inhalers drugs is very important for the treatment of asthma. If the patient
      does not understand the correct instructions, the drug is deposited satisfactorily lungs, ie
      organ must act, so there is no remission. Furthermore when the inhalers incorrectly used much
      of the drug remains in the oral cavity and the pharynx and therefore the patient is exposed
      to any adverse events drug while not treated properly asthma. Appropriate for patient inhaler
      should be chosen by the attending physician, after confirmation by pilot demonstration site
      at the clinic, the patient (depending on age) have understood and can apply the device user.
      A new study conducted by the Center for Capital allergies and respiratory diseases showed
      that 25% of asthmatic subjects reported that the inhaler was empty during an asthma attack.
      The reason: "There is no way for someone to see how much medicine has used the inhaler
      continues to blow air even when it is empty," says Bradley Chips, who was lead author of the
      study. To save your breath, look at the package leaflet number of inhaled doses contain.
    
  