
    
      The use of instructional technical surgical videos is common in orthopaedic education. Many
      residents have used instructional technical surgical training videos prior to medical school,
      as well as during their residency program, and at instructional courses. The use of
      instructional technical surgical videos and multimedia is considered an adjunctive training
      method for orthopaedic residents to learn operative procedures.

      Immersive virtual reality (iVR) is increasingly used in surgical education. Recently, iVR has
      shown transfer of skill training in orthopaedics. The continued study of the effectiveness of
      iVR training in orthopaedic education could benefit new competency based orthopaedics
      residency programs.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of instructional technical surgical
      video training to immersive iVR training for teaching technical skills of reverse total
      shoulder arthroplasty. Our hypothesis was that iVR improved learning effectiveness compared
      to standard technical surgical video. Secondary objectives include validating a virtual
      reality ratings scale through correlation to real-world performance, and to determine
      efficiency of learning in both groups.

      Currently, technical surgical instructional videos are pervasive in orthopaedic teaching
      education. Immersive VR, another form of teaching, is increasingly being used in surgical
      education. The production of an immersive VR suite with tactile and user metric feedback may
      be an advance over current bench top simulator technology, allowing for greater immersion and
      interaction, leading to better understanding of surgical planning and implementation. The
      development of this technology could provide trainees with immersive levels of training not
      previously seen, with improved learning of technical skills over media such as manufacturer
      technical documents. The effectiveness of training and efficiency of training of the novel
      immersive VR training systems need to be evaluated as they are increasingly incorporated into
      competency based, contemporary residency education.

      We proposed a randomized, blinded intervention-control trial directly comparing immersive iVR
      versus technical surgical instructional video training in the teaching of reverse shoulder
      arthroplasty in senior (fourth and fifth year) residents, learning at the 2020 annual
      Canadian Shoulder and Elbow Society meeting.
    
  