
    
      The Study Drugs:

      E7070 is designed to stop metabolic ingredients from reaching the cancer cells and to stop
      the cancer cell from dividing.

      Cytarabine is designed to insert itself into DNA (the genetic material of cells) of cancer
      cells and stop the DNA from repairing itself.

      Idarubicin is designed to cause breaks in both strands of DNA (the genetic material of
      cells).

      Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid that is similar to a natural hormone made by your body.
      Dexamethasone is often given to AML patients in combination with other chemotherapy to treat
      cancer.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found eligible to take part in this study, you will receive E7070 by vein over 1
      hour on Day 1 and Day 8 (+/- 2 days on Day 8 only) followed by idarubicin by vein over 1 hour
      on Days 9-11. You will also receive cytarabine by vein over 24 hours each day on Days 9-12.
      If you are 60 years of age or older, you will only receive cytarabine on Days 9-11. On days
      that you are receiving the cytarabine infusions, you will also receive dexamethasone by vein
      over about 30 minutes. You will receive dexamethasone before the cytarabine infusions. Each
      study cycle is about 28 days.

      If your doctor thinks you are benefitting from taking the E7070 in combination with
      idarubicin, cytarabine, and dexamethasone, you may receive up to 2 additional cycles of the
      study drug combination.

      Study Visits:

      During Cycle 1, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be asked about medications you are taking and side effects you may have had.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn at least 1 time every week for routine tests and
           to check your liver and kidney function.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate on Day 28 (+/- 3 days) to check the status of the
           disease. You may have additional bone marrow aspirates during Cycle 2 if the doctor
           thinks it is necessary.

        -  During Cycle 1 only, you will have an ECG on Day 2 (+/- 1 day) and Day 8 (+/- 2 days).

      Treatment cycles beyond Cycle 1, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be asked about medications you are taking and side effects you may have had.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn every 2-4 weeks for routine tests.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate to check the status of the disease whenever the
           doctor feels it is necessary.

      Length of Study:

      If the doctor thinks you are benefitting with E7070 in combination with idarubicin,
      cytarabine and dexamethasone, you may receive 2 additional cycles of therapy (a total of 3
      cycles on this study.)

      You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse, you experience intolerable side
      effects, or if the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      At the end of treatment, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests within 30
      days (+/- 5 days) of your last dose of the study drug combination. You will also be asked
      about any side effects you may have had.

      Long Term Follow-up (unless you have started on alternative therapy):

      Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests every 2-3 months for up to 2 years
      unless the disease gets worse or you start on another treatment.

      This is an investigational study. E7070 is not FDA-approved or commercially available for use
      in patients with AML or MDS that has relapsed. Its use in this study is considered
      investigational. Idarubicin, cytarabine, and dexamethasone are FDA-approved and commercially
      available for use in the treatment of AML. The combination of E7070, idarubicin, cytarabine,
      and dexamethasone in this study is investigational.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  