
    
      1. Introduction

           Randomized studies provide evidence that concerning the overall survival breast
           conserving surgery (BCS) combined with postoperative radiotherapy is equally effective
           as modified mastectomy (1, 2, 3). Postoperative radiation decreases the local relapse
           rate (1, 2) highly significantly in comparison to BCS alone (3). The recent metaanalysis
           of the Early Breast Cancer Trialists Collaborative Group (EBCTCG (3)) show that the
           avoidance of 4 local relapses after 5 years can prevent one death in 15 years (4 to 1
           rule).

           Several studies in the past demonstrated that complete omission of radiotherapy failed
           in terms of local tumor control. Fyles et al. (4) showed local relapse rates of 8%
           within a low risk group of patients with tumors of pathological stage T1/T2 and >50
           years of age treated with BCS and antihormonal treatment (AHT). By adding postoperative
           whole breast radiation (WBRT) the rate of local relapse was reduced to 1% after 5 years.
           This effect was also seen in elderly patients with small tumors. Hughes et al. (5)
           observed low local relapse rates of 4% for patients treated with AHT only after BCS vs.
           1% for patients with additional WBRT after 4 years, evaluating a low-risk group of
           patients with tumors < 2 cm and > 70 years of age. Apparently, all patients benefit from
           postoperative WBRT. However, due to the fact that 90% of all local relapses after breast
           conserving therapy are localized very close to the primary tumor, it might be possible
           to treat a selected group of patients with a relatively low risk of local recurrence
           with tumor bed irradiation only. Polgar et al. (6) provided evidence of the
           non-inferiority of accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI) in comparison to WBRT
           in a small randomized trial. Very recently the TARGIT-A data (9, 10) reported a
           non-inferior efficacy of tumor bed irradiation with single dose intraoperative radiation
           (Intrabeam System, Carl Zeiss Oberkochen) compared to WBRT regarding local relapse.

           By using the Intrabeam System, the intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) can be given
           during surgery with protection of the surrounding tissue while applying a biologically
           highly effective dose to the tissue adjacent to the tumor.

           Advantages of IORT are its high precision regarding beam application, its possibility of
           protection of the skin and the prevention of tumor cell proliferation during the time
           interval between breast conserving surgery and adjuvant WBRT as well as during
           fractionated WBRT.

           By manually positioning of the applicator in the tumor bed geographic miss is excluded
           and radiation of risk structures like the heart and lung can be avoided. Therefore, it
           is possible to give a high single fraction to the target and minimize relevant side
           effects.

        2. Aim

      The objective of this single armed phase IV study is to further investigate the efficacy of a
      single intraoperative radiotherapy treatment within low risk patients (≥ 50 years, cT1 and
      small cT2 (< 3.5 cm), cN0, cM0, invasive-ductal, hormone receptor positive) which is followed
      by WBRT only when risk factors are present.

      The primary endpoint is the rate of local relapse (within 2 cm of the initial tumor);
      secondary endpoints are ipsi- or contralateral breast cancer, cancer specific and overall
      survival. Of further interest is the cosmetic outcome and Quality of Life.

      Therefore, patients ≥ 50 years with small, histologically verified and hormone receptor
      positive invasive-ductal breast cancer (clinically cT1 or small T2 ≤ 3.5 cm) without risk
      factors (multifocality/- centricity, extensive intraductal component (EIC), lymph vessel
      invasion (L1), clinically positive lymph nodes) who receive BCS will be recruited.

      After tumor resection with free margins > 1 mm the applicator will be exactly positioned in
      the tumor bed with a minimum distance to skin of 5 mm. The prescription dose will be 20 Gy to
      the surface of the applicator. The treatment times depend on the diameter of the applicator
      and can last up to 20-50 minutes. After radiation the applicator will be removed and the
      operation finished as usual. The biologic effectiveness of 20 Gy prescribed during the
      operation is equivalent to 70 Gy normo-fractionated irradiation according to radiobiological
      modelling.

      If the final histopathological report provides evidence of a different histology or risk
      factors, such as an extensive intraductal component (EIC), lymph vessel invasion (L1),
      multifocality/-centricity or resection margins <2 mm, patients will receive a postoperative
      WBRT with 46 Gy (after a delay of at least 5 weeks). Depending on the lymph node status
      postoperative WBRT will be performed with 50 Gy (pN1) or WBRT including lymphatic drainage
      with 50 Gy (≥ pN2). A re-resection has to be performed in presence of insufficient free
      margins (e.g. tumor on ink, or margin < 2mm depending on local policy) and will be followed
      by WBRT with 50 Gy omitting the boost.

      Cosmetic outcome and toxicity evaluation will be performed by chart (CTC and LENT-SOMA score)
      and standardized photo documentation.

      For Quality of Life assessment the patients will complete two standardized and validated
      questionnaires developed by the EORTC (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of
      Cancer). The questionnaires include 53 questions and take approximately 10 minutes and will
      be filled out at clinic visits.

      Therefore, a patient group including patients ≥ 50 years with a low-risk tumor profile will
      be treated in this single-arm study by intraoperative radiotherapy of the tumor bed only,
      using a well established method (Intrabeam System, Carl Zeiss Surgical, Oberkochen, Germany)
      in order to optimize radiotherapy treatment after breast conserving surgery in terms of local
      relapse, toxicity, overall survival and quality of life.
    
  