
    
      The study is performed in four regional study centers: i.e. VUmc-AMC Amsterdam, Atrium MC
      Heerlen, UMC Groningen en Radboudumc Nijmegen. Each regional study center has a participating
      neurologist and will station a research nurse - of which some part-time. VUmc-AMC is also
      national coordinating center and their research nurse is also national trial manager.

      Because the logistics are complex and the assessments are cumbersome, it is vital that
      research nurses perform these to facilitate inclusion and to assure proper follow-up
      assessments. All research nurses will be trained and examined in performing all aspects of
      the Visits, i.e. explaining the study and using the questionnaires. Every twelve months, the
      research nurses will follow additional training to keep their expertise up to date and to
      minimize intra-rater and inter-rater variability.

      In addition to the four study centers, approximately 30 hospitals are requested to
      participate as local recruitment center. Eligible patients are recruited by the treating
      neurologist in these recruitment centers during a regular follow-up appointment at the
      outpatient clinic. In addition, the treating neurologist can send a recruitment letter to a
      selected group of potentially eligible patients based on data from the patient files or a
      clinical database. The recruitment letter will give a short introduction on the topic of
      visual hallucinations and will underline the importance to participate in this study.
      Patients that are interested are encouraged to contact the research nurse for information or
      to make an appointment.

      The treating neurologist will check the inclusion and -exclusion criteria. He asks the
      patient for permission to send contact information to the research nurse. If the patient is
      eligible and agrees, the neurologist will complete the patient registration form with name,
      gender, date of birth, telephone number and in- and exclusion criteria.

      After registration, a research nurse will contact the patient by phone within 10 working
      days. She will introduce the study to the patient, inform the patient on the gross outline of
      the trial and discuss the possible benefits and disadvantages. She will answer any additional
      question about the study. If the patient agrees an appointment will be made (visit 1). All
      study visits will take place at home or in the outpatient clinic of the regional study
      center. The study medication is prescribed by the participating neurologist in one of the
      four regional study centers.

      During Visit 1 Informed Consent will be obtained. The baseline characteristics will be
      recorded, as well as medication history, year and type of first PD symptoms (e.g. tremor,
      bradykinesia) and year of PD diagnosis. Current medication is noted and the Levodopa
      Equivalent Daily Dose (LEDD) will be calculated. Visual acuity is tested with a digital
      version of the Snellen chart (iPad).

      During Visit 1 patients will undergo several assessments by the research nurse. During Visit
      1 or any other visits (2,3,4 or 5) two 6 mL EDTA blood samples for DNA analysis will be drawn
      and stored for future genetic research; including possible genetic modifiers of response to
      medication. At the end of the visit the research nurse will randomize the patient by a
      central web-based computer program. Medication is sent by mail through a central pharmacy
      during the complete study period. The treatment should start as soon as possible after
      randomization and at least within 6 weeks after the baseline assessment. The research nurse
      inquires the patient about the medication received, medication intake and side effects by
      telephone after 2,3,5,8 and 11 weeks of treatment. The interviews will be taken according to
      schedule or as close as possible. Only missing interviews after a dose escalation step will
      be considered a protocol violation.

      Four specified assessment visits will take place after Visit 1: at 6 months, 12 months, 18
      months and 24 months (respectively Visits 2, 3, 4 and 5; see table 1). The visits will be
      completed according to schedule or as close as possible, but at least within 6 weeks after
      the planned date. The long term outcome measures are unlikely to change significantly within
      this period of time. The assessments of Visit 1 are repeated by the research nurse and
      completed with a monitor for side effects, any change in (non-parkinsonian) medication and
      calculation of the LEDD. Patients are asked to bring the remaining number of capsules. These
      will be counted as a measure of compliance.

      Patients that have agreed to participate in the additional CHEVAL-in study will visit the
      outpatient clinic of VU University Medical Center to perform and EEG within approximately 4-6
      weeks after baseline assessment and before start on study medication. The EEG recording will
      be repeated after 6 and if possible 12 months. The recordings will be completed according to
      schedule or as close as possible, but at least within 6 weeks after the planned date.

      If the criteria for PD psychosis (primary outcome) or PD dementia (secondary outcome) are
      met, the study medication and the assessment scheme are altered. The treating neurologist
      reports the event to the local research coordinator in one of the four main study centers,
      using the trial mutation form. This form includes the date and the primary outcome measure;
      that is the UPDRS-1 MDS score (3 or 4 on the hallucinations item, indicating that insight is
      lost) and the reason for withdrawal of study medication (PD psychosis or PD dementia).

      If the condition of PD psychosis is reached (primary endpoint), the experimental treatment
      with rivastigmine or placebo is discontinued. Because this is a medical emergency, the
      research nurse will plan the next clinical visit as soon as possible, but not before the
      subject's condition allows participation and not later than 6 weeks from the end of
      treatment. During this clinical visit (visit '9') the research nurse will follow the same
      protocol as with the regular visits. Planned visits are cancelled after the primary endpoint
      is reached and experimental treatment is discontinued but if possible, patients are visited
      once more after 24 months. Costs will continued to be measured every 3 months until 24 months
      from the start of treatment.

      If the condition of PD dementia is reached (secondary endpoint), treatment with rivastigmine
      is advised according to current PD treatment guidelines. The patient is instructed to stop
      taking the blinded study medication and will start rivastigmine that is prescribed by the
      treating neurologist. Using the trial mutation form, the treating neurologist can motivate
      his decision to switch to open label rivastigmine. For safety, a new dose escalation phase is
      necessary.

      The consequences of any important event are discussed with the participating neurologist of
      the regional study center and if necessary with the project coordinator or project leader of
      the national coordinating center to decide if a patients needs to withdraw from the study and
      whether a final clinical visit must be completed. Both the treating neurologist of the
      recruitment center as the participating neurologist of the participating center are informed
      about this decision.

      Withdrawal of individual subjects: Subjects can leave the study at any time for any reason if
      they wish to do so without any consequences. Specific criteria for withdrawal are not
      predefined. The investigator can decide to withdraw a subject from the study if the treating
      neurologist points out urgent medical reasons, which make it necessary to withdraw the
      patient from the study. Subjects can also be withdrawn in case of protocol violations.

      The datasets from withdrawn patients will be kept in the study database to facilitate
      analysis according to the intention-to-treat principle.

      Replacement of individual subjects after withdrawal: Subjects will not be replaced. Drop out
      has been accounted for in our power calculation. Moreover the analysis will be done according
      to the intention-to-treat principle.

      Follow-up of subjects withdrawn from treatment: If a patient violates the study medication
      protocol this will be registered. All further study procedures and measurements will be
      conducted according to the study protocol.

      Randomization, blinding and treatment allocation:

      After inclusion, the patient will be randomized by the web based database. The server of the
      website will operate from the VU University Medical Center. Eligible patients will be
      randomized by a computer in a 1:1 ratio to the rivastigmine group or the placebo group in a
      double-blind design. Until the computerized randomization is fully operational, patients will
      be randomized by the research nurse or, in her absence, by T.J.M. van Mierlo or E.M.J.
      Foncke.

      Randomization will be stratified by type of hospital (University Medical Center versus
      Non-University Medical Center), age (below 65 years or 65 years and older), and disease
      duration (<10 years, >10 years) using variable permuted blocks. Code-breaking sheets for
      emergency use will be kept in a safe.

      Study personnel, research nurses, neurologists, and the patients are blinded to the treatment
      allocation at all times. All data will be entered in the central database before the
      treatment codes are broken. The randomization code can be broken in case of an emergency.
    
  