
    
      Objective. To evaluate the effect of the intake of two types of whole corn tortilla, and one
      traditional tortilla on Glycemic Index (GI) and Insulinemic Index (InIn) in adults with
      diabetes, or overweight or clinically healthy.

      Material and methods. A randomised crossover, single-blinded study design will be undertake
      in adults 20-69 years. The study will use 3-arm: 1) Adults with diabetes (n=27); b) adults
      with overweight (n=27); and c) clinically healthy adults (n=27). During a week run-in period
      subjects will record their normal habitual diet for 7d. Individuals will be request to
      maintain their normal exercise, and sleeping patterns before reporting for testing.

      Upon arrival to the laboratory, participants will be weight and body composition was
      determined. Overnight fasted (8-12 hours) participants reported to the Research Center of
      Mexican National Institute of Public Health on 4 occasions separated by at least one week.
      The glycemic and insulinemic index will be measure for each group of participants given in
      random order the following foods with a 1-week washout period in between: 1) a whole corn
      tortilla (white "criollo" corn= 5.3% fiber), 2) a whole corn tortilla (white "hybrid" corn=
      7.9%), 3) a traditional corn tortilla (3.9% fiber), and 4) white bread (reference food
      containing 2.2% of fiber). The rations shall be 50g of carbohydrates available each
      (approximately equivalent to 4 tortillas or 4 breads, respectively).

      Blood samples were collected again at 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after completion
      of the test meal. Insulin and glucose will be measure by electrochemiluminescence and the
      hexokinase method, respectively. The GI values were determined according to Food and
      Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). The area under the curve will be
      calculated as the incremental area under the blood glucose response curve for each test in
      each individual. This study and the sampling of the volunteers were performed following
      approval of the ethics Committee of Mexican National Public Health Institute
    
  