
    
      Mass media plays a significant role in public outreach and create awareness. Various mass
      media has their individual reach to the general public. In the current world of information
      technology availability of information is not an issue. There is in fact excessive
      availability of information. What makes a big difference is that RIGHT information delivery
      on RIGHT time and within RIGHT time. After WHO characterized COVID-19 infection as pandemic,
      mass media played a significant role in creating awareness regarding COVID-19 infection
      signs, symptoms, mode of transmission and its prevention. There were constant updates in
      various mass media regarding the data of newly infected cases, deaths, and recoveries.
      COVID-19 Pandemic has created fears, anxiety, and worries among the general population. There
      was information given to general public regarding treatment drugs and possibility of vaccine
      for COVID-19 infection. This created a ray of hope in many. So information in various mass
      media sources had different types of impact on general population thoughts.

      This cross sectional study is conducted with the following objectives:

        1. To understand the general populations perception regarding the sources of information
           available on COVID-19.

        2. To understand the general populations perception regarding the available information on
           COVID-19.

      This Cross sectional study utilizes an electronic google form to get responses from netizens
      of Al Qassim province of Saudi Arabia regarding the perception of COVID-19 information and
      information sources. All the questions in the survey are compulsory answerable questions. The
      settings in the google form are set so that a single respondent can limit the survey response
      to single time. The Survey Questionnaire contained following sections:

      Section I: Minimum required personal details Section II: 10 Questions regarding the source of
      COVID-19 information Section III: 6 Questions regarding perception of the COVID-19
      information

      The questionnaire also carried the following disclaimer:

      "This Survey will not Collect your Name, Email, Location, and Phone number. We pledge that
      the data obtained by this survey is for Educational purpose & scientific knowledge
      enhancement only. The data will not be transferred or shared with any other third party for
      commercial interest."

      The very first part of the Questionnaires seeks responders' consent for giving responses to
      the survey questions. participation Section II & III contained all closed ended questions.
      The Google form link is shared to the netizens of Al Qassim province across relevant Social
      media platforms.
    
  