
    
      Purpose

      This study will investigate the impact of health information on choices that parents make
      about food for their children. Participants will use a virtual reality model of a buffet to
      make food choices.

      Mothers and fathers with a biological child between the ages of 3-7 years old may be eligible
      for this study. Participants are recruited from the Washington, DC metropolitan area.

      Study participants will complete THREE sets of surveys and one task. Participants will
      complete a web-based survey before coming in for a study appointment. When participants
      arrive for their appointment, they will watch an interactive presentation on health
      information. Next, participants will interact in a virtual reality environment and will be
      asked to select virtual lunch for their child from a buffet. While in the virtual
      environment, a participant wears a head-mounted virtual reality headset that allows him/her
      to see elements of the environment. Participants will complete an additional computer-based
      survey. Finally, participants will be asked to complete an online questionnaire a week
      following their visit. The total time for the study visit is approximately 90 minutes. The
      participants children will not be asked to take part in the study.

      Detailed Description

      This study will investigate issues around the impact of health information on choices that
      parents make about food for their children. Participants will perform tasks that include
      completing computer-based surveys, watching an interactive computer-based presentation about
      health information, participating in a virtual reality model by selecting virtual lunch for
      their children from a buffet, and completing a computed-based exit survey. As part of the
      study, participants will wear a virtual reality helmet and be immersed in a buffet where they
      will select virtual lunch for their child.

      For this study, we are only recruiting men and women that have a biological child between the
      ages of 3-7 years old. You may not take part in the study if you have a history of seizures
      and/or are pregnant.
    
  