
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the efficacy of intravenous, patient-controlled, narcotic pain management
           alone to the efficacy of intermittent bolus injection of bupivacaine hydrochloride via
           an intrapleural catheter in patients who have successfully undergone video-assisted
           thoracic surgery (VATS).

      Secondary

        -  To compare the efficacy of intermittent bolus administration of bupivacaine
           hydrochloride to the efficacy of continuous bupivacaine hydrochloride administration via
           an intrapleural catheter in patients who have successfully undergone VATS.

        -  To compare visual analog scale pain scores at all measurement times.

        -  To compare patient satisfaction scores for each method of pain control.

        -  To compare rates of conversion from bolus delivery to intravenous narcotic delivery.

        -  To compare rates of conversion from continuous intrapleural infusion to bolus delivery
           or intravenous narcotic delivery alone.

        -  To compare the total amount of narcotics used between bolus intrapleural delivery and
           continuous intrapleural infusion.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (IV-PCA) fentanyl
           citrate beginning once the patient is awake and alert after surgery and continuing for
           24 hours.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive intermittent intrapleural bolus bupivacaine hydrochloride
           immediately after surgery and then at 6, 12, 18, and 24 hours after surgery and IV-PCA
           fentanyl citrate as in arm I.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive a continuous infusion of intrapleural bupivacaine
           hydrochloride beginning immediately after surgery and continuing for 24 hours and IV-PCA
           fentanyl citrate as in arm I.

      In all arms, visual analog scale measurements are taken at baseline and 6, 12, 18, and 24
      hours post-surgery. After 24 hours, a 5-point Likert scale survey is administered to assess
      overall patient satisfaction with pain control in the 24-hour postoperative period.
    
  