
    
      Aerobic exercise promotes brain health and function. Indeed, exercise has been shown to
      improve learning and memory, delay cognitive decline and protect against brain atrophy in
      healthy aging individuals. Additionally, exercise programs reduce brain injury and delay
      onset and progression of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's. However, individual
      variability in the efficacy of these programs limit their widespread application as a
      "therapeutic". Genetic variants may contribute to the large degree of individual variability
      in the effects of exercise on cognition and brain health.

      Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a neurotrophin that plays a key role in
      activity-dependent neuroplasticity. Rodent studies show that increases in BDNF mediate the
      effects of exercise on learning and memory. A single nucleotide polymorphism in the BDNF gene
      that causes a valine (Val) to methionine (Met) substitution at codon 66 reduces
      activity-dependent secretion of BDNF and is associated with altered hippocampal activation
      and poorer episodic memory. The objective of this research is to determine whether after six
      consecutive weeks of high-intensity interval training (HIIT), three times per week, BDNF
      Val66Met polymorphism impacts the effects of a further HIIT session on corticospinal
      excitability as well as intracortical and spinal circuitry. Additionally, this study aims to
      assess whether BDNF Val66Met polymorphism moderates the effects of six consecutive weeks of
      HIIT on BDNF, working memory and cardiorespiratory fitness levels. The findings will indicate
      whether the BDNF Val allele provides an advantage for achieving greater exercise-induced
      benefits and could thus help individualize exercise programs to maximize their beneficial
      effects. These data will also provide insights into the mechanisms by which aerobic exercise
      induces neuroplasticity.
    
  