
    
      This study's aim is to evaluate and compare a variety of interventions and their effect on
      the incidence of perfusion related problems in patients with breast cancer undergoing
      mastectomy and implant-based immediate breast reconstruction (IBR). The ability to identify,
      prevent and treat these perfusion related problems can help maximize aesthetic results after
      breast surgery, improve patient satisfaction with both mastectomy and breast reconstruction,
      and reduce healthcare cost associated with mastectomy and reconstruction complications.The
      study team will perform a randomized pilot study comprised of eight groups. All of these
      groups employ accepted techniques, medications and dressings and therefore are not
      experimental.

      Group 1: Breast skin after mastectomy will be clinically examined by the surgeon to determine
      if there is adequate blood flow to the skin to allow safe coverage of the breast implant. No
      dye study, ointment, or vacuum dressing will be applied to the breast after implant
      placement.

      Group 2 - Breast skin after mastectomy will be clinically examined by the surgeon, and
      nitroglycerin (NTG) cream will be applied to the breast skin after implant placement. This
      cream does not have systemic effects but may improve blood flow to the remnant breast skin
      after mastectomy.

      Group 3 - Breast skin after mastectomy will be clinically examined by the surgeon, and an
      incisional vacuum-assisted dressing (iVAC) will be placed over the breast incisions after
      implant placement, which may improve blood flow to the skin and help wound healing.

      Group 4 - Breast skin after mastectomy will be clinically examined by the surgeon, and both
      NTG cream will be applied to the breast skin and an iVAC will be placed over the incisions
      after implant placement.

      Group 5 - Blood flow to breast skin after mastectomy will be examined using a fluorescent dye
      study called fluorescent angiography (FA) to determine if there is adequate blood flow to the
      skin to allow safe coverage of the breast implant. No further intervention will be used after
      implant placement.

      Group 6 - Blood flow to breast skin breast skin will be examined using FA, and NTG cream will
      be applied to the skin after the implant is placed.

      Group 7 - Blood flow to breast skin breast skin will be examined using FA, and an iVAC will
      be placed over breast skin incisions after the implant is placed.

      Group 8 - Blood flow to breast skin breast skin will be examined using FA, and both NTG cream
      and iVAC will be used as interventions after the implant is placed.

      The dosage of indocyanine-green (IC-green) to be used for assessment of mastectomy flaps will
      be in 10 mg boluses, not to exceed 5 mg/kg.

      Nitro-Bid® (nitroglycerin ointment, 2%) at a dose of 45 mg (equal to 7.5 cm on the measuring
      strip provided with packaging) will be used. The paste will be applied to remnant breast skin
      after skin closure and surgical dressings placed over top.

      Incisional negative pressure wound therapy will consist of a standard sponge dressing with
      adhesive drape, either Ioban® 2 (3M ™) or KCI-V.A.C.® Drape (KCI®), to continuous suction at
      125 mm Hg while the patient is in hospital and not to exceed 4 days.

      A physician will see the subjects on a regular weekly basis for up to 30 days once the
      procedure has been completed. These clinical visits are standard of care and the subject's
      health and well-being will be monitored rigorously during these visits. If during any of
      these visits, the physician deems a therapy necessary to prevent impairment/damage and
      improve well-being, the subject will be treated appropriately.
    
  