
    
      The DELIS-3 study aims to compare three different approaches to detection of ICU (intensive
      care unit) delirium in critically ill patients. The CAM-ICU (Confusion Assessment Method for
      the ICU) and the ICDSC (Intensive Care Delirium Screening Checklist) have both been developed
      in the early 1990. The CAM-ICU is either positive or negative, whereas the ICDSC is a score
      between 0-8. A score above 3 is delirium positive. Neither scale has been validated as
      severity scales. The novel CAM-ICU-7 is developed from the original CAM-ICU and has been
      validated as a severity scale.

      Detection of delirium in critically ill patients is highly necessary as delirium can be very
      painful to the patient. Moreover, certain subtypes of delirium is associated with increased
      mortality and poorer cognitive outcome when patients are followed up on long term.

      Therefore, delirium screening of all patients is standard care in most intensive care units.

      However, there is also a need to assess severity of delirium. The recently published
      CAM-ICU-7 has now been translated to Danish and this study will explore its performance
      compared to the CAM-ICU and the ICDSC.

      In 17 Danish ICU's 10 nurses will be trained in using all three instruments. Each nurse will
      subsequently screen 10 patients each with all three instruments as part of their normal
      practice. The sequence of the instruments will be randomized to avoid that one instrument is
      favored by always being used first, second or last.

      For each patient the following data will be collected: sex, age, reason for hospitalization
      (medical, neurological, surgical/ acute, planned), ventilator treatment, ability to
      verbalize, RASS score (sedation and agitation score) severity of disease (SMS score) and time
      of admission.

      After all screenings has been collected, nurses will fill in a questionnaire on their
      perceptions of each scales' ability to reliably detect delirium, userfriendliness and how
      time consuming each scale were to use.
    
  