
    
      In chronic heart failure (CHF) patients sleep disordered breathing mainly comprises two
      different entities: obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and central sleep apnea with Cheyne-Stokes
      respiration (CSA). Being a rare disease in the general population, CSA is found with a
      prevalence of up to 40% in CHF patients.1 This rise in prevalence is instigated by
      pathophysiological overlapses. CSA is precipitated by hyperventilation and a highly sensitive
      hypocapnea-induced apneic threshold, whereby apnea is then initiated by small transient
      reductions in partial pressure of carbon dioxide (pCO2). Underlying mechanisms are not fully
      understood, yet. Despite neurohumoral derangement such as altered chemoreflex cascades
      (enhanced "loop gain" and "controller gain") and circulatory delay, pulmonary congestion is
      thought to play a role in the evolution of CSA. Caused by reduced cardiac output and/or
      impaired left ventricular filling pattern, a rise in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure
      (PCWP) with resulting interstitial pulmonary edema is closely correlated to the occurrence of
      CSA. Furthermore, acute increase in pulmonary congestion by overnight rostral fluid
      displacement to the lungs was found to lower sleep pCO2 and predisposed to CSA. Furthermore,
      decreased blood oxygen tension stimulates the discharge of peripheral chemoreceptors and
      gives rise to hyperventilation pattern of CSA. Conversely, hyperventilation increases the
      propensity for central apneas by reducing the CO2-reserve. Underlining the importance of
      hypoxemic chemoreceptor stimulation in the development of CSA, previous studies exemplified
      this as a pathophysiological key element in patient with pulmonary artery hypertension, where
      hypocapnia, periodic breathing and CSA is highly prevalent despite normal capillary wedge
      pressure values. Also in heart failure patients this seems to be important: several
      interventional studies showed an at least partial suppression of CSR using oxygen therapy.

      High flow therapy is a technique that provides a range of flows of heated, humidified air to
      patients requiring respiratory support, delivered through nasal cannula range The high flow
      ventilation therapy with an air/oxygen mixture at a rate of 20-50 L/min via a nasal cannula
      is able to provide adequate oxygen flow rates to completely avoid hypoxemias. An increase in
      oxygen saturation is associated with a reduced chemosensitivity of the glomus caroticum. This
      may further help to improve Cheyne-Stokes respiration severity. Previous studies could reach
      a reduction of 50% of the AHI with the use of 2 L/min of oxygen.

      At the same time the high flow ventilation therapy can attenuate inspiratory resistance by
      potentially delivering positive distending pressure for lung recruitment without providing
      excessive intrathoracic pressure (only 3-6 cm H2O, according to manufacturer).

      But on the other hand the hyperoxemic state was also found to have some unfavorable
      consequences such as an increase in infarct size after myocardial infarction and should
      therefore be avoided.

      The FLOAT-CS study is a proof-of-concept study that investigates nocturnal high flow
      ventilation therapy with oxygen (oxygen-HFT) as a novel therapeutic approach for HFrEF
      patients with CSA by attenuation of the hypoxemic burden.

      The high flow ventilation therapy via a nasal cannula with 20-50 L/min of a mixture of
      ambient air and oxygen is titrated to achieve a target oxygen flow that leads to normoxemia
      defined as a transcutaneous oxygen saturation (SpO2) between 91% and 98%. This is expected to
      completely avoid hypoxemias without providing excessive intrathoracic pressure. For the
      greatest possible comfort of the patients a humidifier is used and the mixture of air and
      oxygen is warmed up to 37°C.

      In addition, the FLOAT-CS study investigates the hemodynamic effects of oxygen-HFT versus
      placebo.

      Thus the patients participating in the study are randomized in a 1:1 manner to therapy with
      oxygen-HFT either during their first or their second study night, respectively. During the
      other night they are treated with placebo.

      Since the main focus of this investigation is treatment of CSA patients will undergo
      fully-attended, in-hospital polysomnography to assess parameters related to sleep and
      cardiorespiratory events during sleep All subjects receive an arterial access of the Arteria
      radialis that remains throughout their study participation. This allows for a continuous
      invasive hemodynamic monitoring and frequent arterial blood gas analysis thus ensuring a
      maximum of patient safety as well as precise and detailed records.
    
  