
    
      It is estimated that at the present time about 50% of dependence in the elderly is related to
      dementias. Alzheimer's disease is the most common of these, and there are 100 000 new cases
      in France every year (Girard Report). Very often, once the diagnosis has been established
      these persons do not receive regular, codified follow-up, whereas Alzheimer's disease is a
      chronic disease which progresses over several years and leads to a variety of complications
      which must be identified and managed.

      The main objective of this work is to assess the feasibility and efficacy of a specific Care
      and Assistance Plan for Alzheimer's disease (PLASA). The main outcome measure selected is
      incapacity in carrying out the basic activities of daily living, evaluated by the ADCS-ADL
      scale .

      The PLASA was developed by a working group appointed by the Direction Générale de la Santé as
      part of the government programme of action on Alzheimer's disease (October 2001, Ministère de
      l'Emploi et de la Solidarité).

      Methods The multicentre prospective study will be randomised within each centre. Study
      population: 1200 patients will be recruited in 20 French university hospitals and 40 general
      hospitals.

      Inclusion criteria: Patients presenting mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease diagnosed by the
      NINCDS-ADRDA criteria (MMSE between 12 and 26), living at home and with an identified
      principal caregiver.

      Randomisation and patient follow-up: After randomisation within each centre (specialised
      department of the university or general hospital), half of the patients will be managed
      according to the PLASA (group A). The other patients will receive the usual management of the
      centres (group B).

      The PLASA includes detailed evaluation of the patient's cognitive and non-cognitive function,
      regular and standardised follow-up, management of complications and the setting up of
      assistance and support services according to common guidelines. As part of the PLASA,
      patients will be systematically seen in consultation every six months.

      Data collection: In group A, data will be collected during six-monthly consultations for the
      duration of the study (T0, T6, T12, T18, T24). In group B, data will be collected during
      consultations at T0, T12 and T24. The coordinating centre (Toulouse) will contact every 6
      months (T6, T12, T18, T24), by post or by telephone, the principal caregiver for collection
      of intermediate data in both groups. These data include evaluation of activities of daily
      living (ADCS-ADL), utilization of support and care services (RUD ), as well as subjective
      assessment of disease severity (ADCS-CGIC ). The patient's quality of life will also be
      evaluated in both groups at T0, T12 and T24.

      Statistical analysis: 1200 subjects are needed to reveal a 30% decrease in incapacities in
      activities of daily living in the group of patients followed according to the PLASA.

      Bivariate analysis will be carried out using the standard tests for this type of study
      (chi-squared test and Student's t test). The efficacy of the PLASA will be assessed by
      multivariate analysis, taking potential confounders into account.

      Expected results: This project should contribute to better long-term management of patients
      with Alzheimer's disease and should reduce the burden on families.
    
  