
    
      Acute pancreatitis (AP) represents a significant burden for patients, their caregivers, and
      our healthcare delivery systems. The most common discharge gastrointestinal diagnosis is AP
      and more than two billion dollars is spent annually for management thereof. Costs are
      certainly even higher as the incidence of acute pancreatitis has increased. Admit frequency
      for AP doubled in 15 years before 2002 such that more than 200,000 admissions were attributed
      to AP, and the trend toward increased admissions for AP has continued. Overall still about
      20% of AP cases are severe and the risk for fatality attributed to severe acute pancreatitis
      is significant (> 25%).(5, 6) Classification of AP severity has been recently defined into
      three groups (mild, moderately severe, and severe). These categories have been validated in
      that standard clinical outcomes correlate well with the severity of AP.

      The proposed study will follow the cohort study design where baseline patient data and
      clinical outcomes data will be collected retrospectively. All patients diagnosed with AP
      between January 2015 and October 2018, independent of their initial suspected severity, were
      managed according to a pre-printed order set that adheres to recently published guidelines.
      (9) Retrospective data will be collected on patients diagnosed with acute pancreatitis based
      on two groups (those treated between August 2011 and December 2014 before guidelines were
      implemented and those treated between January 2015 and October 2018). Initial clinical
      criteria will be evaluated for the predictive value of acute pancreatitis severity in both
      groups.

      All patients diagnosed with acute pancreatitis since August 2011 will be included in the
      study for the retrospective analysis of baseline and clinical outcomes data and subsequently
      divided into two groups (i.e. those treated between August 2011 and December 2014 before
      guidelines were implemented and those treated between January 2015 and October 2018).
    
  