
    
      The investigators are proposing a study that will focus on the implementation of a novel
      PP-based health behavior intervention that is adapted for patients with HF. The MGH inpatient
      units, MGH Heart Center, and MGH primary care clinic outpatients will serve as the source of
      participants for the study, with patients who have a diagnosis of HF serving as potential
      participants. The investigators will enroll 60 HF patients, who will take part in a 12-week
      PP-based health behavior intervention.

      In this project, the investigators hope to do the following:

        1. Test a 12-week, telephone-delivered health behavior intervention utilizing PP exercises
           and systematic goal-setting in a three-arm, randomized, controlled pilot trial in
           patients with mild to moderate HF (N=60).

        2. Determine whether this optimized intervention is feasible in a small cohort of HF
           patients.

        3. Explore potential benefits of the intervention on outcomes of interest (e.g.,
           psychological health, functioning, and health behavior adherence) compared to a
           motivational interviewing- (MI) based education condition and treatment as usual (TAU).

      Baseline information about enrolled participants will be obtained from the patients, care
      providers, and the electronic medical record as required for characterization of our
      population. This information will include data regarding medical history (history of prior
      acute coronary syndrome, coronary artery disease, coronary artery bypass graft, congestive
      HF, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, and current smoking), current medical
      variables (renal function, left ventricular ejection fraction, NYHA class), medications, and
      sociodemographic data (age, gender, race/ethnicity, living alone).

      Participants will undergo two in person visits during which they will meet with study staff
      in person (or if preferred over the phone). In their first visit, they will answer
      questionnaires related to psychological and physical health and functioning and will be asked
      to wear an accelerometer for one week to measure their baseline physical activity. At their
      second in-person visit, they will be randomized to receive (1) the PP-based health behavior
      intervention, (2) the MI-based educational condition, or (3) TAU. Participants in the TAU
      group will not receive any additional intervention but will complete follow-up phone calls at
      12 and 24 weeks.

      Following randomization, participants in the two treatment groups will be provided a
      treatment manual corresponding with their treatment condition with weekly exercises, along
      with a copy of the Learning to Live with Heart Failure guide. The appropriate intervention
      will be introduced, and the first exercise will be assigned. Finally, participants in both
      treatment groups will receive a personal step counter to use over the course of the study.

      Following the second in-person visit, participants in the PP-based intervention and MI-based
      control condition groups will complete twelve 30- to 45-minute weekly phone sessions with a
      study trainer. The phone sessions primarily will include a review of the prior week's session
      content and a discussion of the rationale and assignment of the next week's
      exercise/assignment.

      At Weeks 12 and 24, a member of the study staff will call participants to repeat the
      self-report questionnaires that were administered at baseline. At these two time points,
      participants also will be asked to wear an accelerometer for an additional 7 days to measure
      physical activity.
    
  