
    
      1. Primary objective:

           The primary objective is the quantitative assessment of fracture healing (2-segment
           proximal humerus frafcture) in the treatment (daily teriapratide 20µg subcitaneous
           injection for 12 weeks) and in the placebo group (daily placebo subcutaneous injection
           for 12 weeks) based on computed tomography data (QCT; baseline and after 12 weeks) and
           computational analysis of the three simensional bone structure in the fracture zone.
           Bone structure will be assessed by means of quantized bone texture characteristics
           (callus formation, improvement of trabecualar and cortical bone structure) in the
           vicinity of the fracture.

        2. Secondary objectives:

      2.1.Detection and quantification of changes in bone mineralization at the fracture site
      between a baseline QCT scan and a follow-up QCT scan (planned interval: 12 weeks) using 3-D
      texture-based cluster analysis between the two groups.

      2.2 Evaluation of bone strength variation in the proximal humerus and the measurement of
      biomechanical properties (stiffness, strength, damage) based on the Finite Element (FE)
      technique between the two groups.

      2.3.Baseline characterization of osteoporotic study population: age, sex, concomitant
      diseases, serum markers of bone formation and bone resorption, serum colecalciferol levels.

      2.4.Evaluation of fasting bone formation and resorption markers at baseline and after 3
      months follow up between the TPDT and the placebo group.

      2.5.Assessment of quality of life improvement for TPTD and placebo groups with EQ-5D
      questionnaire (measurement every 4 weeks).

      2.6.Assessment of pain reduction in TPTD and placebo groups by visual analog scale (VAS)
      during 12 weeks (measurement every 4 weeks).

      2.7.Assessment of functional testing after 3 and 6 months (functional testing score (ASES
      Score: "American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeon Score")

      2.8.Dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) bone mineral density (BMD) measurements of lumbar
      spine and early changes of geometrical hip parameters (cross sectional area - CSA, cross
      sectional moment of inertia - CSMI), hip BMD(femoral neck and total hip area) and total body
      (lean mass, fat mass, total body BMD)

      2.9. Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability
    
  