
    
      Background

      Urgency, frequency and incomplete emptying are the key symptoms of lower urinary tract (LUT)
      dysfunction, including bladder pain syndrome/interstitial cystitis (BPS), and overactive
      bladder syndrome (OAB). Detrusor overactivity, which causes the symptoms of overactive
      bladder syndrome, is commonly observed in patients with bladder outlet obstruction. LUT
      dysfunction is associated with cellular stress, characterised by changes in cell signalling
      and the consequent alterations of gene expression leading to organ remodelling. Previously
      the investigators showed that NK1R-mediated signalling was down-regulated in BPS patients,
      and implicated microRNAs (miRNAs) in the regulation of NK1R expression and function.

      MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are quickly gaining recognition for their role in many biological
      processes and disease states. MiRNAs are endogenous non-coding single-stranded RNAs which
      regulate gene expression by post-transcriptional mechanisms. The microRNAs regulate thousands
      of human gene products, complicating the efforts to predict and functionally validate their
      targets. Since miRNAs are important for many basic biological processes, any deregulation in
      their biogenesis or function may develop into a medical condition. Here the investigators
      propose to investigate the role of miRNAs in gene regulation during LUT disorders.

      Chronic BPS is a clinical syndrome characterised by urgency/frequency, pelvic pain and
      inflammation in the absence of a detectable agent. A multitude of pathogenetic mechanisms
      have been postulated, but an inflammatory component is commonly thought to be involved.
      Epithelial damage has often been invoked: the mucinous layer of the healthy bladder is often
      compromised in patients with BPS. An initiating event (toxin) may cause increased urothelial
      permeability, which in turn leads to nerve sensitisation. The resulting cell injury
      propagates, leading to a self-perpetuating inflammatory reaction.

      Urgency is a pivotal symptom of the lower urinary tract, and also one of the most bothersome
      symptoms in men suffering from benign prostatic hyperplasia and the resulting bladder outlet
      obstruction (BOO). In women OAB is a dynamic disorder, and an estimated 34% of women above 40
      experience significant urinary storage symptoms. In contrast to BPS, patients with
      overactivity do not report bladder pain, although the perception of urgency and the arising
      discomfort vary between individuals. In order to facilitate diagnosis of BPS and its
      distinction from DO, and offer specific treatment regimens for each disorder, it is important
      to unravel the mechanisms behind the pathophysiology of these diseases.

      The investigators' previous results suggest that the diseased state of the human urinary
      bladder is concomitant with structural and functional changes in smooth muscle and
      urothelium. In obstructed bladders, the organ's adaptive response is often accompanied by
      replacement of smooth muscle contractile proteins with their non-muscle or embryonic
      isoforms. On the other hand, a continuous exposure to neurotransmitters and low pH during
      inflammation in BPS induces a significant down-regulation of the tachykinin receptors and
      tight junction proteins, which might be mediated by the up-regulated miRNAs.

      The investigators propose to establish the individual gene expression patterns characteristic
      for BPS and overactive as well as acontractile bladders and determine the common mechanisms
      of the cellular stress responses. They will study the role of miRNAs in the regulation of
      receptor-mediated signalling, contractility and epithelial integrity in these LUT
      dysfunctions, and delineate the miRNA species, characteristic of each symptomatic complex.
      Based on this information, they will identify and functionally validate gene targets of
      miRNAs in urinary bladders in order to foster the development of customised therapies. By
      comparing the expression of regulatory miRNAs in overactive and acontractile bladders the
      investigators will delineate the factors influencing the switch between the two programmes.
      Using validated miRNA/mRNA target pairs in cell based models of urothelium and bladder smooth
      muscle, they will investigate how the persistent stress-induced signalling during disease
      affects the miRNA expression and function of their target proteins. The findings will extend
      the knowledge of the molecular mechanisms of LUT dysfunction and have implications for
      diagnosis and treatment of these disorders.

      Patient selection and sample processing:

      Four study groups will be defined according to the international guidelines and ICS
      terminology: controls, BPS, overactive and acontractile. Twenty clinically stable patients
      pro study group will be recruited based on the clinical findings (international prostate
      symptom score (IPSS), bladder diary over 48 h, O'Leary-Sant questionnaire and visual analogue
      scale for pain). Biopsies will be obtained in either general or spinal anesthesia
      transurethrally from the bladder dome with a biopsy tong. Biopsies will then be snap frozen
      in liquid nitrogen or submerged in RNAlater (Qiagen). All patients will be undergoing surgery
      independent of this study. Tissue from the bladder dome for primary cell cultures will be
      obtained from patients undergoing cystectomy or bladder augmentation for bladder dysfunction
      as a last therapeutic option after other less invasive therapeutic options have failed.
      Control tissue will be obtained from bladder cancer patients, who have no lower urinary tract
      symptoms aside from hematuria. RNA will be extracted, and the expression levels of selected
      genes analyzed using Taqman realtime PCR and gene expression arrays (Applied Biosystems).
      Calcium imaging will be used to monitor the receptor activation and protein levels analysed
      by SDS-PAGE and Western Blotting. Receptor tissue distribution will be analysed by
      immunocytochemistry.

      Objective

      To identify and functionally validate gene targets of miRNAs in urinary bladder in order to
      foster the development of customised therapies. By comparing the expression of regulatory
      miRNAs in overactive and acontractile bladders the investigators will delineate the factors
      influencing the switch between the two programmes. Using validated miRNA/mRNA target pairs in
      cell based models of urothelium and bladder smooth muscle, they will investigate how the
      persistent stress-induced signalling during disease affects the miRNA expression and function
      of their target proteins. The findings will extend the knowledge of the molecular mechanisms
      of LUT dysfunction and have implications for diagnosis and treatment of these disorders.

      Methods

      RNA will be extracted, and the expression levels of selected genes analyzed using Taqman
      realtime PCR and gene expression arrays (Applied Biosystems). Calcium imaging will be used to
      monitor the receptor activation and protein levels analysed by SDS-PAGE and Western Blotting.
      Receptor tissue distribution will be analysed by immunocytochemistry.
    
  