
    
      Background:

      NSC630176 is a depsipeptide fermentation product from Chromobacterium violaceum with potent
      cytotoxic activity against human tumor cell lines and in vivo efficacy against both human
      tumor xenografts and murine tumors (1-3).

      NSC 630176, herein referred to as depsipeptide, shows a lack of cross resistance with several
      commonly used cytotoxic agents such as vincristine, 5-fluorouracil, mitomycin C and
      cyclophosphamide (2). However, it has been defined as a P-glycoprotein (Pgp) substrate by
      COMPARE analysis of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) drug screen cytotoxicity profile (4).

      Depsipeptide is a member of a novel class of antineoplastic agents, the histone deacetylase
      inhibitors.

      In the phase I trial conducted at the NCI, responses were observed at the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) in patients with cutaneous and peripheral T-cell lymphoma.

      Objectives:

      In patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, the primary end points to be examined are overall
      response rate, complete response rate and duration of response.

      In patients with relapsed peripheral T-cell lymphoma, the endpoints to be examined are
      overall response rate and complete response rate.

      To evaluate the tolerability of depsipeptide with extended cycles of therapy.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides or Sezary syndrome) or other
      peripheral T-cell lymphomas are eligible.

      Design:

      Depsipeptide will be administered at 14 mg/m^2, over 4 hours on days 1, 8 and 15.

      This trial will accrue in six cohorts; Arm 1, patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma who
      have had less than or equal to two prior cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens; Arm 2, patients
      with peripheral T-cell lymphoma who have had less than or equal to two prior cytotoxic
      chemotherapy regimens; Arm 3, patients with cutaneous and peripheral T-cell lymphoma who have
      had more than two prior cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens; Arm 4, patients with other mature
      T-cell lymphomas; Arm 5, a replicate arm of arm 1; Arm 6, patients with peripheral T-cell
      lymphoma who have had more than two prior cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens; Arm 7, patients
      with cutaneous T cell lymphoma who have received vorinostat.

      Dose may be adjusted based on toxicities.
    
  