
    
      Gout is the most prevalent inflammatory arthritis. It is largely managed in primary care but
      treatment is often suboptimal. Acute gout causes attacks of excruciating joint pain requiring
      rapid treatment. In primary care, treatment is most frequently with non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) which are effective but have frequent gastrointestinal,
      cardiovascular and renal side-effects, particularly in the elderly. Oral colchicine has been
      used to treat acute gout for many years although high-doses can cause intolerable
      gastrointestinal side-effects. Low-dose colchicine is thought to be as effective and
      better-tolerated and is now recommended by the British National Formulary. However, there has
      been no direct comparison of NSAID and low-dose colchicine for acute gout.

      This pragmatic randomised trial will compare the effectiveness of low-dose colchicine (500
      mcg three times every eight hours) and naproxen (750 mg immediately followed by 250 mg every
      eight hours) for reducing pain in adults aged 18 years and over consulting their GP with
      acute gout, recruited from up to 100 general practices. People experiencing their first
      attack of gout or a recurrent attack will be eligible to participate. However, all patients
      registered with each participating practice who have consulted with gout in the preceding two
      years will be mailed a letter of invitation and Participant Information Sheet informing them
      that the trial is taking place and encouraging them to consult their GP if they experience an
      attack of acute gout. Eligibility assessment, informed consent, randomisation, baseline data
      collection and prescription will be performed when the patient consults in primary care with
      acute gout. Outcome measures will be collected via self-complete questionnaires at days 1-7
      (daily diary), and 4 weeks. The primary outcome measure will be change in worst pain
      intensity in the previous 24 hours measured daily over days 0-7. Secondary outcome measures
      include side-effects, time to treatment response, patient global assessment of response to
      treatment, adherence to treatment, use of other medications for pain relief, and cost. A
      sample size of 200 patients per treatment arm provides 90% power to detect a minimum
      clinically important treatment effect of a small standardised effect size of 0.3 between the
      treatment groups.
    
  