
    
      Central alexia is a common acquired reading disorder usually caused by stroke (Leff &
      Behrmann, 2008). Patients also have generalized language impairments (aphasia),
      distinguishing it from other acquired reading disorders such as pure alexia, where the
      reading deficit occurs in isolation. Aphasia is the second most common severe impairment
      caused by stroke (limb weakness is the first) and reading problems (central alexia) are often
      associated with it. An analysis of our local database (from which we will be recruiting
      patients) shows that of the 212 patients with aphasia 14 (66.5%) have central alexia. The
      severity of central alexia varies across patients but even mild central alexia has a strong
      detrimental impact on quality of life, preventing patients from returning to work,
      communicating via email, text or post, or simply reading for pleasure.

      Currently, there is no standard treatment for central alexia. Despite its prevalence, few
      patients receive sufficient reading therapy through the NHS. Only a few computer-based
      therapies have been tested at the group level (Katz & Wertz, 1997; Cherney, 2010) and only
      one, a beta version of Oral Reading for Language in Aphasia (by Cherney), is currently
      available commercially for patients to use. We aim to test the efficacy of 'iReadMore',
      software designed to improve word reading speed for use in this patient group.

      iReadMore is a cross-modal reading training method that was developed as a word reading
      therapy for patients with pure alexia in a previous study (Woodhead et al, 2013). iReadMore
      consists of audio-visual pairings of words. It was designed to strengthen orthographic
      processing of written words by boot-strapping them to auditory percepts and associated
      higher-order representations (lexical/semantic). Use of the 'iReadMore' software led to a
      significant improvement in word reading speed for trained words and significantly decreased
      the word length effect that is characteristic of pure alexia (Woodhead et al, 2013).

      The mechanisms underlying the behavioural improvements following iReadMore training were
      investigated using magnetoencephalography (MEG), an imaging modality optimized to test
      connectivity-based hypotheses in the hundred millisecond temporal range. Dynamic Causal
      Modelling (DCM) analyses were used to test training-related changes in connectivity within
      the reading network comprising. Training strengthened connectivity in the left hemisphere,
      most notably feedback from left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) to the visual cortex, a
      connection which we have shown to be involved early on (within 200ms) when healthy controls
      read (Woodhead et al, 2012). This led to the hypothesis that feedback from the left IFG
      drives reading recovery, and that tDCS stimulation of this region, with its connections to
      both ventral and dorsal temporal cortex, will enhance behavioural training improvements in
      patients with central alexia.

      Although this previous research has focused on pure alexia, a recent pilot study has provided
      promising evidence that iReadMore may also be beneficial for patients with central alexia.
      The results demonstrated that iReadMore training and tDCS produced a large, statistically
      significant improvement of around 600ms per word, a 28% reduction from baseline levels. This
      effect was observed for both trained and untrained items. Training continued for a further
      two weeks with sham tDCS with no further significant improvement. A planned fourth tDCS
      time-point was lost due to patient illness. Although not statistically significant, we
      observed a trend with performance on untrained items appearing to deteriorate over time. This
      is in accord with evidence that tDCS may well have a role in consolidation of practice rather
      than a simple effect on performance alone (Reis et al, 2009).

      Summary:

      Pilot data has demonstrated that cross-modal iReadMore training is effective in patients with
      pure alexia; and that its effects are supported by feedback from the left IFG. This work led
      to the prediction that iReadMore may also be effective in treating the more prevalent and
      understudied condition of central alexia, and that targeted stimulation of the left IFG with
      tDCS may enhance the training efficacy. This prediction has already been supported by a
      preliminary case study, and the present study will expand this further into a group study
      looking at the effects and mechanisms of rehabilitation of central alexia.
    
  