
    
      METHODS/PROCEDURES A randomized controlled multi-center clinical study is designed to
      determine whether a difference exists between the outcome of treatment when Astra tech
      implants are placed according to a six or a four implants protocol. The investigation will be
      performed in four centers: three in Italy affiliated to Institute Franci and one affiliated
      to the Department of Prosthodontics, Faculty of Odontology, Malmö University. In each center
      the clinician and the examiner will be the same person. The study protocol will be approved
      by the Regional Human Review Board of Padova General Hospital.

      An investigators' meeting will be arranged prior to the starting with the patients'
      recruitment. Following a screening examination, subjects who will meet the inclusion
      criteria, will sign the Informed Consent and will be enrolled in the study. The period of
      patient enrollment will begin on January 1 2013 and ends December 31 2013.

      The patients will be randomized with a method based on the use of sealed opaque envelopes.
      The cases will be assigned to two different treatment groups:

      Group A- four implants (Test) Group B- six implants (Control)

      Pre-treatment Patient data, medical history, clinical and radiographic examination will be
      recorded for each patient. Clinical photographs will be taken in frontal, occlusal and
      lateral projections.

      Periodontal, endodontic and open caries lesions will be treated prior to implant
      installation. All patients will receive careful oral hygiene instructions and training in
      self-performed

      plaque control measure. CT scan computed exams will be carried out. Plaster models and
      diagnostic wax-up will be carried out.

      First Surgical Phase (Implant Installation) The patient will receive antibiotic prophylaxis
      (Amoxicillin 1gr) one hour prior to surgery and after the completion of implant installation
      until suture removal with 1gr three times a day. (If the patient is allergic to amoxicillin
      the examiner prescribes antibiotics at his own discretion at the same posology).

      The surgical treatment will be performed under local anesthesia. In case of remaining teeth,
      they will be extracted with conventional technique before implants' placement. (13-14)
      Implants will be placed according to the guidelines described in the Astra Tech® manual
      "Surgical procedures", using a two-stage protocol.

      Implant spinning during the positioning of the cover screw will be registered as positive, if
      present, or negative.

      The operation will be finalized by a careful adaption of the flaps by means of an accurate
      suture in order to obtain a full periosteal coverage.

      Intraoral clinical photographs before, during and after surgery will be taken.

      Post-operative care The patients will be instructed to rinse with chlorhexidine 0.12%
      mouthrinse and will be told to rinse with the antiseptic solution three times a day for 2
      weeks. The patients will be advised to take NSAIDs for pain relief at their own discretion.

      Liquid and semisolid food will be prescribed for the first post-operative week, after which
      the sutures will be removed.

      Two weeks after the operation the denture will be properly relined until the second stage
      surgery.

      Patients will be controlled at third and sixth weeks.

      Second surgical phase and Prosthetic procedures After eight weeks (+ 2) of healing in both
      groups (A and B) Uni Abutment 45° connection procedure will be performed. Impression with a
      customized spoon and Impregum material will be taken and the prosthetic procedure will be
      performed according to the Atlantis-Isus recommendations.

      After 6 weeks (+ 2) from Uni Abutment connection the definitive full-arch fixed dental
      prostheses screw retained will be applied. The prosthesis will be made to accomplish the
      normal hygienic procedures. All prosthetic procedures will be made in accordance to the Astra
      Tech procedures & products manuals.

      The length of bridge cantilevers will be duly calculated to minimize implant overloading
      according to the Atlantis-Isus recommendations (15)

      Post-prosthetic measurements Clinical measurements Clinical examinations will be performed
      immediately following the installation of the definitive prosthesis (Baseline-Loading) and
      after 1, 3, and 5 years. In particular, plaque and soft-tissue inflammation will be
      registered. Clinical photographs will be taken at each interval point.

      Plaque: the presence of plaque will be scored at each implant site as well as at level of the
      remaining teeth on four surfaces (buccal, lingual/palatal, mesial, distal). The mean
      percentage of plaque harboring surfaces will be calculated using the case as the unit.

      Soft-tissue inflammation: the presence of soft-tissue inflammation (bleeding on probing) will
      be assessed on buccal, lingual/palatal, mesial, distal aspects of each implant. The mean
      percentage of inflamed sites will be calculated using the case as the unit.

      Radiographic measurements Peri-apical radiographs will be taken at prosthesis insertion
      (Baseline) and after 1, 3, and 5 years.

      The radiographs will be taken with an X-ray apparatus supplied with a long cone by the
      examiner each visiting time. Rinn centrators will be used to ensure reproducibility in the
      measurement of marginal bone level change.

      The radiographic images will be analysed at the Department of Radiology of Sahlgrenska
      Academy, Gothenburg University by experienced radiologists who will be otherwise not involved
      in the study.
    
  