
    
      Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has become the modality of choice for imaging the
      gastrointestinal wall and surrounding structures. EUS is not only used for diagnostic
      purposes but is also useful in tissue acquisition by fine needle aspiration (FNA) thus
      helping in diagnosis and treatment of various lesions. EUS-FNA is being routinely used to
      sample various cystic and solid lesion involving the pancreas, liver, gastric wall, adrenal
      glands, kidney as well as lymph nodes in areas adjacent to the gastrointestinal tract.

      EUS-FNA is performed by passing a needle through a working channel located within the
      echoendoscope. The needle passes out of the endoscope in the same plane as the ultrasound
      sensor, allowing the operator to visualize the path of the needle. This allows directed
      needle puncture of the lesion and avoidance of other structures such as blood vessels. After
      the needle is passed into the lesion of interest, varying degrees of suction is applied to
      obtain an aspirate. The needle is withdrawn from the scope channel and aspirate is pushed out
      of the needle either with a stylet or by using a syringe to pump air to flush out the
      aspirate for further cyto-pathological evaluation. The cells obtained at needle aspiration
      can help in differentiating benign from malignant, and also tell the origin of the tumor if
      malignant.

      One of the advantages of EUS-FNA is that the sample can be quickly stained and processed in
      the procedure room and a diagnosis can be given to the endosonographer during the procedure.
      The cyto pathologist if unable to provide an accurate diagnosis on the site is at least able
      to assess the adequacy of cellularity. This optimal and in some centers 5-6 needle passes are
      routinely made and the cells sent to the cytopathological laboratory for further examination,
      preparation of cell block etc.,. The ability to make an accurate diagnosis, , is dependent on
      the quality of the sample obtained. Not all the centers have the capability of having an on
      site cytopathologist to assess the cellularity and or make a diagnosis at the bedside.
      Moreover if the cellularity is inadequate or if the diagnosis is uncertain, the patient has
      to undergo a repeat procedure resulting in increased costs, risks and also the agony of
      waiting for a diagnosis.

      ROLE OF SUCTION IN EUS-FNA It was believed that applying suction to the needle while it is
      within the desired lesion, improves the quality of aspirate. However, recently there has been
      a trend to use less or no suction as that provides a "less bloody" specimen. The only
      randomized trial comparing suction to non suction techniques observed a higher sensitivity
      and negative predictive values for malignancy in the suction group compared with the
      non-suction group. In addition, bloodiness or contamination was not increased in the suction
      group.

      Current suction technique involves suctioning the aspirate into the needle that has an air
      column. The needle is not flushed with any liquid prior to passing into the desired solid
      lesion. Suction is applied when the needle is within the lesion leading to aspiration of
      tissue into the needle. This is the standard technique and some have done with and without
      the stylet. There are some data that favor non use of a stylet.

      WET SCTION TECHNIQUE:

      Wet suction technique involves flushing the needle with 1-2 cc of saline to replace the
      column of air with saline. The needle is now passed into the desired lesion. Suction is
      applied at maximal strength and needle moved back and forth within the lesion to obtain as
      aspirate. Drops of saline can be seen moving into the suction syringe as the aspirate moves
      into the needle. Needle is now withdrawn and aspirate delivered on to a slide by using a
      stylet and or flushing air into the needle with a syringe HYPOTHESIS The effect of suction
      for the purpose of aspirating cells and / or tissue during fine needle biopsy may be
      significantly improved by filling the column of the needle with a less compressible fluid.
      The volume of vacuum being pulled may be negatively impacted by the expansion of air within
      the needle. Replacing the air with sterile saline may thus improve the suction transferred to
      the needle tip by ensuring that the full volume of the vacuum syringe is transferred to the
      distal tip of the needle. This effect would be most pronounced in larger gauge needles which
      would have a larger internal volume. An additional benefit of filling the needle with saline
      prior to aspiration is the speed of the pressure transfer. The theory is that the air in the
      needle may absorb some of the force of the sudden application of vacuum. A column of saline
      in the needle may increase the velocity of the pressure transfer providing more tissue and
      less blood.
    
  