
    
      Qualified participants will take part in a 21-week clinical research study entitled, "Drug
      and Talk Therapy for Fibromyalgia". We are doing this study to better understand how talk
      therapies, such as education and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), can improve the
      therapeutic benefits of drug for fibromyalgia.

      Savella ®, (milnacipran) is an FDA approved drug for fibromyalgia. The safety and efficacy of
      Savella has been established in two US-based clinical studies involving over 2,000 patients
      with fibromyalgia. Because Savella has already been shown to be effective when used in
      isolation to treat fibromyalgia, we are conducting the study to determine whether combination
      treatment (Savella + talk therapy) is more efficacious than just Savella alone or talk
      therapy alone.

      Volunteers will be randomized (like flipping a coin) on two different levels:

        1. Each participate will be randomized into one of two groups for medication:

           One group will receive Savella and the other group will receive a placebo (no medicinal
           value). Both the medication and the placebo will look identical and subjects will not be
           told into which group they have been placed until the completion of the study. Each
           participants has 66% chance of receiving Savella and 34% chance of getting the placebo.

        2. The second level of randomization will be to determine which type of talk therapies you
           will be assigned to. Subjects will be randomly assigned to receive educational
           instruction relevant to fibromyalgia, OR cognitive behavioral therapy which includes a
           workbook. Both talk therapies will be provided over the phone once a week for 8 weeks.
           Each phone session may last for 30 minutes. Importantly, both talk therapies can provide
           coping tools and information designed to help manage fibromyalgia symptoms.

      Study Overview:

      Subjects will be asked to visit the Fibromyalgia Clinical Research Center on five separate
      occasions: Initial Screening (today's visit), Week 1, Week 2, Week 9, and Week 21.

      VISIT 1:

        1. Informed consent and initial screening questionnaire,physical assessment

        2. Issue a 'pain score' wrist monitor with instructions to record current pain level three
           times a day for one week

      VISIT 2:

        1. Submit your pain recording

        2. Complete the self-assessment questionnaires via computer

        3. Vital signs check

        4. Undergo pain sensitivity testing

        5. If qualified, subjects be randomized to receive Savella or placebo AND to receive
           education or cognitive behavioral therapy

      VISIT 3:

        1. We will assess the subject's willingness to continue participation.

        2. Review medication diary and medication side-effect checklist.

        3. Schedule PHONE Therapy sessions: 8 thirty minute calls

      VISIT 4:

        1. One week prior to this visit, subjects will receive a 'pain score' monitor in order to
           enter current pain levels three times a day for one week. Then report for this visit.

        2. Review side effect checklist, medication diary.

        3. Completion of self-assessment questionnaires via computer

        4. Undergo pain sensitivity testing

      VISIT 5:

        1. One week prior to this visit, subjects will receive a 'pain score' monitor in order to
           enter current pain levels three times a day for one week. Then report for this visit.

        2. Review side effect checklist, medication diary.

        3. Completion of self-assessment questionnaires via computer

        4. Undergo pain sensitivity testing

        5. Upon visit completion, participants will receive a reduced dose regimen of the
           medication along with written and verbal instructions to safely discontinue the study
           medication.
    
  