
    
      INTRODUCTION Warts are common skin conditions resulting from infection of keratinocytes by
      human papillomavirus (HPV). After infection of the basal layer, there is clonal proliferation
      leading to epidermal thickening and hyperkeratinization and eventually results in a visible
      wart. HPVs are ubiquitous, epitheliotropic non-enveloped small double-stranded DNA viruses.
      Over 150 types of HPVs have been identified. Among them verruca vulgaris are usually caused
      by HPV types 1, 2, 4, 27 or 57, and plane warts by HPV types 3 or 10.

      Cutaneous warts occur in 7% to 10% of the general population, with a maximum incidence
      between the ages of 12 and 16 years. In children, clearance can occur after only a few
      months, with 50% at 1 year and about 65%-78% by 2 years. The rate of clearance is influenced
      by factors like virus strain, host immune status, extent and duration of warts. The
      transmission of warts occurs from direct contact or indirectly via fomites.

      There are multiple destructive, antiproliferative and antiviral agents in treatment of warts.
      Other modalities include hypnotherapy, acupuncture, local hyperthermia, therapeutic
      vaccination and combinations of the previous agents. Destructive therapies usually come with
      many adverse effects hence immunotherapy is becoming more popular, especially in the
      treatment of refractory cutaneous and genital warts. These include various topical,
      intralesional (IL) and systemic agents. IL Measles, Mumps, rubella (MMR) and IL vitamin D3
      are examples of immunotherapeutic agents.

      Immunotherapy is defined as a type of biological therapy that uses substances to stimulate or
      suppress the immune system to help the body fight cancer, infection, and other diseases.
      Immunotherapy can affect the immune system in general or can be cell-specific.

      Immunotherapy is believed to induce a strong nonspecific pro-inflammatory signal and attract
      the antigen-presenting cells. This is associated with the release of cytokines such as IL-2,
      IL-8, IL-12, IL-I8, tumor necrosis factor-α, and interferon-γ. This then promotes a Th1
      cytokine response which leads to the activation of delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction
      leading to the eradication of the HPV-infected cells. Furthermore, the trauma of the
      injection may also cause a resolution in previously sensitized individuals. Vitamin D3 is
      also claimed to regulate epidermal cell differentiation and proliferation and may modulate
      cytokine production through its action upon vitamin D receptors (VDRs). Since IL antigen
      immunotherapy enhances recognition of the virus by the immune system it causes clearance of
      both treated and untreated lesions and helps to prevent future clinical infection through
      induction of long-term acquired immunity to HPV.

      MMR vaccine is included in immunization schedule of Nepal so pre-sensitization skin test is
      not needed as all patients are expected to be immune. The presence of 3 different antigens in
      MMR increases the sensitivity to the injected antigen and decreases the likelihood of anergy.
      Side effects of MMR include pain during injection, flu-like symptoms, pruritus and burning
      sensation.

      IL vitamin D is a novel addition to therapies in warts as it is a simple, effective,
      well-tolerable, and inexpensive method with negligible local and systemic side effects. Side
      effects of Vitamin D3 include transient mild to moderate pain, edema at the site of injection
      and mild erythema. Additionally, it would be safer to monitor serum vitamin D and calcium
      levels before and after intralesional vitamin D treatment to prevent possible
      hypervitaminosis D.

      RATIONALE Intralesional Immunotherapy is an emerging method of treatment of wart in which
      injection in a single wart causes the resolution of distant warts as well. Compared to other
      destructive modalities, it is more effective and comfortable for the patient as it obviates
      the need for individual treatment of each wart. In addition it has a lower rate of
      recurrence, avoids adverse effects such as scarring, is more cost-effective in multiple warts
      and decreases the time a physician has to spend on each patient. Further both injection MMR
      and Vitamin D3 are readily available as compared to other immunotherapeutic agents like
      purified protein derivative and candida antigen.

      IL MMR vaccine has been used for a longer time than IL vitamin D and there are more
      comparative studies showing efficacy of MMR vaccine with rates of clearance ranging from
      70.4% to 82.4%. The clearance rates for IL vitamin D ranges from 40% to 90%.

      The advantages of vitamin D over MMR vaccine are cost-effectiveness, non-requirement of
      maintenance of cold chain, easy availability, and feasibility of use in immunosuppressed
      patients.

      As per Institute of Medicine (IOM), the tolerable upper intake of vitamin D is 4000 IU/day
      for anyone older than 9 years such that annual maximum dose will be 1,460,000 IU. The total
      amount of vitamin D that we will be administering will be 1,500,000 IU. Furthermore, since we
      are giving it intralesionally systemic absorption is likely to be low although data on exact
      amount of IL vitamin D that gets absorbed systemically is not available. In other studies,
      patients have been evaluated clinically for signs and symptoms of hypervitaminosis D however,
      no signs of toxicity were observed.

      As per our literature search,

        1. No previous studies on immunotherapy in wart have been conducted in our country

        2. No comparative studies have been done to compare IL MMR and IL vitamin D3 in treatment
           of wart hence we aim to establish efficacy of each and compare the two.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To determine the efficacy of IL MMR vaccine in the treatment of Wart

        2. To determine the efficacy of IL vitamin D in the treatment of wart

        3. To compare the efficacy of IL MMR vaccine and IL Vitamin D

      Secondary Objective:

        1. To determine the clinical and demographic profile of patients with different types of
           warts visiting Dermatology outpatient department(OPD) of BP Koirala Institute of Health
           Sciences (BPKIHS)

        2. To determine the side effects of IL MMR vaccine and IL Vitamin D in treatment of wart

        3. To determine Dermatology life quality index (DLQI) in wart patients.

      Operational definition Wart - clinical diagnosis made by a dermatologist Complete response
      (100%)- Complete disappearance of warts including distant ones and skin texture at the site
      is restored to normal Excellent response (75-99%)-Reduction in size and number including
      distant ones and few residual warts still visible Good response (50-74%)-Some reduction in
      size only including that of distant ones but no decrease in number of warts Poor or no
      response (0-49%)-No significant change in size and number of warts Recurrence- Recurrence
      during the study period

      MATERIALS AND METHODOLOGY Materials: Study population will be all patients clinically
      diagnosed with warts visiting the Dermatology OPD of BPKIHS, Dharan.

      Study design: Prospective comparative longitudinal study Study Period: Probable duration of
      the study will be 1 year after approval from the Institutional Review Committee (IRC) and
      Nepal Health Research Council (NHRC) Ethical Clearance: Taken from IRC, BPKIHS and NHRC
      Conflict of interest: None Sampling Technique: Census method with all consecutive patients
      meeting inclusion criteria for initial 6 months Sample size The study considers a 95%
      confidence interval, 80% power to estimate sample size. According to the literature review,
      it was found that there was 84.6% and 40% improvement in MMR and Vitamin D respectively.

      Now using the sample size estimation formula for 2 proportion {(Zα√2p(1-p)+ Z1-β√((p1(1-p1)
      p2(1-p2)}2))/(p1-p2)2 Where n= sample size for each group p1 = 0.846 p2 = 0.40 p= (p1 +p2)/2
      Zα=1.96 Z1-β = 1.28 Using above formula, n= 12.3 The formula for actual sample size is
      n/4{1+√(1+4/n|p1-p2|)}2 na = 16.48 Adding 10% in calculated value to reduce bias sampling
      technique, the minimum sample size in each group is 18.13 =19 Considering loss of follow up,
      sample size in each group= 30 Total sample size= 60

      Methodology Based on the computer generated random number table, patients satisfying
      inclusion criteria will be assigned to either Group A or Group B once they come to OPD.
      Informed consent will be taken and detailed information including personal data, past
      history, medical history, drug history, clinical data like site, size, number and
      distribution of lesions will be recorded in preset pro forma. Photographs of the lesions will
      be taken before the first treatment session, in every treatment session and 3 months after
      last session.

      Group A Freeze-dried MMR vaccine single-use vials stored at 2°C-8°C will be reconstituted
      with 0.5 mL of distilled water immediately before IL use. If reconstituted vaccine is not
      used within 8 hours it must be discarded. All Group A patients will receive IL injection of
      upto 0.5 mL of reconstituted MMR vaccine into a single or a maximum of 5 warts at a time in
      case of multiple warts with 31 G insulin syringe with beveled edge facing upward. Amount of
      injection on each wart will depend on the size of each wart. The injection will be given
      every three weeks for a maximum of 5 doses.

      Group B All Group B patients will receive a maximum of 0.5 mL Inj. Vitamin D3 (600,000 IU;
      15mg/ml) in each session after injection of IL lignocaine with 31 G insulin syringe. In cases
      of multiple warts, a maximum of 5 warts will be injected at a time. Amount of injection on
      each wart will depend on the size of each wart. The session will be done at 3 weekly
      intervals for a maximum of 5 sessions or until complete resolution of warts, whichever is
      earlier. In patients of group B serum vitamin D level will be measured after 20 days of 3rd
      dose and 1 month after the last dose to ensure safe monitoring.

      Patient and physician global assessment using 'Visual Analog Scale score' and photographic
      comparison will be used to assess the response to treatment as mentioned in operational
      definition. Immediate and late adverse effects in both groups will be evaluated after each
      treatment session. Necessary investigations and intervention will be done if needed. Follow
      up will be made monthly for 3 months to detect any recurrence.

      Quality of Life(QoL) QoL will be measured in wart patients, using the Nepali version of the
      dermatology life quality index (DLQI) questionnaire before initiation of treatment and at the
      end of follow up. DLQI contains 10 questions that involves 6 sections: symptoms and feelings,
      daily activities, leisure, work and school, personal relationships and treatment. Questions 1
      and 2 assess symptoms and feelings; 3 and 4, daily activities; 5 and 6, leisure; 7, work and
      school; 8 and 9, personal relationships and 10, treatment. The clinically meaningful change
      or reduction in the DLQI score is measured as the change in score from one band to the other.

      Statistical analysis

        1. Data handling: Data will be entered in Microsoft Excel 2010 and statistical analysis
           will be done using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences 10.5 version

        2. Coding: Alpha numerical code will be used

        3. Monitoring: Data will be entered after every day of work and supervised by guide.

        4. Statistical Analysis:

             1. Chi square test to compare the categorical data between the groups.

             2. Paired t test for comparing normally distributed continuous variables at different
                time point within the group

             3. Independent 't' test for comparing normally distributed continuous variables at
                different time point between the groups

             4. Wilcoxon signed rank test to compare the not normally distributed variables,
                ordinal data

             5. Mann- Whitney U test to compare the not normally distributed variables, ordinal
                data.

             6. Kaplan-Meier curves to compare the response rate on each follow up visit between
                the groups.

      Test of significance will be considered when value of p ≤ 0.05.
    
  