
    
      Sleep disturbance, especially insomnia, is a common complication after ischemic stroke for
      the patients during rehabilitation of cerebral infarction. Actually, more than half of
      ischemic stroke patients have insomnia complaints. Meanwhile, poor quality of sleep may
      greatly impede stroke rehabilitation and induce other complications. Thus, it is of
      importance to study the insomnia for the post-stroke patients, especially when they are
      during rehabilitation of cerebral infarction.

      Melatonin is a pineal hormone with the peak nocturnal secretion. Melatonin typically takes a
      large responsibility in coordination with the circadian rhythms and further serves as a
      regulator in the sleep function. The secretion peak of melatonin is around midnight to 3:00
      a.m.. Along with other antioxidants, the melatonin can also work as an effective
      neuroprotective enzyme against neurodegeneration and ischemic brain injury. Thus, the
      melatonin is known to take an important role in acute ischemic stroke, with a rhythm
      impairment and nocturnal decrease. γ-Aminobutyricacid (GABA) is likewise a strong sleep
      regulator that may activate GABA receptors as well as inhibitors of waking processes. It is
      known that GABA level in the human body is strongly associated with the impairment of
      patients in the acute ischemic stroke. Antioxidant may take a critical role in the balance of
      oxidation by scavenging free radicals, so it is regarded as an important marker in studying
      the insomnia for the post-stroke patients. However, to our knowledge, there is almost no
      report on simultaneous measurements of levels of melatonin, GABA and antioxidants in the
      bloods of patients during the convalescence of ischemic stroke or on studying their
      association with the insomnia complication for the post-stroke patients.

      Therefore, this prospective single-center randomized controlled clinical trial was designed
      to investigate the relationship of nocturnal concentrations of melatonin, γ-aminobutyric acid
      and total antioxidants with insomnia after stroke by comparing the nocturnal concentrations
      of melatonin, GABA and total antioxidants in stroke patients with insomnia or without
      insomnia and normal controls.

      Data management Clinical researchers accurately, completely, timely filled out the clinical
      trial observation form. Data were recorded electronically by data managers using a
      double-data entry strategy. The electronic database was locked by the project manager after
      checking. All data were analyzed statistically by professional statisticians. Anonymized
      trial data will be published at www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis Data were presented as the mean ± standard deviation for normally
      distributed variables, or median values (P25, P75) for non-normally distributed variables.
      Student's t-tests or nonparametric Mann-Whitney tests were performed to compare the
      differences between normally distributed variables or non-normally distributed variables. For
      the analysis of biochemical test results, data were transferred to normal distribution and
      Hotelling's T2 tests were performed. Before entering variables into the regression model,
      centering predictor variables were performed to avoid nonessential collinearity. Binary
      logistic regression analysis was conducted to identify the association between variables or
      variables interaction and insomnia diagnosis after infarction. Multiple linear regression
      analysis was carried out to determine the correlation between variables or variables
      interaction and sleep-related scores, such as Epworth Sleepiness Scale scores, Pittsburgh
      Sleep Quality Index scores, Insomnia Severity Index scores, Morningness-Eveningness
      Questionnaire (Chinese version) scores and Fatigue Severity Scale scores by using backward
      method. P values < 0.05 were considered statistically significant. SPSS 22.0 software was
      used for statistical analysis.
    
  