
    
      Problem Statement:

      The purpose of this investigation is to conduct a trial within a subgroup of
      difficult-to-treat patients with CRS. This difficult group of patients will have undergone an
      exhaustive surgical and medical treatment of CRS These patient often will be frustrated with
      the lack of improvement in their symptoms despite maximal medical and surgical therapy. The
      effectiveness of topical surfactants is a research gap in treating CRS but has promising
      correlates in other medical fields.

      Purpose of Study/Potential Impact:

      The purpose of this investigation is to conduct a randomized controlled trial within a
      subgroup of difficult-to-treat patients with CRS, evaluating the use of topical xylitol
      treatment concurrently with topical steroid/antibiotics combination in the effort to disrupt
      biofilms and improve disease control. The effectiveness of topical surfactants is a research
      gap in treating CRS but has promising correlates in other medical fields.

      Potential Benefits:

      Topical xylitol could potentially decrease CRS symptoms, leading to improvements in patient
      quality of life. This decrease could potentially lead to fewer visits to primary care
      physicians/otolaryngologists. These could lead to less antibiotics, radiographs being
      obtained and unnecessary surgical procedures being performed, all of which could potentially
      reduce the burden of medical expenditure in the treatment of this disease.

      Potential Risks:

      Potential risks are minimal but include a sweet aftertaste in the mouth and burning in the
      nose; which have been reported in previous studies.

      Hypothesis:

      5% (wt/vol) Xylitol saline irrigation into the diseased paranasal sinus, as a part of a
      post-ESS refractory CRS management plan, will reduce biofilm formation in the sinus and
      result in symptomatic relief in affected patients.

      General Design:

      A prospective, randomized, double-blinded experimental design will be utilized. Patients will
      be randomized into the xylitol-saline treatment arm versus the control saline arm. Concurrent
      corticosteroid/antibiotic therapy will be utilized in both arms based on results of bacterial
      DNA sequencing. Patients will undergo weekly in-office irrigations for three weeks and will
      be evaluated one month and three months post-treatment. The postoperative care will be
      standardized across all participants.
    
  