
    
      Purpose:

      This clinical trial aims to evaluate the impact of priming effect and endowment effect,
      concepts derived from psychology, on the behavior of children in mixed dentition period
      during the dental injection. The moderating role of the psychological traits and demographics
      of children will be investigated as well. The judgment on the children behaviors will be made
      based on a well-established instrument which categorizes the behaviors into four levels. The
      results will contribute to an interdisciplinary approach toward patient management and a
      treatment plan that let practitioners manage their time more efficiently, and also increase
      the chance of children's acceptable behaviors and cooperation during a dental visit and
      attendance in follow-up sessions.

      Justification:

      Patient management in pediatric dentistry is a matter of great importance as many children
      may not be as cooperative as adults with their dentist when undergoing dental procedures.
      Although there were developments in patient management in dentistry, particularly in the
      pediatric field, an interdisciplinary approach is still lacking to cover all aspects of
      behavioral management. Specifically, the findings derived from psychology and economics may
      have the potential to be implemented in the medical field. That being said, the concepts such
      as behavioral priming and endowment effect and constructs such as personality traits which
      have led to promising results in cognitive and behavioral management have been scarcely
      implemented in the medical field and dentistry.

      Conditioning or contingency reinforcement is one of the universally accepted techniques in
      the behavioral management of children in dental clinics. The positive reinforcement is the
      common approach for reinforcing the desired behaviors in children. Positive reinforcement
      relies on promising children with positive social feedback (e.g., smile and praise) or
      non-social token and rewards (e.g., badges and stickers). Although positive reinforcement was
      reported to be successful, according to the concept of the endowment effect, other conditions
      of providing awards to children may be even more efficient. The endowment effect, which is a
      well-reported psychological phenomenon, states that people attribute more value to things
      that they own and more inclined to retain them than obtaining the same object when they do
      not possess it. Based on this concept, value is not absolute but perceptual in nature, and
      perceived ownership would affect perceived value. The endowment effect is supported by the
      loss aversion stating that losses have a stronger impact than gains. The asymmetry between
      the impact of positive and negative expectations or experiences on oneself is traced back to
      evolution. Organisms that had considered dangers as more important than opportunities had a
      better chance of survival and reproduction. Providing a condition in which children can keep
      the rewards after treatment only if they behave cooperatively may be more powerful
      reinforcement than the traditional conditioning. Up to the authors' knowledge, except for
      limited studies that applied the endowment effect in creating the health policies, it has not
      been used in the medical field for behavioral management.

      Behavioral priming is referred to as the influence of different stimuli such as words,
      sounds, smells, colors, and pictures on the various cognitive constructs and memory, which in
      turn impact the behaviors. Overall, primes are classified into two categories based on how an
      individual percept them, subliminal and conscious. That being said, the influence of both
      types of primes is mostly outside one's awareness. Several studies in the past decades showed
      that people can be induced to behave in certain ways such as acting socially or unsocially,
      walking faster or slower, and being accurate or inaccurate as a result of priming outside of
      their consciousness. Moreover, some new studies even used the effect of superhero priming on
      social behaviors and found that exposing individuals to superhero images provokes prosocial
      activity. Although the influence of the behavioral priming was documented in previous
      studies, there are still disputes about the underlying mechanisms of the priming effect. The
      traditional concept supports the enhanced accessibility to memory and psychological
      constructs that active behaviors related to certain stereotypes. However, neglecting the
      situational factors and other moderators led to failure in the replication of the effect of
      primes in some recent studies. Therefore, the new approach toward behavioral priming states
      that different situational factors play roles in making decisions and behaviors as well. The
      new approach does not undermine the unconscious effect of the prime on behaviors but
      emphasizes on considering the situational factors as well as the individuals' characteristics
      in interpreting the effects.

      Besides the inductive effect of environmental forces and primes on behaviors, personality
      traits can be reliable predictors of decisions and behaviors as well. Personality traits are
      considered as a reference point and a moderator for different behaviors. This is true,
      especially in uncertain situations, the presence of weak environmental forces, or extremity
      of a person in a particular trait. Moreover, personality traits can have an impact on how
      individuals infer and suffer from pain and consequently, the related behaviors. Some studies
      reported a meaningful relationship between personality and pain perception. The five-factor
      theory of personality (FFT): Neuroticism (N), Extraversion (E), Openness (O), Agreeableness
      (A) and Conscientiousness (C) is a model which takes into account the relationship between
      personality and health. Furthermore, a recent systematic review found that despite the common
      belief, the personality traits are not permanent and can be changed through experiences.
      Therefore, assessing personality traits may not only have predictive value but may be
      employed to help with the treatment procedure.

      Hypothesis:

      Up to the authors' knowledge, no study has implemented the concept of endowment effect for
      behavioral management in the medical or dental field. Besides that, the behavioral priming
      has not been used in the dental field as well. The hypothesis is that implementing these two
      concepts can help to improve pediatric patients' cooperation during dental injections.

      Objectives:

        1. To investigate the priming effect of superhero posters as stimuli on the behaviors of
           pediatric patients during the dental injection

        2. To compare the two scenarios of giving rewards to pediatric patients, i.e., before
           starting the treatment (endowment effect) and after finishing the treatment (positive
           reinforcement), in order to investigate their impact on children behaviors during the
           dental injection

        3. To investigate the moderating role of personality traits on the behaviors of pediatric
           patients during dental injection

        4. To investigate the moderating effect of age, gender, and family income on the behaviors
           of pediatric patients during dental injection

      Proposed Methodology and Research Plan:

      The children in mixed dentition period will participate in this clinical trial. The
      participants will be selected consecutively of patients refereeing to a specific dental
      clinic. Before beginning the dental procedures or any interventions, all the parents' of
      children will be asked to provide a consent form and if they agree and complete the form,
      then they will be asked to fill out the short form of the hierarchical personality inventory
      for children (HiPIC-30). The randomized block randomization method will be used to ensure the
      equal sample size in each group based on the interventions. Half of the children will be
      seeing images of the superheroes on the dental unit screen for five minutes while waiting for
      the dental procedure to start. If the patient is a boy, images of three popular male
      superheroes such as Superman, Batman, and Spiderman will be shown. If the patient is a girl,
      images of Wonder-woman, Batgirl, and Cat-woman will be shown. The other half of the patients
      will see no images on the screen. Before starting the treatment procedure, children in each
      group will again be subdivided into two other groups. One group will be given reward before
      starting the procedure, but they will be told they only can keep the reward after the
      treatment if they have a cooperative behavior during the dental procedure (endowment effect).
      The reward will be put on a tray where the child can see it throughout the dental procedure.
      The other group will not receive any reward at the beginning, but they will be told that they
      will be given a reward if they cooperate during the dental procedure to evaluate the effect
      of positive reinforcement. Children are free to choose their reward, as it has been shown
      gender, age, and cultural differences may affect the children choice. However, some small
      toys of superheroes will be included among the awards to test whether seeing the images of
      superheroes affect the award choice or not. To comply with the ethics, all children will
      receive the reward after treatment irrespective of their behavior.

      The children behavior (outcome measure) during the dental injection will be recorded and
      scored later using Frankl's scale for general behavior by two examiners to prevent
      subjectivity of measurement. The children recordings from the time of needle penetration
      until taking out the needle will be scored. Frankl's scale helps to categorize the behavior
      into four levels. To reduce the confounding effects, dentists who wear the same coat for
      every dental visit will perform the dental examinations and procedures. Moreover, the dental
      office where the examinations take place will be the same for all children.

      Sample Size Calculation and Data Analysis:

      The sample size will be calculated using GPower v3.1.9 software for the independent t-test.
      Considering a medium to large effect size=0.6, α level=0.05, statistical power (1-β)=0.85,
      the sample size of n=102 will be obtained. However, as the outcome measure is non-parametric,
      an additional 4 samples will be recruited. Therefore, 106 participants will be needed for the
      non-parametric test. However, considering 10% for drop-outs and missing data, the final
      sample size will reach 117. The main effects of interventions i.e. priming effect and reward
      system will be evaluated with the Mann-Whitney test. Moreover, using ordinal logistic
      regression, the predictive value of the main variables and moderators for children's behavior
      will be calculated.

      Potential Outcomes and Expected Research Contribution:

      Patient management in pediatric dentistry is a matter of great importance to achieve a
      successful and effective treatment. Injecting the children patients is one of the most
      challenging steps for dentists which determine the cooperation of a child for the rest of the
      treatment. The techniques proposed in this study are straightforward to apply in dental
      settings with a minimum of the cost. We hope that the results of this interdisciplinary
      approach be a step forward for future projects. The results will contribute to an
      interdisciplinary approach toward patient management and a treatment plan that let
      practitioners manage their time more efficiently, and also increase the chance of children's
      acceptable behaviors and cooperation during a dental visit and attendance in follow-up
      sessions.
    
  