
    
      Biliary tract carcinomas (BTCs) are invasive adenocarcinomas that arise from the epithelial
      cells of the biliary tree, which comprises intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile ducts, and the
      gallbladder. Even though BTCs are considered as rare tumors, they represent about 30% of the
      total primary liver cancers with an incidence rate close to that of hepatocellular carcinoma.
      Approximately 1200 new cases in the United Kingdom and 9000 in the United States are
      diagnosed annually. The Saudi Cancer Registry reported 911 case of gall bladder cancer, 318
      intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and 574 extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma between 1994 and
      2009. Unfortunately, only a minority of patients diagnosed with these aggressive tumors
      present at an early resectable stage, and disease recurrence rates are high despite
      curative-intent surgery

      The prognosis of patients with advanced biliary tract cancers is poor and median survival for
      those undergoing supportive care alone is short. Systemic chemotherapy is increasingly being
      applied in cases of advanced biliary tract cancers. A benefit for chemotherapy over best
      supportive care alone was suggested in a trial that randomly assigned 90 patients with
      advanced pancreatic or biliary cancer (37 with bile duct cancer) to fluorouracil (FU)-based
      systemic chemotherapy or best supportive care alone with median survival of 6 months for
      chemotherapy versus 2.5 months for best supportive care.

      Different drugs has demonstrated activity in BTCs, including fluoropyrimidines, gemcitabine,
      cisplatin, and oxaliplatin. A pooled analysis from Eckel et al. that evaluated 104 trials
      with 2810 patients, has established gemcitabine combined with platinum compounds as the
      provisional standard of chemotherapy in advanced biliary tract cancer.

      In a randomized phase two study of 51 patients, Kornek et al, established the efficacy of
      mitomycin in combination with gemcitabine or capecitabine in previously untreated patients
      with advanced biliary tract cancers. Mitomycin and capecitabine was associated with superior
      complete response rate (31% vs 20%), median progression free survival (5.3 months vs 4.2
      months), and overall survival (9.25 months and 6.7 months). The EORTC 40955 trial randomized
      patients with BTCs to high dose 5FU vs combination of 5-FU, Leucovorin and cisplatin. The
      results showed that cisplatin and fluorouracil was more active than high-dose fluorouracil in
      terms of overall response rates (19% and 7.1%, respectively) and overall survival (8 months
      and 5 months, respectively), but progression free surviva; was similar in both treatment arms
      (3.3 months).

      The randomized, controlled, phase three ABC-02 study, which enrolled 410 patients with
      locally advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma, gallbladder cancer or ampullary cancer,
      demonstrated that the combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin improved overall and
      progression free survival by 30% over gemcitabine alone. Median overall survival was 11.7
      months vs 8.1 months (HR, 0.64; 95% confidence interval, 0.52-0.80; p˂.001), and progression
      free survival was 8 months (HR, 0.51; 95% confidence interval, 0.51-0.77; p˂.001), both in
      favor of the combination arm. Although the rate of neutropenia was higher in the group
      receiving gemcitabine and cisplatin, there was no significant difference in the rate of
      neutropenia-associated infections between the 2 arms. Okusaka et al also reported similar
      findings in a phase two randomized study of 84 patients with advanced biliary tract cancers.
      Based on these results, the combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin is considered to be the
      standard of care for first-line chemotherapy for patients with advanced or metastatic biliary
      tract cancers.

      Triple-drug chemotherapy regimens also have been shown to be effective in patients with
      advanced biliary tract cancers, albeit in a very small number of patients. The phase three
      trial that evaluated fluorouracil, leucovorin and etoposide versus fluorouracil cisplatin and
      epirubicin didn't show one regimen to be significantly superior with respect to overall
      survival (12 months vs. 9 months, respectively) in patients with advanced biliary tract
      cancers, although the trial was underpowered to detect such a difference.

      In a phase two trial, the combination panitumumab, a monoclonal anti-epidermal growth factor
      receptor antibody, with gemcitabine and irinotecan showed encouraging efficacy with good
      tolerability in patients with advanced cholangiocarcinoma, with 5-month progression free
      survival rate of 69%.The median progression free survival and overall survival were 9.7
      months and 12.9 months, respectively.

      Results from the randomized phase three PRODIGE trial evaluating the combination of
      5-Fluorouracil, Leucovorin, oxaliplatin and Irinotecan (FOLFIRINOX) versus gemcitabine alone
      in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer and good performance status showed dramatic
      improvements in both median PFS (6.4 vs 3.3 months; P˂ .001) and median OS (11.1 months vs.
      6.8 months; P˂ .001). Because of these strong results the National comprehensive cancer
      network (NCCN) and many other societies added FOLFIRINOX as a preferred, category 1
      recommendation for first line treatment of good performance status patients with metastatic
      pancreatic cancer in 2011.

      There are, however, some concerns about the toxicity of FOLFIRINOX regimen. In the PRODIGE
      trial, some of the grade 3 and 4 toxicity rates that were significantly greater in the
      FOLFIRINOX group than in the gemcitabine group were 45.7% for neutropenia, 12.7% for
      diarrhea, and 9.1 % for thrombocytopenia and 9% for sensory neuropathy.

      Despite the high levels of toxicity, no toxic deaths have been reported. Furthermore, the
      PRODIGE trial determined that, despite this toxicity, fewer patients in the FOLFIRINOX group
      than in the gemcitabine group experienced a degradation in their quality of life at 6 months
      (31% vs. 66%,p ˂ .001). A more detailed analysis of the quality of life of patients in this
      trial has been published and shows that FOLFIRINOX maintained and even improved quality of
      life more than gemcitabine did.

      Based on the above data, the investigators designed this phase two study of the efficacy and
      toxicity of FOFIRINOX regimen in first line treatment for patients with advanced biliary
      tract cancers. If the investigators achieved encouraging results, this regimen should then be
      compared with the standard combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin in future phase three
      trials.
    
  