
    
      The study will determine if the ICDSMP can be effective in the diverse population of South
      Australia. We hope that this online workshop will provide South Australians easy access to
      the Chronic Disease Self-Management Workshop. If successful, this program or similar programs
      could be made broadly available. The workshop being offered on the internet will offer this
      program as an alternative mode of service delivery to support self-management education for
      chronic diseases and will become an integral part of high quality primary health care in the
      state.

        1. A potential subject will learn of the project through advertisement done by existing
           community CDSMP providers or by websites or online newsletter provided by State of South
           Australia. The announcements will direct them to the study website at Stanford, where
           they will read a description of the project and leave their names and email addresses if
           they are interested in participating.

        2. When enough people are on the wait list to fill an online workshop, Stanford will send
           an email with a unique URL for each potential participant to log on, complete the
           informed consent, and fill out the baseline questionnaire. They will create their own
           username and password during this process.

        3. Once 24 people have enrolled, they will be assigned to a workshop and receive an email
           detailing when the workshop starts and inviting them to log on to familiarize themselves
           with the online environment and meet their moderators and other classmates online.

        4. They will start the 6-week workshop with each session starting a week apart with new
           content. They are expected to log on 2-3 times per week, for a total time of about 2
           hours. They may log on more often if they wish, and they are not required to log on at
           any specific time.

        5. The workshop consists of didactic/interactive web pages, 4 discussion boards, an
           internal anonymous message center, a section of personalized tools that are available
           only to the individual participant and Stanford staff, and a help section. Each workshop
           is facilitated by 2 trained peer moderators, supervised by Stanford staff.

        6. The moderators offer help to those who may be confused by the goal setting exercise, for
           example, to give feedback to participants' progress, and to remind people to log on if
           they have not. They monitor for safety.

        7. After the end of the 6-week workshop, participants will be able to log into the workshop
           to review the past 6-weeks' participation and print out any useful workshop materials
           for future reference

        8. 6 months after the end of the 6-week workshop, participants will complete a follow up
           questionnaire, and again at 1 year.
    
  