
    
      Design: The trial is a multi-centre open label, non-comparative, ascending dose safety study,
      using CTX cells to treat patients with lower limb ischaemia, with follow-up over 12 months.

      Pre-treatment selection of patients: Men and women, aged >50 years with peripheral arterial
      occlusive disease (Fontaine Stage II through IV) of one leg or both, unsuitable for surgical
      re-vascularisation, an ankle/brachial pressure index (ABPI) of <0.9 or a toe/brachial index
      of <0.7. Women must be surgically sterile or more than 2 years past their last menstrual
      period and test negative for pregnancy.

      Treatment: One patient will be treated at one time with a single dose of CTX cells. Three
      ascending doses (20, 50 or 80 million cells), allocated sequentially, will be tested in 9-18
      patients (3 dose cohorts of 3-6 patients. All trial patients will receive 10 intramuscular
      injections of CTX DP into the gastrocnemius muscle of their ischaemic leg on a single
      occasion. In the event that both legs have peripheral arterial disease, the injections will
      be administered to the leg determined by the Investigator to have the more advanced/severe
      disease provided that leg has not already had surgical amputation of toes or above.

      A minimum interval of 28 days will be observed between dosing the first and second patient
      and 7 days between dosing subsequent patients in a given cohort in order to assess the safety
      and tolerability of CTX DP at that dose. A further 3 patients may be added to any cohort (to
      a maximum of 18 of total treated patients) at the discretion of the Data Safety Monitoring
      Board (DSMB) if required to further clarify the safety profile). A minimum interval of 28
      days will be observed between dosing the first and second patient and 7 days between dosing
      subsequent patients in a given cohort in order to assess the safety and tolerability of CTX
      DP at that dose.

      Post-treatment follow-up: There will be 8 scheduled visits to the clinic for monitoring over
      the 12 month follow-up period.

      End-points: The primary endpoint of the trial is safety, measured by numbers of relevant
      adverse events, health screening, physical examination (overall and of the treated limb),
      immunological response, amputation and concomitant medications in the first year after
      treatment.

      Post-trial follow-up: Life-long annual follow-up to record any new cancer via national cancer
      registry or similar system or by Investigator or family practitioner (as permitted by
      competent authorities, ethics committees and informed consent).
    
  