
    
      This is a single arm, non-randomized, open-label study with a combination of everolimus and
      letrozole once a day dosing . Each cycle would be 28days and patients would be scanned after
      every 3 cycles for response, until disease progression is documented.

      Subjects will take two pills once a day by mouth with a glass of water.

      Before the study…

      Subjects will need to have the following exams, tests or procedures to find out if they can
      be in the study. These exams, tests or procedures are part of regular cancer care and may be
      done even if subjects do not join the study. If subjects have had some of them recently, they
      may not need to be repeated. This will be up to your study doctor.

        -  Medical history risk and physical examination,

        -  Blood tests to measure blood counts, blood mineral levels, and check liver and kidney
           function,

        -  CT scan or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis to measure detectable tumor

        -  A pregnancy blood test if subjects are capable of becoming pregnant

        -  Urinalysis (examination of urine)

        -  The European Organization for research and treatment of cancer global quality of life
           questionnaire C30 (QLQ-C30) -This standard questionnaire helps us to measure quality of
           life. This questionnaire will take subjects 15 minutes to complete and will be completed
           at entry into the study and at week 12 and 24 during the study.

      Tests will be done for hepatitis B and/or C if:

        -  Subjects have a risk of having hepatitis B and/or C or if subjects live or have lived in
           specific geographical areas, such as Asia, Africa, Central and South America, Eastern
           Europe and Spain, Portugal or Greece;

        -  The study doctor thinks it is appropriate.

      Subjects that have positive hepatitis B or hepatitis C results at screening may be required
      to take medication for up to 2 weeks before they start everolimus (Afinitor®) treatment.

      During the Study…

      If the exams, tests and procedures show that subjects can be in the study, and they choose to
      take part, then they will need the following tests and procedures. They are part of regular
      cancer care.

        -  History and physical examination

        -  Weekly blood tests to measure blood counts, blood mineral levels, blood clotting and
           check liver and kidney function

        -  Evaluation of side effects subjects may experience from the study treatment

        -  Tests to having hepatitis B and/or C

        -  CT scan or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis every 12 weeks

        -  The European Organization for research and treatment of cancer global quality of life
           questionnaire C30 (QLQ-C30)
    
  