
    
      Technology is changing the opportunities to deliver behavioral weight loss programs and
      providing a way to extend their reach to wider audiences. Commercial programs that were once
      completely delivered via in person meetings at brick-and-mortar businesses are now expanding
      to virtual programs. WW (formerly known as Weight Watchers) is an industry leader and one of
      few commercial programs that has significant evidence for efficacy on weight loss. Their
      program currently includes a mobile app - that helps people follow the WW Program, rewards
      for consistent tracking and achieving milestones, an online community to connect with other
      users, and a 24/7 text chat with coaches.

      Previous research by the investigators and others reveals that greater engagement in an
      online group-based weight loss program is associated with greater weight loss. We have found
      that an online group coaching program paired with a calorie tracking mobile app is effective
      at producing weight loss. WW is testing a new comprehensive program that involves an updated
      program paired with virtual workshops that offer actionable behavior change techniques for
      members, led by a trained WW coach. They have agreed to fund us to perform a one-arm trial of
      their new comprehensive program that includes a holistic approach to healthy lifestyle
      (activity, diet, and mindset). Findings will inform the continued development of this
      program. Our aims are as follows: 1) To examine the preliminary outcomes and acceptability of
      a multicomponent online commercial weight loss program that includes a mobile app, incentives
      for tracking, weekly virtual workshops, and an online community. Preliminary outcome is
      defined as weight change from baseline to 3 and 6-months. Secondary preliminary outcomes
      include changes in diet quality, physical activity, quality of life, sleep quality, and food
      cravings from baseline to 6 months. Acceptability of each program component and the overall
      program will be evaluated at 6 months. 2) To examine whether greater app use, greater
      engagement in the online community, and engagement with a higher number of peers (in the
      online community) predict greater weight loss at 3- and 6-months. 3) To examine the
      associations between total use of program components (and each individual program component)
      and change in weight. We hypothesize that greater use of program components (individually and
      total) will predict greater weight loss.
    
  