
    
      Over the last 3 decades there has been a drastic increase in the number of joint preservation
      surgeries performed for pre-arthritic hip conditions in the United States. Despite advances
      in surgical technique and the understanding of the biomechanics of impingement and dysplasia,
      failure rates range from 5-20% at early follow up, and can be even higher with continued
      monitoring. These failures are often attributed to the presence of pre-operative
      osteoarthritis, increased age, or unaddressed structural deformity. The influence of
      psychosocial factors on surgical and rehabilitative outcomes has been recognized in multiple
      populations, but has largely been ignored in individuals with hip pathology, in spite of
      growing recognition by clinicians as to how psychosocial factors may contribute to patient
      outcomes. Previous investigations have demonstrated poor mental health is associated with
      pre-operative narcotic use and lower physical function. Further, the investigators have
      identified certain psychiatric diagnoses as independent factors associated with failure of
      hip arthroscopy. Addressing these often complex psychosocial issues using cognitive based
      therapy has been successful in improving outcomes across a range of medical conditions.
      Further investigation into the incidence of these psychosocial conditions, their
      contributions to surgical and non-surgical outcomes, and interventions for mental health
      optimization need to be performed in musculoskeletal medicine, specifically in the developing
      field of hip preservation surgery. The goal of this project is to (1) understand the burden
      of maladaptive psychosocial traits in young adult patients with hip pain, and (2) reduce
      pain, decrease narcotic use, and improve physical function through psychosocial intervention
      delivered concomitantly during physical therapy. The investigators seek to maximize outcomes
      of individuals with non-arthritic hip dysfunction by addressing maladaptive behaviors so
      subjects can more effectively participate in rehabilitative treatment, and potentially, avoid
      the need for surgical management.
    
  