
    
      Effective epidural analgesia depends on accurate identification of the epidural space for
      delivery of analgesic mixtures. The technique of loss of resistance to either saline or air
      is the most commonly used method to locate the epidural space. Although this technique has a
      high success rate, it is associated with a significant incidence of accidental dural
      punctures. Accidental dural punctures might be related to the operator performance or to
      individual anatomical variations.

      A normal ligamentum flavum is fundamental in the loss of resistance technique. However, many
      cadaver dissection and radiological studies in the literature have showed that the ligamentum
      flavum may in fact not fuse at the midline; thereby leaving a gap between its left and right
      portions. Ligamentum flavum midline gaps are thought to be a potential cause of failed
      recognition of loss of resistance during epidural needle placement and consequently
      accidental dural puncture. Therefore, if it were feasible to avoid inserting the epidural
      needle at the same level where a ligamentum flavum midline gap exists, then dural punctures
      may be less likely.

      Lumbar spine ultrasound has been very useful in consistently identifying important anatomical
      landmarks for epidural needle placement including the ligamentum flavum. It is unknown at
      this time whether ultrasound is a useful modality to detect abnormal anatomy. Our study will
      evaluate by ultrasound scan the lumbar vertebral column of patients who have had a previously
      recognized accidental dural puncture. Our objective is to determine whether or not there is a
      correlation between accidental dural punctures and abnormalities of ligamentum flavum as seen
      by ultrasound imaging. Our hypothesis is that patients who have had accidental dural
      punctures have abnormal anatomy of ligamentum flavum that can be detected by lumbar spine
      ultrasound.

      Lumbar ultrasound imaging from L1-S1 will be performed with the patient in the sitting
      position. The best possible image captured at the transverse approach for each of the
      interspaces from L5-S1 to L1-L2 will be saved for analysis of both ligamentum flavum (primary
      outcome) and symmetry (secondary outcome). A normal ligamentum flavum is described as a
      hyperechoic continuous midline band, which is aligned with the hyperechoic signal of the
      transverse processes. An abnormal ligamentum flavum will be described as a non-continuous or
      even absent signal. The presence of symmetric anatomy is defined as an equal distant between
      the left and right articular processes and the transverse processes to the midline.

      Incidence of abnormal ligamentum flavum and asymmetry will be presented in a descriptive way
      and the level of anatomical abnormality detected by ultrasound will be correlated to the
      level of dural puncture reported on the anaesthesia record.
    
  