
    
      Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) is an alpha-synucleinopathy and the second most common form
      of dementia in the elderly. DLB shares striking neuropathological and clinical similarities
      with both Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). DLB and PD are characterized
      by death of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the nigro-striatal system and formation of
      intra-neuronal alpha-synuclein inclusions known as Lewy bodies (LBs). Misfolded
      alpha-synuclein aggregates within LBs and apha-synuclein (SYN) is the highest genetic risk
      factor for PD and DLB followed by the microtubule associated protein tau (MAPT) . At autopsy
      alpha-synuclein, hyper-phosphorylated tau (p-tau) and amyloid plaques are all detected in the
      brains of individuals with DLB. Therefore, the neuropathology of DLB overlaps with both PD
      and AD, and includes alpha-synuclein accumulation in LBs, p-tau and beta-amyloid deposition .
      Potential cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, including alpha-synuclein, dopamine
      metabolites homovanillic acid (HVA) and 3,4-Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) , total tau
      and p-tau and amyloid beta peptides (Abeta 40/42) may be commonly shared in AD, PD and DLB.
      The core clinical features of DLB, include dementia and Parkinsonism in addition to
      hallucinations, cognitive fluctuations and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorders
      (RBD) . L-Dopa replacement therapies and acetylcholinesterase inhibitors may partially
      control motor and cognitive symptoms, respectively in DLB. Selective Serotonin Re-uptake
      Inhibitors (SSRIs) and antipsychotics manage the behavioral but worsen motor symptoms in DLB.
      There is a major unmet medical need for further research into DLB to identify potential
      therapies for this disease and provide significant insights into the treatment of other
      Parkinsonian and memory disorders. A major challenge facing DLB is to develop a therapy that
      can halt neuronal death and alleviate cognitive, motor and behavioral symptoms. No
      therapeutic approach exists to alter the levels of neurotoxic proteins such as
      alpha-synuclein and halt DA and other neuronal death in DLB. One mechanism to degrade
      neurotoxic proteins is autophagy , which is a process by which the cell can degrade its own
      contents. There is evidence that autophagy is impaired in neurodegeneration , leading to
      failure of degradation of protein aggregates, including misfolded alpha-synuclein.
      Importantly, autophagy is exploited therapeutically in several diseases, including adult
      chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) induce autophagy, leading
      to destruction of rapidly dividing tumor cells in CML and degradation of neurotoxic proteins,
      including alpha-synuclein, beta-amyloid and p-tau in PD and AD models. Sun Pharma Advanced
      Research Company Limited (SPARC Ltd.) is developing K0706, for the treatment of adult
      patients with chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)
      that is resistant or intolerant to prior TKI therapy or Philadelphia positive acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL) that is resistant or intolerant to prior TKI therapy; and
      its ability to slow down progression of PD. Using allometric scaling and an average human
      body weight of 70kg an oral dose of 15-30mg/kg once daily in mice corresponds to an oral
      human equivalent dose (HED) of 85-160 mg which is within the tolerated dose in both CML and
      PD. Therefore, the effects of 96 mg K0706 and 192 mg K0706 versus matching placebo taken
      daily by mouth for 12 weeks, followed by a 4 week wash-out period will be evaluated in
      individuals diagnosed with DLB. The data obtained from this study will serve as a proof of
      concept for future placebo-controlled, double-blind studies in patients diagnosed with DLB,
      AD, or PD.
    
  