
    
      Donor (allogeneic) blood transfusions are often required during and/or after elective surgery
      to maintain adequate hemoglobin concentration, prevent tissue ischemia (inadequate
      perfusion), treat hypotension (low blood pressure), and compensate for fluid shifts. Hemospan
      is a novel hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier and plasma expander specifically developed to
      perfuse and oxygenate tissue at risk for ischemia and hypoxia (insufficient oxygenation). As
      a result of the molecular size and oxygen dissociation characteristics, Hemospan selectively
      off-loads oxygen in tissues predisposed to low oxygen tension.

      In preclinical studies Hemospan has been found to be free of significant toxicity in a
      variety of animal species. These studies have also demonstrated that Hemospan may be ideally
      suited for this application, and may even perform better than blood in certain situations.
      Hemospan has been evaluated in three clinical studies, including a 90-patient multi-center
      Phase II orthopedic surgery trial completed in Sweden in 2005. No serious adverse events
      attributable to Hemospan have been noted in any of these trials.

      Sangart is developing Hemospan as an oxygen-carrying plasma expander and hemodiluent for
      patients undergoing elective surgical procedures. In the current Phase II study in
      prostatectomy patients, the administration of Hemospan (Treatment) or Ringer's lactate
      (Controls) occurs after approximately 250 mL of surgical blood loss has occurred. Study
      evaluations include clinical observations, subjective symptoms, vital signs, ECG, pulmonary
      hemodynamics (by TEE), serum chemistry, hematology, urinalysis, renal function, and
      oxygenation measurements, as well as a safety follow-up assessment at 4-6 weeks after
      surgery. An independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will review the safety data
      following completion of each dosing cohort.
    
  