
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the efficacy of a structured multidisciplinary intervention compared to
      standard medical care on improving the subject's QOL as measured by the Functional Assessment
      of Cancer Therapy-General global summary score (FACT-G) at 4 weeks (or at end of the
      intervention), at 27 weeks and at 52 weeks.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the effect of a structured multidisciplinary intervention compared to standard
      medical care on improving the subject's psychosocial functioning as measured by the 11 Linear
      Analogue Self Assessment (LASA) QOL scales, Profile of Mood States (POMS), the Functional
      Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Spiritual well-being scale (FACIT-SP), Pittsburgh Sleep
      Quality Index, the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, the Control Preferences Scale, and Exercise
      Behaviors at 4 weeks (or at end of intervention), at 27 weeks and at 52 weeks.

      II. To examine the effect of a structured multidisciplinary intervention compared to standard
      medical care on improving the caregiver's QOL as measured by the Caregiver QOL-Cancer scale,
      and on their psychosocial functioning as measured by the 11 LASA QOL scales and POMS at 4, 27
      and 52 weeks.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP A: Patients receive six 90-minute sessions of multidisciplinary structured intervention
      comprising physical therapy, education, a cognitive-behavioral intervention, discussion and
      support, spiritual reflection, and a relaxation exercise over 2-4 weeks. Caregivers are
      invited to sessions 1, 3, 4, and 6. Patients may also receive brief telephone contact during
      the 6 month follow-up period.

      GROUP B: Patients receive standard medical care only. Patients may also receive brief
      telephone contact during the 6 month follow-up period.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks (or at the end of
      intervention), at 27 weeks, and at 52 weeks.
    
  