
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To measure changes in gene expression in prostate tissue core biopsy samples before and
           after a low-fat diet and lifestyle intervention in patients with previously untreated
           stage I or II adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

        -  To collect health information from these patients to enable better understanding of the
           long term impact of diet and lifestyle changes on prostate cancer progression.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Intervention phase: Patients are placed on a comprehensive lifestyle change program
           comprising a low-fat vegan diet, stress management, moderate aerobic exercise, and
           regular participation in a support group for 3 months.

        -  Follow-up phase: Patients undergo core tissue biopsies at baseline and at 3 months for
           genomic and gene expression analysis. Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and
           selenium-binding protein 1 levels are measured by quantitative reverse
           transcription-polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Patients also undergo blood sample
           collection periodically for biomarker analysis, proteomic analysis, and for telomere
           length and telomerase activity analysis as measured by quantitative PCR and telomerase
           repeat amplification protocol (TRAP). Blood and urine samples are also collected and
           stored for future analysis.

      Patients complete questionnaires at baseline, at 3 months, and then every 6-12 months for up
      to 3 years to assess dietary and lifestyle behaviors (exercise, stress management practice,
      and group support), quality of life, and psychological adjustment. Questionnaires include the
      Semi-Quantitative Food Frequency Questionnaire; the SF-36 Health Survey; the UCLA Prostate
      Cancer Index; the Impact of Event Scale; the Memorial Anxiety Scale for Prostate Cancer; the
      Post Traumatic Growth Inventory; the Mindful Attention Awareness Scale; and the Received
      Social Support subscale from the Berlin Social Support Scale.

      Patients' medical records are reviewed every 6-12 months for up to 3 years to collect
      information on clinical events and biomarkers (e.g., prostate-specific antigen and Gleason
      score).
    
  