
    
      The objective of the present study was to examine the effectiveness of a computerised
      decision-support tool, developed to assist paediatric clinicians in delivering personalised
      nutrition and lifestyle optimization advice to children and their families, as a means of
      childhood obesity management.

      The effectiveness of the decision support tool was assessed through a pilot randomized
      controlled intervention trial (RCT). The RCT was initiated on May 2018 and was conducted in
      the Endocrinology Department of the "P. A. Kyriakou" Children's Hospital and in the Division
      of Endocrinology, Metabolism, and Diabetes of the "Aghia Sophia" Children's Hospital in
      Athens, Greece.

      Sixty-five overweight or obese children that were eligible to participate in the RCT, were
      randomly and equally allocated to two study groups. Those children that were randomly
      allocated to the intervention group (IG), were examined by health professionals (i.e.
      paediatricians, paediatric endocrinologists and a dietitian) who were trained in the use of
      the decision support tool. The latter assisted the medical professionals to assess children's
      weight status, to set appropriate weight management goals and provide personalised meal plans
      and/or recommendations to children and their families. On the contrary, those children that
      were randomly allocated to the control group (CG) received the usual care advice that is
      routinely provided to children in the two hospitals and includes child visits and follow-up
      appointments for weight checks with their primary care provider or dietitian.

      The effectiveness of the intervention was evaluated through the collection of data at
      baseline and at a follow-up examination after 3 months.

      All data were uploaded to the decision-support tool, which analysed them and extracted a
      report with the child's assessment, as well as with personalised diet and lifestyle
      optimization recommendations. More specifically, the decision support tool proposed
      personalised weekly meal plans adjusted to the estimated energy requirements calculated for
      each child, as well as personalised diet and lifestyle optimization advice recommendations
      for the child and/or the entire family. Lastly, the decision support tool suggested a
      periodic re-evaluation every 3 or 6 months depending on the child's current weight status,
      the presence of obesity-related comorbidity in children and the presence of obesity in at
      least one or both parents.
    
  