
    
      Homocysteine is a thiol amino acid derived from dietary methionine. Elevated plasma total
      homocysteine (tHcy), termed hyperhomocysteinemia, is a graded, independent risk factor for
      the development of atherosclerosis. Elevated plasma tHcy can be normalized by supplementation
      with folic acid and vitamins B6 and B12 in most patients with normal renal function and this
      treatment has been shown to halt the progression of atherosclerotic plaque.

      Over 90% of patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) requiring hemodialysis have elevated
      plasma tHcy. The leading causes of morbidity and mortality in these patients are
      cardiovascular-related pathologies such as myocardial infarction and stroke. Vitamin
      supplementation consistently fails to normalize elevated plasma tHcy in patients with ESRD,
      thus leaving them at increased risk. Plasma tHcy is 70 - 80% covalently protein bound
      limiting the effectiveness of dialysis as a tHcy lowering treatment.

      Mesna (sodium 2-mercaptoethanesulfonic acid) is a thiol-containing drug currently indicated
      to prevent hemorrhagic cystitis associated with ifosfamide chemotherapy. Mesna has
      incidentally been shown to deplete plasma thiols in cancer patients undergoing ifosfamide
      chemotherapy. Mesna acts to exchange with thiols bound to plasma proteins enhancing their
      renal excretion. In vitro studies in our laboratory have shown that mesna rapidly (within 5
      minutes) exchanges with protein bound homocysteine yielding a significantly larger dialyzable
      fraction of the thiol amino acid.

      A pilot study recently completed by our group demonstrated a significant decrease in tHcy in
      eight hemodialysis patients receiving 12 mg/kg mesna three times a week pre-dialysis for one
      week. Although this therapy did cause a significant decline in tHcy, mesna failed to reduce
      tHcy to normal levels. The cumulative effects of mesna administration over a longer treatment
      period should be evaluated.
    
  