
    
      There are approximately 21.5 million live-in migrant workers, and around 41% of them are
      employed in Asia. Among the 352 thousand live-in migrant workers in Hong Kong, at least 21%
      of them are caregivers of older adults. The 2016 Policy Address suggested a pilot scheme for
      training live-in migrant caregivers to take care of the older people in Hong Kong to meet the
      trend of Ageing in Place, and cope with the dreadful shortage of formal long-term care
      services. As such, Social Welfare Department of Hong Kong is now implementing an 18-month
      pilot scheme to train live-in migrant workers to care for older adults in order to improve
      the well-being of the older adults. However, there is no effective evidence-based
      intervention available for such caregiving arrangement, not only locally but also
      internationally. The common training for live-in migrant workers is about instrumental
      training, such as feeding and bathing. According to the Relationship-Centred Care Model,
      relationship is the core for good quality of care. Life story work have been tested effective
      in various settings for promoting the psychological well-being of older adults with/out
      dementia, as well as proven useful in promoting mutual understanding and communication
      between caregivers and care-recipients.

      The project is of value in that:

        -  It is a pioneer study, which aims to promote relationship between live-in migrant
           caregivers and older adults to support good quality of care.

        -  The life story work is a skill that is easily learnt and adopted for promoting and
           sustaining good relationship that may impact on the well-being of caregivers and
           care-recipients.

        -  Reduce the needs of formal long-term care services by retaining the older adults to be
           cared at home.

        -  The life story work has a potential to be adopted by all types of caregivers (including
           formal and informal caregivers; live-in and live-out) for promoting the caregiver-care
           recipient dyadic relationship through communication and negotiation between the dyads,
           mutual understanding and expression of needs.

      Objectives:

        1. Explore the feasibility to train live-in migrant caregivers to adopt life story work;

        2. Explore the feasibility of trained live-in migrant caregivers to produce a life story
           book with the older adult at home; and

        3. Provide preliminary evidence of efficacy of the life story work on improving dyadic
           relationship, psychosocial outcomes of the older adults, and satisfaction of caregivers.
    
  