
    
      An estimated 37,500 people in the United States have subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) every
      year. SAH is usually secondary to a brain aneurysm that has burst. In SAH the bleeding
      accumulates around the lining of the brain. SAH is associated with a 51percent mortality
      rate, and one third of survivors are left functionally dependent. Cerebral vasospasm, which
      is a delayed narrowing of the cerebral arteries following SAH, has been identified as the
      most important reason for neurological deterioration and bad outcome in cases of SAH.
      Cerebral vasospasm may be caused by multiple mechanisms.

      Treatment with a neuroprotective agent, such as human albumin (HA), may be beneficial for
      prevention of cerebral vasospasm and improved clinical outcome in patients with SAH. HA is a
      major protein found in blood and is responsible for maintaining fluid balance in the vascular
      system (blood vessels). The purpose of this study was to determine the safety and
      tolerability of 25 percent HA therapy in patients with SAH. This open-label, dose-escalation
      study will provide necessary information for a future definitive phase III clinical trial on
      the efficacy of treatment with HA in patients with SAH.

      The study was designed to enroll 80 patients at 5 centers in the US. Patients with eligible
      SAH first underwent surgical or endovascular repair, which was considered standard care.
      Endovascular repair was a repair of the aneurysm from the inside of the blood vessel.

      Following neurosurgical or endovascular treatment, participants were given a daily infusion
      of HA for 7 days. The HA dose was allocated as follows: the first tier (20 patients) would
      receive 0.625 grams (g) of HA per kilogram (kg) of body weight; patients in the second tier
      would receive 1.25g of HA per kg; patients in the third tier would receive 1.875g of HA per
      kg; and patients in the fourth tier would receive 2.5g of HA per kg. Safety and tolerability
      was evaluated by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) after each tier was completed
      and before the study advanced to the next dose tier. A specific safety threshold for
      congestive heart failure and other adverse events was defined based on data from previous
      studies.

      In the follow-up phase, patients participated in study-related evaluations of their health at
      15 days and three months. Duration of the study for participants was 90 days.
    
  