
    
      -  Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) has become the optimal reperfusion
           strategy for ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) when the procedure is performed
           expeditiously and at a high-volume centre.In contrast to the clarity of how to treat
           STEMI, there is no clear definition for when to discharge and which patient to
           discharge.

        -  It is conceivable to discharge patients with successful PPCI as early as possible,
           because a hospital stay longer than needed may create undesirable outcomes in terms of
           hospital infections, psychosocial reasons, adequate mobilization and patient comfort. In
           many tertiary centres with a busy PPCI programme insufficient bed capacity is an ongoing
           concern and threatens the continuous acceptance of new cases of acute infarctions. In
           addition, it has been indicated that an early discharge policy may lead to a substantial
           cost saving.

        -  Although much work has been done in developing and validating risk scores that identify
           low risk patients, data on the implementation of early discharge strategies have been
           quite limited There are 3 randomised trials investigating the possibility of early
           discharge after PPCI. However, certain limitations of these studies are preventing to
           implement an early discharge strategy in all-comers, particularly because of the
           underrepresentation of older patients in clinical trials. The verification of this
           policy is also needed in patients with multivessel disease. The first prospective
           randomized trial, the PAMI II,7 is partly obsolete as major changes have been made in
           PPCI with respect to devices and adjunctive medication. The other two randomized trials
           were single-center pilot studies with small number of patients.

        -  Therefore, the above mentioned literature information warrants to test the
           reproducibility of safety endpoints in a large scale multicenter trial, prior to
           application of the early discharge strategy in clinical practice.
    
  