
    
      Objective: The aim of this study will be to provide objective evidence supporting that junior
      trainees are less successful at neonatal ETI when in the presence of a large audience. If
      this hypothesis is correct, this data will provide evidence to support the residents request
      for less people around during the procedure, which may increase the chance of a successful
      intubation.

      After Investigators obtained written consent - the selected student-will be asked to wear a
      cardiac monitor and 5 minutes later after a period of rest, they will be called in the
      delivery room. Two minutes after their arrival they will be given a stylet and a 3.5 ET tube
      and will be asked to intubate orally a mannequin, after 30 seconds, the operator will be
      reminded of the time. After 45 seconds the attempts will be stopped.

      Participants will be informed of their right to discontinue participation at any time. The
      trainee will be informed at the end of the experience about the aim of the study and will be
      asked to keep it confidential.

      The trainees will be randomized in two groups that differentiate in the conditions under
      which they will start the intubation.

      Condition A: Only the staff will be present with the operator Condition B: An audience of 5
      people with at least 2 neonatologists will be present in case of junior resident or the
      responsible of stage in case of respiratory therapy students.

      The residents who performed intubation in condition A will do a repeat intubation 24 hours
      later using condition B and vice versa. The time and the local of the 2 procedures will be
      the same in both conditions.

      Time to successful intubation will be compared between the two experimental conditions for
      each subject with paired t test. A p<0.05 will be considered significant.

      To estimate the required sample size, Investigators used the study O'Donnel and al who gave
      an approximate intubation time for trainees of 38 seconds with standard deviation of 20
      seconds (14). Using an alpha threshold of 0.05 and power of 80 %, a sample size of 51
      subjects is required to detect 8 second difference time between the two different groups.
      Eight seconds represents a 25 % change in time to intubate and is clinically significant for
      a newborn.
    
  