
    
      This project, which builds upon the investigator's previous R34 National Institute of Dental
      and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR) Planning and Feasibility study, is designed to examine the
      efficacy of a sensory adapted dental environment (SADE) to enhance oral care for children
      with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Children with ASD often exhibit sensory
      over-responsivity when confronted with experiential aspects of dental visits such as exposure
      to bright fluorescent lighting, touch in or around the mouth, or the texture and smell of
      various oral care products. This often results in increased anxiety and negative behavioral
      responses which hinder the dentist's ability to perform treatment. In the proposed project,
      the investigators test a SADE intervention designed to reduce children's anxiety and negative
      responses during oral care.

      The SADE intervention includes adaptations such as dimmed lighting, moving projections on the
      ceiling (fish, bubbles), exposure to soothing music, and application of a butterfly vest with
      wings that wrap around the child to provide calming sensations.

      The specific aims are to conduct a randomized clinical trial in order to:

        1. Determine if SADE, relative to a regular dental environment (RDE), reduces physiological
           anxiety and negative responses (behavioral distress, perception of pain, sensory
           discomfort) during dental cleaning for children with ASD.

        2. Identify whether physiological anxiety mediates the beneficial effects of the
           intervention and whether severity of ASD and communication ability, or dental anxiety,
           sensory over-responsivity, and age act as moderating variables.

        3. Assess the quality of care and cost effectiveness/savings of the dental cleaning
           associated with SADE.

      Research participants will be 220 ethnically diverse children aged 6-12 years. Using a
      randomized counterbalanced study design, each child will undergo two dental cleanings four
      months apart: one dental cleaning in RDE and one dental cleaning in SADE.

      This project is significant because it is the first full-scale trial of an intervention
      designed to reduce oral care problems in children with ASD. It is theoretically important
      because it will elucidate the mechanisms that underlie the effects of the SADE intervention.
      Based on the study findings, the investigators will develop a model to transform the standard
      of pediatric dental care by modifying the sensory qualities of the dental environment. This
      model will have the potential to be utilized in dental clinics worldwide. As such, the
      project promises to have a major public health impact insofar as the potential gains in oral
      health, child comfort, and cost-savings will be dramatic, potentially applying to more than
      one-fourth of all children.
    
  