
    
      This is a nonrandomized, open-label trial of avelumab in subjects with metastatic
      castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) experiencing PSA or radiographic progression
      while receiving 2nd generation ADT (abiraterone / enzalutamide/ apalutamide or darolutamide).
      Metastases must be radiographically evident by whole body bone scintigraphy or CT/MRI scan.

      Thirteen African American subjects will be enrolled into the initial cohort. If at least one
      positive response (PSA decrease by >50% and or radiographic per RECIST 1.1) is found, the
      study will be expanded to accrue a total of 27 patients. The trial will be conducted in
      accordance with Good Clinical Practices.

      Subjects enrolled in the study will receive avelumab 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks (Q2W) and
      continue their previously started 2nd generation ADT (abiraterone or enzalutamide).

      All subjects will undergo radiographic imaging assessments and PSA assessments to evaluate
      response to treatment at regular intervals. On study imaging will be assessed every 12 weeks.
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 will be adapted per the consensus
      guidelines of the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 3 (PCWG3) as described in
      Appendix A/B to account for the tumor progression patterns seen in bone metastases in
      prostate cancer. PSA will be obtained every 2 weeks with PSA progression assessed per PCWG3.

      Adverse events (AEs) will be monitored throughout the trial and graded in severity according
      to the guidelines outlined in the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03.

      Treatment with avelumab will continue until documented confirmed disease progression,
      unacceptable AEs, intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment,
      Investigator's decision to withdraw the subject, subject discontinuation from the study,
      noncompliance with trial treatment or procedure requirements, subject receives 52
      administrations of avelumab (approximately 2 years), or administrative reasons requiring the
      cessation of treatment.

      After the end of treatment, each subject will be followed for 30 days for AE monitoring
      (serious AEs will be collected for 90 days after the end of treatment or 30 days after the
      end of treatment if the subject initiates new anticancer therapy, whichever is earlier).
      Subjects who discontinue treatment for reasons other than disease progression will remain on
      study and continue to undergo study-related disease assessments until documented disease
      progression, initiation of a new non-study prostate cancer treatment, withdrawal of consent,
      or becoming lost to follow-up. All subjects will enter survival follow up, and will be
      contacted at their regularly scheduled clinic visit, or by telephone approximately every 6
      months, until death or withdrawal of consent or end of study.
    
  