
    
      Researchers in the M. D. Anderson Department of Behavioral Science are developing a new video
      game program for young U.S. Army service members. The game addresses stopping and preventing
      the use of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco. Soldiers (ages 18-35 years) stationed at Fort
      Hood, Texas, who are not scheduled to be mobilized for a 13-month period, will be invited to
      take part in the study.

      The Study Groups:

      If you choose to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a type of study
      intervention. The personnel companies on-base have been randomly assigned (as in the flip of
      a coin) to offer participating service members 1 of the following 2 programs: either the
      educational video game (called the "intervention"), or pamphlets on stopping tobacco use
      (called "standard care"). Each company will receive only 1 of the 2 programs, and all
      participating service members in the same company will receive the same program. Each company
      has an equal chance of being assigned to either program.

      Intervention:

      Participants in the intervention group will have a month to use the educational anti-tobacco
      video game located in areas that will provide convenient access. The game will be made
      available using an arcade-type kiosk which houses the computer game. After playing the video
      game on the kiosk for three 30-minute sessions, you will then be given a CD-ROM disc of the
      game to use as needed. After finishing these three 30-minute computer sessions, you will also
      receive a series of printed materials that go along with the computer sessions.

      Standard Care:

      The standard care participants will receive a self-help pamphlet about stopping and avoiding
      tobacco use, provided by the National Institutes of Health.

      Both Intervention and Standard Care Groups:

      No matter which group your company is assigned to, if you choose to take part, you will be
      asked to complete surveys by computer at 4 points throughout the study. The survey will
      include questions about tobacco use, such as how much tobacco you use, how many times you
      have tried to quit, how ready you are to quit, how dependent you are on nicotine, any
      withdrawal and breathing symptoms you experience, your level of alcohol use, and support from
      family and friends. Each survey should take about 30 minutes to complete.

      The first surveys will take place at the start of study participation. The intervention group
      will complete the second survey right after finishing the program. The standard care group
      will complete this second survey at about the same time as the intervention group. Both
      groups will also complete the third and fourth surveys at 6- and 12-month follow-ups.

      You will be asked to provide saliva samples at the 12-month follow-up visit. Researchers will
      use these saliva samples to measure the level of cotinine, a chemical in your saliva that is
      related to tobacco use. You will be asked to spit into a clean plastic container. A dipstick
      will be placed in the container for at least 30 minutes. After reading the dipstick and
      recording the result, the study staff will throw away the saliva sample right away.

      You will also be told about the nicotine replacement therapy and other tobacco cessation
      services available at no cost through the Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center (CRDAMC)
      Tobacco Cessation Program at Fort Hood. M. D. Anderson is collaborating with the CRDAMC
      Tobacco Cessation Program on this study.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 2050 soldiers will be asked to take part in this
      study.
    
  