
    
      This is an open label, 3-period study assessing the safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of
      Triferic and Shohl's solution administered orally to patients with IRIDA. A total of 28
      patients stratified by 4 age groups (age 0 to <6 years, age 6 to <12 years, age 12 to <18
      years, and age >=18 years) will be studied.

      Total participation in the study is between 4 weeks (Period 1) and 12 months (Periods 1, 2,
      and 3), depending upon how many Periods each patient participates in. Following screening, in
      Period 1 (iron absorption testing) patients undergo oral iron absorption testing during 3
      visits to confirm that they adequately absorb iron from Triferic when it is administered with
      Shohl's solution ('Triferic responders': patients with a maximal increase from baseline in
      serum iron concentration >100 micrograms per deciliter (μg/dL) following an oral Shohl's
      solution and Triferic dose).

      The 'Triferic responders' from Period 1 are then invited to participate in Period 2 (dose
      titration). The patients will receive Shohl's solution and Triferic orally up to 3 times per
      day for 4 months, titrated as needed based on laboratory results and patient tolerance, to
      determine whether their hemoglobin levels respond to this treatment. Period 2 'hemoglobin
      responders' (patients with an increase from baseline in hemoglobin (Hgb) concentration ≥1.0
      grams per deciliter (g/dL) at Visit 9) will be invited to participate in period 3.

      In Period 3 patients will receive Shohl's solution and Triferic orally up to 3 times per day
      for an additional 6 months to determine whether the hemoglobin response observed in Period 2
      is sustainable. During Period 3, Shohl's solution and Triferic dose and frequency may
      continue to be titrated as needed based on laboratory results and patient tolerance.

      A follow-up visit will occur approximately 1 week after the last completed Period study
      visit, regardless of the Period that the patient completes the study.
    
  