
    
      Study data were collected prospectively and analyzed retrospectively. The demographic data of
      the patients, other parameters such as smoking, whether they sit a lot due to occupation
      (sitting at work for at least 6 hours a day), skin tone (whiter, darker), presence of
      positive family history, BMI (kg/m2, patients were divided into BMI <30 and BMI> 30),
      pilosity levels (mild,moderate, severe) were also recorded. In addition, the time from the
      recurrence to admission, the number and type of previous operations, and the status of the
      sinus at presentation (acute, chronic) were recorded. The presence of purulent discharge from
      the sinus opening and the presence of signs of inflammation or abscess formation in this
      region were evaluated as acute pilonidal sinus disease (PSD). The presence of serous
      discharge from the sinus opening and absence of abscess formation were evaluated as chronic
      PSD. Investigators investigated whether the factors mentioned above affect the number of
      applications and recurrence after crystallized phenol treatment (CPT).

      The treatment procedure was applied to all patients by one surgical team. One day before the
      procedure, patients were asked to clean the hair from the waist to the middle of the thighs
      with depilatory creams or epilation. After local anesthesia was performed around the holes, a
      thin mosquito clamp was inserted into the sinus and the hairs were removed and the skin
      around the hole was covered by nitrofurantoin pomade to prevent chemical irritation. Then
      crystallized phenol was introduced into the sinus with the same clamp. Patients were allowed
      to return to their daily activities after the procedure. This procedure was performed every 3
      weeks. If there was discharge from the wound during the follow-up examination, the procedure
      was repeated. The closure of the sinus hole and the complete disappearance of the discharge
      were accepted as healing. After the treatment, follow-up was started. Follow up was done
      first yearly than five years intervals. All of our patients' contact information was recorded
      by us and we tried to reach the patients every 5 years by any means (phone or e-mail).
      Investigators tried to follow them up by contacting them periodically, whether they contact
      us or not. According to this follow-up, patients were analyzed by divided into 3 groups(1-5
      years, 5-10 years, 10-20 years). Patients who could not be reached by any means of
      communication were included in the unreachable group. Patients were recommended to have hair
      removal at the wound site once a month for 6 years.

      Number of crystallized phenol application, presence of recurrence and number of recurrence
      after CPT and follow-up data were evaluated. Recurrence of the sinus hole which was found to
      occur again at least 6 months after being determined to be closed was considered as
      recurrence. If no recurrence was observed during the follow-up or if post-CPT recurrence was
      healed after treatment, CPT was considered successful.
    
  