
    
      Current practice for SIJ pain that is refractory to conservative treatment, is the use of RFA
      of the posterior sacral network under fluoroscopic-guidance. There is high variability
      regarding the long-term benefits of this procedure. To date, there have been no clinical
      studies evaluating the effectiveness of US-guided RFA procedures for SIJ pain. A study
      performed in 2017 attempted to determine the effectiveness of US-guided sacral LBBs compared
      to fluoroscopic-guidance (gold standard in current practice). The results were in favour of
      an US-guided approach. Compared with fluoroscopy, US-guided sacral lateral branch blocks
      required a shorter performance time, fewer needle passes, and was associated with a lower
      incidence of vascular breach. Furthermore, with an US-guided procedure, the patient is no
      longer exposed to ionizing radiation.With an improved understanding of SIJ sensory
      innervation, as well as technical improvements in RFA electrodes, it is postulated that RFA
      under ultrasound-guidance will lead to non-inferior clinical outcomes, as well as shorter
      performance time and reduced costs compared with the current practice of
      fluoroscopic-guidance.

      The objectives of the current study are the following:

        1. To evaluate the efficacy of US-guided posterior sacral network SIJ RFA compared to
           fluoroscopy-guided SIJ RFA.

        2. To compare the post-procedure pain/flare-up and duration required to achieve full
           recovery for each approach.

        3. To perform a cost effectiveness analysis comparing ultrasound and fluoroscopy-guided SIJ
           RFA.

        4. To determine the safety of US-guided SIJ RFA by tracking intra-operative and
           post-procedure complications.

      Research Method/Procedures:

      The proposed study is a single-blind, single-center randomized controlled trial. Patients who
      present with pain thought to be originating from the SIJ will be screened for study
      participation with fluoroscopy-guided sacral LBBs. If a patient has an initial successful
      sacral LBB (defined as 70% reduction in pain), or has prior successful SIJ RFA, they will be
      approached for consent to be contacted for study participation by a member of the
      HealthPointe team; specifically, patients who consent to be contacted for study
      participation, will have their charts reviewed by independent assessors for inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. If a patient meets the inclusion criteria (listed below), they will be
      contacted by a HealthPointe team member, specifically a nurse or care manager, for study
      participation. If the patient expresses an interest with the initial contact, they will be
      subsequently contacted by a study sub-investigator.

      Upon obtaining written consent for study participation, patients will be randomized into one
      of two groups; US-guided SIJ RFA or fluoroscopy-guided SIJ RFA (current gold-standard). Upon
      being randomized to either group they will then undergo a second confirmatory sacral LBB
      under their respective image guidance to confirm candidacy for RFA. If this second,
      confirmatory LBB is successful (70% pain relief or more) the patient qualifies for RFA. Then,
      SIJ RFA will be performed under each respective imaging modality and patients will be
      followed to document pain improvement, functional outcomes, quality of life and medication
      use for 18 months. Study participants will be asked to perform a daily VAS pain diary for the
      first 6 weeks post-procedure in order to document post-procedure pain flare. Questionnaires
      will be administered either in person (if appropriate), or by email or over the phone, at 6
      weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months, 12 months and 18 months post-RFA procedure.

      The primary endpoint is 12 months post-procedure, however the investigators plan to follow
      for 18 months to determine long-term effectiveness. The investigators will perform an
      interim-analysis at the 6-month follow-up time period.

      In further analyses, the effect of the intervention groups on secondary outcomes listed below
      will be evaluated:

      The average time (in days) for post-procedure pain flare. Pain medication use post-procedure
      (% increase or decrease from baseline). Participation in physiotherapy and exercise programs
      (as a binary variable: yes or no) Cost effectiveness analysis comparing procedures based on
      the following mean data: performance time, radiation time, number of thermal lesions
      performed, number of RFA needle passes, volume of local anesthetic used. Cost will be
      compared based on mean data for fluoroscopy- and ultrasound-guided procedures, as well as the
      cost of monopolar vs. bipolar RFA.

      Safety: this will include intra-operative complications related directly to the intervention,
      as well as post-operative complications and adverse events over the study duration.
    
  