
    
      Anterior cervical decompression and fusion (ACDF) is the traditional method for treating
      degenerative cervical disc disease, providing satisfactory results in a high proportion of
      patients. However, stabilization of the treated segment may result in loss of mobility as a
      functional spinal unit and acceleration of degeneration of the adjacent disc. Re operations
      may be required to treat complications of fusion, such as recurrent radicular symptoms,
      non-union, graft collapse, or expulsion. Many previous studies have shown that loss of motion
      at the fused level is compensated by increased motion at adjacent segments after ACDF, which
      induces a high rate of degenerative change adjacent to the fused segment. Cervical non-fusion
      techniques have increasingly been accepted and applied by spine surgeons. As a main component
      of cervical non-fusion techniques, artificial cervical disc replacement provides good ROM of
      the cervical spine. Dynamic cervical stabilization with the DCI is a novel treatment approach
      for cervical disc disease that was initially conceived as a method to combine the potential
      advantages of fusion and total disc replacement. The first DCI was designed by Matgé in 2002
      for treating cervical spondylosis. Paradigm spine introduced the second generation DCIs in
      2005. A U-shaped appearance and axial elasticity are two the most significant
      characteristics. A prospective study by Matgé et al. in 2009 showed that the clinical
      efficacy was satisfactory after DCI replacement in 102 cases of cervical spondylosis and
      during a 1-year follow-up; there was neither device migration nor subsidence. The basic
      concept of the inter-body implant is to maintain a distraction-compression mechanism and so
      avoid possible collapse of the disc height. This is achieved using the special titanium-alloy
      DCI, which is bio compatible, available in various sizes, and provided with different foot
      prints. The U-shaped body provides support and has tooth-like serrations that resist
      expulsion or retropulsion of the implant when placed into the inter-vertebral space. With the
      end-plate left intact, osteogenesis and bone fusion are inhibited and no further hetero-topic
      fusions are supposed to occur. The initial clinical and radio graphic results with the DCI
      appear promising as an alternative to TDR and ACDF in the treatment of cervical disc disease.
      It affords maximal neurological improvement, along with maintenance of excellent clinical
      outcomes. The potential bio-mechanical advantages of DCI include the ability to maintain
      device-level motion and minimize the development of adjacent-segment disease, while
      protecting the facet joints from excessive stresses noted with other motion-preserving
      devices during lateral bending, axial rotation, and extension. The surgical technique
      included the use of a conventional anterior cervical approach and discectomy. As reported,
      disc replacement with DCI is a new strategy, in between ACDF & ADR. It is an intermediate
      solution in the spectrum of management strategies of cervical disc diseases. Immediate
      dynamic stability with good clinical response and no implant-related morbidity or
      complications are the main advantages of this implant.
    
  