
    
      The design of the study was retrospective study using secondary data from medical records of
      coronary heart disease patients who taking antiplatelet drugs and had genetic test at Peking
      University First Hospital. These patients were enrolled in a previous study, which was
      approved by the ethics committee of Peking University First Hospital (NO. 2013 [634]). The
      study investigated the association between genetic polymorphism and clopidogrel
      pharmacodynamics and drug adverse effect, and enrolled total 168 patients.

      The primary endpoints clinical restenosis, defined as unplaned revascularization including
      arget vessel revascularization (TVR) or target lesion revascularization (TLR) , either by
      repeated percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass graft (CABG). The
      platelet function was assessed using VerifyNow® P2Y12 (VN-P2Y12) assay (Accumetrics, San
      Diego, California, USA).

      To analysis the association of SNP with unplaned revascularization and PRU, the investigators
      investigated pathways related to known platelet reaction (platelet production, platelet
      apoptosis, platelet activity, antiplatelet, platelet resistance, platelet adhesion, and etc.)
      and restenosis-related processes (inflammation, vascular function, proliferation and
      transcription) from the KEGG, BioCarta and Gene Cards .

      The genetic statistical analyses were performed using the set-based test of PLINK v1.07
      adjusted by smoking statues. During the set-based test of PLINK the joint effect of all
      genetic variation, fulfilling the test constraints, within the set of genes of pathway of
      interest is evaluated. First a single SNP analysis of all SNPs within the pathway set was
      performed, SNPs with the lowest p-value in the single SNP analysis were selected. This
      analysis was repeated 10,000 times in simulated datasets, subsequently, a mean SNP statistic
      was calculated from the single SNP statistics of a maximum amount of independent SNP with a
      p-value <0.01 SNPs are considered independent when the LD expressed in R2 is lower than 0.5.
      Analysis of gene mutation distribution conforms to the genetic equilibrium law of
      Hardy-Weinberg by chi-square test, P <0.05 is considered possible deviations of population
      distribution. The investigators use the result of 30 month as a replication, SNPs both
      significant in 18 month and 30 month were reported in the study.
    
  