
    
      All study participants will have drug-sensitive TB and successfully complete 2 months of
      standard intensive phase 4-drug RHZE (rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, ethambutol). By
      definition, to have uncomplicated TB, participants will have become asymptomatic and
      smear-negative by the end of intense phase anti-Tb therapy and be ready to transition from
      standard 4-drug (INH, RIF, ETH, PZA) intense phase to the 2-drug continuation phase (INH and
      RIF). All participants will have 1 and 2-month cultures "no growth to date" at the time of
      AZA administration (1-month cultures will therefore be no growth at ~6 weeks and 2-month
      cultures will be no growth at ~2 weeks).

      Eligible study participants will be allocated to the AZA in sequential blocks of 8 study
      participants.

      The following will be performed during screening and work up. These procedures will be
      performed within 4 weeks prior to administration of study drug. A signed and dated IRB
      approved consent form will be obtained before study specific procedures are performed.
      Procedures part of routine care are not considered study specific. All subjects will be
      screened for eligibility before enrollment.

        1. Informed consent

        2. Full History and Exam

             1. Concomitant medications

             2. Allergies

             3. Alcohol and substance use

             4. Vital signs and physical exam

        3. Review of baseline laboratory results including complete blood count (CBC) with
           differential, liver function, renal function and microbiology studies

           a. After consent, CBC, coagulation and Renal and liver function studies will occur
           within 14-days prior to study drug.

           i. CBC: WBC, Hemoglobin, Hematocrit, Platelet count ii. Coagulation studies: PT and PTT
           iii. Sodium, potassium, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, glucose, AST, ALT, alkaline
           phosphatase, total bilirubin b. After screening labs, participants with cytopenias or
           inappropriate coagulation, renal or liver function (see inclusion and exclusion
           criteria), will not receive study drug

        4. Pregnancy test (within 24 hours prior to AZA dosing)

      PHASE IB: AZACITIDINE AFTER 10 WEEKS OF ATT; PRE-TREATMENT EVALUATION

      1-Month pre-study drug: Recruitment, consent and completion of the Case Report Form (CRF)
      including baseline history and physical exam will occur between week 4-10 of Anti-TB therapy.

      0-2 weeks pre-study drug: Blood draw for baseline immune correlates and to screen for
      eligibility criteria (CBC, CMP and coagulation) will occur 1-14 days prior to azacitidine
      dosing. A pregnancy test will occur within 24 hours prior to AZA dosing. (A CMP will include
      measurement of alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase,
      total bilirubin, creatinine, chloride, carbon dioxide/bicarbonate, sodium, potassium and
      glucose. A CBC will include a differential and includes red blood cell count, white blood
      cell count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, platelet count, percent and absolute neutrophil count,
      percent and absolute lymphocyte count, percent and absolute monocyte count, and percent and
      absolute eosinophil count.)

      CYCLE 1 DAYS 1-21 AZA dosing will occur during weeks 10-13 of ATT (+/- 1 week). Pretreatment
      enrollment labs will be reviewed, and a symptom screen and a focused exam will occur before
      each sub-cutaneous dosing of azacitidine. Administration includes inverting 2-3 times to
      homogenize contents, rolling the syringe in the palms for 30 seconds and then administering
      subcutaneously at a maximum of 4mL. (On subsequent days, injection sites will be > 1 inch
      from a previous site and only at intact and healthy skin). Subjects will come to the clinic
      each day (10 minute visit) for 5 days to receive the injection. A weekly telephone call will
      screen for symptoms with clinically relevant symptoms triggering a clinical visit and
      in-person evaluation.

      POST DOSE FOLLOW UP Additional screenings for cytopenias, renal and liver function will occur
      weekly (between days 4-9, 11-16 and 18-23, and 25-30). Two mL of plasma will be collected at
      the same time for pharmacokinetic analysis (between days 4-9, 11-16 and 18-23, and 25-30).
      Follow up study visits and clinical evaluation will occur monthly for the last 4 months of
      anti-TB therapy as standard of care. Additional blood draws for PBMCs, and immune correlates
      will occur at week 16 of ATT (week 6 post commencing AZA).

      PHASE II: AZACITIDINE AFTER 10 WEEKS OF ATT; PRE-TREATMENT EVALUATION

      1-Month pre-study drug: Recruitment, consent and completion of the CRF including baseline
      history and physical exam will occur between week 4-10 of Anti-TB therapy.

      0-2 weeks pre-study drug: Blood draw for baseline immune correlates and to screen for
      eligibility criteria (CBC, CMP and coagulation) will occur within 1-14 days prior to
      azacitidine dosing. A pregnancy test will occur within 24 hours prior to AZA dosing.

      CYCLE 1 DAYS 1-21 AZA dosing will occur during weeks 10-13 of ATT (+/- 1 week). Pretreatment
      enrollment labs will be reviewed, and a symptom screen and a focused exam will occur before
      administering AZA. Subjects will come to the clinic each day (10 minute visit) for 5 days to
      receive the injection. A weekly telephone call will screen for symptoms with clinically
      relevant symptoms triggering a clinical visit and in-person evaluation.

      POST DOSE FOLLOW UP Additional screenings for cytopenias, renal and liver function will occur
      weekly (between days 4-9, 11-16, 18-23 and 25-30). Follow up study visits and clinical
      evaluation will occur at week 12 (at the peak of AZA induced toxicity), 16, 20 and 24.
      Additional blood draws for PBMCs and immune correlates will occur at week 16 of ATT (week 6
      post commencing AZA).
    
  