
    
      Aplastic Anemia is a blood disorder where bone marrow does not produce enough cells for
      blood. Patients with aplastic anemia have lower counts of all three blood cell types (RBC,
      WBC, and Platelet). Severe cases of aplastic anemia that are untreated can lead to death from
      bleeding and overwhelming infection.

      For patients with Severe Aplastic Anemia (SAA), allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant
      (HSCT) from an HLA-identical sibling is an accepted treatment for restoring normal bone
      marrow function. Preparative regimens for allogeneic HSCT are designed to give the highest
      tolerated doses of chemotherapy, with or without total body irradiation (TBI), in order to
      fully "ablate" or destroy the patient host's bone marrow so that the transplanted cells from
      the HLA-identical sibling can engraft in the patient host.

      While allogeneic HSCT has been proven to be a curative form of therapy for SAA, it is also
      associated with high transplant-related morbidity (side effects) and possible mortality
      (death). One of the toxic side effects from high-dose chemotherapy and TBI are believed to be
      a major contributing factor to "Graft-versus-Host Disease" (GVHD).

      Preliminary studies have shown that a reduced intensity (non-myeloablative) allogeneic HSCT
      may be just as effective in treating SAA. Low-dose chemotherapy is used instead of high-dose
      chemotherapy and TBI. Some smaller studies have indicated that reduced intensity preparative
      regimens using Fludarabine and Cyclophosphamide allowed engraftment in the matched sibling
      donor setting with an acceptable level of toxic side effects in subjects with a variety of
      hematologic cancers. Additional studies that followed showed that a reduced intensity
      preparative regimen that included fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and antithymocyte globulin,
      allowed engraftment of donor stem cells in subjects with SAA with acceptable engraftment
      rates and a decrease in the severity of GVHD.

      This study is designed to evaluate the effectiveness of allogeneic transplant after a
      reduced-intensity preparative regimen, to evaluate survival, and to evaluate the side effects
      including GVHD of this treatment. Patients will be in the study for two years for treatment
      and active monitoring. All patients will be followed until death.
    
  