
    
      Design

      Patients being able to participate in this study all have to fulfill the given inclusion
      criteria:

        -  Patients with symptomatic and radiographic verified knee symptoms, selected for primary
           unilateral total knee joint replacement (TKA)

        -  Age 50 and above (not older than 85)

        -  BMI < 35 and height >160 cm

        -  No severe cardiovascular conditions

        -  No previously knee surgery done in the same knee

        -  Oral and written acceptance

      A group concerning 2 x 30 patients will be randomized into two groups. Either an intervention
      group, with absence of tourniquet or a control group with tourniquet. Which group they will
      belong to, is blinded to patient and surgeon until they reach operation room. The operation
      will be performed as usual, but with exception of two additional procedures. During operation
      small spheric tantalum pellets are placed around the prosthesis. Furthermore patients are
      prepared for microdialysis, which contain placement of 3 catheters: one in each thigh and one
      subcutaneously in the abdomen.

      Microdialysis is a unique technique to monitor the chemistry of the extracellular space in
      living tissue. It is primarily used for In Vivo determinations of endogenous metabolites,
      thus serving as an indicator for ischemia.

      RSA is precision radiology where the small pellets are visual on x-ray. Using computer a 3D
      image is created and the pellets serve as markers. These markers will be measured every 6
      months showing whether a possible migration of the prosthesis is occurring and thereby
      indicating a loosening.

      Out-patient treatment Patients will among other things be followed by clinical functional
      scores, registration of analgetica use, conventional X-ray and RSA In the long run the
      perspective is that surgery concerning knee replacements will be conducted without the use of
      tourniquet and thereby reducing the pain of the patients without compromising the end result
      of the operation, namely the fixation of the prosthesis.

      Permissions approved by the Regional Committee on Biomedical Research Ethics, Region of
      Northern Jutland and Danish Data Protection Agency.
    
  