
    
      The drug being tested in this study is called ITI-214. This study will look at how well
      different doses of ITI-214 are tolerated in healthy people and in people with stable
      schizophrenia. In addition, exploratory neuroimaging will be conducted in participants with
      schizophrenia.

      This multi-center trial will be conducted in the United States. The study will be comprised
      of 2 parts: Multiple-Rising Dose (MRD) and Neuroimaging (NI). Approximately 40 healthy
      participants are planned to be enrolled in the MRD part of the study and approximately 36
      patients with stable schizophrenia are planned to be enrolled in the Neuroimaging part of the
      study.

      Participants in the MRD (parallel design) part will be enrolled in cohorts for different dose
      levels. In each dose cohort, participants will be randomly assigned to active dose or
      placebo-which will remain undisclosed to participants and study doctor during the study
      (unless there is an urgent medical need). The following dose cohorts will be enrolled: Doses
      A, B, C, and D.

      Participants will be asked to take the study drug in oral solution once daily for a total of
      14 days while confined at the study site. Participants will be contacted by telephone 22 and
      44 days after last dose of study drug for a follow-up assessment.

      Participants in the Neuroimaging (NI) part of the study will be randomly assigned to one of
      six treatment sequences. Each sequence consists of 3 cross-over treatment periods. The
      following doses will be tested: Doses E, F, G, and H.

      Each participant will undergo 3 treatment periods of placebo or ITI-214 once daily dosing for
      7 days in each of the periods. There will be a washout period of a minimum of 7 days between
      treatment periods. Participants will be confined at the study site for 5 days of each
      treatment period and will report to the site on other dosing days for study drug
      administration. There will be follow-up assessments on Days 14 and 37 of Period 3.

      Study was terminated due to business decision. The study compound is being transferred to
      Intra-Cellular Therapies, Inc.
    
  