
    
      Bone marrow transplantation (BMT) patients are immunocompromised to a varying degree
      depending upon genetic relationship between donor and recipient with compromising therapy
      required for allogeneic transplants. Responses to influenza vaccine in this population have
      been poor and yet influenza virus infection can lead to serious disease. There is a need for
      prophylaxis against influenza in this population. One approach to improving immune responses
      to influenza vaccines in BMT patients could be to increase dosage and number of doses of
      vaccine. This approach has increased responses in a variety of populations. Moreover, using
      purified hemagglutinin (HA) vaccines in the form of rDNA-expressed HA protein in a
      baculovirus expression system has increased immune responses without an increase in
      reactogenicity. Researchers hypothesize that an increased dosage and 2 doses of a purified
      influenza vaccine will increase serum hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) and neutralizing
      antibody responses significantly over those following 2 doses of conventional vaccine in BMT
      patients. The primary objective of this study is to determine if 2 doses of a
      baculovirus-expressed recombinant trivalent influenza vaccine containing approximately 135
      mcg per HA results in a significantly higher proportion of subjects achieving a Day 28 and
      Day 56 post vaccination increase in serum HAI and neutralizing antibody titer than seen after
      immunization with standard dose licensed trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine in
      immunosuppressed allogeneic HSCT (hematopoietic stem cell transplantation) recipients. The
      secondary objective is determination of the safety and tolerability of a two-dose regimen of
      recombinant, baculovirus-expressed HA containing approximately 135 mcg per HA administered by
      intramuscular injection to patients following allogeneic HSCT, and comparison of the
      geometric mean titers (GMT) of serum HAI and neutralizing antibody against all 3 virus
      strains contained in the vaccine. The study will enroll 100 adult (greater than or equal to
      18 years of age) allogeneic HSCT recipients between 6 and 12 months following bone marrow
      transplantation, with no or stable chronic graft-versus-host disease, who are evaluated at
      the outpatient BMT clinic at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. Subjects will be randomized to
      receive either licensed trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine (TIV) or
      baculovirus-expressed recombinant trivalent hemagglutinin vaccine (rHA0). All injections will
      be administered into the deltoid muscle. Subjects will be randomized (50 per group) to
      receive a vaccination on Day 0 and a second dose 4 weeks later. Subjects will be observed in
      the clinic for at least 20 minutes after inoculation, and subjects will maintain a memory aid
      to record oral temperature and solicited systemic and local adverse events (AE)s for 8 days
      (Day 0 through Day 7) after each immunization. Subjects will be seen on Day 2 and Day 30 (1-5
      days after each vaccination) for an arm check, vital signs, assessment of possible AEs,
      concomitant medication assessment, and a targeted physical examination if indicated. Subjects
      will be contacted by phone on Day 8 and Day 36 (7-10 days after each vaccination) to review
      the memory aid and to assess for possible AEs or serious (S) AEs. Subjects will return to the
      clinic on Day 28 for AE and concomitant medication assessment, a targeted physical
      examination if indicated, and a review of the memory aid prior to receiving the second dose
      of vaccine. Serum for vaccine immunogenicity evaluations will be collected prior to
      vaccination at Days 0 and 28, and 56 days after the first vaccine dose. Participants will be
      involved in study related procedures for 6 months.
    
  