
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the percent change in the mean pS6K1 immunostaining from baseline in mucosal
      Barrett esophagus (BE) biopsies among patients assigned to 2,000 mg metformin hydrochloride
      once daily (QD) versus placebo as determined from Barrett mucosal biopsy samples obtained
      pre- and post-intervention.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate adverse events associated with the two intervention arms.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the effects of metformin hydrochloride 2,000 mg QD versus placebo on the changes
      in pS6K1 using traditional IHC categories.

      II. To assess the effects of metformin hydrochloride 2,000 mg QD versus placebo on absolute
      change in pS6K1.

      III. To assess changes in serum markers (metformin hydrochloride, fasting insulin, HOMA-IR,
      IGF-1, IGF-2, IGFBP-1, IGFBP-3, fasting leptin, and fasting adiponectin) as determined from
      serum samples obtained pre- and post-intervention.

      IV. To assess changes in proliferation (Ki-67) and apoptosis (cleaved caspase 3) as
      determined from Barrett mucosal biopsy samples obtained pre- and post-intervention.

      V. To assess changes in molecular mediators of the insulin pathway (p-IRS-1, p-AKT^Serine
      473) as determined from Barrett mucosal biopsy samples obtained pre- and post-intervention.

      VI. To assess changes in relative activity of AMPK (phosphorylated AMPK/total AMPK ratio) and
      molecular mediators of AMP kinase (p-mTOR, pS6K1^Serine 235) as determined from Barrett
      mucosal biopsy samples obtained pre- and post-intervention.

      VII. To assess changes in Programmed Cell Death 4 expression and miR-21 as determined from
      Barrett mucosal biopsy samples pre- and post-intervention.

      VIII. To establish a biospecimen repository archive for future correlative studies.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients are stratified according to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs use (regular vs no
      regular), body mass index (≥ 30 kg/m² vs < 30 kg/m²), gender (male vs female), and length of
      Barrett (2.00 to 4.99 cm vs ≥ 5.00 cm). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I: Patients receive extended-release metformin hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD)
      on week 1, and twice daily (BID) on weeks 2-12 (every morning [QAM] and every evening [QPM]
      on week 3) in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Arm II: Patients receive extended-release placebo PO QD on week 1 and BID on weeks 2-12 (QAM
      and QPM on week 3) in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Blood, tissue, and mucosal tissue samples are collected at baseline and after completion of
      study treatment for pS6K1 analysis and other serum, mucosal, and molecular markers studies by
      IHC, ELISA, western blotting, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) methods.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  