
    
      Visit 1

      This visit is estimated to last approximately 1 hour.

      At this visit, you will be asked to complete a questionnaire about hypoglycemia unawareness.
      Some questions about your medical history may be asked in order to make sure you are eligible
      to be in this study. You will also have some blood collected for tests that measure how your
      liver and kidneys are working. A blood test that measures muscle breakdown will also be done.
      If you are a female who could become pregnant, a pregnancy test will also be done. The amount
      of blood that will be collected at this visit is approximately three teaspoons. This visit is
      estimated to last approximately one hour.

      You will be asked to wear a continuous glucose monitor (CGMS) around the clock for the seven
      days before the MRI study. This involves putting a small plastic sensor under the skin on
      your stomach and carrying the monitor that attaches to the sensor. The sensor measures your
      glucose and records the readings automatically on the monitor. The monitor is about the size
      of the palm of a woman's hand. The information stored on the monitor can be sent to a
      computer that the researcher uses. The researcher will insert the CGMS at visit 1.

      Between Visit 1 and Visit 2

      You will also be asked to keep careful records for the study every day for the next seven
      days. You will be asked to check your blood glucose before each of three meals and before you
      go to sleep at night. You will also be asked to write down your blood glucose levels and
      bring those records back for the researcher.

      Visit 2

      Seven days after visit 1 you will be asked to report to the Center for Magnetic Resonance
      Research (CMRR) at 7:30AM for your first MRI scan. The study will be done in the morning
      after an overnight fast. All subjects will be asked to fast for a minimum of 8 hours before
      arriving at the center. The researcher will advise you on how to adjust your insulin regimen
      during the 1-2 days before the MRI scan to be sure your blood sugar is in good control when
      you arrive at the CMRR.

      Alternatively, you may be asked to come to the Clinical Research Unit the night before the
      MRI study You will be admitted to the Clinical Research Unit, and stay overnight there. You
      will not be given any food after your evening meal until your test is completed at about
      lunch time on the following day. Your evening dose of long-acting insulin or your pump will
      be held after 6:00 p.m. that evening. Your blood glucose will be measured every 1-2 hours. An
      intravenous (IV) catheter will be placed in your arm and will stay there until your test is
      over the next day. You will be given insulin and glucose as needed to keep your blood sugars
      between 100 and 150 mg/dl through the night leading to testing on the next day. In the
      morning, you will be transferred to the Center for Magnetic Resonance Research (CMRR) for an
      MRI.

      At the CMRR, an IV will be placed in each of your arms. This will allow for giving insulin,
      glucose and potassium during the test. A third IV will be placed in one of your legs. This
      catheter will be put in so that blood can be collected during the test. After the catheter in
      your leg is placed you will rest for 30 minutes. After thirty minutes, blood will be
      collected from the catheter in your leg for laboratory tests. The test is then ready to
      begin.

      You will be given insulin through the catheter in one arm and you will be placed in the MRI
      machine. Your glucose will be checked every five minutes throughout the study. Blood will
      also be collected every 30 minutes for other laboratory tests. When your glucose drops to 50
      mg/dl it will be held at that level for approximately 30 minutes so the measures of blood
      flow and glucose concentrations in your brain can be taken. While your blood sugar is
      dropping, you will be asked about any symptoms you may feel. After the measures have been
      taken, the insulin given through the IV will be stopped and you will be given glucose to
      bring it back to a normal level.

      You will be at the CMRR for 4-6 hours. After the test is completed, your IVs will be taken
      out, you will resume your usual diabetes treatments, and you will be fed a meal.

      Between the time you are admitted to the Clinical Research Unit and the time you are
      discharged after your MRI test, just less than one cup of blood will be collected.

      You will be given a supply of naltrexone, the study medication, or placebo, with instructions
      for taking the medication over the next four weeks. You will be randomly assigned (like a
      flip of a coin) to naltrexone, or to a placebo (a pill that does not contain any medicine).
      Neither you nor your study doctor will know which study treatment (placebo or naltrexone) you
      are receiving. If it becomes necessary to know for medical reasons, the information will be
      made available.

      Between Visits 2 and 3

      While you are taking naltrexone or placebo you will be asked not to use Tylenol (or any other
      product containing acetaminophen), Advil (or any other product containing ibuprofen or a
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug), or aspirin. You will also be asked to avoid alcohol
      while taking naltrexone. If you have any concerns or questions about using these substances
      during the time you are taking naltrexone please ask the study doctor or coordinator.

      You should always take your naltrexone dose right after you eat a meal.

      Days 1 - 5: Starting the day after your MRI test, you will be asked to take one 25 mg tablet
      of naltrexone or placebo each day for the next five days.

      Days 6 - 10: On these days you will be asked to take one 50 mg tablet of naltrexone or
      placebo each day.

      Days 11- 14: On these days you will be asked to take one 50 mg tablet of naltrexone or
      placebo twice each day. Visit 2 for the study will occur on Day 14.

      Visit 3

      This visit is estimated to last approximately 30 minutes.

      You will come to the Clinical Research Unit for a short visit on this day. Blood will be
      collected for tests that measure how your liver and kidneys are working. A blood test that
      measures muscle breakdown will also be done. Just like at visit 1, the amount of blood
      collected from you at this visit will be approximately three teaspoons.

      The study doctor or coordinator will also talk to you about how you are feeling. You will be
      asked about whether you have been taking naltrexone or placebo according to the study plan.

      Between Visits 3 and 4

      Days 15 - 21: On these days you will be asked to take one 50 mg tablet of naltrexone or
      placebo twice each day.

      Visit 4

      This visit is estimated to last approximately 30 minutes.

      You will be asked to wear a continuous glucose monitor (CGMS) around the clock for the seven
      days before the MRI study. This involves putting a small plastic sensor under the skin on
      your stomach and carrying the monitor that attaches to the sensor. The sensor measures your
      glucose and records the readings automatically on the monitor. The monitor is about the size
      of the palm of a woman's hand. The information stored on the monitor can be sent to a
      computer that the researcher uses. The researcher will insert the CGMS at visit 4.

      Between Visits 4 and 5

      Days 22 - 28: On these days you will be asked to take one 50 mg tablet of naltrexone or
      placebo twice each day. You will take your last study dose of naltrexone or placebo on Day
      28.

      Starting on Day 22, just like in the first part of this study, you will also be asked to keep
      careful records for the study every day during this time. You will be asked to check your
      blood glucose before each of three meals and before you go to sleep at night. You will also
      be asked to write down your blood glucose levels and bring those records back for the
      researcher.

      Visit 5

      Just like in the first part of the study, you will be asked to report to the Center for
      Magnetic Resonance Research (CMRR) at 7:30AM for your first MRI scan. The study will be done
      in the morning after an overnight fast. All subjects will be asked to fast for a minimum of 8
      hours before arriving at the center. The researcher will advise you on how to adjust your
      insulin regimen during the 1-2 days before the MRI scan to be sure your blood sugar is in
      good control when you arrive at the CMRR.

      Alternatively, you will be asked to come to the Clinical Research Unit the night before the
      MRI study. You will come in the day before you take your last dose of naltrexone or placebo.
      You will be admitted to the Clinical Research Unit, and stay overnight there. You will not be
      given any food after your evening meal until your test is completed at about lunch time on
      the following day. Your evening dose of long-acting insulin or your pump will be held after
      6:00 p.m. that evening. Your blood glucose will be measured every 1-2 hours. An intravenous
      (IV) catheter will be placed in your arm and will stay there until your test is over the next
      day. You will be given insulin and glucose as needed to keep your blood sugars between 100
      and 150 mg/dl through the night leading to testing on the next day. In the morning, you will
      be transferred to the Center for Magnetic Resonance Research (CMRR) for an MRI.

      Blood will be collected for tests that measure how your liver and kidneys are working. A
      blood test that measures muscle breakdown will also be done.

      The procedures for Visit 5 will be exactly the same as the procedures in Visit 2. The only
      difference is that you will not be given any naltrexone or placebo at the end of the visit.
      When you complete Visit 5, your participation in the study has been completed.

      At the CMRR, an IV will be placed in each of your arms. This will allow for giving insulin,
      glucose and potassium during the test. A third IV will be placed in one of your legs. This
      catheter will be put in so that blood can be collected during the test. After the catheter in
      your leg is placed you will rest for 30 minutes. After thirty minutes, blood will be
      collected from the catheter in your leg for laboratory tests. The test is then ready to
      begin.

      You will be given insulin through the catheter in one arm and you will be placed in the MRI
      machine. Your glucose will be checked every five minutes throughout the study. Blood will
      also be collected every 30 minutes for other laboratory tests. When your glucose drops to 50
      mg/dl it will be held at that level for approximately 30 minutes so the measures of blood
      flow and glucose concentrations in your brain can be taken. While your blood sugar is
      dropping, you will be asked about any symptoms you may feel. After the measures have been
      taken, the insulin given through the IV will be stopped and you will be given glucose to
      bring it back to a normal level.

      You will be at the CMRR for 4-6 hours. After the test is completed, your IVs will be taken
      out, you will resume your usual diabetes treatments, and you will be fed a meal.

      Between the time you are admitted to the Clinical Research Unit and the time you are
      discharged after your MRI test, just less than one cup of blood will be collected.
    
  