
    
      To measure the test performance characteristics of the CardioFluxTM magnetocardiography
      diagnostic system in the early rule in/rule out detection of clinically significant
      myocardial ischemia in chest pain patients with a modified Heart Score (mHS)>2 on admission
      (without STEMI) to the emergency department to allow safe and timely disposition of the
      patient to an appropriate level of care. The study utilizes a "virtual" allocation to an MCG
      based care pathway to be compared to the standard of care pathway and outcomes.

      All patients presenting to the emergency department with possible acute coronary syndrome
      with a modified heart score (mHS) >2 who are hemodynamically stable and without an ST
      elevation (STEMI) on admission ECG will be eligible for study inclusion. Patients will
      undergo an initial ECG, troponin blood draw, and MCG. All patients will be treated using
      standard of care (SOC) protocols without use of MCG results.

      Patients will be allocated to the following virtual study "MCG pathways" by a blinded
      reviewer based upon the MCG test results: 1) non ischemic- Early Discharge (or considered
      eligible for evaluation of non-cardiac cause of symptoms); 2) Observation for evaluation of
      unstable angina without evidence of acute ischemia; or 3) ischemic- Early Cardiology Consult
      with directed evaluation/treatment.

      The outcome measures will be NPV, PPV, sensitivity, specificity for CardioFlux
      magnetocardiography against ECG and/or troponin-based identification of cardiac
      ischemia/injury (ie STEMI or NSTEMI diagnosed by SOC pathway prior to discharge or coronary
      angiography). For the purposes of assessing true comparability, standard of care patients
      with indeterminate findings leading to observation care will be considered as false positive
      studies. Performance statistics (when data available) for cardiac catherization requiring
      revascularization (interventional or surgical) and 30-day MACE (if discharged by SOC) will be
      calculated for the Ischemic MCG group. The MCG Pathway patients will be compared to SOC for
      ED/CDU/OBS LOS and hospital charges.
    
  