
    
      Background: The communication between a patient and clinician may have significant effects on
      treatment outcomes and one likely mediator of the communication-related treatment effects is
      patient expectations, as demonstrated by placebo studies in various clinical domains. To
      investigate the link between patient-clinician interactions and patient expectancy in a
      clinical setting, acupuncture is suggested an effective method, as acupuncture is a procedure
      with known non-specific treatment components. As a scene for investigating the importance of
      expectations on treatment outcomes, the investigators used acupuncture for relaxation
      effects. It is commonly reported that participants experience a sense of relaxation during
      acupuncture treatment, yet, it is not known if the effects are related to the specific
      effects of needling or non-specific effects associated with the treatment procedure.

      Aim: To investigate if communication type (positive or neutral) about the expected treatment
      outcome affected i) participants' expectations, ii) short-term relaxation effects in response
      to genuine or sham acupuncture or to rest, and to investigate if treatment expectations were
      related to outcome.

      Procedure: Volunteers, i.e. Swedish individuals in general, not part of any specific patient
      group, are given written and oral study information and are screened for study criteria. The
      volunteers giving informed consent are blinded randomized, by use of a computerized random
      table, to one treatment session a´30 minutes with a) genuine manual acupuncture delivered to
      the traditional acupuncture point PC6 or b) sham acupuncture delivered to a sham acupuncture
      point at the double distance to the wrist compared to the PC6, using telescopic
      non-penetrating needles. The acupuncture treatments (genuine or sham) was given by one of
      nine physiotherapists.

      They are compared to a non-randomized reference group that receive no acupuncture, just a
      treatment of 30 minutes of rest, given by one of three physiotherapists according to a
      standardized treatment protocol.

      Within the three groups (genuine acupuncture, sham acupuncture or no acupuncture, just rest),
      the participants are randomized to 1) positive communication or 2) neutral communication from
      therapists according to a standardized treatment protocol, regarding expected treatment
      effects.

      The participants are blinded to type of acupuncture and communication type. The investigator
      entering data is blinded to treatment type and communication type. The evaluator is blinded
      to treatment type and communication type.

      Outcome measures: Visual analogue scales (VAS) (0-100 millimeter) measure treatment
      expectations and level of relaxation, muscle tensions and stress at baseline two hours before
      the treatment session, pre treatment (directly before the treatment session) and post
      treatment (directly after the treatment session). Heart rate, blood pressure, and salivary
      cortisol are measured pre and post treatment. Primary endpoint is change in level of
      relaxation pre to post treatment.
    
  