
    
      -  Clinical examination will be carried out in the school laboratory or an empty class, in
           day light, teeth will be cleaned gently using gauze and wet with saliva during
           examination. A disposable diagnostic set (mirror, probe) will be used for each patient
           where mirrors will be used for proper visualization especially for maxillary teeth.
           Blunt explorers will be used to aid in tactile sensation if needed, as during the
           differentiation between rough and smooth enamel edges and/or during the inspection of
           the caries extent if it exists. No diagnostic radiographs will be taken.

        -  An examination chart (Appendix 1) will be filled for each child including: date, name,
           age, address, gender, school, medical health and any previous dental treatment, followed
           by clinical examination to the four first permanent molars and the eight maxillary and
           mandibular incisors to detect the presence of MIH and its severity based on European
           Academy of Pediatric Dentistry (EAPD) criteria . To diagnose Molar Incisor
           Hypomineralization, at least one affected first permanent molar is required. Extracted
           first permanent molar will be recorded as affected if another first permanent molar has
           a defecting MIH

        -  Each child affected with MIH will be given a letter outlining his dental health status,
           to inform the parents and indicate the need for treatment.

      Examination chart

      Date:

      Personal information:

      Name: Age: Gender:

      Address:

      School:

      Medical history:

      Dental history:

      Clinical examination:

      8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8

      8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8

      Severity according to EAPD:

      Code Description Severity 0 No defect

        1. White or creamy demarcated opacities/mild Mild

        2. Yellow or brown demarcated opacities Mild

        3. a Enamel loss Moderate

      3b Enamel and dentin loss Severe 3c Atypical large cavities extended to pulp and covering one
      or more tubercle Severe 4 Atypical restorations Severe 5 Extracted tooth Severe

      Comments:

      MIH: presence / absence Severity: Mild / Moderate /Severe

      (Appendix 1)
    
  