
    
      The two main mechanisms for atrial fibrillation (AF) recurrence after cryoablation include
      Pulmonary vein (PV) reconnection and the presence of non-PV associated arrhythmic focuses.
      The aim of this study is to investigate the prevalence of each mechanism and if biomarkers
      may be used to predict these events.

      Eighty patients with paroxysmal or persistent AF will undergo PV isolation with cryoablation
      followed by loop recorder implantation. Patients in whom atrial tachyarrhythmias recur during
      12 months follow-up (outside of the 3-month post procedure blanking window) will be offered a
      second EP study to assess PV isolation and non-PV focuses and further ablation performed as
      required. Recurrence will be defined as an episode of atrial tachyarrhythmia (AF, atypical
      atrial flutter, or atrial tachycardia) on loop recorder with a duration greater than 30
      seconds or ECG document atrial tachyarrhythmia. The incidence of atrial tachyarrhythmia
      recurrence, and its association with symptoms after the index PV cryoballoon isolation, will
      be assessed.

      At baseline blood samples will be taken to assess levels of N-terminal pro brain natriuretic
      peptide (NT-proBNP), High-sensitivity C-reactive protein (high-sensitive CRP), Tumor Necrosis
      Factor (TNF), Interleukin 1 beta (IL1B), Fatty acid binding protein (FABP), Matrix
      metalloproteinase-1 (MMP1), Matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3), Matrix metalloproteinase-9
      (MMP9), Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta1), Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases
      1 (TIMP-1), Fibroblast growth factor 9 (FGF-9). Correlation between recurrence of atrial
      tachyarrhythmias due to non-PV associated arrhythmic focuses and elevated baseline levels of
      NT-ProBNP, CRP, TNF, MMP1 will be pre-specified. We will look with receiver operating
      characteristic (ROC) curve analysis the level of biomarkers which predict recurrence of
      atrial tachyarrhythmias with the best ratio between sensitivity and specificity.

      40 consecutive patients will have a biopsy taken from the intraventricular and interatrial
      septum to investigate the correlation between myocardial inflammation, the presence of
      fibrosis and recurrence of atrial tachyarrhythmias. Correlation between biomarkers of
      inflammation and biopsy-proven myocardial inflammation or fibrosis will be assessed.
    
  