
    
      High phenolics-containing extra-virgin olive oil (EVOO) can be one of the potential dietary
      supplements for the treatment of MD. There is growing evidence to suggest that daily
      consumption of EVOO in Mediterranean diets have beneficial effects on preventing
      neurodegeneration. Previous reports demonstrated that phenolics including oleuropein,
      oleocanthal, hydroxytyrosol and tyrosol found in EVOO have strong antioxidant properties
      against the oxidative stress in brain tissue and protective effect on both acute and chronic
      neurodegenerative diseases by in vitro study and animal models. In addition to improvement of
      arsenic-induced oxidative stress by oleuropein or hydroxytyrosol treatment, hydroxytyrosol
      also showed a protective effect on mitochondria by restoring mitochondrial enzymatic
      activities in rat brain. In vitro study also demonstrated the stimulatory effect of
      hydroxytyrosol on mitochondrial function including in mouse 3T3-L1 adipocytes and human
      endothelial cells. A recent reported clinical study showed that consumption of olive oil
      could increase mitochondrial membrane fluidity and ATPase activity in patients with
      relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, a neurodegenerative disease associated with
      mitochondrial dysfunction.

      Mitochondrial diseases (MDs) are the commonest group of inborn errors with a minimal
      prevalence of 12.5 per 100,000 and 4.7 per 100,000 adults and children respectively. These
      diseases are resulted from primary dysfunction of mitochondrial respiratory chain (MRC) which
      is mostly caused by both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA defects. They are progressive,
      multisystem disorders that can affect many parts of the body including brain, nerve, muscle,
      kidney, heart, liver, eyes, ears or pancreas and some are devastating or even life
      threatening. Development of effective treatments for the patients is an unmet need until now.
      Effective treatment strategies and clinical trials are limited, and therapies are mostly
      palliative. Drug developments and clinical trials for these diseases are scarce in Hong Kong
      when compared with other countries.

      MDs are extremely heterogeneous phenotypically and genetically with the biochemical
      dysfunction and pathogenic mechanisms being unique in each individual molecular defect. With
      the advance in next generation sequencing, over 300 mitochondrial genes are implicated to
      cause human diseases. This wide heterogeneity has been hindering the development of new
      therapeutic strategies such as gene therapy which requires long term evaluation and
      substantial manipulation to improve efficacy and reduce toxicity risk. It is therefore not
      efficient nor realistic to develop unique therapy targeting at a specific molecular defect.

      The future pharmaceutical development for treating mitochondrial dysfunctions will focus on
      boosting the residual mitochondrial function by non-specific bypassing the defective
      components of MRC or improving the aberrant cellular consequences. Dietary supplements were
      demonstrated to treat MD owing to their roles as metabolic cofactors to ameliorate
      mitochondrial ATP production, bypass mitochondrial complex defects and remove toxic
      metabolites. However, there are few randomized controlled trials to assess the cause-effect
      relationship of these dietary supplements.

      The present study is a feasibility clinical trial to explore the longitudinal effect of
      receiving EVOO as dietary supplements on primary and secondary outcomes (clinical,
      biochemical and radiological parameters and quality of life) and tolerability in MD patients
      in Hong Kong. The investigators aim to obtain relevant data to determine the sample size and
      treatment duration for the next phase of the clinical trial on EVOO efficacy. Another aim of
      this study is to evaluate the applicability of the outcome measures in the current study for
      future clinical trials on different treatment strategies.

      This pilot study will be a longitudinal, open label study. Twelve subjects will be recruited,
      including MD patients with confirmed MD-associated nuclear DNA or mtDNA mutations, from the
      Hong Kong Children's Hospital (HKCH). Subjects will receive EVOO daily as dietary supplements
      for 12 months. After that, patients will be randomly assigned in 1:1 ratio to either continue
      on or withdraw from receiving EVOO as their dietary supplements for another 6 months.

      EVOO will be given according to the total energy requirement of the subjects. The target
      energy uptake for MD patients from fat will be higher than healthy individuals and the
      percentage of energy uptake from fat for all the subjects in this trial will be fixed to 55%.
      Among the 55% energy from fat, 30% will be from natural food, ~31% from cooking and 39% from
      EVOO as supplements in our trial. The amount of EVOO consumed daily by all the subjects will
      be calculated according to the energy requirement of their ages. The willingness of the
      participants to stay in the trial in terms of the percentage of participants completing the
      whole trial on EVOO dietary supplement will be assessed. The withdrawal rate in different
      study periods and the reasons of withdrawal will be further studied.

      Subjects will visit the trial site at different time points after the start of dietary
      supplements for clinical follow up, functional assessment including questionnaire, blood and
      urine sampling and neuroimaging as primary and secondary outcome measures. There will be more
      frequent follow-up and monitoring after initiation and withdrawal of supplements. Data of
      primary and secondary outcome measures (except radiological evaluation) will be collected
      before the trial as baseline, 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3, 6, 9, 12 months after the commencement of
      the trial and 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 and 6 months after randomization. The investigators will
      examine the feasibility of collecting data on the primary and secondary outcome measures in a
      clinical trial condition. The amount of missing data, the reason for the missing and
      difficulties on those data collection will be evaluated.

      An open label trial is used for this proposed study because a matching placebo with the same
      properties, such as taste, smell, colour, etc, as EVOO to keep blindness is not yet developed
      at this moment. Therefore, a withdrawal design will be used even though this can be a
      limitation of this study because of the easy accessibility of EVOO by the patients who can
      continue to use EVOO on their own after being assigned for withdrawal, which may potentially
      affect the outcome. Information on any deviation from the study protocol on this issue can be
      collected from the patients by questionnaires at the end of the study to guide the data
      analysis and interpretation.
    
  