
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine response rate to ONC201 with and without a methionine-restricted diet in
      patients with metastatic triple negative breast cancer (TNBC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine progression-free survival (PFS) to ONC201 with and without a
      methionine-restricted diet in patients with metastatic TNBC.

      II. To determine clinical benefit rate (response rate plus stable disease) at 4- months to
      ONC201 with and without a methionine-restricted diet in patients with metastatic TNBC.

      III. To determine overall survival (OS) to ONC201 with and without a methionine-restricted
      diet in patients with metastatic TNBC.

      IV. To determine the safety of adding a methionine-restricted diet to ONC201 in patients with
      metastatic TNBC.

      V. To assess metabolic indices in patients with metastatic TNBC treated with ONC201 and a
      methionine-restricted diet.

      VI. To assess the expression of TRAIL receptor in circulating tumor cells (CTCs) prior,
      during and upon progression in patients with metastatic TNBC treated with ONC201 with and
      without a methionine-restricted diet.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine time to development of brain metastases or worsening of brain metastases in
      patients with metastatic TNBC treated with ONC201 with and without a methionine-restricted
      diet.

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Participants receive Akt/ERK inhibitor ONC201 orally (PO) on days 3, 10, and 17.
      Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Participants receive Akt/ERK inhibitor ONC201 PO on days 3, 10, and 17. Participants
      also receive methionine-restricted diet PO on days 1-5, 8-12, and 15-19. Courses repeat every
      21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  