
    
      The main objective of the study was nutritional and toxicological health risk evaluation
      among long-term vegans with emphasis on cumulative exposure to pesticides. Main research
      methods include: measurement of food intake by using three days food record, measurement of
      nutritional and toxicological bio-markers on blood, serum and plasma. Nutritional biomarkers
      include following plasma/ serum measurements: concentrations of vitamins (vitamin E, D2, D3,
      B12 and beta-carotene), iron, iodine, selenium, fatty acids and polyphenols. Toxicological
      measurements include nitrate, pesticides and DNA-adducts.

      We recruited the participants (n = 41) through an advertisement published in the Finnish
      Vegan Association's monthly newspaper and via an online discussion forum. The selection
      criteria were as follows: the participants had to (1) have followed a vegan diet for at least
      a year, (2) be between 18 and 50 years of age, (3) be apparently healthy, and (4) be nonusers
      of regular medications (except oral contraceptives or hormone replacement therapy). Further,
      we matched the non-vegetarian participants by age and sex. The study was approved by the
      Ethical Committee of Kuopio University Hospital (69//2011)

      We assessed the consumption of foods at baseline with a three-day food record using household
      measures. The participants received the instructions on how to complete this record, and a
      dietician checked the completed food records. The participants also filled out a health
      questionnaire inquiring into their long-term healthy eating habits, including vitamin
      supplementation.

      We collected fasting peripheral venous blood samples, plasma and serum, and stored them at
      -70 °C before the analysis. Further, urine samples 24 hours were collected prior to
      phlebotomy and divided into aliquots. For one of the subjects, only a spot urine sample was
      available. We carried out the hematological and chemical analyses at laboratory
      (hematological data), Helsinki University Central Hospital (folate, vitamin B12, vitamin D,
      and homocysteine), and the National Institute for Health and Welfare (alfa-tocopherol,
      beta-carotene, selenium, iodine, fatty acid profile, and polyphenols). Nitrate, nitrite were
      measured by capillary electrophoresis and DNA adducts by ELISA at Finnish Food Safety
      Authority.
    
  