
    
      There is evidence to suggest that ADHD persists in approximately 50-65% of individuals
      diagnosed with the disorder during childhood. Due to the familial nature and presumed genetic
      etiology of this disorder, parents with ADHD are more likely to have children also diagnosed
      with ADHD. Accordingly, higher rates of adult ADHD have been found in parents of children
      with ADHD. Recent research has determined that among children with ADHD, there is a 23 times
      greater rate of ADHD in mothers and a 4 times greater rate of ADHD in fathers relative to
      parents of children without the disorder.

      Research has also suggested that ADHD symptoms that persist into adulthood are impairing in
      many areas of an individual's life, including their family functioning and work functioning.
      Spouses of ADHD adults report that their partners' difficulties with communication, task
      completion, and time management negatively impact their marriages. Similarly, adult ADHD may
      interfere with parenting in that parents with ADHD may have trouble maintaining their
      attention during interactions with their children or may overreact to their children's
      tantrums. However, the role of parents for children with ADHD is critical. Parents of
      children with ADHD both assist in the delivery of pharmacological and behavioral treatments
      their children. Therefore, a parent's own ADHD symptoms may interfere with their ability to
      deliver these vital resources to their child.

      Despite this research, little research has been conducted looking at effects of using
      stimulant medication to treat parents with ADHD who have children with ADHD. In fact, only
      one case study has examined the effects of treatment for parental ADHD on child treatment
      response.

      The current study seeks to examine the effect of a long-acting stimulant medication
      (Concerta) on mothers with ADHD who have children with ADHD. Mothers and children receive a
      free comprehensive ADHD assessment and mothers receive a free 7 week treatment of Concerta
      under the supervision of a physician.
    
  