
    
      This is a non-randomized, open-label, multi-site phase II therapeutic trial of pembrolizumab
      and bavituximab in patients with locally advanced HCC. Locally advanced or metastatic HCC is
      defined as disease that is not amenable to surgical and/or locoregional therapies. Subjects
      must not have received prior systemic therapy for advanced HCC in keeping with the first-line
      setting of this study. Overall response rate (ORR) as assessed by the investigators and using
      RECIST 1.1 criteria, will be the primary endpoint.

      Prior to initiation on treatment, all patients will sign an informed consent form. Only
      patients with histological proved HCC will be eligible for treatment. Tissue, either from
      archival formalin fixed paraffin embedded samples or a new biopsy of a target lesion will be
      needed.

      Study therapy is defined as treatment with both pembrolizumab and bavituximab. Patients will
      receive trial treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, death or
      discontinuation from the study treatment for any other reason. Subjects will be allowed to
      continue study therapy after an initial investigator-assessed RECIST 1.1 defined progression
      as long as they meet the following criteria: 1) investigator assessed clinical benefit and 2)
      subject is tolerating study therapy. Subjects will be discontinued from study therapy upon
      the evidence of further progression, defined as an additional 10% or greater increase in
      tumor burden from time of initial progression (including all target lesions and new
      measurable lesions). New lesions are considered measurable if the longest diameter is at
      least 10 mm (except for pathological lymph nodes, which must have a short axis of at least 15
      mm). Any new lesion considered non-measurable may become measurable and therefore included in
      the tumor burden measurement if the longest diameter increases to at least 10 mm (except for
      pathological lymph nodes, which must have an increase in short axis to at least 15 mm. For
      statistical analyses that include the investigator-assessed progression date, subjects who
      continue treatment beyond initial investigator-assessed, RECIST 1.1-defined progression will
      be considered to have investigator-assessed progressive disease at the time of the initial
      progressive event irrespective of confirmation on subsequent imaging. Patients will be
      followed for survival regardless of treatment discontinuation for any reason, unless they
      withdraw their consent to be followed for survival.

      Treatment Phase

      The treatment phase for each patient will begin on the initiation of study drug on Cycle 1
      Day 1 (C1D1). Patients will continue study treatment until disease progression (or until
      discontinuation of study therapy in patient receiving pembrolizumab and bavituximab beyond
      progression), discontinuation due to toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or the study ends. A
      safety follow-up is mandatory at 30 days post the last dose.

      Efficacy, safety, and correlative assessments will be performed as outlined in the Schedule
      of Visits and Procedures (section 6.0). Safety assessments will include hematology,
      biochemistry, and thyroid tests as well as ongoing evaluations of adverse events. Tumor
      response will be assessed radiographically every 9 weeks for the first 54 weeks, then every
      12 weeks thereafter until disease progression (or until discontinuation of study therapy in
      patients receiving pembrolizumab or bavituximab beyond progression), loss to follow-up, or
      withdrawal of consent. Patients with radiological progression using RECIST may continue on
      study treatment if in the investigator's assessment the patient is experiencing clinical
      benefit and tolerating the treatment.

      Dose Limiting Toxicity:

      Initially, enrollment will be limited to 10 patients with no more than two patients enrolled
      per week. A safety committee comprised of the investigators and institutional GI Disease
      Orientated Team will monitor the occurrence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) for the first
      10 patients prior to enrolling the remainder of the trial. The period for evaluating DLTs
      will be from the time of the first administration of study treatment through Study Day 28.
      DLTs will follow the guidelines provided in the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Events (CTCAE) version 4.03.

      If three or more DLTs occur during this period, enrollment will be suspended and the safety
      committee will make a determination of whether to reduce the bavituximab dose to 1 mg/kg.
      After the DLT safety assessment period for the initial 10 patients, enrollment may proceed
      for the remainder of the trial provided at least one patient has either a complete or partial
      response by RECIST 1.1 and patient safety will be evaluated on a regular basis by the
      institutional data safety monitoring committee (DSMC). A DLT will be defined as any treatment
      related toxicity in the list below that occurs during the DLT evaluation period. Toxicity
      that is clearly and directly related to the primary disease or to another etiology is
      excluded from this definition. The following will be considered DLTs:

        -  Any grade 4 immune-related adverse events (irAE)

        -  Any ≥ grade 3 colitis

        -  Any grade 3 or 4 noninfectious pneumonitis irrespective of duration

        -  Any grade 2 pneumonitis that does not resolve to grade 1 within 5 days of the initiation
           of maximum supportive care

        -  Any grade 3 irAE, excluding colitis or pneumonitis, that does not downgrade to grade 2
           within 5 days of the event despite optimal medical management including systemic
           corticosteroids or does not downgrade to grade 1 or baseline within 14 days

        -  Liver transaminase elevation >8 x ULN or total bilirubin > 5 x ULN

        -  Any ≥ grade 3 non-irAE, except for the exclusions listed below

      The definition excludes the following conditions:

        -  Grade 3 fatigue ≤ 7days

        -  Grade 3 endocrine disorder (thyroid, pituitary, and/or adrenal insufficiency) that is
           managed with or without systemic corticosteroid therapy and/or hormone replacement
           therapy and the patient is asymptomatic

        -  Grade 3 inflammatory reaction attributed to a local antitumor response

        -  Concurrent vitiligo or alopecia of any grade

        -  Grade 3 infusion-related reaction (first occurrence and in the absence of steroid
           prophylaxis) that resolves within 6 hours with appropriate clinical management

        -  Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia that is not associated with fever or systemic infection that
           improves by at least 1 grade within 3 days. Grade 3 or 4 febrile neutropenia will be
           considered a DLT regardless of duration or reversibility

        -  Grade 3 or 4 lymphopenia

        -  Grade 3 thrombocytopenia that is not associated with clinically significant bleeding
           that requires medical intervention, and improves by at least 1 grade within 3 days

        -  Isolated grade 3 electrolyte abnormalities that are not associated with clinical signs
           or symptoms and are reversed with appropriate maximal medical intervention within 3 days

        -  Isolated grade 3 amylase or lipase abnormalities that are not associated with clinical
           signs/symptoms or findings on imaging consistent with pancreatitis.

      Survival follow-up phase

      Patients who are no longer receiving any study treatments and have experienced disease
      progression will enter survival follow-up, regardless of whether they have initiated
      subsequent anticancer therapy. Survival follow-up information (by chart review, phone call or
      clinic visits) will be collected approximately every 3 months until death, loss to follow-up,
      withdrawal of consent or study termination.
    
  