
    
      The investigational treatment consists of regular COACH care and the BOOSTH physical activity
      intervention. Children in the intervention group will start with the physical activity
      intervention. The child will receive the BOOSTH activity tracker. The child (under
      supervision of their parents) needs to download the BOOSTH sync app and the BOOSTH game app.
      Therefore it is important that the child or their parents have a device with Bluetooth. The
      investigators create a login account for the child. After installing the apps, the activity
      tracker measures step counts which are translated into activity points. These activity points
      will be used to unlock levels in the BOOSTH game app. The child synchronizes their activity
      points, with Bluetooth connection, in the BOOSTH sync app and immediately the child could
      open the BOOSTH game app to play a level in the game. The child needs seven green lights
      (corresponding to 30 minutes of performed physical activity) to unlock a level in the game.
      The first four levels are for free, to gain interests of the child, but thereafter the child
      needs to be physically active to unlock the rest of the levels in the game. The intervention
      consists of a combination of supporting strategies: • BOOSTH game: it is a reward based game
      since the child needs to perform physical activity to unlock a level in the game. The BOOSTH
      game is a jump and run game. • Lights on the activity tracker: the child will be stimulated
      to promote physical activity by using green lights on the activity tracker. The more
      performed physical activity, the more green lights on the activity tracker (maximum of seven
      green lights). When the maximum is reached the child could use the activity points to unlock
      a level in the game. • Group system: a special COACH group (in the BOOSTH game app) will be
      created. Children can compare their scores with each other and challenge each other to gain
      more activity points. • Every week the child receives a reminder (by email or phone) to
      promote physical activity. Every week the researcher will download the BOOSTH data.
      Individual adjustments and encouragement could be made based on results of the data. • The
      medical doctor (MD) will stimulate physical activity behavior during regular COACH visits and
      promote the use of BOOSTH The intervention duration is 6 months. Measurements will be
      performed at baseline, 3-, 6- and twelve months after the start.
    
  