
    
      Attitude is defined as a positive or negative assessment of people, objects or events that
      reflect one's knowledge, emotions, and behavior towards people, objects or events. Physical
      degeneration in the elderly can easily lead to prejudice or discrimination against older
      adults, especially in the younger generation. The younger generation sees older adults as a
      different group and labels them with negative traits. However, education has an important
      role in changing attitudes towards older people and developing professional cultures. In this
      context, the positive attitudes and behaviors of healthcare professionals (doctors, nurses,
      physiotherapists, etc.) starting from the pre-graduation period are of great importance for
      quality health services.

      Empathy, which consists of emotional, cognitive, operational, and physiological behavior and
      reaction compounds, was mostly evaluated as a process of relationships and attitudes.
      Healthcare providers should be able to grasp patients' perspectives (cognitive empathy) and
      relate to their emotions and experiences (emotional empathy). It can be difficult to
      understand other people's perspectives, especially if they have not experienced disability
      due to aging or disease. It has been reported in the literature that health professionals
      lack empathy and understanding towards older individuals. It has been suggested that empathy
      in patient care can be developed at a basic level and through vocational education. Defining
      the attitudes of healthcare professionals and students and implementing new educational
      strategies that encourage positive attitudes towards the elderly while they are still
      students are important for increasing the quality of healthcare offered to the elderly and
      developing a positive attitude.

      In medical and health sciences undergraduate education, there has been a lack of specific
      lessons on which directly focuses empathy, yet simulation-based modalities have been shown to
      be impacted on students' perceptions regarding attitude and empathy.

      Thus, this study aims to assess the attitude and empathy level toward on elderly people among
      health sciences undergraduate students. The intervention which is mainly based upon wearing
      an aged simulation suit through some activities related to independent living and mobility
      has been planned to performed.
    
  