
    
      The World Health Organization (WHO) declared Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) as a pandemic on
      March 11, 2020. Due to the rapid spread of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus
      2 virus (SARS-CoV-2), we are currently facing an unprecedented global situation. One of the
      main pillars in the control of an epidemic is the performance of large-scale tests providing
      a quick and accurate diagnosis so that the authorities can take timely action. Therefore,
      tests for COVID-19 should be prompt, widely available, and implemented outside the hospital
      environment, to avoid overloading the health system and decreasing the risks of hospital
      transmission to other patients and health professionals. Although universal testing is a
      cornerstone for reducing the burden of COVID-19, the accuracy of the commercially available
      tests for COVID-19 in Brazil remains uncertain. In addition, the natural history of the
      disease in the different organs and tissues is not unquestionably known, nor because the
      virus develops better in some tissues and not others. There are still many unanswered
      questions regarding COVID-19. allow more accurate knowledge of the natural history of the
      disease in the timeline taking into account the acute and long-term phases. Several families
      of viruses can affect the male genitourinary system, as is the case of the Zika (ZKV) and
      Ebola viruses. There are reports that in young patients infected with ZKV, the virus persists
      in semen for up to 6 months after the symptomatic condition. The other SARS-CoV-1 itself was
      detected in human testicles associated with an inflammatory process (orchiepididymitis),
      suggesting the possibility that these viruses could also be detected in the semen. As
      SARS-CoV-1 was able to overcome the hemato-gestural barrier and induce severe testicular
      damage in the previous outbreak, it is possible that men infected with COVID-19 may also have
      testicular damage. Another question that remains unanswered is whether the coronavirus can
      remain in the body of people considered recovered from Covid-19 for an indefinite period. It
      is also unknown whether there are molecules in the body fluids capable of inhibiting viral
      growth. The expected benefits are related to a better understanding of COVID's natural
      history19 and which body fluids can contribute to understanding the pathophysiology of the
      disease. It will be possible to identify the best time and the test with the best accuracy to
      diagnose the disease. It is our intention to identify substances in body fluids with an
      antiviral effect
    
  