
    
      The objective is to provide an up-to-date, international "global" picture of the extent and
      patterns of pressure injuries in ICUs. Thereto , the plan is to perform a 1-day, prospective,
      multicenter point-prevalence study. The large scale of the project should allow thorough
      epidemiological analyses. More precisely the study will enable to identify:

        -  major risk factors for pressure ulcer development;

        -  preventive measures used in distinct ICU populations and countries;

        -  shortages in the availability of evidence-based measures to prevent pressure sores;

        -  malpractice pressure sore prevention in particular regions or countries;

        -  occurrence rates of pressure ulcers with/without accurate adjustment for risk profile
           and preventive measures taken;

        -  benchmarking between regions/countries; clinical outcomes associated with pressure
           ulcers (major organ derangements and mortality);

        -  economic outcomes associated with pressure ulcers (length of ICU stay) and linking these
           outcomes with local practice regarding prevention measures applied/available.

        -  country and regional differences in prevalence of pressure ulcers and outcome.

      Pressures ulcer stages will be graded following the classification system jointly developed
      by the National Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel and European Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel.

      Data to be recorded include patient demographics, data on severity of underlying disease and
      acute illness, organ failure, pressure ulcers, major risk factors for pressure ulcers, and
      measures taken to prevent pressure ulcers.

      Statistical Plan

      Power Calculation. For a risk factor with a prevalence in the study cohort of only 10% (for
      example patients with a BMI<20) and an outcome difference of only 5% to be statistically
      significant(15% vs. 20% in decubitus occurrence rate), a sample size of 5255 patients is
      required (478 patients with the index risk factor and 4777 without) (alpha=0.05; Beta>0.80).

      Data cleaning &missing data. Exceptional values will be traced through distribution plotting.
      In case of uncertainties, the individual investigators will be contacted. Missing data will
      be handled by imputation (1, 2). Data quality checks will be performed, such as checks on
      completeness, consistency, correctness, and uniqueness.

      Descriptives. A single final analysis is planned at the end of the study; no interim analyses
      are planned. Socio-demographic study cohort characteristics will be described as proportions
      for categorical variables and for continuous variables as mean and standard deviation if
      normally distributed or median and inter-quartile range if not normally distributed
      (according to the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test for normality).

      The proportion of patients with decubitus (percentage, %, and their 95% confidence intervals)
      will be reported overall and according to geographic region (continent), country
      classification by income as defined by The World Bank (high-, upper-middle-, lower-middle-,
      and low-income countries), percentage of the gross domestic product spent on healthcare
      (obtained from the World Health Organization), and according to theEducation and Health Human
      Development Report of the United Nations Development Program. Subsequently,
      potentialdifferences in prevalence might offer the opportunity to evaluate variances in
      prevention measures on a large scale.

      Modelling. Covariates that will be evaluated on their relationship with the presence of
      decubitus encompass various organizational aspects of the ICU (e.g. nurse-to-patient ratio),
      decubitus prevention measures (e.g. type of matrasses used), and patient-specific
      characteristics (e.g. age, underlying conditions, severity of acute illness, body morphology,
      BMI,length of ICU stay etc.). Covariates will be considered for adjusted analysis when they
      have an association with pressure injuries at a statistical level <0.25 in unadjusted
      (univariate) analysis or because of their clinical relevance. A stepwise approach willbe used
      to eliminate terms from the regression model; p<0.15 or p<0.10 will beset as the limit to
      keep covariates in the model.

      Relationships with binary outcome variables (e.g. decubitus, mortality) will be assessed by
      means of unadjusted statistical tests and multivariate logistic regression. The value of
      additional propensity score correction in the regression model will be assessed. Multinomial
      logistic regression will be performed to assess independent relationships with decubitus
      stages. Likewise, linear mixed-effect modelling will be used to assess unadjusted and
      adjusted relationships with continuous outcome variables (e.g. length of ICU stay and length
      of hospitalization). Results of logistic regression will be reported as adjusted odds ratios
      with 95% confidence intervals.

      To develop a decubitus prediction model for distinct ICU populations (e.g., trauma, surgical
      or medical patients) models will be build using machine learning techniques (e.g. Random
      Forest, Gradient Boosting Machine). In the process different techniques will be applied in
      order to receive the optimal accuracy. In order to gain insight in the correlation between
      predictors and variables, regression techniques will be applied, as state above.

      For validation of our models the study cohort will be split into a training, test and
      validation set. As such this gives a fair interpretation of the results. Alternatively
      ten-fold cross-validation can be applied to prevent overfitting.

      Benchmarking for individual centers based on decubitus will be performed by providing
      directly or indirectly standardized risks based on fixed center effects in a logistic
      regression model (3, 4). Besides the presence of the binary quality outcome (i.e. decubitus)
      and the center code, this model also includes patient-specific baseline co-variates to adjust
      for differential case-mix. The Firth correction will be applied to the logistic regression
      model to maintain convergence in the presence of very small centers (5).

      Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS and R. The head investigator (SB) is
      responsible for all statistical analysis. Advanced statistical methods will be executed
      byMiekeDeschepper (Strategic Policy Cell at Ghent University Hospital).
    
  