
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis is a common chronic destructive arthritis. Many patients suffered from
      disability from this disease. There is no satisfactory therapy for every patient. Present
      prognostic factor only explained the disease course partially.

      Major pathology change in rheumatoid arthritis is synovium hyperplasia with bone and
      cartilage erosion. Infiltrates in synovial tissue included type one and type two
      synoviocytes, B cells, T cells and fibroblasts. These cells will release many cytokines and
      chemokines, which will induce expression of adhesion molecules, release of variable enzyme
      from fibroblast and osteoclast and result in bone erosion.

      Previous study in rheumatoid arthritis focused mainly in role of lymphocytes and osteoclast.
      Recent study revealed that fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) have some property which is
      similar but not identical to dendritic cells in lymph nodes. They are also important provider
      of IL-7 and IL-15 and play an important role in persisted activation of synovial tissue.
      Fibroblast will guide B cell infiltration and has intimate mutual interaction with T cells.

      Stromal derived growth factor/CXCL12 is an effective lymphocyte chemokine. CXCR4 is
      corresponding receptor. CXCL12 has been associated with autoantibody production in lupus
      murine model animal. FLS can express stromal cell-derived factor 1 SDF-1/CXCL12, inducing
      persisted infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cell. Furthermore, migration, proliferation and
      matrix mental proteinase secretion of FLSis regulated by CC and CXC chemokine. CXCL12
      production by SLF is regulated by TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and TGF-beta1, but there is still some
      inconsistency in literatures. CXCL12 itself also induce expression of CXCR4 and secretion of
      IL-6, IL-8 in FLS. Express of CCR4 in T cell is regulated by IL-2,IL-4,IL-7,IL-10 and cell
      contact. CXCL12 produced by SLF is also presented by endothelium cell and inducing
      angiogenesis. Clinical study also indicated that CXCL12 level is related to cartilage
      destruction. CXCL12 level is decreased after synovectomy. Therefore we believed CXCL12/CXCR4
      ligand/receptor pair is important in chronicity of rheumatoid arthritis.

      Recently CXCL12 polymorphism is studied in many disease, such as prognosis of HIV
      patients、chronic myeloproliferative disease, and AML metastasis. There is no related CXCL12
      polymorphism study in rheumatoid arthritis. Our study intended to clarify the relationship
      between pathology, serology factor, CXCL12 polymorphism in rheumatoid arthritis in hope that
      new direction of therapy will be elucidated.
    
  