
    
      Ventriculostomy is a common neurosurgical procedure. A Nationwide Inpatient Sample (NIS)
      database study demonstrated a significant increase in ventriculostomy utilization from
      1988-2010, with over 35,000 hospitalizations including a procedural code for ventriculostomy
      in 2010.

      Ventriculostomy occlusion is a common complication after external ventricular drain (EVD)
      placement. A review of published prospective and retrospective studies indicates that
      approximately 1-7% of EVDs require replacement secondary to occlusion. Furthermore, in the
      NIS database study of over 101,000 hospitalizations in which ventriculostomy was performed,
      nearly 6% of patients required at least one additional ventriculostomy procedure. Studies
      have demonstrated non-patent EVD in 19-47% of patients, however these studies did not
      prospectively evaluate EVD occlusion as a primary endpoint, report on number of catheter
      irrigations performed, or identify risk factors for EVD occlusion.

      Recently, the investigators completed a retrospective review of a prospectively collected
      database of patients undergoing bedside EVD placement with the primary outcome of interest
      being catheter occlusion. This sample included 101 patients over a 1 year period. Two Codman
      catheters were available for use (Clear Bactiseal 'large' catheter: outer diameter 3.4 mm,
      inner diameter 1.9 mm; and Orange Bactiseal 'small' catheter: outer diameter 3 mm, inner
      diameter 1.5 mm). The decision regarding which catheter to use was made at the time of the
      procedure based on resident preference and availability. Both temporary occlusion (requiring
      flushing but patency could be restored) and permanent catheter occlusion (requiring
      replacement) were common, occurring in 41% and 19% of patients, respectively. Over 25% of
      small catheters became occluded during the study period compared to 11% of large catheters.
      Small catheters were associated with a 3.4 times greater odds of occlusion than the larger
      diameter catheters on multivariable regression analysis. This study suggests that the
      preferential use of larger diameter catheters may reduce the risk of ventriculostomy
      occlusion and need for replacement, however the study was not randomized and catheter
      selection may have been biased.

      Recently, a smaller retrospective study of patients with intraventricular hemorrhage
      performed by Gilard and colleagues demonstrated a lower rate of occlusion and no increased
      risk of hemorrhage with larger bore catheters. Otherwise, there is no data in the literature
      supporting the preferential use of catheters based on size (clinical equipoise).
    
  