
    
      The variables studied will be the nutritional status of children between three and five years
      old, the characteristics of these children (age, sex, LBW, birth length, history of
      immunization, history of diarrhea, history of upper respiratory tract infection, food
      intake), mother and family characteristics (mother's age, mother's education, mother's
      occupation, father's occupation), home environment (aspects of the components of the house,
      aspects of sanitation facilities, aspects of occupant behavior), the composition of the
      intestinal microbiota. Data will be obtained through measurements, interviews using a
      questionnaire, and direct observation using a checklist.

      Stunting anthropometric measurements are measured based on parameters of length/height
      according to age compared to the WHO anthropometric standards 2005 and the Indonesian
      Minister of Health Decree No. 1995 / MENKES / SK / XII / 2010.

      The nutritional status of each child included in this study will be quantified using the WHO
      recommended three nutritional Z-scores namely, height for age (referred to in this study as
      Zscore

        1. weight for age (referred as Z-score

        2. and weight for height (referred as Z-score

        3. .A structured questionnaire was used for face-to-face interviews with the respective
           child mother to collect sociodemographic information. In addition, age and
           anthropometric measurements (height, weight) based on the Department of Health Ministry
           of Indonesia The regulation will be recorded. For stunting, the thresholds for
           height-for-age are: 'severely stunted' (<-3 SD); 'stunted' (-3 SD to < -2 SD); 'normal'
           (-2 SD to +3 SD); 'tall' (> +3 SD). Furthermore, in order to obtain an overall measure
           of the nutritional status of these children, the children will be classified into
           weight-for-height categories: 'severely wasted' (<-3 SD); 'wasted' (-3 SD to < -2 SD);
           'normal' (-2 SD to +1 SD); 'possible risk of overweight' (+1 SD to +2 SD); 'overweight'
           (> +2 SD to +3 SD); 'obese' (> +3 SD)
    
  