
    
      The objective of this randomized controlled, double blinded, 2x3 experimental study is to
      evaluate the antimicrobial efficacy of silver nanoparticle gel compared to an alcohol-based
      hand gel on bacterial counts isolated from the hands of 40 healthy, adult, military student
      volunteers. The study will be conducted in two phases: the first phase will consist of a
      methods development period and the second phase will consist of the formal pilot study. For
      phase I, the first four participants from the sample pool will be assigned into one of two
      groups (nano-silver gel or alcohol-based gel) whereas in Phase II, the participants will be
      randomized into one of two groups. Participants in both phases will follow a 7 day washout
      period where subjects will refrain from using antimicrobial products for a week prior to
      testing. Testing of participants in both phases will start with a baseline bacterial hand
      count. This will be accomplished by using a surrogate biomarker (S. Marcescens). This
      microorganism was selected because it is considered the standard surrogate marker to be used
      in hand hygiene evaluations and because it produces a characteristic red colony that is
      easily distinguishable from normal microbial populations of the hands making colony counting
      more accurate. Sampling of bacterial flora will be accomplished utilizing an established
      "modified glove juice" technique in which the participant's dominant hand is placed into a
      large sterile bag containing a sampling solution, which removes the surrogate bacteria. Once
      baseline samples have been collected, all participants will then complete two additional
      random ordered timed conditions involving the surrogate biomarker and one of the two test
      gels. For each test condition, five mL of solution will be withdrawn from the collection bag,
      diluted, plated, and incubated for 36 hours. For the immediate efficacy testing, a glove
      juice sampling will be obtained after a 1 minute application of the gel. For the persistent
      efficacy testing, a glove juice sampling will be obtained after a 10 minute application of
      the gel. To ensure the biomarker has been removed, all subjects will wash hands with a 70%
      ethanol surgical handwash. The use of an UV-C light will also be implemented for 20 seconds
      as an additional precaution. Participants in phase I will have an additional glove juice
      sampling at the end of degerming to validate the protocol. All participants will end the
      study by completing a 4 question visual analog questionnaire to determine user acceptability
      of the gels. The percent difference of total bacterial counts from baseline will be used as
      the outcome variable. An unpaired Student's t-test (or an appropriate non-parametric test)
      will be used for data analysis for each of the study aims.
    
  