
    
      Basic science advances in genomics have provided great promise for improving human health and
      reducing the burden of cancer in the United States. The recent successes in genome-wide
      association studies (GWAS) and related technologies in identifying genetic changes associated
      with a variety of common diseases have fueled the rapidly growing field of personalized
      medicine. The promise of personalized medicine is the ability to tailor the treatment or
      screening of individual patients based on their genotype. Many have highlighted the urgent
      need for multidisciplinary translational research that focuses on how to advance gene
      discoveries into effective clinical applications. Genetic screening for cancer
      susceptibility, one application of personalized medicine, has become a standard
      evidence-based practice in cancer prevention. Given the complexity of genetic information and
      the potential social and psychological sequellae, two in-person visits (e.g. pre-test and
      post-test counseling) with genetic specialists are recommended for delivery of genetic
      testing for cancer susceptibility. With an increasing demand for genetic services, the two
      in-person visit delivery model presents barriers to widespread dissemination of genetic
      testing for disease susceptibility. Innovative delivery models for effective, efficient
      genetic risk communication that result in behavior change are needed. Telephone delivery of
      genetic services is one innovative and efficient delivery model that has the potential to
      expand genetic services to diverse clinical systems and address the insufficient genetic
      workforce as an increasing number of genetic applications enter clinical practice. While
      providers and patients identify advantages to telephone delivery of genetic services, they
      also recognize potential disadvantages particularly in the setting of a positive test result.
      Thus, evaluation of the psychosocial and behavioral impact of innovations to genetic service
      delivery (i.e. telephone communication) in diverse populations and among vulnerable subgroups
      are needed to optimize the health benefits, and minimize the risks of broad dissemination of
      clinical genetic testing for cancer susceptibility.

      The goal of this research is to evaluate the psychological, behavioral and economic outcomes
      (i.e. risks and benefits) of an innovative and efficient delivery model of genetic services,
      telephone communication, as compared to the current standard, in-person communication of
      genetic test results. The investigators expect this research to inform evidence based
      practice guidelines and potentially change the paradigm of delivery of genetic services for
      disease susceptibility.
    
  