
    
      Concomitant chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is used in locally advanced head and neck cancer (LAHNC).
      It will be administered to patients for unresectable disease or for organ preservation as
      primary treatment. Furthermore, it can be used as postoperative treatment in case high risk
      recurrent disease is present. This treatment induces a high rate of acute toxicity, such as
      mucositis, dermatitis, dysphagia, anorexia, and pain. Swallowing dysfunction and aspiration
      are seen in a high proportion (30%-100%) of patients and with an immense impact on Quality of
      life (QoL).

      Around half of the patients will develop an aspiration pneumonia during or shortly after the
      treatment.

      Patients, who develop fever during concomitant chemoradiotherapy, are most of the time
      admitted in the hospital. In the differential diagnosis pneumonia is on the first place in
      all those patients. The standard diagnostic procedures consist of a chest X-ray and culture
      of the sputum and blood. Pneumonia can lead to mortality in this frail patient group.

      The treatment of patients treated with chemoradiotherapy who develop fever and have a
      definite or suspected pneumonia, is administration of antibiotics, most frequently
      intravenous amoxicillin/clavulanic acid.

      LAHNC patients who are smoking and/or with malnutrition are at the highest risk of getting a
      pneumonia during or after radiotherapy. Because smoking is one of the risk factors of
      developing head and neck cancer chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is frequently
      present in this group. Also, COPD is a known risk factor for developing pneumonias.

      Aspiration is seen in all primary sites of head and neck cancer, sometimes it is seen more
      frequently in patients with cancer of the larynx and hypopharynx. No data of prophylactic
      administration of antibiotics are available in LAHNC patients. However, a Cochrane review was
      published to assess the effects of prophylactic antibiotic regimens for the prevention of
      respiratory tract infections(RTIs) and overall mortality in adults receiving intensive care.
    
  