
    
      1. Background In daily life, people are exposed to various environmental hormones
           (Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals) such as phthalates, bisphenols, heavy metals, and
           perfluorinated compounds. Due to the recent pandemic of the COVID-19, behavior patterns
           such as wearing a mask and refraining from going out in daily life have changed. Such
           behavioral changes have the potential to change the level of exposure to environmental
           hazards, like intervention studies. In addition, studies have been reported that
           exposure to various environmental hormones can affect kidney function, but
           epidemiological studies are insufficient. Therefore, the research team is trying to
           determine whether exposure to environmental hormones changes due to changes in
           behavioral patterns according to the new corona epidemic, and to determine the effect on
           renal function indices in patients with chronic kidney disease.

        2. Hypothesis and Purpose

             -  Differences in risk perception for disease after the COVID-19 pandemic can explain
                the degree of change in lifestyle.

             -  The changed lifestyle will lead to reduced exposure to environmentally hazardous
                substances.

             -  Reduction of exposure to environmentally harmful substances will reduce the level
                of exposure to harmful substances related to kidney disease, which will lead to
                changes in the prevalence of kidney disease and indicators related to kidney
                disease.

             -  After the COVID-19 pandemic, it is verified whether the exposure level of
                environmentally hazardous chemicals decreases due to changes in the way of life and
                differences in perception of the risk of infectious diseases, and confirms which
                indicators related to chronic kidney disease change accordingly. Identify the role.

        3. Methods (1) During the COVID-19 pandemic

             -  Acquisition of consent (using explanations and posters) by explaining the research
                purpose and method

             -  Survey on changes in awareness of diseases and changes in hygiene activities since
                the COVID-19 pandemic compared to before

             -  Measurement of the concentration of environmentally hazardous substances through
                the acquisition of blood (serum, residual samples after blood tests for treatment)
                and urine samples that are normally performed in the office (3 months cycle, 4
                times)

             -  Acquisition of clinical information related to kidney disease (2) Recovery period
                of the COVID-19 pandemic

             -  Survey on changes in awareness of diseases and hygiene activities that have changed
                since the end of the COVID-19 outbreak

             -  Measurement of the concentration of environmentally harmful substances by obtaining
                blood (serum, residual sample after blood test for medical treatment) and urine
                sample (once after 6 months of termination)

             -  Acquisition of clinical information related to kidney disease (3) Investigation
                variable

                a) Survey

             -  Demographic information

             -  Anthropometric information

             -  Risk perception for the COVID-19

             -  Individual behavior associated with hygiene

             -  Social distancing pattern b) Chemical material in human sample (blood, urine)

             -  Phthalate metabolite

             -  Paraben metabolite

             -  Benzophenone

             -  Triclosan and triclocarban

             -  Bisphenols

             -  Phosphate metabolites

             -  Organochlorine pesticides

             -  Polychlorinated biphenyls c) Clinical information including estimated glomerular
                filtration rate, urine protein/creatinine ratio
    
  