
    
      The ovarian stimulation with the follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is the main element for
      the success of medically assisted procreation (MAP) technique. The possibility of predicting
      a poor ovarian response would thus enable the doctor to proactively define the treatment
      cycle and subject expectations. However, it is difficult to select the right dose of
      recombinant-human FSH (r-hFSH) to reach the "acceptable" number of oocytes. A series of
      reports, in which investigators identified different variables associated with ovarian
      response, appeared in the literature so as to develop a more structured approach with the aim
      of determining the initial Gonal-f dose in an MAP cycle.

      After having reviewed the literature, following predictive factors present a strong
      correlation with the ovarian response:

        -  Initial serum FSH during the premature follicle phase (day 2-4 of the cycle),

        -  Body mass index (BMI; in kg/m2),

        -  Age,

        -  Initial number of antral follicles (day 2-4 of the cycle) determined in the ultrasound
           scan.

      The relative importance of each of these factors was judged on the basis of a statistical
      model analysis and an r-hFSH dose (Gonal-f in international units [IU]) was attributed to
      each factor with a view of creating guidelines and determining the optimal FSH dose (using
      CONSORT dose calculator) to be used on the basis of the initial predictive
      characteristics/variables specific to the subject.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the Gonal-f FbM dose prescribed by the doctor with
      the Gonal-f FbM dose determined by the CONSORT calculator.

      A short questionnaire will be used to evaluate the ease of using the pre-filled Gonal-f (FbM)
      pen. The dosage and administration of Gonal-f shall be in accordance with the Product
      Features Summary (PFS) and current clinical practice in the centers.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        -  To study whether the Gonal-f FbM dose prescribed by the doctor is different from the
           dose recommended by the CONSORT dose calculator

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the ease of using the new generation Gonal-f pen for subjects

        -  To compare the Gonal-f dose finally used with the dose used during the previous
           treatment cycles (if this data is available)

        -  To put a figure to the total duration of the treatment, total quantity of gonadotropins
           taken and the number of clinical pregnancies

        -  In case of use of the CONSORT calculator: to estimate cancellations due to poor response
           This observational study will be conducted in 8 fertility centers in Belgium and
           Luxembourg as per the current clinical practice conditions in force at each center. Each
           center will recruit approximately 30 subjects to reach a total of approximately 250
           subjects. The maximum number of treatment cycles to be evaluated in this project will be
           600 over a period of approximately 6 months.

      The CONSORT dose calculator is made available to all the participating centers via a secure
      web site. Each investigator will receive a user identification and password to access the
      system. The investigator will then introduce the 4 individual variables of the subject (basal
      FSH, BMI, age and number of antral follicles [follicles ≥2mm - <11mm]) in the CONSORT
      calculator, which will determine an individualized dose of Gonal-f for this specific subject.
      If the investigator does not agree with the dose calculated by CONSORT and opts for another
      dosage, he/she may indicate it directly in the CRF (Case Report Form). In this case, the
      Gonal-f dose will be based on the investigator's advice in accordance with the clinical
      practice in force in the center.

      Follicle development shall be monitored in accordance with the current clinical practice of
      the center with diagnostic ultrasound and/or estradiol (E2) dosage until the local criteria
      for the administration of the human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is reached. Human chorionic
      gonadotropin will be administered in accordance with the current clinical practice of the
      center to reach final oocyte maturation. The date of administration of the hCG (Ovitrelle)
      will be indicated in the CRF.
    
  