
    
      Dyspepsia, a condition characterized by upper abdominal discomfort, is one of the most common
      types of pains in clinical practice and is one of the most common reasons for visits to
      primary care physicians and gastroenterologists. But relative to somatic pain, little
      fundamental information is known about visceral pain syndromes such as dyspepsia and
      irritable bowel syndrome. Recent exciting advances in neuroimaging such as functional
      magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have allowed investigators to interrogate neural signal
      changes in humans in a wide variety of pain conditions. But to date neuroimaging has not
      provided details of activation in specific neural circuits that are important in visceral
      pain. In these experiments we will focus on specific regions of interest (ROI's) that have
      shown to be relevant in animal models of pain circuitry including the dorsal column nuclei,
      the thalamus, the hypothalamus, the amygdala and the periaqueductal gray.

      The specific aims of our proposed project are:

        1. To measure fMRI signal in primary visceral afferent pain pathways (dorsal column nuclei
           and thalamus) in normal human subjects and in patients with dyspepsia following
           instilling a liquid meal at a fixed rate into the stomach until maximal satiety, a
           surrogate model of dyspepsia.

        2. To measure fMRI signal in autonomic pathways (hypothalamus and amygdala) and in
           endogenous analgesic pathways (periaqueductal gray/PAG) in normal human subjects and in
           patients with dyspepsia using the above model.

        3. To correlate physiological parameters (heart rate, skin conductance, respiratory rate)
           to hedonic ratings (ratings on a visual analogue scale of satiety, nausea, bloating, and
           pain) during the liquid meal stimulus in normal human subjects and patients with
           dyspepsia.

      In all these experiments we will correlate alterations in psychophysical measures which have
      traditional measures of pain response (e.g., pain and other hedonic ratings, physiological
      monitoring such as heart rate, etc) with the changes in fMRI signal in specific areas of the
      brain.
    
  