
    
      The current study will employ an open pilot RCT with a time-and-attention-matched health
      control group to determine the feasibility and acceptability of a virtual, MBCT intervention
      for ACS patients. The investigators plan to enroll approximately N=50 participants (approx. 3
      MBCT groups and approx. 3 health enhancement control groups with approximately 6-7
      participants per group; accounting for 20% attrition). Participants will be randomized to a
      MBCT or a time- and attention-matched health enhancement control in a 1:1 design using a
      random number generator. Participants will then be stratified by antidepressant medication
      use. The MBCT intervention will involve 8 virtually-delivered MBCT sessions (approximately
      1.5 hours each), during which participants will be taught how to use evidence-based
      mindfulness skills to regulate distress and choose healthy behaviors, as well as learn about
      cardiac health. The health enhancement control group will follow the same structure of the
      MBCT intervention (e.g., 8 virtually-delivered MBCT sessions, approximately 1.5 hours each)
      and will educate participants on depression and cardiac health (e.g., relationship between
      depression and cardiac health, cardiac risk factors, cardiac health behaviors, finding
      resources for mental health care). Participants will be asked to complete a brief survey
      following each session. Within one week before and after the intervention and 3-months
      post-intervention participants will be asked to complete a series of questionnaires and
      provide self-collected blood samples. Upon completion of the intervention participants will
      complete an audio-or video recorded exit interview (approximately 30-60 minutes).

      Participants will be recruited through EPIC, the hospital's clinical data registry,
      advertisements (e.g., flyers, brochures) placed throughout the hospital, direct provider
      referrals, and from inpatient cardiac units. Patients who express interest in the study will
      be asked complete an eligibility screening. Eligible patients agreeable with study
      participation will then complete informed consent with study staff prior to enrollment.

      Participants will be enrolled in either one of three MBCT intervention cohorts (approx.) or
      one of three health enhancement control cohorts (approx.). Participants in all of these
      groups will be expected to participate in 8-weekly, 1.5-hour virtual sessions. Participants
      in the MBCT intervention group will be expected to participate in 30 minutes of at-home daily
      practice. Participants in the health enhancement control group will be expected to review
      educational videos or readings between sessions. A licensed mental health provider (e.g.,
      LICSW, PhD) trained in the MBCT protocol will delivered the intervention to the MBCT
      intervention group. A licensed clinician or pre-doctoral or post-doctoral fellow with
      supervision from a licensed clinician will lead the control group. Both the MBCT intervention
      and health enhancement control groups will be delivered via Zoom, secure, HIPPA-compliant
      video-conferencing software.

      Study assessments will include a battery of self-report surveys administered at baseline,
      post-intervention, and 3-month follow-up; session satisfaction surveys administered after
      each intervention session; post-intervention individual exit interviews (conducted via
      telephone or videoconference); blood spot samples self-collected by participants at baseline,
      post-intervention, and 3-month follow-up (submitted to the research team via paper mail);
      and, for the MBCT-intervention group, home practice logs submitted between each intervention
      session. Primary outcomes for the intervention are feasibility and acceptability. Exploratory
      outcomes are changes in emotional and biological variables. Data collected from this study
      will generate knowledge about e-health technologies and congruent research methods to apply
      to other mind-body interventions and patient populations.
    
  