
    
      This study extends on the positive results of a pilot study (Lim et al., 2012) which
      demonstrated the effectiveness of a cognitive training program combined with perceptual and
      semantic memory encoding strategies. Following the intervention phase of the pilot study,
      elements of cognition were examined using standardised assessments. The participants showed
      improved general attention (p = 0.03), memory (p = 0.03) and cognitive function including
      naming (p = 0.02), construction (p = 0.01), memory (p = 0.02) and similarities (p = 0.001)
      all of which are necessary for functioning in daily activities. However, due to the
      combination of strategies used during the pilot study, the isolated effect of perceptual and
      semantic memory encoding strategies could not be determined. It has been found that the
      effects of aging impact negatively on both semantic and perceptual encoding. However, with
      age, there tends to be a greater impact on an individual's ability to use perceptual encoding
      strategies in comparison to those of semantic (Kuo, Liu, Ting, & Chan, 2014). This varies in
      the case of individuals in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease in which many individuals
      will show progressive impairment in semantic memory (Hodges & Patterson, 1995). As dementia
      has been positively correlated with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) but not often diagnosed
      until much later in the course of the disease and as not all individuals with MCI will
      progress to dementia it would be beneficial prior to undertaking a memory encoding
      intervention program to understand if an individual would benefit greater from undertaking a
      semantic or a perceptual memory encoding rehabilitation approach. Although it may be easy for
      a healthy adult to report their preference in encoding style, an individual with MCI or mild
      dementia may find this more difficult due to the abstract complexity of the concepts. As it
      is known that not all cases of MCI progress to dementia, this study aims at identifying if
      individuals with MCI or mild dementia will benefit from intervention based on both semantic
      and perceptual encoding styles.

      In addition, given the benefit and successful use of computer-based programs in elderly, this
      study will develop the memory encoding training program into a user-friendly computer-based
      program in which the older adults with MCI or mild dementia will be able to use under the
      guidance of rehabilitation professionals.
    
  