
    
      Title:

      A pilot study of NT-I7, a long-acting recombinant IL-7 molecule, as an immune reconstitution
      strategy for lymphopenia in patients with Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML).

      Study Description:

      This protocol will test whether NT-I7 is a viable strategy for promoting immune
      reconstitution in lymphopenic patients with PML. Twelve adults with PML and lymphopenia (CD4
      or CD8 T cell count of less than or equal to 200 cells/dL) from all causes will complete this
      pilot study. Patients will be observed as inpatient for the first 7 days following any
      experimental drug dosing. To follow, patients will return to NIH for a second 7-day inpatient
      stay by Day 21, and then for scheduled outpatient visits at NIH at month 2, 3, 6, 9 and 12
      following any drug dosing. Follow up phone calls will be conducted at month 4, 5, 7 and 8.
      Patients may be eligible for a second dose of NT-I7 at higher dose if target ALC
      (1000/microliter) not reached, or at same dose if initial response is adequate but not
      sustained, for a maximum of 3 doses. The primary outcome measure is change in absolute
      lymphocyte counts (ALC). Secondary outcomes include safety and tolerability. Exploratory
      clinical, radiological, and laboratory measures will be obtained to investigate mechanism of
      action of NT-I7 and for biomarker development.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To determine the kinetics and magnitude of effect of NT-I7 on absolute
      lymphocyte counts in patients with PML and underlying lymphopenia from various causes, in
      order to inform appropriate design of a future study.

      Secondary Objectives: (1) To assess safety and tolerability of NT-I7. (2) To determine
      kinetics and magnitude of effect of NT-I7 on lymphocyte subsets. (3) To investigate effect of
      NT-I7 on PML disease course. (4) To investigate mechanism of action of NT-I7.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint: Change in absolute lymphocyte counts (ALC) over 6 months.

      Secondary Endpoints: (1) Adverse event tables. (2) Change in lymphocyte subset counts,
      including CD4, CD8 and CD19 positive cells (3) Change in standardized disability rating
      scales, PML lesion extension by brain MRI, viral quantification in CSF and survival. (4)
      Exploratory serological and CSF measures to investigate immune response to JCV and mechanism
      of action of NT-I7.

      Study Population:

      Adults with definite PML with detectable JCV in CSF and CD4 and/or CD8 lymphopenia will be
      recruited.

      Phase:

      Pilot study

      Description of Sites/Facilities

      Enrolling Participants:

      NIH Clinical Center

      Description of Study Intervention:

      A single dose of NT-I7 480micrograms/kg IM will be administered to all patients.

      Patients will be eligible for re-dosing of NT-I7 at 720microgram/kg IM if minimum target ALC
      is not achieved by Day 27.

      Patients will be eligible for re-dosing at same dose (480 microgram/kg or 720microgram/kg) if
      minimum target ALC is reached but not sustained at least until Month 3.

      Study Duration:

      36 months for data collection and analysis of primary and secondary outcomes

      Participant Duration:

      Up to 19 months
    
  