
    
      Pancreatic cancer (mainly pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, PDAC) is a disease with extremely
      poor prognosis, and is often fatal. Surgical resection is the only potentially curative
      technique for management of PDAC, but only approximately 15% to 20% of patients are
      candidates for pancreatectomy at the time of diagnosis. For these patients, however, the
      mortality and morbidity rates after surgery can improve significantly. It is therefore an
      effective way to improve the treatment efficacy for pancreatic cancer by discovering novel
      detection methods for pancreatic cancer, especially at early stages.

      MicroRNAs are a type of non-encoding single-stranded small RNAs with a length of ~22nt. They
      can regulate the expression of their target mRNAs by inhibiting their translation into
      proteins. MicroRNAs participate in all physiological and pathological activities, and their
      abnormal expression profiles are proven to be closely related to the occurrence and
      development of diseases, including cancer. Recent studies have further proved that not only
      tissue/cell-line based microRNAs, but circulating microRNAs can be stably detected, and their
      expression profiles can function as novel markers to be used in the diagnosis and prognosis
      of diseases.

      Pancreatic cancer specific microRNA profiles have also been reported, amongst which
      microRNA-25 is found to be significantly upregulated in pancreatic cancer patients. There are
      also studies try to improve the efficacy of pancreatic cancer diagnosis by combining
      detection of microRNA and CA19-9. Further are there studies proving microRNA-25 as a highly
      potential marker for pancreatic cancer. A detection kit "MicroRNA (microRNA-25) Qualitative
      Detection Kit (Fluorescent PCR Method)" is produced and proven to be effective in assisting
      the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer through clinical trials held independently in three
      state-level hospitals in China.

      To further validate the efficacy of the kit, the researchers in this study intend to compare
      the sensibility and specificity of microRNA-25 level detection and other diagnosis methods,
      including detection of conventional tumor markers (CA19-9, CA125, CA50, CEA) and imaging (CT,
      MRI, PET/CT), both in separation and combined, with Cohort One in the diagnosis of pancreatic
      cancer at early stages, to validate the efficacy of microRNA-25 detection in the
      differentiation of pancreatic cancer and other related diseases, to investigate the relation
      between microRNA-25 level and pancreatic staging. Patients in Group One will receive a
      microRNA-25 level detection at the time of diagnosis, along with conventional tumor marker
      detection and imaging tests, and then be confirmed by pathological study. And, to investigate
      the efficacy of microRNA-25 level detection in the curative efficacy evaluation and relapse
      monitoring, patients of Group Two (selected from Group One) will receive a microRNA-25 level
      detection within one month after surgery and before starting adjuvant therapy, followed by a
      microRNA-25 level detection every three months along with normal follow-up tests, until
      relapse is observed with imaging tests.
    
  