
    
      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety of HPC, Cord Blood (administered
      via intravenous infusion and intrathecal injection, or intravenous infusion in conjunction
      with mannitol for subjects unable to tolerate intrathecal injection) in subjects with acute
      ischemic stroke. The secondary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of HPC, Cord Blood (as
      assessed by changes in neurological tests and cerebral infarct volume as measured by
      diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)) in subjects with acute ischemic stroke.

      This is a prospective, open-label, single-center, exploratory clinical study in subjects ≥ 18
      years of age who have sustained a recent ischemic stroke. A total of 10 subjects will be
      enrolled. Subjects will be given a series of baseline neurological assessments, blood tests,
      and MRI.

      All subjects will be administered only ABO- and Rh-matched units of HPC, Cord Blood. Subjects
      will not be matched for human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-typing. For each administration of HPC,
      cord blood, the total dose (2.5 × 10^7 cells/kg; 150 × 10^7 cells) will be split for
      intrathecal injection followed immediately by intravenous infusion. HPC, Cord Blood will be
      administered via intravenous infusion and intrathecal injection, in subjects who have
      sustained an acute ischemic stroke within the past 9 days. Intravenous infusion in
      conjunction with mannitol will be used in instances where a subject is unable to tolerate
      intrathecal administration. Treatment period consisting of 3 sessions, timed 5 to 12 days
      apart. Subjects will be monitored for 6 hours post-infusion, and follow up will occur 24
      hours after each therapy session. Follow-up phone calls for adverse event (AE) assessment
      will be conducted at 1 week, 1 month, and 2 months after the first intravenous/intrathecal
      treatment. A follow up clinic visit at 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after the
      first intravenous/intrathecal treatment will include a neurological exam, MRI, and clinical
      laboratory tests/urinalysis.

      Risks of cord blood infusion include infusion-related reactions such as anaphylaxis,
      urticaria, dyspnea, hypoxia, cough, wheezing, bronchospasm, nausea, vomiting, hives, fever,
      hypertension, hypotension, bradycardia, tachycardia, rigors, chills, infection, and
      hemoglobinuria. Less likely, long-term risks include transmission of infection or Graft vs
      Host Disease.
    
  