
    
      This protocol is designed to demonstrate the clinical feasibility of using in vivo EPR
      oximetry to obtain clinically useful measurements of tumor oximetry from cancer patients. By
      taking measurements of a variety of tumor types undergoing a variety of treatments, we will
      gain valuable information towards assessing our underlying hypothesis that repeated
      measurements of tissue oxygen levels can be used to optimize cancer therapy, especially
      radiation therapy, so that the therapy is applied in a way that maximizes the therapeutic
      ratio. All patients in this study will receive standard of care therapy for their cancer at
      the discretion of their treating physician(s). All subjects will be assigned to one of the
      four cohorts below for which they qualify;there is no randomization and no stratification
      within the cohorts. All measurements will be carried out before, during and after
      hyperoxygenation therapy * Not all tumor's may be amenable to the SPOTChip or India ink
      measurements. Similarly, some patients may refuse one or the other. In either of these cases,
      measurements may still be made with only one of the two probes.

        -  For patients in whom measurements are being made while on systemic therapy, the goal of
           the systemic therapy may be neoadjuvant in curative patients or palliative in metastatic
           patients.

        -  If patients receive chemotherapy at intervals of less than q3 weeks, oximetry
           measurements should still only be taken at 3-4 week intervals with every other cycle.
           Patients on systemic therapy for prolonged. The duration of the EPR oximetry
           measurements will vary t depending on the type of therapy a given patient receives
           (which determines the cohort they are in). Patients who undergo pre-operative EPR
           oximetry measurements will not have any follow-up measurements after surgery since the
           tumor has been excised. Patients who undergo radiation or systemic therapy will have EPR
           oximetry measurements during treatment, 1 month after completing radiation or systemic
           therapy and none thereafter. Adverse events specifically related to the India ink
           injection and EPR oximetry measurements will be followed until resolution,
           stabilization, or until it has been determined that study participation is not the
           cause. Adverse events related to cancer-directed therapies (e.g. radiation or systemic
           therapy) will not be monitored on this study.
    
  