
    
      Focus Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete some questionnaires.
      The questionnaires will ask about your age, income level, education level, and smoking
      history. This information will allow researchers to look at whether these factors affect how
      people understand smoking health risk information. The questionnaires will take about 15
      minutes to complete. You will also complete a breath test. To complete the breath test, you
      will blow into a tube that's attached to a machine about the size of a pocket computer. The
      breath test is used to estimate the amount of tobacco smoke that you inhale.

      You will participate in a focus group. During the focus group, research staff will be present
      to help discuss and evaluate various smoking risk informational messages. You will be asked
      to decide which messages may be most influential in terms of helping smokers to quit smoking.
      The messages will include information about health risks of smoking, such as smoking-related
      cancers, heart disease, lung disease, gum disease, fertility problems, and other related
      topics.

      The focus group session should last about 1 hour and 30 minutes.

      The messages will then be selected by the study doctor and used to create pamphlets on the
      risks of smoking. These pamphlets will be used to help people quit smoking.

      Your participation on this study will be over once you have finished taking part in the focus
      group. All focus groups will be audiotaped and the tape will be sent to an outside company to
      be transcribed. No information that could be used to identify you such as your name or date
      of birth will be provided to the outside company.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 30 smokers will participate in the focus groups. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      Pilot Testing and Main Study:

      Many people can get and understand smoking health risk information. This study will look at
      which types of smoking risk information may be most easily understood by different people.
      Participants in this study will be asked to listen to and read 1 of 4 types of messages on a
      computer. These messages will talk about and list some health consequences of smoking.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete several
      questionnaires. These questionnaires will ask about your feelings and moods, thoughts about
      smoking, risks of smoking, smoking history, and basic information, such as your age,
      education level, and income level. The questionnaires will take about 30 minutes to complete.
      You will also complete a breath test. To complete the breath test, you will blow into a tube
      that's attached to a machine about the size of a pocket computer. The breath test is used to
      estimate the amount of tobacco smoke that you inhale.

      After you have completed these questionnaires and the breath test, you will complete several
      computer-aided tasks. These computer-aided tasks will allow you to be able to read and hear
      informational messages about health risks of smoking, such as smoking-related cancers, heart
      disease, lung disease, gum disease, fertility problems, and other related topics. During this
      study visit, you will also evaluate several recently designed informational messages on the
      health risks of smoking. The computer-aided tasks and the evaluation should last about 30
      minutes.

      After evaluating these messages, you will be asked to complete additional questionnaires in
      order for researchers to evaluate your responses to them. These questionnaires will ask your
      opinion about the informational messages and the risks of smoking. These last set of
      questionnaires should take about 30 minutes to complete. Your participation will be over in
      this study once you complete the last set of questionnaires.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 420 smokers will participate in this part of the
      study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  