
    
      Historical Background

      Lower extremity amputation is among the oldest known surgical procedures in medical history.
      Despite the passage of over two millennia, however, relatively little has changed in the
      operative approach. Currently, lower limb amputation is indicated most frequently for lower
      extremity compromise due to severe peripheral vascular disease, followed in short order by
      trauma, tumors, infections and congenital limb deficiencies. Estimates of frequency of lower
      limb amputations range from 30,000-40,000 cases per year in the United States alone.

      Normal function of the lower limb is enabled through the interplay of multiple muscle groups
      acting in concert. Ambulation is a remarkably orchestrated biomechanical process that is
      dependent upon a complex feedback loop involving the central and peripheral nervous systems
      and the musculoskeletal system. In their native state, the muscles of the lower extremity
      exist in a balanced agonist/antagonist milieu in which volitional activation of one muscle
      leads not only to its contracture, but also passive stretch of its opposite. Changes in
      muscle tension manifest through these changes lead to stimulation of specialized receptors
      within the muscle fibers that transmit joint position information to the cerebral cortex.
      Such feedback, in conjunction with cutaneous sensory information from skin mechanoreceptors,
      provides us with a sense of limb proprioception that ultimately enables high fidelity limb
      control, even in the absence of visual feedback.

      However, the standard operative approach to lower limb amputation at either the below knee
      (BKA) or above knee (AKA) level obliterates many of the dynamic relationships characteristic
      of the uninjured lower extremity. Initial exposure is accomplished through either a
      stair-step (BKA) or fishmouth (AKA) pattern incision, followed by progressive transection of
      muscles, vessels, nerves and bone at the level of the incision. Tissues distal to the site of
      structural transection are discarded, regardless of whether or not there may be viable
      segments, and the proximal residual muscles are layered over the distal transected bone in
      order to provide insulation to this exposed osseous surface. The surrounding skin is then
      advanced over the bone/muscle infrastructure in order to achieve definitive closure. The
      rudimentary approximation of tissues in the distal limb in these approaches results in a
      disorganized scar mass in which normal dynamic muscle relationships are destroyed. The
      uncoupling of native agonist/antagonist muscle pairings results in isometric contraction of
      residual muscle groups upon volitional activation, producing incomplete, unbalanced neural
      feedback to the brain that results in aberrant perception of residual limb position. Such
      disturbed feedback not only results in impaired ambulatory function with prosthetics, but
      also manifests as pathological sensory perception of the extremity in the form of phantom
      limb and phantom pain symptomatology.

      To date, providers and patients have tolerated the limitations of these approaches due to the
      fairly simplistic goal of lower limb amputation: to provide a stable, padded surface for
      prosthesis mounting. Historically, lower limb prostheses have afforded amputees the
      opportunity to recover at least some measure of ambulatory function. Standard lower limb
      prostheses currently afford the wearer the walk in a rudimentary fashion, as well as
      occasionally run. However, such devices have generally not been able to recapitulate the
      complex biomechanics of the human lower limb due to limited ranges of motion and lack of
      feedback control. These limitations have resulted in substantially altered kinematics in
      lower limb amputees that are associated with derangements in energy expenditure profiles that
      worsen with laterality and ascending level.

      An age is dawning, however, in which the capabilities of modern prostheses are broadening
      remarkably. Technological advances including increasingly miniaturized electronics, wireless
      communications and ever-refined positional sensors have enabled prosthetic developers to
      create next-generation bionic limbs with markedly enhanced degrees of freedom over prior
      models. Such prostheses have been demonstrated to markedly improve the energy expenditure of
      amputees who utilize them appropriately. Even more advanced prostheses are currently under
      development that incorporate the ability to provide active intrinsic limb control to
      facilitate complex motor actions such as dancing and balancing on one leg. In addition,
      prototype prosthetics are currently being developed that have the potential to offer sensory
      feedback - both tactile and positional - in a manner never before witnessed. Such
      prosthetics, while not yet available commercially, are presently being utilized in
      experimental settings.

      However, these technological advancements in the sphere of prosthesis development have not
      been matched with surgical advancements with regards to management of the residual limb.
      Classic techniques to lower limb amputation do not provide innervated interfaces that can
      serve as relays for complex prosthesis control; without such biological actuators in the
      residual limb to provide conduits for information exchange, next generation prostheses are of
      little use. Stated another way, next generation prosthetics currently incorporate drivers and
      sensors capable of providing far more enhanced functionality than ever before witnessed, but
      standard approaches to limb amputation do not provide a way of effectively linking these
      prosthetics to their intended beneficiaries. An evolution in the manner in which lower limb
      amputations are performed is now required - one that will provide a biological interface that
      will allow lower limb amputees to take advantage of the enhanced capabilities offered by the
      remarkable prostheses currently under development.

      Previous Pre-Clinical or Clinical Studies

      Recognition of the increased need for effective neural interfaces for prosthetic limbs has
      been evidenced by an expanding number of efforts in this sphere over the past decade. Initial
      efforts to provide high resolution control of distal prostheses were focused primarily on
      direct and indirect brain interfaces, either through placement of electroencephalographic
      scalp sensors or implantable parenchymal electrodes, respectively. However, such endeavors
      have been plagued by poor resolution, inconsistencies in signal acquisition and progressive
      foreign body reactions leading to impulse degradation over time.

      As the limitations of brain interfaces have become more evident, focus has shifted to direct
      peripheral nerve interfaces including interposed sieves and cuffs designed to transduce
      electrical signals directly from individual nerve fascicles to distal prostheses. Such
      monitors have, however, shown little clinical promise due to progressive nerve compression
      secondary to scarring, as well as significant neurological crosstalk and interference in
      biological models.

      As such, the most promising efforts regarding peripheral nerve interface development are now
      within the realm of biological systems. The two leading models in this sphere are as follows:

        -  Targeted Muscle Reinnervation (TMR): TMR is a technique whereby a series of nerve
           transfers is utilized to reinnervate specific target muscles to create additional
           prosthetic control sites after proximal limb amputation. These nerve transfers offer
           intuitive control of distal prostheses because the reinnervated muscles are controlled
           by the same nerves that once innervated the amputated limb. Signals created by the
           residual nerves are amplified by the recipient muscles, which are captured by surface
           electrodes and transduced to the distal prosthesis. TMR procedures have been performed
           on more than 40 patients to date. Limitations of this technique, however, include the
           finite number of available electromyographic signal sites due to anatomic constraints
           and issues with long-term signal fidelity.

        -  Regenerative Peripheral Nerve Interfaces (RPNI): RPNI offers an alternative version of
           an innervated biological interface. An RPNI is a surgical construct that consists of a
           non-vascularized segment of muscle that is coapted to a distal motor or sensory nerve
           ending. Unlike TMR, the RPNI muscle is not recruited from an otherwise normally
           innervated proximal muscle; instead, it is constructed as a free graft from
           orthotopically sourced donor tissue. The muscle segment is gradually reinnervated by the
           redirected nerve ending, which then promotes volitional activation of the muscle segment
           when triggered by the central nervous system. As in TMR, intuitive control occurs
           because the reinnervated muscles are controlled by the same nerves that once innervated
           the amputated limb. Unlike TMR, however, there are no limitations on anatomic sites and
           there does not appear to be problems with long-term signal fidelity.

      While both TMR and RPNIs have demonstrated promise in offering improved functionality to
      patients who have already undergone amputation, neither technique has been incorporated into
      a fundamental redesign of the way in which amputations are performed in the first place; in
      all cases of clinical implementation of TMR or RPNIs reported to date in the literature,
      these techniques have been employed to further optimize the functionality of patients who
      have already experienced limb loss.

      Rationale and Potential Benefits

      This clinical protocol proposes an iteration of the RPNI model, with the intent of
      incorporating these surgical constructs into the design of lower limb amputations at the time
      of limb sacrifice. Given the success of this technique to date, the investigators believe
      that incorporation of innervated muscle segments into residual limb design has the potential
      to provide lower limb amputees with a biological interface for unprecedented prosthetic motor
      control that is not only high resolution but also highly intuitive and capable of restoring
      limb proprioception. In addition, it is anticipated that allowing amputees to have greater
      control of advanced prostheses may offer the potential to normalize gait kinematics, thereby
      correcting alterations in energy expenditure that have been previously reported. Such
      measures hold the promise of optimizing the functional and overall health of lower limb
      amputees, thereby reducing the morbidity currently associated with the amputee status.

      Specific Aims

      The hypothesis of this research protocol is that we will be able to redesign the manner in
      which lower limb amputations are performed so as to include biological actuators that will
      enable the successful employment of next generation lower extremity prostheses. The specific
      aims of the project are as follows:

        1. To define a standardized approach to the performance of a novel operative procedure for
           both below knee (BKA) and above knee (AKA) amputations

        2. To measure the degree of volitional motor activation and excursion achievable in the
           residual limb constructs, and to determine the optimal configuration and design of such
           constructs

        3. To describe the extent of proprioceptive and other sensory feedback achievable through
           the employment of these modified surgical techniques

        4. To validate the functional and somatosensory superiority of the proposed amputation
           technique over standard approaches to BKA and AKA

        5. To develop a modified acute postoperative rehabilitation strategy suited to this new
           surgical approach
    
  