
    
      Research problem:

      Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) is widely used in Saudi Arabia. As wet-cupping
      practice regulation and licensing had been established the need increased to develop a system
      of Continuing Medical Education (CME) for wet-cupping providers. E-learning grown steadily to
      become a popular approach in medical education with the fast-evolving technologies made it
      possible to develop and implement a high-quality Internet-based CME. The aim of this study is
      to compare the effectiveness of Internet-based CME with conventional CME in the field of
      complementary medicine.

      Research Significance:

      Aiming to control the training to guarantee evidenced-based quality care while facing the
      challenge of increased number of licensed cupping providers who needs CME hours to maintain
      and improve their practice. There is a need for a study to evaluate if the internet-based
      technique can help overcome the challenge and to increase the number and improve the quality
      of CME activities.

      Research Objectives:

      To evaluate the effect of internet-based CME activity on knowledge, knowledge retention and
      intellectual skills in wet-cupping providers compared with conventional CME activity.
      Moreover, to develop a model of a blended CME activity using the online platform to conduct a
      flipping classroom CME activity in complementary medicine.

      Research Methodology:

      Randomised, open, comparative controlled trial. Participants will be selected from a list of
      the registered cupping providers. Using a list of registered cupping providers (sample frame)
      a sample will be selected randomly using computer generated number. After taking informed
      consent participants will be allocated randomly into three groups; 1) Internet-based CME
      activity group; 2) Conventional CME activity group, and 3) control group (waitlist) receiving
      no intervention. Data will be explored for distribution, and the appropriate methods of
      presentation and testing of differences will be selected accordingly. Two-tailed values of
      p<0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Immediate knowledge score, Retention
      Knowledge rate and skills score will be compared within and between the groups.
    
  