
    
      Many people have heard of resistant "superbugs" which are causing worrisome infections in
      people around the world. One of these bacteria is called Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus
      aureus (MRSA). Staph aureus is a pathogen that can lead to skin infections, but this newer
      strain is resistant to the standard antibiotic treatment that physicians used to render
      (usually penicillin-based). In addition, the community-acquired strain of MRSA is associated
      with creation of painful boils, or abscesses, which require patients to come and have a
      painful incision and drainage procedure in the ED. Soft tissue infections attributable to
      MRSA presenting to the ED and other ambulatory settings have increased at an alarming rate -
      from 32.1 to 48.1 visits per 1000 population when comparing data from the National Ambulatory
      Medical Care Survey and National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey from 1997 to 2005.

      It is believed that MRSA is contracted from close contacts with other people who have the
      infection, and then it lives on the skin and nasal passages. For people who have recurrent
      skin infections, infectious disease experts sometimes recommend an "eradication" or
      "decolonization" protocol to try and kill off all of the MRSA. These protocols often involve
      a) a topical scrub to remove MRSA from the skin, b) a nasal antibiotic ointment to remove
      MRSA from the nasal passages, and occasionally c) an oral antibiotic. This procedure is
      usually recommended after seeing an infectious disease specialist, but to our knowledge, this
      has never been attempted from emergency department patients.

      Therefore, in this study, the investigators will enroll patients who present to the emergency
      department with abscesses to the study. The patients will be randomly selected to either have
      the standard of care, which includes the standard drainage of the abscess and then usually a
      follow-up visit to recheck the wound, or to have the standard of care plus instructions to
      use a topical scrub of a soap called chlorhexidine once a day for five days and twice daily
      application of a topical antibiotic ointment called mupirocin to the nasal passages for five
      days.

      The investigators will then call back the patients at 7 days, 14 days (if in the treatment
      arm), 3 months and 6 months, to ask if they have had any recurrence of abscess formation. The
      study hypothesis is that the patients who have undergone the decontamination protocol will
      have fewer subsequent infections.

      Using a conservative estimate for the proportion of recurrence in the control group of 50%, a
      sample size of 50 (25 subjects in each group) will provide the investigators with 80% power
      to detect a statistically significant difference in the proportion of patients with
      recurrence between the treatment and control groups if the proportion of the treatment group
      with recurrent infection is 15%. If 60% of the control group experiences a recurrent
      infection, the study will have 80% power to detect a statistically significant difference if
      recurrence is observed in 23% of the treatment group.

      If the hypothesis is true, it could greatly impact the care of patients who present with the
      ED with abscesses, and hopefully reduce the morbidity associated with having recurrent
      abscesses, including lost work and need to return for future painful incision and drainage
      procedures.
    
  