
    
      Decreased sensation and decreased sexual satisfaction following vaginal childbirth has the
      potential to negatively impact overall sexual function and quality of life in many women.
      Previous research by obstetricians and gynecologists (OB/GYNs) found that changes in sexual
      health post-childbirth are not often discussed between physicians and their patients. One
      possible reason these discussions are not being initiated by physicians is the lack of an
      evidence-based treatment other than surgery.

      While traditional surgery can be performed to improve sexual function following childbirth,
      pain at incision lines and scarring can lead to dyspareunia for months following the
      procedure, and a surgical procedure can be painful and the sutures may cause dense scarring.
      The post-operative recovery may last up to seven days before a woman can return to work.
      Resuming intercourse is not recommended for at least six weeks after these invasive
      surgeries. For the many women who are not good surgical candidates, due to health issues or
      situational limitations on downtime or their unwillingness to undergo a surgical procedure to
      improve sexual function, there is no other option.

      The Geneveve Treatment offers a simple alternative to traditional surgery using non-ablative
      radiofrequency (RF) energy as a non-surgical approach to improve sexual function following
      vaginal childbirth. It induces a mild, controlled reaction in the submucosal tissues that
      stimulates the body to deposit collagen, thereby remodeling the tissue without causing
      scarring.

      This study is designed to demonstrate that active treatment (i.e., Geneveve Treatment) is
      superior to the sham treatment for the primary efficacy and safety endpoints.

      The active treatment group will receive a treatment dose of 90 J/cm^2 and the sham group will
      receive a sub-therapeutic dose of ≤ 1 J/cm^2. The participant, the investigator, and all
      study personnel will be blinded to the assignment for the entire study duration.
    
  