
    
      Acute pulmonary embolism (PE) is one of the manifestations of venous thromboembolism (VTE)
      and is a serious and potentially life threatening condition. VTE is the third most common
      cardiovascular disease after myocardial infarction and stroke, and in the West, with its
      aging population, a major health problem. In Sweden, the number of diagnosed cases of acute
      PE is 20-60 per 100,000 inhabitants per year.

      The most common symptoms of acute PE are breathlessness and respiratory associated pain. The
      respiratory pain is an inflammatory pain that originates from the vessels where the embolisms
      are located. The pain occurs through an irritation of the visceral pleural membrane and
      creates a sharp, clearly localized pain that increases during deep breathing, coughing and in
      some cases in motion.

      The National Board of Health and Welfare in Sweden´s guidelines for the treatment of venous
      thromboembolism state that "thrombosis can cause acute pain and the disease may generate
      anxiety especially in respiratory symptoms". It is unclear how long the pain persists. In a
      previous study of our research group, 30% of patients had residual respiratory associated
      pain at discharge after being treated for acute PE.

      Although many patients have respiratory associated pain in acute PE, there are no clear
      description of how this pain should be treated in current guidelines internationally and
      nationally in Sweden.

      Evidence exists that patients with respiratory pain for example after surgery or after costae
      fracture, should use breathing exercises to increase their ventilation and reduce the risk of
      complications such as pneumonia and atelectasis.The exercise consists of deep breathing
      exercise focusing on exhalation with a positive expiratory pressure-device or breathing
      exercise focused on inhalation with an inhalation spirometer, which has been shown to reduce
      pleural pressure, increase lung expansion and provide better gas exchange. As far as we know,
      there are currently no studies on the treatment of respiratory related pain in acute PE.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of a treatment method in addition to the usual
      care treatment for patients with respiratory associated pain in acute PE. The treatment
      consists of information and breathing technique and is compared in the usual care treatment
      for patients with respiratory associated pain, which means treatment with analgesics.

      Patients are recruited from wards at the Medical, Cardiovascular and Oncology Clinics at
      Sahlgrenska University Hospital and Alingsås Hospital. Patients are identified and recruited
      in the ward they are cared for by physical therapist on duty. All requested patients receive
      oral and written patient information and shall give their informed consent before inclusion
      in the study. The patient is randomized via closed-envelope randomization by an independent
      person to participation in either treatment group or control group.

      Intervention Upon inclusion, all patients receive detailed written and oral information about
      the study and how to register in the study protocols by the physiotherapist at the hospital
      where they are being treated. The patients randomized to the treatment group also receive
      information on anatomy and physiology in acute PE as well as the breathing technique.

      The information that the patient in the treatment group receives is information about what
      acute PE is regarding anatomy and physiology, a review of what causes the respiratory
      associated pain in acute PE and also a review of the breathing technique to manage their
      respiratory associated pain.

      Both groups are informed about using the analgesics they need, but the treatment group is
      instructed to primarily use breathing techniques to cope with the pain.

      A protocol about the information on anatomy and physiology as well as about the breathing
      technique is used to ensure that the physiotherapists in the study provide the same
      standardized information to the patients. Written information on anatomy and physiology and
      breathing technique is also given to patients in the treatment group so that he/she can
      control that he/she uses the breathing technique correctly when the physiotherapist is not
      present.

      During the time hospitalized, the patient is visited by the physiotherapist day 1, day 2 and
      at the day for discharge. If the patient has questions or needs support concerning the
      breathing technique between visits, visits by the physiotherapist or telephone contact are
      possible. All patients are monitored for 14 days from the inclusion date regarding pain,
      analgesic consumption and breathing technique training for the patients in the treatment
      group.

      A follow-up with the patient takes place on day 7 and day 15, if the patient is discharged
      from hospital, this follow-up is done over the phone. On day 15, the patients send the study
      protocols to the physiotherapist responsible for the study.

      Data will be analyzed with Statistic Package for the Social Sciences (SPPS). Both parametric
      and non-parametric statistics will be used. Data is presented as mean, standard deviation or
      median and range depending on the variable type. For comparisons between groups in
      quantitative variables, paired t-tests and ANOVA with post-hoc analyzes will be used. For
      qualitative variables, Mann Whitney U test and Kruskal-Wallis test will be used. Variables
      that are dichotomous will be analyzed by Chi2 test or Fisher's exact test.
    
  