
    
      This is a placebo-controlled, partially-randomized clinical trial. The patients will be
      assigned to one of two groups, Treatment Group A or Treatment B group. To help minimize bias,
      a blinded staff member will perform the visual acuity assessments throughout the study. The
      PI and Sub-I's will remain blinded to the treatment groups so that they may perform the
      visual exams throughout the study, if necessary.

      Patients who have had strabismus surgery prior to being recruited will be allowed to
      participate in the study and, if eligible, will be automatically assigned to Treatment Group
      A.

      Patients who are scheduled to have strabismus surgery at least six weeks from their screening
      clinic visit will be allowed to participate, once eligibility is determined. These patients
      will be included in Treatment Group B and randomized to either actual treatment or sham
      treatment. Each eligible participant will be included in the study and blinded as to which
      treatment group s/he has been assigned.

      The duration of each subject's participation in the study will be about 7.5 months. All
      subjects will have a baseline visit to assess eligibility. Subjects in Treatment Group A will
      undergo strabismus surgery, if it was not previously performed, followed by 6 weeks of
      binocular treatment and a 3-6 month follow-up period. NOTE: There will be 4-6 weeks between
      surgery and the start of treatment to allow for full post-surgery recovery before starting
      treatment. Subjects in Treatment Group B will undergo 6 weeks of treatment/sham followed by
      strabismus surgery and a 3-6 month follow-up period.

      If a treatment effect on vision is found, participants enrolled in the sham treatment arm
      will be offered the binocular treatment at the conclusion of the study and following surgery.
      Sham participants will be allowed to receive the study treatment so long as they have
      completed the study and there is no presence of any new medical condition following surgery
      that would be considered reasons for exclusion by the treating physician.
    
  