
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of ruxolitinib phosphate
      (ruxolitinib) in combination with chemotherapy in patients with Philadelphia chromosome
      (Ph)-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). (Phase I, ruxolitinib cohort only) II. To
      determine the response rate (complete response [CR]/CR with incomplete marrow recovery [CRi])
      of ruxolitinib or dasatinib in combination with chemotherapy in patients with Ph-like ALL.
      (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the response rate (CR/CRi) of ruxolitinib in combination with chemotherapy in
      patients with Ph-like ALL. (Phase I, ruxolitinib cohort only) II. To determine the duration
      of response, disease-free survival and overall survival of ruxolitinib in combination with
      chemotherapy in patients with Ph-like ALL. (Phase I, ruxolitinib cohort only) III. To
      determine the safety and toxicity profile of ruxolitinib or dasatinib in combination with
      chemotherapy in patients with Ph-like ALL. (Phase II) IV. To determine the duration of
      response, disease-free survival and overall survival of ruxolitinib or dasatinib in
      combination with chemotherapy in patients with Ph-like ALL. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of ruxolitinib followed by a phase II
      study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT A: Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate orally (PO) twice daily (BID). Cycles repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT B: Patients receive dasatinib PO once daily (QD). Cycles repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      INTENSIVE CHEMOTHERAPY: After cycle 1, patients not achieving a response also receive
      cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 3 hours BID on days 1-3, doxorubicin IV over 24-48
      hours on day 4, vincristine IV over 30 minutes on days 4 and 11, and dexamethasone PO QD or
      IV over 30 minutes on days 1-4 and 11-14 of cycles 1, 3, 5, and 7. Patients receive
      methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 1, leucovorin IV over 1 hour or PO every 6 hours on days
      2-5, cytarabine IV over 2 hours BID on days on days 2 and 3 of cycles 2, 4, 6, and 8. At the
      discretion of the treating physician, patients may also receive rituximab IV over several
      hours on days 1 and 11 of cycles 1 and 3 and on days 1 and 8 of cycles 2 and 4 only.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive mercaptopurine PO thrice daily (TID), methotrexate PO
      once a week, vincristine IV over 30 minutes on day 1, and prednisone PO on days 1-5. Cycles
      repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.
    
  