
    
      This is a phase III, placebo controlled, double blind, randomized clinical trial to assess
      the efficacy and safety of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) given from 28 weeks' gestation
      until 2 months postpartum to pregnant women with Hepatitis B (HB) virus (HBV) chronic
      infection and positive for HB s and e antigen to prevent perinatal transmission of HBV to
      their infants. All infants will receive HBV passive (HB specific immunoglobulin) and active
      (vaccine) immunization.

      Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection is complicated by cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma
      (HCC), the 10th leading cause of death worldwide.

      In 2011, about 7% of adults in Thailand were HBsAg carriers. Infant hepatitis B (HB)
      immunization and HB immune globulin (HBIg) administered at birth effectively prevent most
      mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HBV. However, about 12% of mothers with high load of
      HBV transmit the virus to their infants, despite active and passive immunization.

      Studies have suggested that antiviral treatment at the end of pregnancy and during early
      postpartum can reduce the risk of transmission to the child. A potential limitation to this
      approach is the risk of hepatic disease exacerbation following discontinuation of antiviral
      treatment postpartum, and this risk has not been properly evaluated. No randomized clinical
      trials have adequately demonstrated the efficacy and safety of maternal antiviral treatment
      the prevention of mother to child transmission of HBV. This is the reason why this approach
      is not currently recommended by the Associations for the Study of Liver Diseases.

      We hypothesize that a potent antiviral, tenofovir, can decrease HBV viral load in HBV
      infected pregnant women and therefore reduce the risk of perinatal transmission, before
      infants are definitely protected by passive-active immunization. We also hypothesize that
      only moderate exacerbations of liver disease will be observed after discontinuation of a
      short antiviral course (5 months). While the primary objective of the study is to assess the
      efficacy of tenofovir versus placebo for the prevention of perinatal transmission, an
      important secondary objective is the assessment of the risk of postpartum hepatic disease
      exacerbation.

      Within 2 years, 328 women and their infants will be enrolled from public hospitals in
      Thailand and randomized to receive either tenofovir disoproxil fumarate or matching placebo
      from 28 weeks of pregnancy until 2 months postpartum. Mothers and infants will be followed
      until one year postpartum.

      The primary endpoint will be the detection of HBsAg and HBV DNA in infants at six months of
      life. An interim analysis will be conducted when half of the outcomes are available.
    
  