
    
      Patients were conditioned with oral busulfan 12mg/kg (days -6 to -4), cyclophosphamide
      120mg/kg (days -3,-2), rabbit antithymocytic globulin, (Fresenius, Bad Hamburg, Germany)
      25mg/kg (days -5 to -1) and fludarabine 200 mg/kg (days -7 to-3). Final busulfan dose was
      individually determined based on measurements of serum busulfan levels with a target dose of
      850-1400 microM x minute.

      Transplants were performed in reverse isolation rooms equipped with high-efficiency
      particulate air filtration systems (HEPA). No post-transplant GvHD prophylaxis was given.
      Post-transplant infection prophylaxis consisted of acyclovir, itraconazole,
      trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and penicillin VK. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) status was determined
      weekly using PCR for CMV-DNA and pp65 antigenemia in blood leukocytes, followed by preemptive
      ganciclovir administration when positive.

      Donors Donors were human leukocyte antigen (HLA) A,B,C serologically matched and DR and DQ
      molecularly matched siblings. Donor stem cells were collected following mobilization with 10
      µg/kg/day G-CSF, given subcutaneously for 5 consecutive days. CD34 cells were positively
      selected using anti-CD34 antibody conjugated to iron-dextran microbeads using CliniMACS
      device (Miltenyi Biotech, Bergisch Gladbach, Germany) with an aim to collect > 5.0 x 106 CD34
      cells/kg.

      Disease monitoring Following transplant, all patients were under close surveillance for the
      presence of minimal residual disease (MRD) using cytogenetic analysis and PCR for the
      detection of BCR/ABL transcripts. Bone marrow and peripheral blood samples were examined
      every 3 months in the first year post transplant and every 3-6 months in the subsequent
      years.

      PCR method: RQ-PCR was performed according to the Europe Against Cancer (EAC) protocol.19 The
      BCR-ABL and ABL copy numbers were calculated by comparing with the standard curve generated
      using IPSOGEN FusionQuant Standards. The results of quantifying BCR-ABL transcripts were
      expressed as percentage ratios relative to total ABL transcripts.

      A minimum number of 1x104 copies of ABL is the lower limit below which a negative RT-PCR was
      considered unreliable. In the molecular biology laboratory of the Rambam Health Care Campus
      the sensitivity for quantitative Q-PCR is (10-5).

      Donor leukocyte infusion (DLI). DLI was administered in escalating dose regimen starting from
      3 x 106 cells/kg followed as necessary by 1 x 107 cells/kg, 5 x 107 cells/kg and 1 x 108
      cells/kg.

      DLI was used in case of persistence/reappearance of BCR-ABL transcripts starting from 6
      months post transplant onward. In instances where more than 1 DLI was administered the
      successive escalated dose was given at ≥ 3-month intervals as dictated by MRD follow-up.
    
  