
    
      The proposed intervention, Culturally Responsible Stress Reduction: A Mobile Mindfulness
      Application to Support Health Promotion for African Americans (CRSR), is designed to
      encourage the use of mindfulness to mitigate the disproportionate amount of stress-related
      health disparities facing African Americans. Current mindfulness approaches have been
      unsuccessful in engaging this population. This proposal aims to bridge this disparity by
      developing an mHealth (mobile health) mindfulness application ("app") tailored specifically
      to the cultural values of the African American community.

      Mindfulness involves meditative practices that cultivate purposeful and nonjudgmental
      attention to current thoughts, emotions, and physical sensations in the body. Mindfulness has
      been incorporated into widely-used interventions, including Acceptance and Commitment Therapy
      (ACT). The CRSR app will be grounded in ACT and will integrate the convenience of mobile
      technology with tailored content to allow users to shift from potentially harmful culturally
      prescribed stress-coping activities (e.g., self-reliance, emotional suppression) to adaptive
      mindfulness-based stress-coping activities aligned with culturally specific values. This
      integration of content, backed by theory and empirical evidence, effective instructional
      delivery, an interdisciplinary development team, and modern communication technology will
      produce an effective mHealth intervention.

      The CRSR app features include guided meditations to connect the user to the present moment
      and a place of calm through culturally aligned exercises grounded in spirituality, orality,
      self-empowerment, and resilience; personalized notifications prompting users to reflect and
      engage with the app; periodic email messages on the importance mindfulness as a way increase
      control over physical and psychological health; and user-customized reminders.

      Phase I included developing a testable prototype of the CRSR app, called Mindful You. The
      prototype provided functionality for participants to practice mindfulness and was used to
      test proof of concept, i.e., the feasibility and social acceptability of the CRSR app. Users
      experienced significantly decreased stress and increased self-efficacy. They also reported
      increased use of mindfulness behaviors and improved self-regulation. Phase II will
      iteratively build on the prototype to develop the final product and test its efficacy with a
      fully-powered randomized controlled trial.
    
  