
    
      As chronic diseases are steadily increasing in the industrialized countries, there is a
      growing focus on preventive initiatives. This means that risk communication between the
      physician and his patients plays a central role.

      Effective risk communication can enhance knowledge, involvement in decisions about tests or
      treatment, autonomy and empowerment of patients. Poor communication, however, can lead to
      anxiety, lack of confidence in health care professionals, and other adverse outcomes. It is
      vital that we identify the available evidence about how it should best be done.

      The standard formats used to communicate intervention effectiveness are absolute risk
      reduction, relative risk reduction, number needed to treat, and life prolongation of life.

      Few studies have explored the formats' influence on real patient decisions, implying that we
      only know little about what kind of format would be the optimal to help patients make
      well-informed real-life decisions corresponding to their preferences.

      In a clinical randomized design risk communication is studied in the preventive talk between
      the general practitioner (GP) and his patients concerning cardiovascular diseases. Special
      focus is on influence of information format on patients' choice of therapy, adherence to
      therapy and satisfaction with therapy.

      GPs are randomized to one of two groups, being taught in informing their patients by means of
      either absolute risk reduction, ARR or life extension, LE.

      The setting is the preventive talk in the GP's clinic. From a measured total-cholesterol the
      GP informs his patient about the individual risk of getting a cardiovascular disease and the
      possible effectiveness of a cholesterol-lowering drug. This is done by means of either ARR or
      LE. After the talk the patient is invited to answer a questionnaire concerning personal
      experience with the information given (deadline 2 weeks after the talk), and again after 3
      months will receive a questionnaire concerning satisfaction with the decision made and
      reflections. Patients' redemption of prescriptions during the following week and the first
      year are recorded through Odense PharmacoEpidemiological Database, OPED. The GPs' opinions,
      experiences and concerns about risk communication, prevention, and usage of statins are
      explored by means of questionnaires.
    
  