
    
      BACKGROUND:

      It is well documented that the roots of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are evident in
      childhood, and elevated levels of serum lipids, blood pressure and body fat are common in
      childhood. These risk factors are, in turn, related to childhood dietary and physical
      activity habits. To understand the early development of CVD, it is therefore important to
      study factors that influence diet and physical activity behaviors in children. Most studies
      concerned with the determinants of diet and physical activity in children are
      cross-sectional, limiting their utility for improving understanding of the development of
      these key health behaviors.

      The study allowed prospective analyses of the behaviors over a significant portion of the
      prepubertal age range. Knowledge of the determinants, stability, and relationships of
      childhood dietary and physical activity behaviors to physiologic risk variables could be
      useful for setting priorities and designing public health interventions for the next
      generations of youth.

      The major contribution of this San Diego SCAN study was in the longitudinal analysis of
      dietary and physical activity behaviors in children. The follow-up assessment of the 10-to
      11-year-old cohort and their mothers produced data that substantially improved understanding
      of the determinants and tracking of children's dietary and physical activity behaviors, as
      well as their relations to CVD risk factors.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Selection of subjects studied was based on social learning/cognitive theory, which states
      that behaviors are a function of personal and environmental factors. The specific aims of the
      study were as follows: 1) To study the determinants of physical activity and dietary intake
      of fat, sodium, and calories, and changes in these behaviors in children from ages 4 to
      10-11. 2) To determine the relationships between diet and physical activity practices and
      physiologic indicators of risk, such as blood pressure, adiposity, body mass, and serum
      lipoproteins at ages 4 to 10-11. 3) To describe the time trends and the degree of tracking of
      physical activity habits and nutritional intake of fat, sodium, and calories in children from
      ages 4 to 10-11. The study was renewed in 1999.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  