
    
      BACKGROUND: Chronic Rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a common inflammatory condition of the upper
      respiratory tract lasting more than 8 to 12 weeks. Major symptoms include facial
      congestion/fullness, facial pain/pressure, nasal obstruction/blockage, purulent nasal
      drainage, and reduction or loss of smell. The diagnosis must include two major symptoms and
      either endoscopic evidence of polyps, edema or mucopurulent discharge from the middle meatus
      and/or CT changes in the mucosa of sinuses or osteomeatal complexes.

      CRS has an estimated prevalence of 5% in the Canadian population, and up to 16% in some adult
      populations in the United States. Sinusitis is associated with a major societal health care
      burden, costing billions of dollars a year in North America. The medical treatment of CRS
      includes topical saline and corticosteroid sprays, systemic steroids and antimicrobials.
      Specifically, saline nasal irrigation (SNI) is a safe, nonpharmacologic treatment, and an
      important and efficacious component in the management of CRS. SNI can vary by concentration
      (e.g. hypertonic, isotonic, hypotonic) and device (e.g. bulb syringe, nasal mist, squeeze
      bottle).

      The Mayo Clinic recently reviewed major expert consensus guidelines on the medical treatment
      of CRS. Although they recognized an overall paucity of controlled trials for any medical
      treatment, and a lack of a consensus or algorithm in the treatment of CRS, there is an
      overall consensus agreement of the use for SNI in this population. In this review, there was
      no mention of treatment of CRS in postoperative period, and no recommendation of what type of
      SNI is best.

      Few studies examine various SNI formulations in the postoperative period. These were
      highlighted by Canadian authors in a recent exhaustive review of SNI in sinusitis. Three
      studies, all greater than 15 years old, include formulations that are not currently in
      popular use, or even available in North America. These did show that pressurized jets or
      sprays of seawater were more effective than nasal drops. More recently, Harvey et al.
      examined how irrigation is delivered and retained in the sinus, using more common devices. In
      a cadaveric model, they compared high volume saline nasal irrigation (HVSI) to low volume
      saline nasal irrigation (LVSI) devices and found a greater delivery (p<0.02) in the former.
      To date there are no studies comparing HVSI to LVSI, using subjective patient benefit and
      objective endoscopic measure outcomes, in the postoperative CRS patient.

      One study did examine two different SNI devices in the management of CRS. The authors
      recruited 150 subjects with CRS in the primary care setting, and randomized them to two weeks
      of SNI with a bulb syringe, SNI with a nasal irrigation pot, and a control group of
      reflexology massage. Hypertonic saline was used in both treatment groups. Subjective
      questionnaires were administered at baseline and at the end of the study period. Both groups
      significantly improved, with no significant difference between the two SNI devices. Patients
      equally preferred the two devices.

      Popular HVSI and LVSI formulations with patients and physicians are NeilMed® Sinus Rinse™ and
      Salinex®, respectively. These are two examples of positive pressure treatments, which have
      enjoyed widespread usage in North America preceding sufficient evidence-based medicine
      demonstrating safety and efficacy. This is likely because topical saline sprays are
      considered safe; they do not require a prescription and perhaps most importantly the massive
      marketing campaign surrounding SNI devices. SNI devices have received significant news
      coverage and appearances on major television shows, including the Oprah Winfrey Show, the New
      York Times, and numerous internet videos.

      PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to determine if there is a clinical benefit of high
      volume saline nasal irrigation (HVSI) over low volume saline irrigation (LVSI) in the
      postoperative period in patients with chronic Rhinosinusitis (CRS). This study is part of a
      multicenter collaborative project initiated by Macdonald et al. However, the sample size was
      not considered sufficient to conclude any significantly different effect between the two
      saline volumes (i.e. 86 participants); it was determined that a sample size of 176 (88 in
      each condition) was required (see attached in Section 9.8). To achieve this, our role is to
      collect data (plus those of four other Canadian rhinology research centres) from 20 patients
      and add our findings to theirs to establish an acceptable and significant result. This
      information would help otolaryngologists, family physicians, and other health care
      professionals recommend the best post-operative SNI (saline nasal irrigation) device for
      their patients with CRS.

      HYPOTHESES: We hypothesize that there is an advantage of HVSI (NeilMed® Sinus Rinse™) over
      LVSI (Salinex®) in the early post-operative management in patients with chronic
      rhinosinusitis. The mechanical effect of high volume irrigation helps ensure that a larger
      surface area of sinonasal mucosa is debrided and cleansed.

      RESEARCH METHOD: This is a multicenter, randomized, single blind, controlled prospective
      study evaluating the subjective and objective outcomes of HSVI versus LSVI in patients who
      have endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) for CRS. One month postoperative scores will be compared
      to preoperative scores. The expected total number of patients to be enrolled in this study is
      approximately 100 (20 patient per 5 institutions), with a planned completion time of one
      year. We will approach 20 patients who are offered ESS for CRS for our part of the study.

      Pre-operative documents will include a consent form to participate in the research study, two
      subjective questionnaires (SNOT-22 and Nasal and Sinus Symptom Score) to be completed by the
      patient and an objective endoscopy scale (POSE) to be completed by the surgeon. Preoperative
      CT scans are usually obtained in patients having ESS for CRS. These will be graded using the
      Lund-McKay score. Finally, endoscopic sinonasal photos will be taken if resources at the
      specific institution allow it. These scales are described in further detail below.

      Evaluation Tests The Sinonasal Outcome Test-22 (SNOT-22) survey is a rhinology-specific
      quality of life instrument, based on 22 items. It is a subjective scale that is completed by
      the patient. A lower score represents a better quality of life. The SNOT-22 is commonly used
      in clinical research, and is reliable, valid, responsive, and easy to use.

      The Nasal and Sinus Symptom Score is a rhinology-specific questionnaire based on 5 items.
      Patients rate the severity of these symptoms from "None" to "Severe".

      The Perioperative Sinus Endoscopy (POSE) scoring system was developed in Canada and is used
      to endoscopically assess the sinonasal cavities of patients who have had ESS. The surgeon
      assesses the inflammatory status of the sinonasal cavity contents, including the middle
      turbinate, the middle meatus, ethmoid cavity, frontal recess/sinus and sphenoid sinus. Each
      site is graded from 0 to 2 depending on the degree of inflammation and/or purulence seen. A
      total score is calculated out of a total of up to 20, depending on the extent of surgery.
      This scale has compared well with other similar validated scales such as the Lund-McKay
      endoscopy staging system.

      The Lund-McKay score is used to quantify sinonasal inflammation on a CT scan. Each of the
      following is given a score of 0-2 depending on the degree of opacification: anterior
      ethmoids, posterior ethmoids, maxillary sinus, sphenoid sinus, frontal sinus, and osteomeatal
      unit. At total score is calculated out of 24, a high score indicating more severe disease.
      This scale is also widely used in the assessment of CRS, and is reliable and valid.

      Intervention/Treatment:

      On the day of the surgery, patients will be provided with a box containing either a HVSI
      (NeilMed SINUS RINSE) or LVSI (Salinex®). The patient will be randomized using a computer
      software program, and the box containing the spray will be the same regardless of which one
      is used. The directions will be the same irrespective of the system given: two sprays in each
      nostril two times daily.

      In this way the surgeon will be blinded to whether the patient has a HVSI or LVSI. The
      patient will be clearly instructed to NOT tell the surgeon which device they were given. In
      addition, surgeons involved in the study will be instructed to NEVER ask the patient which
      device they used.

      Harms and discomforts:

      Saline irrigation, HVSI or LVSI, is considered a safe treatment with no adverse effects.
      Occasionally patients will feel some discomfort, but it is a well-tolerated therapy. We do
      not perceive any risks with this treatment.

      Patients may withdraw from the study at any time for any reason. This will not affect patient
      care in any way.

      Sinus surgeons routinely prescribe medications in the preoperative period, including
      antibiotics and topical and/or systemic steroids. Surgeons will be instructed to treat their
      patients, preoperatively as they normally would, with no alteration in treatment other than
      the randomized saline irrigation bottle.

      At one month postoperatively, patients will be reassessed in the clinic. The SNOT-22, Nasal
      and Sinus Symptoms Score (by patients), and POSE (by surgeons) questionnaires will be
      completed, and endoscopic photos will be taken.

      Preoperative and one-month postoperative SNOT-22, Nasal and Sinus Symptoms Score, and POSE
      scores for the HVSI and LVSI will be compared to determine if there is a significant
      difference in subjective and/or objective outcomes. Patients will be stratified according to
      disease severity using the preoperative questionnaires and the Lund-McKay score to determine
      if patients with varying disease severity benefit more from one delivery device over the
      other.

      We hope to involve 5 sinus surgeons across Canada, mostly from academic tertiary care
      institutions. Each surgeon will involve 20 patients in this study, for a total study
      recruitment of 100 patients. Each surgeon will submit a proposal to his/her own institution's
      Research Ethics Board.

      The data from all 5 surgeons will be collected by the primary investigator (AJ). Data will be
      sent in a confidential manner over secure fax. Patient names and other specific identifiers
      will not be included with correspondence.

      PROPOSED DATA ANALYSIS: Data will be entered into an Excel spreadsheet and statistical
      analysis will be applied with the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) vs.13. A
      total sample size was calculated at 100 patients (5 surgeons, 20 patients per surgeon at each
      institution) that would yield a useful and achievable analysis without being overly
      cumbersome. Because of the lack of research in this area, to achieve these study numbers
      alone would represent a significant achievement. Subsequently, data from these 100 patients
      would be added to those of the previously determined 86 (which will be sent by Dr. Macdonald
      in Toronto), placed onto the same spreadsheet and analyzed.

      Implications of research: As stated above, our results may provide needed evidence for a
      common trend among Otolaryngologists. This will be the first study to document the value of
      different volume spray to treat postoperative sinus surgery; the results are potentially
      publishable in a major journal and would represent a major collaborative effort among
      Canadian Otolaryngologists. It would help maintain the University of British Columbia's and
      the Division of Otolaryngology's reputation in world-class research.
    
  