
    
      Sacral nerve stimulation is a very good and effective treatment for faecal incontinence The
      method was introduced to patients with voiding disorders in 1981. In 1995 sacral nerve
      stimulation was used for three patients with faecal incontinence, two were afterwards fully
      continent. The method has over the last decade been used increasingly in Europe. The method
      is now used routinely in the treatment of faecal incontinence in Europe.

      Recent studies have shown that the effect of sacral nerve stimulation is due to a
      neuromodulation in the central nervous system, whereas direct stimulation of efferent nerves
      to anal sphincter and the pelvic floor has less significance.

      The sacral nerve stimulation is performed in two steps, first a test stimulation, if positive
      the patients proceed to permanent implant.

      Test stimulation (PNE-test) is performed over a 3 week period. If this test stimulation
      produces a decrease in incontinence episodes of more than 50 per cent, a permanent electrode
      and neurostimulator are implanted. The test period has a success rate of approximately 75-80%
      in patients with idiopathic fecal incontinence or incontinence after anal surgery. These
      75-80% will normal be candidates to unilateral implantation of permanent electrode and
      neurostimulator.

      All permanently implanted has less incontinence symptoms after the treatment. Satisfactory
      continence results after permanent implantation are seen in 70% of the patients, the
      remaining 30% only obtain a suboptimal efficacy. It is unclear whether these patients could
      have a more optimal function if they were stimulate on more than one sacral nerve
      simultaneously.

      Hypothesis: Is it possible to improve the functional result in faecal incontinent patients
      treated with routine unilateral sacral nerve stimulation by stimulating the sacral nerves
      bilaterally.
    
  