
    
      Ribavirin is the drug that is normally given to treat upper respiratory infections caused by
      RSV. The drug is only effective when inhaled as an aerosol. This treatment requires the
      patient to be in a tent and inhale the medication. The usual method for administering this
      drug has been to inhale the medication continuously over 18 hours. In this study, the same
      total dose of the medication will be used, however, treatment will be for 3 hours every 8
      hours.

      As part of your standard care, before treatment you will have blood drawn (around 2
      teaspoons) for routine blood tests. You will have a washing from your throat and nose
      collected. For this procedure, around 1 teaspoon of saline will be sprayed into each nostril
      and you will blow your nose into a cup. You will have a swab of the nose and throat. You will
      also have a chest x-ray to check on the status of the disease. Women who are able to have
      children must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy test.

      Before treatment, you will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two
      groups. Participants in one group will receive treatment with ribavirin over 3 hours every 8
      hours. Participants in the other group will receive treatment using the standard treatment
      schedule, ribavirin over 18 hours every 24 hours.

      For both groups, the drug will be administered as an aerosol using a face mask. This will
      require you to be in a tent while you are receiving therapy. Treatment will last between 5
      and 10 days. This will require hospitalization. In addition to ribavirin treatment, you will
      also receive Xopenex inhalation therapy every 6 - 8 hours. Xopenex is a drug designed to make
      breathing easier. We may need to use another breathing treatment, albuterol inhalation
      therapy for one time if needed, directly after receiving ribavirin to make breathing easier.

      Every 2-4 days during treatment you will have blood collected (around 2 teaspoons) for
      routine tests. On Days 3 and 7 of treatment (+/- 2 days), you will have a repeat throat and
      nose washings/swabs. The washings and swabs will then be repeated once a week for 2 weeks, or
      until 2 consecutive cultures are negative, if that occurs sooner. If your doctor feels it is
      necessary, you may have a repeat chest x-ray.

      If at any time you develop signs of pneumonia, you will be removed from the study and will be
      treated with the standard schedule of ribavirin by continuous inhalation and/or other therapy
      for 18 hours a day. Also, if you develop any intolerable side effects, you will be taken off
      the study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

      This is an investigational study. Ribavirin is FDA approved and is commercially available.
      However, the method of administration of ribavirin is investigational. Up to 50 patients will
      participate in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  