
    
      Objectives:

      Primary:

        -  Evaluation of latency to sensory block of T10.

        -  Evaluation of the duration of sensory block.

      Secondary:

        -  Evaluation of the motor block degree.

        -  Evaluation of motor block duration.

        -  Evaluation of cardiovascular safety.

        -  Block failure.

        -  Observation of adverse events.

      Study Plan:

        -  Estimated 120 research participants;

        -  Aged between 18 - 80 in both gender;

        -  Drug Intervention: 01 day

      Evaluations during Trial:

        -  Classification of anesthetic risk: Class I to VI by the American Society of
           Anesthesiologists(ASA);

        -  Identification of the Anesthetic Failure;

        -  Latency time for sensory block at T10;

        -  Duration of sensory block and motor block;

        -  Bromage scale;

        -  Cardiovascular safety;

      Retention of Records:

      The investigator shall retain all documentation of the study over a period of at least five
      years from the end of the study. The Sponsor or its designee will provide a list of all
      documentation which should be kept by the Investigator.

      Monitoring:

      All aspects of the study will be carefully monitored by Cristália Pharmaceutical Chemicals
      Ltda. or designated representative of it (Clinical Research Organization - CRO) for
      evaluations related to good clinical practice and applicable local regulations.

      Case Report Forms. The Monitor will be available if the investigator, or other person of his
      team, needs information and guidance.

      The Monitor of the study should have permanent access to all documentation and it is his
      obligation to ensure that the Case Report Forms are complete and completed correctly, as well
      as checking if the data are described according to the source documents, in order to
      eliminate interferences that may compromise the accuracy of the data generated in the
      clinical trial.

      Audit and Inspections:

      Authorized representatives of the Sponsor or designees, regulatory authority or the Ethics
      Committee of the institution may conduct audits or inspections during or after the study
      conclusion.

      Collecting Data:

      The information corresponding to the data of interest from the study will be collected and
      recorded in Case Report forms provided by Sponsor, and filled from the information contained
      in the source documents.

      Documents are considered sources for study: medical records used by the professional at the
      time of the visits, diagnostic tests or image.

      Informed Consent of Trial:

      The Principal Investigator will ensure that the research participant receive verbally and in
      writing all relevant information about the nature, purpose, the test drug, the possible risks
      and benefits of the study.

      Research participants will be notified that they are free to discontinue the study at any
      time. That they will have the opportunity to ask questions and to have sufficient time to
      consider the information received.

      Formation of the database:

      The database of the study will be assembled with the data from the Case Report Forms. Doubts
      and discrepancies will generate questions (queries) written to the Principal Investigator.
    
  