
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the feasibility and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intraarterial ONYX-015 in
      patients with advanced squamous cell cancer of the head and neck.

      II. Determine the feasibility and tolerability of intraarterial ONYX-015 at the MTD OR
      maximum theraputic dose, whichever is lower, in combination with intravenous cisplatin and
      fluorouracil in these patients.

      III. Determine the qualitative distribution of ONYX-015 within a limited tumor biopsy and a
      normal mucosal biopsy at different dose levels.

      IV. Determine the response of these patients to intraarterial ONYX-015. V. Determine the
      response of these patients to cisplatin and fluorouracil following intraarterial ONYX-015.

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study. Patients receive intraarterial infusions
      of ONYX-015. Treatment repeats once in 3-4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-8 patients receive escalating doses of ONYX-015 until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 5 patients
      experience dose limiting toxicity.

      Patients in cohorts 1-4 are followed for 5 days after infusion, weekly for 3 weeks, at week
      6, and monthly thereafter for 4 months.

      A fifth or final cohort of 10 patients will receive ONYX-015 at the MTD. If the MTD was not
      determined in cohorts 1-4, patients receive the highest dose administered to cohort 4.
      Beginning 1-2 days after ONYX-015 infusion, patients receive cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes
      once and fluorouracil IV continuously over 4 days. Treatment repeats in 4 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cisplatin and fluorouracil IV
      treatment continues every 3-4 weeks at the discretion of the treating oncologist.

      Patients in cohort 5 are followed for 5 days after initial infusion, weekly for 4 weeks, at
      week 8, and monthly thereafter for 4 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL:

      A total of 23-28 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  