
    
      Inflammatory mechanisms contribute to neurodegeneration in AD. Acute phase proteins such as
      the antichymotrypsin (a1ACT), pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-1, and activated
      microglial cells are all associated with neuritic plaques. a1ACT levels are elevated in AD,
      correlate with cognitive decline and serve as a biological marker of intervention. a1ACT is
      intimately associated with the 42-AA b peptide (Ab) in filamentous amyloid deposits and
      stimulates the polymerization of Ab into amyloid filaments. IL-6 is found in AD cortices
      prior to the onset of neuritic change, serum and stimulated PMNC IL-6 levels are higher in
      AD, and may induce b-amyloid protein deposition. Microglia, CNS resident inflammatory cells,
      produce IL-6 within the adult human brain, are IL-1a +, and are a prominent component of the
      neuritic plaque. Because the pathogenesis of AD appears in part immune mediated, we propose
      testing directly in humans whether ingested IFN-a can ameliorate AD. Because there is no good
      model for inflammation in animal models of AD, we will directly determine in humans 1) if
      3,000 or 30,000 IU hrIFN-a inhibits the natural history rate of cognitive decline in mild to
      moderate AD using neuropsychological instruments as primary and secondary outcome measures
      that 2) correlates with inhibition of acute phase reactants and pro-inflammatory IL-6. If
      this novel anti-inflammatory agent inhibits the natural history rate of cognitive decline in
      AD in this pilot phase II trial, this would provide the preliminary data to submit a phase
      III clinical trial.

      IFNs administered by the oral route show a systemic effect. Oral IFN-a caused neutropenia in
      mice. In contrast to their i.p. administration, oral IFN-a did not result in the presence of
      detectable levels of IFNs in the blood. Circulating specific antibody to IFN blocked the
      neutropenic effects of i.p. IFN, but did not block the neutropenic effects of the oral IFNs
      (2). Therefore, we examined the expression of antiviral MxA message, a type 1 IFN-specific
      induced signal, as a sensitive marker for type 1 IFN interaction with lymphoid cells in the
      gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT) using semi-quantitative RT-PCR on splenocytes from mice
      and PMNC from man after IFN-a ingestion. Both mice and man demonstrated inducible levels of
      Mx mRNA after ingesting IFN-a. Murine spleen T cells and CD8+ T cells also demonstrated
      upregulation of Mx mRNA. Therefore, ingested IFN-a acts via established pathways of type 1
      IFN signalling (3). Elevated levels of activated T cells, mainly of the CD8+
      (cytotoxic/suppressor) phenotype, are found in AD brains in contact with microglial cells
      (4). Interestingly, peripheral CD8+ T cells are depleted in AD patients (5). Lymphocytes
      bearing T helper and T cytotoxic/suppressor cell antigens are found in hippocampus and
      temporal cortex in AD (6,7). The data above suggest that lymphocytes are part of inflammation
      in AD, and potential immunomodulatory T and CD8+ T cells that contact ingested non-absorbed
      IFN in the GALT could migrate to the brain and decrease inflammation.
    
  