
    
      Induction of labour (IOL) is an obstetric intervention to artificially initiate labour before
      its spontaneous onset. It is undertaken when maternal or fetal risks of continuing pregnancy
      outweigh the risks of IOL. The methods of IOL include pharmacological method (prostaglandin),
      mechanical methods (transcervical Foley catheter and laminaria tents) and surgical method
      (amniotomy). Pharmacological method and mechanical methods are preferred choice for IOL in
      women with unfavourable cervix. Whereas surgical method is reserved for women with favourable
      cervix in which membranes are accessible.

      With the global rise in Caesarean section, more and more women embark on pregnancy with
      previous Caesarean scar. It is estimated that one in every four term pregnancies requires
      IOL. With IOL in previous Caesarean section, the risk of uterine scar rupture with subsequent
      catastrophic maternal and neonatal outcomes is the greatest concern. Previous influential
      study highlighted that IOL with prostaglandin conferred the greatest risk of uterine rupture
      (2.45%) in women with one previous Caesarean delivery. On the other hand, the risks of
      uterine rupture were lower and comparable among women whose labour induced without the use
      prostaglandin (0.77%) and women with spontaneous labour (0.52%). Among the various IOL
      methods, prostaglandin is more likely associated with shorter interval to achieve vaginal
      delivery and avoidance of oxytocin augmentation. Nevertheless, mechanical methods have lower
      risk of uterine hyperstimulation but have more risk of infection. As a result, obstetricians
      are facing dilemma on deciding the safe and effective method of IOL in women with previous
      Caesarean delivery.

      In Sibu Hospital, membrane sweeping is routinely offered to women with previous Caesarean
      delivery who require IOL. This technique involves the examining finger passing through the
      cervix to rotate against the wall of the uterus, to separate the chorionic membrane from the
      decidua, or to massage around the cervix if the os is closed. However, membrane sweeping may
      not exert its cervical ripening effect immediately and the delivery may be delayed by up to 8
      days. This may render a proportion of women to resort to repeated Caesarean section for
      failed induction. The vaginal birth rates following membrane sweeping in women with unscarred
      uterus are ranging between 78%-90%. Among women with previous Caesarean delivery undergoing
      IOL with membrane sweeping, the reported vaginal birth rates were conflicting. A randomised
      controlled trial by Hamdan et al. showed vaginal birth rate of 56.1%. Another comparative
      study by Ramya et al. reported much lower vaginal birth rate of 17.3% which could be
      explained by high rate of Caesarean Section for maternal request in this study. The average
      intervals from sweeping to labour onset and to delivery were about 2 days and 4 days,
      respectively. Membrane sweeping did not increase the risk of maternal or neonatal infection,
      Caesarean section, postpartum haemorrhage and neonatal poor APGAR score, though discomfort
      during vaginal examination, minor vaginal bleeding and irregular contraction were frequently
      reported by women undergoing membrane sweeping. No cases of uterine rupture was reported
      among women with scarred uterus undergoing membrane sweeping.

      Pharmacological IOL method involving prostaglandin is avoided in Sibu Hospital in view of
      higher risk of scar rupture and presence of limited number of consultants to cope with this
      debilitating event. Non-pharmacological methods of IOL such as Foley catheter, double-balloon
      catheter, hygroscopic cervical dilator (laminaria tent) etc are known to have lesser risk of
      scar rupture. Double-balloon catheters are limited in numbers in this hospital and they are
      costly. Laminaria tent is not available in this hospital. Foley cathter is a consumable item
      in this hospital and thus is readily available all the time. Compared to double-balloon
      catheter, Foley catheter has equivalent cervical ripening efficacy and safety profile. In
      addition, Foley catheter is also cheaper and has shorter induction to delivery interval. All
      these advantages make Foley catheter an ideal method of IOL for women with previous Caesarean
      delivery.

      Among women with previous Caesarean delivery underlying IOL with transcervical Foley
      catheter, the reported vaginal birth rates are ranging between 43.5%-71.4%. The retrospective
      cohort analysis by Bujold et al. compared the risk of uterine rupture among women with
      previous Caesarean delivery undergoing spontaneous labour, induction by amniotomy with or
      without oxytocin, or preinduction cervical ripening with transcervical Foley catheter. The
      rates of uterine rupture were similar among the groups ((1.1% vs 1.2% vs 1.6%, p = 0.81).
      However, transcervical Foley catheter appeared to be safer than low dose oxytocin infusion
      for cervical ripening before amniotomy as the latter tended to be associated with risk of
      uterine scar dehiscence. Another retrospective cohort study done by Gonsalves et al. showed
      no case of uterine rupture among 68 women with previous Caesarean section undergoing IOL with
      transcervical Foley catheter insertion.

      The transcervical insertion of balloon catheter as a 'foreign material' may theoretically
      increase the risk of uterine infection. But, the current data available are conflicting.
      Meta-analysis by Heinemann et al. demonstrated that the Foley catheter was associated with a
      significantly higher rate of maternal infections, defined as fever, endometritis or
      chorioamnionitis, compared to the use of prostaglandins or oxytocin for induction of labour
      (7.6% vs 5%, pooled OR 1.5, 95%CI 1.07-2.09). On the other hand, Cochrane Review concluded
      that there is no evidence of an increased risk of infectious morbidity with balloon
      catheters. In the PROBAAT-trial, comparing the Foley catheter with the use of vaginal
      prostaglandin E2 gel, the rate of intrapartum infection was significantly lower in women with
      the Foley catheter (1% vs 3%, p = 0.035). Two other trials evaluating labour induction with
      balloon catheters after rupture of the membranes did not show an increased risk for maternal
      infection.

      Maslovitz et al. reported the rate of vaginal bleeding of 1.8% following transcervical Foley
      catheter insertion. However, the bleeding was minor with unaltered haemoglobin levels and
      coagulation profile. There was also no case of cervical tear which might result in postpartum
      haemorrhage. Besides, risk of change of fetal vertex presentation to breech was reported to
      be 1.3%. This was probably related to concomitant presence of unengaged free-floating fetus
      and contraction following Foley catheter insertion which resulted in flipping movement of the
      fetus. Risk of poor APGAR and NICU admission was not significantly higher compared to other
      IOL methods eg. prostaglandin and oxytocin.

      Till date, there is paucity of evidence on the superiority of membrane sweeping and
      transcervical Foley catheter in IOL in previous Caesarean delivery. Both methods have the
      same mechanism action by increasing local production of endogenous prostaglandin. The aim of
      this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of membrane sweeping and transcervical Foley
      catheter insertion for IOL in women with previous Caesarean delivery.

      The investigators had searched electronic databases including PubMed, Cochrane Library,
      Scopus, Ovid, JSTOR and Google Scholar. The investigators found that there was no study
      comparing these two IOL methods, thus no prior information is available for sample size
      calculation. Based on Julious SA, the investigators recruited 24 subjects (a sample size of
      12 per group) from 15 February 2018 to 8 May 2018 and performed an interim analysis to
      calculate the actual sample size required for a full randomised controlled trial (RCT). The
      justifications for this interim sample size were based on rationale about feasibility,
      precision about the mean and variance, and regulatory considerations. The justifications for
      this interim sample size are based on rationale about feasibility, precision about the mean
      and variance, and regulatory considerations.

      The final sample size was calculated based on the study primary outcome of achievement of
      favourable cervix (Bishop score of 8 or more) within 48 hours of IOL. From the interim
      analysis, the investigators found that the rate of favourable Bishop score achieved within 48
      hours of IOL was 58.3% for membrane sweeping arm and 91.7% for transcervical Foley catheter
      arm. The investigators used the following formula by Fleiss JL. 1981 to calculate the final
      sample size. With α at 0.05 and power at 0.8, total of 52 subjects (26 subject in each arm)
      need to be recruited. With the estimated dropout rate of 15%, the final sample size required
      is 60 subjects, which means a further 36 subjects (18 subjects on each arm) will be recruited
      to complete the study. In addition, data of the initial 24 subjects (12 per arm) recruited
      will be included in the final data analysis. This further recruitment will not affect the
      randomisation of the previous and future subjects because blocked randomisation, in a block
      size of 6 and an allocation ratio of 1:1 is used. Furthermore, there is no change in the
      methodology, scale and instrument of the research.

      The investigators had applied ethical approval of the recruitment of a further 36 subjects
      from the Malaysia Research and Ethics Committee, Ministry of Heath Malaysia and the
      application was approved on 12 June 2018.
    
  