
    
      Traditionally, when individuals sustain a musculoskeletal injury and require physical therapy
      intervention, a referral is obtained from a physician to prescribe therapy. Currently, for
      non-work related injuries, 48 out of the 50 United States are "direct access physical therapy
      states" meaning a consumer can be evaluated and treated by a physical therapist directly
      without physician referral. The number of direct access states is much less for work-related
      injuries, with only 17 of the 50 United States practice acts permitting direct access, and of
      these, most insurance companies still require a physician referral for reimbursement. A
      previous systematic review of the literature on this topic suggests that requiring a referral
      is associated with more drug prescriptions, more imaging ordered, and higher costs to the
      patient and health care system with no advantage in health outcomes. However, the cited
      studies were of low quality (i.e. below Level 1 evidence), so a high quality study with
      strict experimental controls is still necessary.

      This project proposes to conduct a blinded randomized controlled trial to determine if a
      "direct access physical therapy portal of entry" is more effective than a "physician portal
      of entry" in decreasing total episode cost and improving outcomes for individuals with a
      recent onset of musculoskeletal conditions. The project's definition of musculoskeletal pain
      is any "mechanical" spine or extremity pain from either a work condition (workers
      compensation) or a non-work related condition. The project investigators plan to recruit
      potential subjects directly from Temple University employees and supervisors. Subjects who
      consent to and pass a baseline screening will be randomized to one of two groups: direct
      access physical therapy management or Employee Health physician management. All PT and
      physician providers will be "study providers". Subjects randomized to direct access physical
      therapy will be evaluated and treated by a physical therapist. If the presentation requires
      further work up, the therapist will refer the patient for imaging or specialty consult.
      Subjects randomized to the Employee Health physician will receive a similar evaluation
      ordering relevant work up, and if appropriate, the physician will refer the patient to a
      physical therapist. Health outcomes for the two groups will be compared with a mixed-model
      repeated measures analysis at 1 month after enrollment. Total episode cost and medical
      utilization will be compared at one year after enrollment.

      If this direct access "Temple University model" is feasible and effective for managing
      compensated and non-compensated musculoskeletal conditions, it could serve as a paradigm for
      other universities to implement across the United States. Furthermore, this study would be
      the first data set in the literature that studied a physical therapy direct access model for
      evaluation and treatment of employees with "workers-compensation" conditions in the United
      States.
    
  