
    
      If you choose to take part in this study, you will come to M. D. Anderson for your first
      visit. If this is not convenient, a researcher can visit you at your home. At this time, you
      will be asked to complete several questionnaires. The questions will ask about your sleeping
      habits, how you have been feeling, and your general QOL. This will take about 45-60 minutes
      to complete. Researchers, will then ask you to complete a daily sleep diary for the next 7
      days. During this time, you will be given an actigraph watch to wear that will collect data
      about your day-time activity and sleeping habits. The watch should be worn 24 hours a day for
      7 days a week. You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test to measure the electrical
      activity of your heart) and your breathing rate will be measured.

      After your first visit to M. D. Anderson or after a researcher has visited you at home, you
      will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of 3 groups.

      Participants in the first group will take part in a yoga program. If you are assigned to the
      yoga group, you will take part in 3 sessions of yoga each week for 6 weeks. You may take part
      in the yoga sessions any 3 days of the week. Each yoga session will last around 60 minutes.
      During the yoga sessions, you will also be asked to do breathing exercises and to perform
      different movements and meditation. None of the movements are difficult. You will be able to
      follow this program at your own pace.

      Participants in the second group will take part in a stretching program. If you are assigned
      to the stretching group, you will take part in 3 sessions of stretching each week for 6
      weeks. You may take part in the stretching sessions any 3 days of the week. Each stretching
      session will last around 60 minutes. During these stretching sessions you will be asked to do
      simple stretching exercises. None of the movements are difficult. You will be able to follow
      this program at your own pace.

      Beginning with the second week, participants in the first and second groups will be asked to
      complete a brief questionnaire, about the yoga or stretching program, before the first class
      each week. The questionnaire will take about 1 to 2 minutes to complete. You will also have
      an ECG and your breathing rate will be measured before and after one of the classes during
      the third or fourth week and again during the last week. Each stretching and yoga session
      will be audio and video taped for the purpose of quality control.

      Participants in the third group will not take part in the yoga or stretching program during
      this study. However, if you are assigned to this group, you will be given the option of
      participating in the yoga or stretching program after the study has ended. This will be after
      you have finished your last assessment.

      All participants will complete a brief questionnaire during the middle of radiotherapy. The
      questionnaire will evaluate your treatment-related symptoms and will take about 15 minutes to
      complete.

      During the last week of radiotherapy, and at 1, 3, and 6 months after the end of radiation
      treatment, all participants will be asked to fill out a packet of questionnaires (similar to
      those taken at the first visit). It should take about 45 minutes to complete all of the
      questionnaires. If it is not convenient for you to come to M. D. Anderson, a researcher can
      visit you at home to help with the questionnaires. You will then be asked to complete another
      daily sleep diary for another 7 days. During this time, you will wear an actigraph watch 24
      hours a day for 7 days a week to collect the same data as before. During this time, you will
      have an ECG and your breathing rate will be measured.

      All participants will be asked to refrain from participating in any other yoga classes for
      the duration of the study.

      Your participation in this study will be over after your 6-month assessment.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 180 patients will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  