
    
      Background:

        -  Prostate carcinoma is the second most common malignancy diagnosed in men. Approximately
           1 in 6 men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer in their lifetime.

        -  Understanding the molecular mechanisms and genomic alterations that cause prostate
           carcinoma will provide the foundation for the development of novel targeted therapeutic
           agents for this disease. Since 1982 investigators in the Urologic Oncology Branch have
           been studying the genetic basis of urologic cancers. The identification of the genes for
           cancer of the kidney has led to the approval by the FDA of a number of new agents for
           patients with advanced disease. Similarly, it is our goal to study the cancer biology
           (genomic, molecular, and cellular biology) of prostate carcinoma in order to develop
           novel treatment strategies.

        -  Collection of patient tumor samples allows us to study molecular and biologic pathways
           and develop novel targeted therapies. Correlation of these samples with radiographical
           findings and clinical outcomes in patients allows us to predict and understand clinical
           outcomes and possibly develop predictive and/or prognostic biomarkers.

      Objective:

      Collect blood, urine, saliva, expressed prostatic secretions, and benign and malignant tissue
      from patients with known or suspected prostate cancer for the purpose of elucidating the
      molecular mechanisms of carcinogenesis in prostate cancer and ultimately, identifying novel
      therapeutic targets.

      Eligibility:

      - Adults with biopsy-proven or suspected prostate cancer who require diagnostic or
      therapeutic intervention as part of their diagnosis, standard of care treatment, or followup/
      surveillance for their neoplasm.

      Design:

        -  Tissue acquisition protocol in which normal and malignant prostate cancer tissues may be
           obtained at the time of clinically indicated diagnostic and/or therapeutic intervention.

        -  Blood and urine samples for research will be obtained at baseline and follow-up
           intervals. Expressed prostatic secretions may be collected at baseline and follow-up
           intervals. Additionally, saliva may be collected at baseline.

        -  No investigational or experimental therapy will be given as part of this protocol.
    
  