
    
      This is an observational study with a nested comparative bioavailability study among children
      based at Mulago Hospital, Kampala Uganda. It is a part of profiled doctoral study project
      aimed at improving artemether-lumefantrine drug use among children in resource limited
      settings in order to maximize public health benefits. It involves initial healthy volunteer
      studies, quantitative analytical studies and finally this pediatric patient study.

      Artemether-lumefantrine is currently the first line treatment of uncomplicated malaria in
      Uganda and several countries in sub Saharan Africa. Currently the recommended dose regimens
      for children, the most vulnerable population are still empirically weight based derivations
      based on mainly clinical experience from studies done among adults. Yet children are
      physiologically different from adults. In particular lumefantrine, a long acting agent
      ensuring radical cure is highly lipophilic, and has variable oral bioavailability. High
      variability of lumefantrine uptake and its long half life render it liable to selection
      pressure if sub-therapeutic concentrations prevail for long periods. Recommended milk or high
      fat diet to improve its bioavailability may not be available in resource limited settings. In
      Mwebaza et al ., 2013, our health volunteer crossover bioavailability study preceding the
      planned patients study, lumefantrine exposure was comparable in milk and maize porridge plus
      oil study groups. Whereas both fasted and maize porridge groups demonstrated similarly much
      lower ranges of lumefantrine exposures relative to milk. The greatly improved absorption is
      attributed to the little fat used to fortify maize porridge. We believe that findings in
      healthy adult volunteers are relevant for vulnerable African children treated with AL for P.
      falciparum malaria but this needs to be confirmed.

      Objectives

        1. To describe the population pharmacokinetics of lumefantrine among under five year old
           children in Uganda receiving AL for uncomplicated falciparum malaria (Main study).

           The described PPK profile will be correlated to treatment outcomes and will form a basis
           for dose recommendations.

        2. To compare the effects of maize porridge plus vegetable oil versus milk on the
           bioavailability of lumefantrine among under five year old Ugandan children receiving
           artemether- lumefantrine for uncomplicated falciparum malaria (Nested Study).

      This study will establish whether it is possible to recommend fortification of carbohydrate
      rich food with little fat (maize porridge plus vegetable oil) to achieve similarly optimal
      absorption of lumefantrine , if milk is not available in resource limited setting during
      artemether lumefantrine treatment for uncomplicated malaria.

      Mani sub-study (1). A single centre open-label prospective non-comparative pharmacokinetic
      study will be carried out at the Department of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, Makerere
      University College of Health Sciences, at Mulago Hospital Complex, Kampala, Uganda. Study
      will include children (less than 5 years, n=70) diagnosed with uncomplicated falciparum
      malaria destined to receive standard fixed-weight-based six-dose regimen of
      artemether-lumefantrine for 3 days on outpatient basis . A full population pharmacokinetic
      design will be employed to obtain sparse venous plasma samples from participants at scheduled
      periods during a 28 day follow up period. Each participant will provide between 1 to 8
      samples during the 28 day follow up period. Venous plasma levels of lumefantrine (L) and its
      metabolite desbutyl-lumefantrine (DL) will be determined using liquid chromatography and mass
      spectrometry tandem (LCMS/MS) at the Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of
      Laboratory Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. Outcome variables will be
      pharmacokinetic (PK) exposure parameters of L and DL. Sparse PK data will be pooled for
      evaluation of both individual and population PK parameter estimates of lumefantrine using
      NONMEM. Impact of patients' explanatory variables on PK parameters will be assessed.
      Secondary outcomes will include be adverse events and day 28 treatment outcome.

      Nested sub-study (2), is a comparative bioavailability study to compare lumefantrine
      bioavailability after the first oral dose of AL among pediatric patients receiving standard
      care. Forty eight out of the 70 under five year old children with uncomplicated malaria will
      be randomized to receive AL with either milk (n=24) or local maize porridge plus oil (n=24).
      Venous plasma concentrations (1 ml, whole blood) will be obtained up to 8 hours (at 0, 1,
      1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8) after the first using an intensive pharmacokinetic sampling design.
      Thereafter 1 to 8 sparse venous blood samples will be obtained during a 28 day follow up
      period to contribute to the PPK study pool. Primary Pharmacokinetic endpoints and outcomes
      will be exposure parameters after first dose, up to 8 h. Peak concentrations (Cmax) and early
      exposure (AUC0-8h) will be used for relative bioavailability evaluations using confidence
      interval approach for average bioequivalence. Secondary end points will be day 28 in follow
      up with lumefantrine PK exposure (AUC0-28d and AUC0-∞) and day 28 treatment outcomes as
      secondary outcomes. Correlation of overall exposure (AUC0-28d and AUC0-∞) to clinical and
      parasitological response to AL treatment will be explored.
    
  