
    
      Background/Rationale: Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer related death
      among men in the United States, and accounts for 29% of all cancers diagnosed in men.
      Furthermore, approximately one in six men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer in their
      lifetime. Thus, 17% of male Veterans will be asked to make a decision about the treatment of
      their prostate cancer. The burden of this disease is further magnified when one considers
      that most patients will live for years following their diagnosis and with any adverse effects
      of therapy. Given that there have been no clinical trials showing that any prostate cancer
      treatment produces an increased likelihood of survival; men are asked to actively participate
      in treatment decisions. Previous research has revealed that men are often uninformed about
      their prostate cancer, particularly African American men and men with lower educational
      attainment. Thus, it is critical to develop and test decision aids that can help all men
      (especially men with low literacy skills) make an informed decision.

      Objective(s): The goal of the study is to compare the impact of a plain language decision aid
      (DA) to a conventional DA on prostate cancer patients' decision making experience and
      communication with their physician.

      Methods: This study is a randomized controlled trial. Men undergoing a prostate biopsy will
      be recruited at the time of biopsy and complete a baseline interview (at pre-biopsy or biopsy
      appointment). Those patients diagnosed with localized prostate cancer will complete two
      additional interviews: at physician visit (diagnosis), and 7-10 days following physician
      visit (phone survey). The treatment discussion between patients and their physician will be
      audio recorded.

      Major characteristics: All men, without a prior history of prostate cancer, undergoing a
      prostate biopsy will be screened for eligibility and enrolled by the study coordinator.
      Additional inclusion criteria include ability to speak English, provide informed consent, and
      have a PSA < 20. Physicians can refuse to allow a patient participate in the study at the
      time of biopsy. Men will be recruited from 4 VA hospitals (Ann Arbor, Durham, Pittsburgh, and
      San Francisco) and randomized to receive one of two decision aid booklets (plain language vs.
      conventional).

      Major variables and source(s) of data: All survey data will be collected from either
      face-to-face or phone interviews. The surveys include measures of literacy, numeracy,
      anxiety, preference for shared decision making, knowledge, treatment preferences, risk
      perceptions, perception of patient-physician communication, and confidence and satisfaction
      with the decision making process. All survey questions were read aloud and responses
      recorded.

      Status: Recruitment began in September 2008 and concluded in May of 2012.

      1552 men were approached to participate in the study with 1028 agreeing. 1023 completed the
      Time 1 interview. Of the 334 subjects eligible to continue with study activities, 285
      subjects completed the Time 2 interview (biopsy results visit), and 244 completed the Time 3
      phone interview.
    
  