
    
      Sciatica is a disabling condition that affects many people. This condition has an enormous
      influence on the social functioning of patients. The clinical determination of the severity
      of back pain is mainly done with validated questionnaires, which express the subjective
      pattern of complaints in a score. These usually reflect the severity of the complaints, but
      there is still a lack of objective and quantitative tests.

      Objective functional tests are tests in which the patient has to perform a prescribed
      procedure or movement while the duration of that movement is then registered. Such tests are
      already widely used in pneumology and cardiology, but not yet in spine surgery. So far, there
      are only a few objective tests for functional impairment in back pain such as the 6-minute
      walking test and timed-up-and-go test.

      The validated five-repetition sit-to-stand test (5R-STS) is a standardized test that has its
      origin in pneumology and is derived from the 1-minute sit-to-stand test. In this test, the
      patient stands up and sits down for 1 minute as often as possible from a chair without
      armrests, counting the number of movements. This not only measures how mobile the patient is,
      but can also say something about the condition of the heart and lungs. Recently, the 5R-STS
      has been described, in which the time is measured in which the patient has to stand up
      straight and sit down again five times from a chair.

      In spine disorders the 5R-STS had not yet been validated. In 2018, a research group formally
      validated this test for the first time in patients with lumbar hernia, lumbar canal stenosis,
      and degenerative spondylolisthesis.1 In this study (5R-STS-I)1 it was concluded that the
      5R-STS provides additional information that the simple patient-reported outcome measures
      (PROMs, questionnaires) cannot demonstrate. It became clear that especially in patients with
      lumbar hernias two different patient groups existed, namely those with objective functional
      impairment (OFI) and those without OFI. This subdivision into two groups was even maintained
      after correction for pain levels. In a follow-up study (5R-STS-II)2 it was shown that when
      patients undergo the test without supervision - prior to surgery - the test results are
      equal.

      In this study, the investigators want to assess whether there is a connection between the
      duration of the 5R-STS test and the outcome of low back operations after one year. In other
      words: What is the predictive value of this test on the result of surgery?
    
  