
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the overall survival and failure-free survival of patients with high-risk stage
           IB-III endometrial carcinoma treated with concurrent chemoradiotherapy followed by
           adjuvant chemotherapy vs pelvic radiotherapy alone.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the rates of pelvic and distant recurrence, severe (grades 3 and 4)
           treatment-related toxicity, and quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE:

      This is a multicenter, prospective, open-label, randomized, controlled study. Patients are
      stratified according to participating group (DGOG vs UK NCRI vs NCIC CTG vs MaNGO vs
      Unicancer), type of surgery (total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy
      [TAH-BSO] vs TAH-BSO plus lymphadenectomy vs laparoscopic hysterectomy [TLH-BSO] vs TLH-BSO
      plus lymphadenectomy), stage (IA vs IB vs II vs III), and histological type (endometrioid
      carcinoma vs serous or clear cell carcinoma). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive external-beam pelvic radiotherapy 5 days a week for up to 6
           weeks, combined with cisplatin IV days 1 and 22. Patients with cervical involvement
           undergo vaginal brachytherapy boost. At least 3 weeks after completion of
           chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo adjuvant chemotherapy comprising paclitaxel IV and
           carboplatin IV on day 1. Adjuvant chemotherapy repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo external-beam pelvic radiotherapy (and vaginal brachytherapy
           alone in case of cervical involvement) as in arm I.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, completion of radiotherapy, completion of
      chemotherapy, at 6 months, and then once a year for 5 years.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 10 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 670 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  