
    
      Sleep Disordered Breathing (SDB) is a term used to cover a range of breathing events
      encountered during sleep and includes Obstructive Sleep Apnoea (OSA). OSA is the most common
      form of SDB and is caused by partial or complete upper airway occlusion during sleep leading
      to repetitive arousals to restore the airway patency. These frequent, obstructive events can
      be associated with symptoms of unrefreshing sleep and adverse health outcomes. The incidence
      of OSA is increasing due to rising levels of obesity, which has been identified as the
      strongest risk factor for developing OSA. It is estimated that at present 80% of sufferers
      are undiagnosed. It must therefore be assumed that some of these patients are referred for
      surgery.

      Morphine, opiates and opioids remain the treatment of choice for moderate and severe pain
      relief. Inevitably, a large number of patients will be presenting for surgery and receiving
      postoperative opioid analgesia. Opioids may reduce respiratory rate and tidal volume,
      decrease chemoresponsiveness to hypercapnia/hypoxia as well as decrease upper airway muscle
      tone. These effects might further impair respiratory function in patients with SDB. There is
      limited data showing increased extubation complications, increased incidence of paradoxical
      breathing patterns and pronounced oxygen desaturations in patients with SDB receiving
      opioid-based analgesia, but only one randomised controlled trial examining the effect of an
      opioid in subjects with SDB.

      Therefore, the current evidence base regarding the management of patients with OSA and their
      peri-operative risk is sparse. As such the current recommendation from the American Society
      of Anaesthesiologists to limit the use of opioids in such patients, is based on expert
      opinion only. Indeed the effect of opioid analgesia on patients with SDB remains poorly
      understood, making informed decisions when prescribing such substances to patients with SDB a
      challenge.

      This prospective, paired design trial will investigate the effect of intravenous morphine
      sulphate on respiration during sleep in patients with moderate OSA.
    
  