
    
      Meibomian gland dysfunction (MGD) is a common clinical condition seen in optometric practices
      that affects the quality of the tear fluid on the surface of the eye. In MGD, the Meibomian
      glands secrete lipids which are of poor quality and altered composition. This results in a
      dysfunctional tear fluid causing symptoms of ocular irritation (such as dry eyes). Patients
      who use contact lenses on a daily basis suffer from contact lens intolerance due to their
      MGD.

      A study done by Korb and Blackie in 2013 demonstrated that manual debridement of the lid
      margin using a spatula is a viable management option for MGD and blepharitis. The
      investigators of this proposed study have researched the effect of debridement of lid debris
      (Either electronic debridement with BlephEx or manual debridement using a golf spud) in
      relieving signs and symptoms of blepharitis (which comprises MGD as well) in patients who do
      not wear contact lenses on a daily basis as well as in patients who wear contact lenses on a
      daily basis. The investigators obtained positive results from those studies. Signs and
      symptoms of MGD and Blepharitis improved in patients following lid margin debridement
      treatments. The ZEST protocol offers an alternate paradigm for cleaning the eyelid margins.
      The Zocular products contains okra-infused Zocusome micelles that gently lift and clear the
      oil, debris, and residue on eyelid margins Presumably, the ZEST treatment protocol will
      benefit patients who use contact lenses on a daily basis and suffer from symptoms of lens
      intolerance, since similar treatment / cleaning of lid margin debris has shown to be
      beneficial for these patients.

      Therefore, this study will investigate if the ZEST protocol can relieve symptoms of contact
      lens intolerance caused by MGD.

      There are no clinical studies using the ZEST protocol for the betterment of contact lens
      comfort in patients who have MGD. Hence, the proposed study will provide new and useful
      information about this treatment option for managing contact lens intolerance due to MGD. The
      data generated will directly benefit clinical practice and impact several millions of
      patients who suffer from intolerance to contact lens wear due to MGD.
    
  