
    
      1. Pressure ulcers, also known as bedsores occurs as a result of mechanical loading
           (combination of pressure and shear- force) of the skin. We proved that IL-1alpha
           (measurement of skin damage) and reactive hyperaemia (RH) are increased after a combined
           loading of pressure and shear- force with our own developed shear- force model. This RH
           is probably a protective mechanism of the loaded skin and is clinically seen as
           blanchable erythema. Blanchable erythema is seen as an important risk indicator for the
           development of pressure ulcers. Patients with Diabetes Mellitus type 2, however, will
           develop less blanchable erythema (RH), because of a decreased micro vascular function.
           Therefore, they will get less preventive measures against pressure ulcers. We do expect,
           however, that more skin damage occurs when RH is decreased, so we want to investigate if
           patients with type 2 diabetes (with or without neuropathy) will develop less RH and more
           skin damage (IL-1alpha) after shear force application at the skin compared with healthy
           volunteers.

        2. Charcot- neuro- osteoarthropathy is a rare, but serious complication of polyneuropathy.
           Most of the times it occurs at the feet in patients with diabetes with neuropathy. It is
           associated with inflammation, hyperaemia, bone deformation and luxation of the joints.
           The pathogenesis is not well understood: the hyperemic response of the skin to external
           stimuli is increased, but we do not know if this hyperaemia is a result of primary
           hypervascularity or a increase in primary cytokines. Our research model gives us the
           opportunity to investigate if: the local cytokine production is increased in patients
           with diabetes type with neuropathy and a history of charcot osteoarthropathy after
           shear- force application at the skin compared with patients with type 2 diabetes with
           neuropathy.

      Study population:

      Group A:

        -  Healthy volunteers

        -  > 40 years

      Group B;

        -  patients with Diabetes Mellitus type 2 (DM) without neuropathy

        -  age > 40 years

        -  Valk score < 4

      Group C:

        -  Patients with DM type 2 with neuropathy

        -  age > 40 years

        -  Valk score > 4

      Group D

        -  Patients with (pre)- existing Charcot Osteoarhtropathy

        -  age > 40 years

        -  Valk score > 4 Primary study parameters/outcome of the study

             1. IL-1 α/ total protein ratio

             2. Bloodflow of the skin (in flux )

             3. Erythema index of the skin

      The participant is asked to put his left arm on a support cushion. Then we mark an area of
      2.5 cm x 3 cm with a permanent marker at the plantar aspect of the left fore-arm and the
      adhesive side of a Sebutape is placed within this area for collection of IL-1α/ total protein
      concentrations in a non- loaded situation (event 1) for two minutes. Second, we measure the
      cutaneous blood cell flux within the borders of the marked area with a Laser doppler.
      Finally, we measure the erythema index in this area with a colorimeter. Then we place the
      shear- pad over the marked area we apply 9,8 Newton (N) pressure with 19 N shear- force for
      half an hour. After this period a new Sebutape is placed for two minutes, followed by
      cutaneous blood cell flux and the erythema index measurement within the borders of the marked
      area. We repeat these measures after 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes and 60 minutes, At
      the same time we performed the same experiment at the right arm, but instead of loading this
      arm with shear- force and pressure, we apply only 9,8 N pressure at this arm. The same
      measures with the sebutape, laser doppler and colorimeter are done before and after loading
      of the skin. The measures are repeated at 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 45 minutes and 60 minutes.

      Outcomes; IL-1alpha/ total protein- ratio Cutaneous blood cell flux Erythema index
    
  