
    
      Technology is making possible new approaches to overcome old public health challenges.
      Cellular networks are now ubiquitous in resource-poor settings and offer new opportunities
      for high-yield interventions for both chronic and acute diseases. We are specifically
      interested in developing mHealth solutions for diarrheal disease for two reasons. The first
      reason is that diarrheal disease globally remains the second leading cause of death for
      children less than 5 years of age. Barriers to combat this problem include poor adherence to
      guidelines for rehydrating children and outbreaks often outpace current epidemiological
      tools. The second reason is that diarrheal diseases in a setting like Bangladesh, including
      cholera outbreaks, are a model system to develop and test mHealth solutions that can be
      adapted to more complex chronic and acute diseases in Bangladesh and globally.

      In partnership with the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh
      (icddr,b; primary collaborator) and the Institute of Epidemiology, Disease Control, Research
      (IEDCR) within the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in Bangladesh, we propose to compare
      a paper-based versus a smartphone-based decision-support tool in a cluster randomized
      controlled trial (cRCT) to determine the impact of the method of decision-support on the use
      of IV fluids (primary outcome) and indicated medications (secondary outcomes). The smartphone
      tool is an adaptation of the paper-based World Health Organization guidelines, and is called
      the 'Rehydration Calculator.' The cRCT will be conducted collaboratively between the icddr,b
      and government hospitals (N=10) in Bangladesh over 4.5 months per site. A 6-week
      pre-intervention period will establish a baseline at all sites, and in the intervention,
      hospitals will be randomized to use the paper versus smartphone tool by the admitting
      physician. Inclusion criteria are patients 2 months and older that have uncomplicated acute
      diarrheal disease; estimated enrollment is 7893 patients. Standard of care will be practiced
      at all sites, with the exception of the decision-support tool(s) in the interventional
      period. The primary outcome measure is use of IV fluids. This project may have broad impact
      that will include opportunities to provide improved decision-support for the assessment of
      dehydration, decrease intravenous fluid use and improve antibiotic stewardship.
    
  