
    
      The overall objective of this study is to identify a patient-centered strategy that will
      facilitate 3HP uptake by PLHIV in the context of routine HIV/AIDS care in a high HIV/TB
      burden country. The investigators' central hypothesis is that offering PLHIV an informed
      choice between directly observed therapy (DOT) and self-administered therapy (SAT) delivery
      strategies that are optimized to overcome key barriers to treatment adherence will result in
      greater acceptance and completion of 3HP. To test this hypothesis, the investigators will
      conduct a pragmatic randomized trial of three optimized strategies for delivering 3HP.
      Eligible participants will be randomized to one of three arms to receive latent tuberculosis
      infection (LTBI) treatment with once weekly INH and RPT for 12 weeks given by either
      facilitated DOT, facilitated SAT, or an informed choice between facilitated DOT and
      facilitated SAT (with the assistance of a decision aid tool).

      Primary Objective: To compare the uptake of 3HP under three delivery strategies: 1)
      Facilitated DOT; 2) Facilitated SAT; and 3) Informed patient choice (using a decision aid)
      between facilitated DOT and facilitated SAT. The primary outcome will be defined as the
      proportion of eligible participants who accept treatment and take at least 11 of 12 doses of
      RPT/INH within 16 weeks of study enrollment. Study staff will assess medication dosing using
      clinic records for participants taking 3HP by DOT and using a combination of 99DOTS (Everwell
      Health Solutions, India) digital medication adherence technology records and pill counts at
      refill visits for participants taking 3HP by SAT.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To estimate the costs and compare the cost-effectiveness of the three strategies for
           delivering 3HP.

        2. To identify processes and contextual factors that influence patient acceptance and
           completion of 3HP under each delivery strategy.

        3. To identify clinic-level barriers to adoption and implementation of 3HP under each
           delivery strategy.

        4. To determine the proportion of patients for whom 3HP treatment is discontinued due to
           adverse events/intolerance.

        5. To determine the cumulative 16-month incidence of active TB in each arm, categorized as
           definite (positive sputum Xpert MTB/RIF or culture) or probable (TB medications started
           at the discretion of a clinician, with evidence of subsequent improvement).
    
  