
    
      Although there has been relatively little work on 12-step treatment for seriously mentally
      ill patients, extant literature indicates that dually diagnosed individuals attend
      traditional 12-step programs such as AA, NA, and CA at rates comparable to singly diagnosed
      substance abusers, and that participation is associated with decreases in substance use.
      Specialized 12-step programs for the dually diagnosed, developed over the past 10 years, may
      offer additional benefits. In order to maximize the effectiveness of specialized and
      traditional 12-step programs for dually diagnosed individuals, specially adapted 12-step
      facilitation (TSF) treatment for the dually diagnosed should be developed and tested.
      Standard TSF should be modified to address the special needs of dually diagnosed individuals,
      mesh with specialized 12-step programs available in the area, and address barriers to
      attendance, participation, and engagement experienced by the dually diagnosed. We have
      developed a modified TSF based on the Project MATCH TSF manual. Modifications to this 12 week
      individual therapy include: emphasis on specialized 12-step program attendance; readings
      primarily from specialized 12-step program literature; participation in the second session by
      a community specialized 12-step program member; case management to assist participants in
      finding and attending meetings; omission of work on the fourth step; and the addition of
      topics covering medication compliance and specific social skills needed to negotiate 12-step
      meetings. In a pilot study with 10 dually diagnosed individuals, participants showed
      significant decreases in substance use and significant increases in 12-step attendance after
      receiving the specialized TSF. Building on this pilot study, the proposed study is a larger
      Stage 1b study of the modified TSF for seriously mentally ill patients engaged in dual
      diagnosis treatment. Participants with a psychotic or major affective disorder will be
      randomized to modified TSF (n=90) vs. treatment as usual (n=45). Participants will be
      followed for a total of 48 weeks. Assessments will include rigorous diagnosis and measures of
      alcohol and other drug use, consequences, psychiatric symptoms, 12-step behaviors, 12-step
      specific and non-specific change mechanisms, and social support. Specific Aims of the study
      include assessment of the integrity of the planned intervention and assessment battery; tests
      of the effectiveness of the adapted TSF relative to treatment as usual; determination of
      whether psychiatric diagnosis moderates treatment response; and investigation of causal
      mechanisms of response to treatment.
    
  