
    
      This 12-week, placebo-controlled RCT will be conducted in secondary care, specifically mental
      health services, at UK centres. The health technology to be assessed is the augmentation of
      clozapine treatment with another second-generation antipsychotic, amisulpride, which will be
      compared with placebo: 400mg amisulpride or 1 matching placebo capsule for the first 4 weeks,
      then the option of titrating up to 800mg amisulpride or 2 matching placebo capsules for the
      remaining 8 weeks. The study will be double-blind, with medication supplied as identical
      capsules containing either 400mg amisulpride or placebo. The optimum dose of clozapine at
      entry and subsequent augmentation will be achieved through a flexible dosing regimen whereby
      treating psychiatrists will be able to flexibly alter dose regimens to maximise clinical
      risk-benefit ratios; there will be opportunities for clinical titration of clozapine dose at
      two and six weeks. Any direct pharmacokinetic effect on clozapine levels will be assessed by
      pre- and post-augmentation plasma levels of clozapine, samples being taken at baseline and at
      the end of the 12 weeks. Recommended pharmacovigilance procedures will be followed.
      Clinicians will be asked not to prescribe any additional medication during the course of the
      study, and will be reminded of the drugs with potential adverse interactions, as mentioned in
      the SPCs for clozapine and amisulpride. Medication adherence will be assessed by 'pill count'
      and clozapine/norclozapine plasma level ratio.

      Therapeutic improvement will be assessed in terms of overall symptom severity, but also using
      broader, clinically-relevant outcome measures of social and occupational function and target
      symptoms and/or behaviours as well as overall health status and utility. Side effects will be
      systematically assessed. The costs and outcomes for a cost effectiveness acceptability and
      net benefit analysis will also be measured. The primary economic measure will be the
      incremental cost effectiveness ratio of clozapine augmentation, estimated as the net cost of
      clozapine augmentation divided by net QALY of clozapine augmentation.

      Twenty-four months will be allowed for recruitment of participants, plus 3 months for the
      final follow-up assessments.
    
  