
    
      A prospective controlled study with random allocation. The independent variable (group) has
      three levels: intervention with flexible footwear, intervention with custom orthopedic
      insoles and control without intervention, only with medical conservative treatment. This
      independent variable is related to the set of dependent variables stemmed from clinical,
      functional and biomechanical data. All groups, both will use the intervention minimalist
      flexible footwear (MFG), as the intervention group insole (COIG) and the group that did not
      receive intervention (GC) shall consist of patients with PF (plantar fasciitis) in different
      stages of the disease.These will be required to fit in all the pre-established criteria for
      diagnosis of the disease confirmed by physical examination, X-ray and ultrasound. Patients in
      the group with chronic fasciitis plantar associated with heel spur should necessarily present
      themselves diagnosed radiographically by the doctor that came in the Rheumatology Clinic of
      the University. All participants will be informed of the procedures in this research through
      a free and informed consent form, prepared in accordance with Resolution 466/12 of the
      National Health Board. The eligibility criteria for this study will be: female volunteers
      aged between 30 and 50 years, body mass index (BMI) less than 35 kg / m2, no history of any
      surgical procedure on knees, ankles and hips or muscle injury in the last 6 months and no
      neurological and rheumatologic disease diagnosed. Furthermore, they may not show difference
      in length of the lower limbs greater than 1 cm and rigid hallux and performing some kind of
      conservative treatment for PF, except drug. Patients should be able to walk independently for
      at least 6 hours a day without the aid of orthotics / canes to perform their activities of
      daily living. There may also have prostheses and / or orthoses in the lower limbs. Patients
      may not have received corticosteroid injection in the heel in previous periods of three and
      six months, respectively. In addition to these criteria, patients may not present: joint
      instability ankle (positive test results of the medial ligament and lateral), dementia or
      inability to provide information consistent.It will be conducted a randomized controlled
      trial with blinded evaluator, in which 75 women with plantar fasciitis will be randomized and
      allocated to the intervention group with flexible footwear (MFG, acute n=15 and chronic=15)
      or the intervention group with orthopedic insole (COIG, acute n=15 and chronic n=15) or
      control group (CG, n=15). The intervention will have duration six months, six hours a day,
      seven days a week (42 hours/week). For all groups will be allowed to use pain medication
      support (paracetamol 500 mg) with a maximum dose of two grams daily. The primary outcome will
      be the symptom of pain verified by visual analogue scale (VAS), the inability to areas of the
      feet by the total score of the FFI (Foot Function Index), health feet by FHSQ-Br
      questionnaire (Foot Health Questionnaire Status) and the distance traveled by the six-minute
      walk test (6MWT). The secondary: plantar pressure and ground reaction force during gait,
      paracetamol consumption and the joint angles of the lower limbs. The effects of time (Start,
      3 and 6 months), group (GIC and GIP CG) and interaction (time and group) are calculated by
      means of ANOVA case-wise two factors. A 5% alpha to significant differences and Cohen
      coefficient for describing the size effect of the intervention is assumed.
    
  