
    
      Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) is the leading cause of cancer related mortality in US
      (1). About 22% of patients diagnosed with NSCLC have locally advanced or stage III disease at
      the time of diagnosis (2). 5 years survival for stage III lung cancer is 23% which is much
      less than survival in similar stage breast and Colon Cancers (2). Current standard of care
      for inoperable stage III NSCLC is concurrent chemo-radiotherapy as established by a study
      (Southwestern Oncology Group) SWOG 9019 (3). Surgery following concurrent chemo-radiotherapy
      has been evaluated in a large Phase III clinical trial in patients with Stage III (N2)
      disease which did not show any improvement in overall survival from surgery as compared to
      concurrent chemo-radiotherapy alone.(4). These two studies demonstrated that the most common
      site of cancer relapse in patients with stage III disease was distant metastasis, 65% (3) and
      57% (4) respectively.

      These observations have led to the idea that perhaps giving additional chemotherapy following
      definitive concurrent chemo-radiotherapy may prevent distant relapse in stage III NSCLC.

      This idea was evaluated in a Phase II study SWOG S9504 in which patients with stage III NSCLC
      were treated with concurrent chemo-radiotherapy followed by 4 cycles of docetaxel
      consolidation (5). Four cycles of docetaxel consolidation showed an impressive improvement in
      median Overall Survival (OS) to 26 months.

      This idea of docetaxel consolidation was subsequently evaluated in a large phase III trial in
      which patients inoperable stage III NSCLC after receiving concurrent chemo-radiotherapy were
      randomized to docetaxel consolidation versus observation (6). However, this study showed no
      improvement in OS between the docetaxel arm and the observation arm. Many patients in
      docetaxel arm developed pneumonitis and febrile neutropenia.

      Histology based selection of chemotherapy is now standard of for stage IV metastatic NSCLC. A
      large randomized Phase III trial from Europe showed that a combination of Cisplatin and
      Pemetrexed is more effective in patients with non-squamous histology and a combination of
      Cisplatin and Gemcitabine showed efficacy in patients with squamous cell histology (7).
      Recently maintenance Pemetrexed was evaluated in advanced NSCLC and showed improvement in PFS
      and OS in patients with non-squamous histology (8). Similarly maintenance gemcitabine has
      also been evaluated in large Phase III clinical trial after initial chemotherapy with
      Cisplatin and Gemcitabine (9).

      Since most patients with inoperable stage III NSCLC develop distant metastasis following
      definitive concurrent chemo-radiotherapy there clearly is a need to give addition treatment
      for these patients. Docetaxel consolidation has not been shown to be successful as noted
      above. Perhaps tailoring chemotherapy according to histology may result in improvement in PFS
      and OS in these patients.

      Based on this hypothesis the investigators intend to do a pilot phase II study of histology
      based consolidation chemotherapy in patients with inoperable stage III NSCLC following
      concurrent chemo-radiotherapy. Patients with inoperable stage III NSCLC would be treated with
      standard concurrent chemo-radiotherapy and subsequently those with non-squamous histology
      would be offered 4 cycles of consolidation pemetrexed and those with squamous histology 4
      cycles of consolidation with gemcitabine.
    
  