
    
      The myHealth Rewards wellness program managed by GHP rewards those GHP members who carry
      their insurance through employment at Geisinger with reduced health insurance premiums over
      the course of the following year, if members register for the program and have their health
      measures on file by the enrollment deadline and are then able to meet their health goals by
      the respective due date. In spite of the potential savings to health plan members and the
      wellness program's potential to motivate engagement in healthy activities (with consequent
      improvement in health outcomes), about 23% of eligible existing GHP members did not enroll
      during the primary 2019 enrollment period, even after receiving promotional email
      communications and reminders.

      Previous work examining myHealth Rewards found that email communication using loss framing
      language achieved significantly higher click-through rates than a more standard
      communication, whereas actual enrollment rates were not statistically significantly higher.

      The current study aims to analyze de-identified Geisinger Health Plan (GHP) member data,
      comparing enrollment status (and secondarily, click-through rates) within the 2020 enrollment
      period across email conditions to which GHP members will be randomly assigned. The main part
      of this study will compare the effects of a standard, generic communication vs. communication
      with loss framing, using a larger sample size for adequate statistical power to detect the
      original difference in enrollment rates as significant, should that difference be real and
      reliable. Additional conditions are added after this main comparison in order to compare more
      precisely other pairs of communications conceived in the original study.

      The generic email condition will consist of a standard email of the kind that would typically
      be sent by GHP to encourage enrollment, which includes the average amount saved, the ease of
      registration, and a reward incentive. The loss framing condition will highlight that
      respondents are forfeiting savings unless they take action and register. The two testimonial
      conditions will have a testimonial from a doctor (medical expert condition) or a customer
      care specialist (rank-and-file condition) about how the program helped them. The two social
      norms conditions will show the percentage (percentage condition) or number (number condition)
      of fellow Geisinger members who already signed up. Emails will go out in three waves. For
      each wave, Geisinger employees who have not already registered at that time will be
      randomized into one of two groups:

      Wave 1: generic email vs. loss framing email

      Wave 2: testimonial (expert) vs. testimonial (rank-and-file)

      Wave 3: social norms (percentage) vs. social norms (number)

      It is hypothesized that, on average, the loss frame email will increase enrollment compared
      with the standard email. The other comparisons are exploratory and do not have a priori
      hypotheses. Findings will help inform how best to increase enrollment in a wellness program
      through email communication.
    
  