
    
      Hepatitis C is a major cause of chronic liver disease worldwide with an estimated 71 million
      people infected in 2015 and approximately 1.75 million new infections each year .

      Egypt had high burden of liver disease from viral hepatitis , and near to 15% of the adult
      population had HCV seropositivity and more than 4 million persons had also viraemia .

      The discovery of direct-acting antiviral agents (DAAs) has dramatically changed HCV treatment
      by increasing the cure rate and decreasing the duration of therapy .The current generation of
      DAAs (e.g., daclatasvir [DCV], sofosbuvir [SOF], simeprevir [SIM] and ledipasvir [LDV]) is
      used without IFN .

      The approval of direct - acting antiviral (DAA) agents revolutionized HCV treatment and
      allowed for non-IFN-a-based regimens. Psychiatric and psychosocial contraindications to
      treatment are reduced due to shorter duration of therapy and improved side effect profiles .
      Also, the favorable side effect profiles of DAA agents (less fatigue and blood dyscrasias)
      lead to high adherence rates of 96.2%, compared to 84.3% and 77.6% in IFN-free RBV-containing
      regimens and IFN- and RBV containing regimen respectively .

      Sofosbuvir and daclatasvir are new direct acting antivirals (DAAs) which are tolerable and
      safe. Daclatasvir is a first-in-class HCV NS5A replication complex inhibitor with
      pangenotypic activity and can be used once-daily. Sofosbuvir is an orally administered HCV
      nucleotide polymerase NS5B inhibitor. It is given once daily with a good safety profile . The
      sofosbuvir and daclatasvir combination is associated with a high rate of SVR in
      difficult-to-treat patients infected with genotype 1 or 4. Addition of ribavirin increases
      the SVR rate in cirrhotic and treatment-experienced patients .

      Mental illness are significantly higher in chronic HCV patients than in the general
      population, with depression, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder occurring at 25%, 3.9%, and
      2.6% respectively . HCV infection lead to psychiatric symptoms by inflammatory routes, direct
      brain neurotoxicity, metabolic and neurotransmitter pathway derangement and immune-mediated
      responses . Currently, the extent of psychiatric effects attributed to DAA agents is unclear;
      however, it is less than IFN-containing regimens . Though data suggests that DAAs confer a
      minimal risk of psychiatric adverse effects compared to IFN-based regimens; there is a
      paucity of data specifically adressing neuropsychiatric complications of these drugs. In
      addition, it is unclear whether DAA therapy may exacerbate mood symptoms in patients with
      prior psychiatric history .
    
  