
    
      Acupuncture Treatment

      All participants will receive acupuncture. Only points local to the knee will be used. There
      will be 4-6 points used per knee, therefore 8 -12 needles per treatment. A record will be
      kept of the points used at each treatment. Both knees will be treated even if only one knee
      is painful. This will ensure that participants receive similar treatments.

      Patients will be treated seated, as this allows better access to the relevant acupuncture
      points. It also helps ensure the moxibustion is carried out safely.

      Participants will receive 8 treatments in the first 4 weeks (twice a week), then 4 treatments
      in 4 weeks (once a week).

      Blinding procedures

      The only difference in the procedures will be that lit cones are placed on the needles of the
      treatment group whilst unlit moxa cones will be placed on the needles of the control group.
      Smokeless moxa will be used. All patients will see the needles being inserted and the moxa
      cones placed on the needles by the acupuncturist. Skin guards will be placed at the base of
      the needle to reduce the immediate sense of heat on the surface of the skin. Similar skin
      guards are routinely used in acupuncture treatment to prevent any discomfort.

      The acupuncturist will carry out a consultation at each session as per normal practice. After
      the needles have been inserted and the moxa cones have been placed on needles the
      acupuncturist leaves and an assistant acupuncturist enters the room. The assistant
      acupuncturist will place a screen in front of the patient to prevent them from seeing their
      knees. The assistant acupuncturist will then remove one cone at a time and light it. In the
      treatment group the lit cone is placed on the needle. In the control group the lit cone is
      place in a small dish close to the knee, a replacement unlit cone is placed on the needle.
      This process is repeated until all the cones are lit. The unlit cone is replaced on the
      needle of the control group to try and ensure they experience the same sensations as the
      treatment group. The use of a second acupuncturist to light the moxa ensures that the
      acupuncturist who carries out the consultation and inserts the needles is blinded to group
      allocation.
    
  