
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of disability and morbidity in the Western world and will extend
      its lead based on the continuous aging of European populations. Apart from persistent
      deficits, potentially avoidable medium- and long-term complications are significant
      contributors to post-stroke functional impairment and an appealing target for concerted
      interventions. Moreover, there is a substantial gap between risk factor management in real
      life and that recommended by international guidelines, resulting in a large number of
      avoidable recurring events.

      Stroke Card is a prospective block-randomized open interventional trial with blinded outcome
      assessment comparing two standards of post-stroke patient care which both comply with the
      current state-of-the-art. Consecutive patients treated at the Department of Neurology of the
      University Hospital Innsbruck with ischemic stroke or high-risk TIA will be allocated to
      either standard care or extended standard care according to the Stroke Card concept and will
      be enrolled during the initial hospital stay. A second study center (Hospital St. John of God
      Vienna) is also enrolling patients. The program complies with the respective guidelines of
      the American Heart Association (AHA), focuses on patient empowerment, patient self-management
      education, routine reporting to the general practitioner (GP), evidence-based decision
      making, shared knowledge, and cooperation among physicians.

      Whereas disease management programs typically rely on expert opinion, our initiative moves
      from a purely empirical approach to a highly structured, individualized and evidence-based
      procedure with an outcome and health economy analysis.

      Generic objectives:

      Early detection or prevention of post-stroke complications, estimation of the patient's
      demand for nursing services and support, guideline-conform secondary prevention with full
      achievement of target levels, lifestyle modifications and outcome assessment after 3 and 12
      months, assessment of 12-Mo body functioning (impairment), activity (disability) and
      participation (handicap and quality-of-life (QoL)).

      Detailed assessment of patient adherence to drug prescriptions as well as lifestyle
      modifications and analysis of its key determinants.

      Implementation of a simple electronic tool for patients ("My Stroke Card") capable of storing
      data, displaying risk factor levels over time (graphs), giving feedback about target level
      achievement (red, orange, green), providing information (recommendations, self-administered
      patient training programmes, etc), and unraveling post-stroke complications (modified
      post-stroke checklist). The "My Stroke Card" is also available in print version for patients
      without personal computer (PC) access.

      Scientific proof that extended standard care ameliorates functional outcome and patient
      wellbeing (QoL), and improves secondary prevention of stroke and other vascular sequels
      without raising costs.

      Refinement of Stroke Card components in the case of success to end up with a condensed
      practicable approach for broad routine use, and identification of subgroups with the most
      pronounced benefit.
    
  