
    
      Arterial hypoxemia in pneumonia results from several mechanisms: pulmonary arterial blood
      flow to consolidated lung resulting in an intrapulmonary shunt, intrapulmonary oxygen
      consumption, and ventilation-perfusion mismatch. Hypoxemia is a risk factor for mortality in
      pediatric pneumonia, and was associated with a 5-fold increased risk of death in studies from
      Kenya and Gambia.

      In one report from Nepal, the prevalence of hypoxemia (SpO2 < 90%) in 150 children with
      pneumonia was 39% overall, with increasing rates of hypoxemia across strata of pneumonia
      severity (100% of very severe, 80% of severe and 17% of pneumonia patients). General features
      of respiratory distress were associated with hypoxemia in this study, including chest
      indrawing, lethargy, grunting, nasal flaring, cyanosis, inability to breastfeed or drink.

      Few studies have reported on the use of solar powered oxygen (SPO2) delivery. One online
      report describes the use of a battery-powered oxygenator in the Gambia that could be adapted
      to use solar power (http://www.dulas.org.uk). Otherwise, our intervention is to our knowledge
      the first example of SPO2 delivery.

      New ways to deliver oxygen for children with pneumonia in Africa could improve outcomes and
      save numerous lives. If this study documents the non-inferiority of SPO2 relative to standard
      oxygen delivery, this novel method of providing life-saving oxygen could be rolled out across
      centres in sub-Saharan Africa where oxygen cylinders are not widely available and electrical
      power is not reliable. The potential energy efficiency, low cost and ease of use make solar
      power an attractive avenue of investigation for use in resource-constrained settings.
      Proof-of-concept that the sun can be used to drive oxygen delivery could stimulate commercial
      interest in this technology. The SPO2 system could thus achieve rapid penetration into the
      most remote or rural settings in sub-Saharan Africa.
    
  