
    
      Persons with Hemophilia (A or B) often experience recurrent joint bleeds, most commonly
      affecting the ankles, knees and elbows. These bleeds can lead to significant pain and
      disability over time. If recurrent joint bleeds are not managed with prompt and adequate
      infusions of factor concentrate, the damage caused by the presence of blood in the joint
      space will eventually result in a condition called debilitating chronic hemophilic
      arthropathy.

      The initiation of and adherence to a prophylactic infusion regimen, starting with the first
      or second joint bleed, is essential for prevention of progression to arthropathy.

      Studies have demonstrated that prophylaxis with recombinant or plasma-derived factor VIII or
      IX concentrates is effective in preventing clinical joint bleeds and the progression to
      debilitating joint disease in patients with severe hemophilia A or B respectively. However,
      for patients on prophylaxis, the absence of symptomatic joint bleeds and/or structural and
      functional abnormalities of joints on physical examination and plain radiographic images can
      lead to the erroneous assumption that the prophylaxis is completely effective. It has been
      established that patients with severe hemophilia are still at risk for subclinical bleeding
      ("microbleeds") despite seemingly adequate prophylaxis.

      Young adults, despite a lifetime on prophylaxis and apparently normal joints are developing
      arthropathy in their 20's and 30's. Prophylaxis as currently practiced may only be delaying
      the onset of clinical joint disease.

      The recent advancements in ultrasound imaging (US) have been proven to be effective in
      confirming a joint bleed, monitoring the evolution of a joint bleed and assessing the
      resolution or recurrence of a bleed. Previous studies have evaluated the prevalence of
      subclinical arthropathy in young hemophilic adults using both US and MRI techniques and
      concluded that US is as effective and sensitive as MRI identifying these subclinical joint
      abnormalities.

      However, to the investigators' knowledge, no prior studies have used US technique over an
      extended period of time to monitor the natural evolution of joint arthropathy in children
      with hemophilia who are adherent to an established prophylaxis regimen and have no evidence
      of clinical joint compromise.

      The seminal Joint Outcome Study, which confirmed the role of prophylaxis in preventing overt
      clinical joint disease, mandated a trough residual factor VIII level of 1%. While this trough
      level significantly decreased overt hemarthroses and joint damage, the evidence suggestive of
      microbleeds raised a question as to the protection afforded by such a low trough level.
      Intuitively it would seem as if a higher trough level should confer greater protection
      against microbleeds, and result in more sustainable joint health. The "ideal" protective
      trough, has not been established.

      The investigators' hypothesis is that US is a valuable imaging technique to monitor the
      natural evolution of hemophilic arthropathy in children with severe hemophilia A or B who are
      undergoing prophylaxis regimen and do not manifest clinical evidence of hemophilic
      arthropathy.

      Through this observational study, the investigators will provide valuable information in
      regards the prevalence, progression and severity of joint abnormalities. The use of US to
      detect microbleeds before the cumulative damaging effects demonstrable by MRI, will also
      allow tailoring of treatment and the implementation of new prophylaxis strategies.
    
  