
    
      Frozen shoulder (FS) is a common clinical problem which induces pain, loss of passive and
      active range of motion (ROM) of glenohumeral joint, and leads to disability, functional
      limitation, and decreasing quality of life. FS is usually treated with conservative
      treatments, which include medications, physiotherapy, joint mobilization, hydrodilatation,
      intra-articular steroid injection, etc.. The short-term effect of each treatment is variable,
      and the long-term effect is not established. Clinically combination of each treatment is
      common, but types of combination, and the effect of combination is still not well studied. We
      aim to combine hydrodilatation (with corticosteroid injection), joint mobilization, and
      general physiotherapy to treat frozen shoulder and compare the long-term effect with general
      physical therapy alone.

      This is a prospective single-blind randomized controlled trial. 70 participants will be
      recruited from the outpatient clinic of the department of Physical Medicine and
      Rehabilitation of Shin Kong Wu Ho-Su Memorial Hospital and randomly divided into COMB group
      and PT group. Each subject in the COMB group will receive 2 times of ultrasound-guided
      hydrodilatation injection (10mg triamcilonone, 2cc 1% xylocain, and 17cc normal saline)
      through both anterior and posterior shoulder joint in a two-weekly interval. In addition,
      joint mobilization and general physiotherapy (stretch exercise and physical modalities) will
      also be given, 2 times a week, for 8 weeks. The PT group will receive general physical
      therapy, 2 times a week, for 8 weeks. Outcome measures include the Shoulder Pain and
      Disability Index (SPADI), the Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (SDQ), and active and passive
      range of motion (ROM) of the affected shoulder, the 36-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36),
      and patients' self evaluation. Evaluation will be performed at baseline and at 2, 4, 6 months
      after the beginning of the treatment. Statistics will be performed after completing the
      patients' treatment and evaluations. We expect that the COMB group will recover sooner and
      better than the PT group.
    
  