
    
      PURPOSE The goal of this research project is to learn more about the safety of conservatively
      treating EC and about subsequent fertility outcome.

      PROJECT TYPE Observational (patient archive) - The project runs within the framework of
      Gynecologic Cancer InterGroup (GCIG), thus, participating Centres must belong to one of the
      qualified National groups.

      PROJECT DESIGN Observational model: Cohort

      TIME PERSPECTIVE Prospective

      ENDPOINT CLASSIFICATION Cancer (response, relapse) and fertility (pregnancy, delivery)
      outcomes

      INTERVENTIONS Data collection

      OUTCOME MEASURES Primary outcome measures

        -  Proportion of complete regression

        -  Duration of response

        -  Frequency and pattern of relapse

        -  Frequency of metachronous ovarian cancer

        -  Tumor-related deaths

      Secondary outcome measures

        -  Treatment related morbidity

        -  Frequency of spontaneous pregnancies

        -  Frequency of pregnancies after ART

        -  Pattern of residual disease on definitive surgical specimens

      REQUIREMENTS FOR PATIENT REGISTRATION

        -  Informed consent to personal data processing

        -  Existence of an IRB-approved local protocol that allows conservative treatment to be
           performed or statement that such treatment is considered as a standard (please note that
           such protocols should be shared with the database owner National Cancer Institute of
           Naples).

      TREATMENT Since this is a archive, treatment is not dictated by a protocol. However,
      treatment has to be administered according to a IRB-approved local protocol (except for the
      countries where conservative treatment can be given outside a IRB-approved study because
      considered as a standard procedure).

      DURATION A first phase of three years is planned, eventually followed by further three years.

      PUBLICATION POLICY Data generated are property of all investigators and will be object of
      publication after general agreement.

      DATA TO BE COLLECTED

      Patient enrollment and registration of data are made by appropriate eCRFs via the Clinical
      Trials Unit of National Cancer Institute of Naples (Study Data Center) website through the
      following steps:

        1. go to http://www.usc-intnapoli.net;

        2. select language;

        3. click "Ask for authorization" to create your personal account;

        4. fill and send the "authorization form";

        5. make a screenshot of the "authorization form" and send it to
           l.sparavigna@istitutotumori.na.it;

        6. enter into to the system using your credentials and click on "E.C.Co.";

        7. click "the join request form";

        8. wait for authorization (a verification message will be sent to your email address within
           24-48 h);

        9. enter into to the system using your credentials and click on "E.C.Co." for patient
           registration and/or updating.
    
  