
    
      Rationale: Erectile dysfunction is a frequent side effect of external beam radiotherapy
      (EBRT) for prostate cancer. To date, anatomy-based treatments that are designed to spare
      relevant neurovascular structures such as the internal pudendal artery and neurovascular
      bundles have not yet been routinely implemented in clinical practice. The implementation of
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in treatment planning and introduction of Intensity
      Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT) and Volumetric Arc Therapy (VMAT) have improved treatment
      precision and enabled anatomy-based EBRT and neurovascular-sparing treatments. Spratt et al.
      have conducted a single-arm phase 2 study to investigate the effect of vascular-sparing IMRT
      treatments, and found a significantly improved 2-year erectile function (78%, 95% confidence
      interval [CI] 71-85%) compared to conventional radiotherapy (42%, 95% CI 38-45%; p<0.001) or
      nerve-sparing prostatectomy (24%, 95% CI 22-27%; p<0.001). In the UMCU, the state-of-the-art
      MRI linear accelerator (MR-Linac) has recently been introduced. This new system allows
      radiation delivery under high-precision MRI visualization. The MR-Linac is therefore the most
      suitable technique for neurovascularsparing external beam radiotherapy treatments. Such
      neurovascular-sparing treatments may substantially improve post-radiotherapy erectile
      function outcomes and can thus improve quality of life without substantially compromising
      oncologic outcome.

      Objective: To investigate preservation of erectile function after MR-guided radiotherapy with
      neurovascular-sparing in patients with localized prostate cancer.

      Study design: The EREctile function preservation for prostate Cancer radiation Therapy
      (ERECT) trial is a prospective, single-center, phase 2 trial. Patients will be treated with
      the MR-Linac up to 5 fractions of 7.25 Gy with neurovascular-sparing. All fractions will be
      delivered over the course of 2 and a half weeks.

      Study population: Men with low- and intermediate-risk adenocarcinoma of the prostate,
      clinical stage T1c-T2c, and Gleason ≤7, and iPSA <20 µg/L (NCCN risk categories). Patients
      with pT1a/b tumor diagnosis after transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) are
      included, patients with "bulky" iT3 tumor diagnosis are excluded. Baseline erectile function
      score according to the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5) questionnaire of at
      least 17.

      Intervention: All patients will receive MR-Linac treatment consisting of 5 fractions of 7.25
      Gy with neurovascular sparing, Fractions will be delivered with an overall treatment time of
      two and a half weeks.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary endpoint: the incidence of erectile dysfunction (ED) three years after treatment.

      Secondary endpoints: relapse-free survival, acute and late genitourinary and gastrointestinal
      toxicity and patient reported quality of life.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Participants will receive neurovascular sparing MR guided radiation therapy
      (MRgRT) consisting of 5 fractions of 7.25 Gy. The number of fractions and duration of
      treatment is similar to conventional MRgRT consisting of 5 fractions of 7.25 Gy. No increase
      in toxicity is expected as the dose constraints for the organs at risk in the neurovascular
      sparing plan will be identical to the conventional plan (i.e. bladder, rectum, femoral head
      and anal sphincter). For neurovascular sparing treatment, the protocol is extended with dose
      constraints for newly identified organs at risk (i.e. neurovascular bundles (NVB), internal
      pudendal arteries (IPA), corpora cavernosa (CC) and penile bulb (PB)). Attention for these
      organs at risk during treatment planning may reduce erectile dysfunction for the
      neurovascular sparing treatment. The dose to the dorsolateral part of the prostate might be
      lower in the NVB sparing plan as the NVB lies in close proximity to this part of the
      prostate. A slight dose concession on the dorsolateral part of the prostate will only be
      permitted if the visible tumor on multiparametric MRI is not in vicinity of the NVB as
      underdosage of the dominant index lesion is undesirable for tumor control. A lower dose to
      the dorsolateral part of the prostate may have an impact on biochemical control for certain
      cases, but we do not expect that it will influence overall survival.
    
  