
    
      Background

      Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a severe disease affecting approximately 400
      patients per year in Switzerland. Death and severe disability after spontaneous SAH are
      related to the initial severity of the bleeding. The scale which is most often used and
      recommended to grade the severity of SAH is the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies
      scale. Besides the Glasgow Coma Scale as basis for the WFNS grading, the existence of a
      neurologic deficit is included in this scale. In general WFNS I-III patients are termed good
      grade and WFNS IV and V poor grade. Morbidity and Mortality after SAH should increase with
      higher WFNS grade. Yet, despite low Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) scores in poor grade SAH, 35 to
      50% of aggressively treated patients show a favorable outcome.Even in the most severe SAH,
      i.e. WFNS grade V, a good outcome is observed in 24 to 50% of patients treated aggressively,
      which limits the usefulness of this scale for decisions such as whether to withhold or
      continue treatment. Especially the differentiation between WFNS grade IV and WFNS grade V in
      intubated patients is a huge problem. The reason for the discrepancy between poor grading and
      favorable outcome is due to the difficulty of reliable GCS assessment in the acute stage of
      SAH. In the acute stage the clinical status of the patient is distorted due to sedative
      medication, seizure and hydrocephalus and does not necessarily display the "real" clinical
      status. Therefore favorable outcome in poor grade SAH patients is not a matter of a very
      beneficial course, but rather of an initial wrong WFNS grading.

      The necessity of a reliable WFNS grading becomes evident when clinical decisions are made on
      this basis or when scientific data of different studies has to be compared. With respect to
      clinical decisions - usually WFNS grade V patients are not being treated due to the limited
      capacity of surviving the SAH. Up to now there is no validated triage scheme to identify
      which SAH patients will most likely not benefit from aggressive treatment based on WFNS
      scores.

      Because the GCS is the basis for WFNS grading, information about progressive herniation
      beyond the motor response and posturing - e.g. third nerve dysfunction or loss of brain stem
      reflexes - is unfortunately not incorporated in routine SAH grading. As a known consequence,
      sedated and ventilated patients who do not exhibit a motor response but have symmetrically
      reactive pupils and intact brain stem reflexes may be wrongly classified as having a GCS
      score of 3 and thus a WFNS grade V, which leads to inaccuracies in the prognostic power of
      the WFNS in poor grade patients.

      In this study, the investigators will apply the concept following the logic of the original
      GCS design and the pathophysiological concept behind the scale. During progression of brain
      herniation, abnormal flexion (decorticate rigidity, late diencephalic syndrome) is followed
      by abnormal extensor posturing (decerebrate rigidity, mesencephalic syndrome). Both are
      positive signs, i.e. signs that can be observed by the examiner. If herniation further
      progresses, damage occurs to the medulla and typical signs are flaccidity, no response to
      pain, mydriasis and no reaction to light. Using the latter "positive" signs would help to
      verify a true GCS 3 patient.

      The purpose of this study is to re-evaluate the prognostic power of the WFNS classification,
      particularly with regard to poor grade patients. The investigators compare the existing WFNS
      grading with a modified WFNS herniation grading model (hWFNS) with respect to predicting poor
      outcome and death.

      Objective

      The primary objective of this observational study is to test whether signs of herniation
      (dilated unilateral or bilateral pupils, posturing) can improve the predictive value of poor
      outcome at 6 months after SAH. Specifically, the study aims to show improved (superiority)
      specificity of the modified scale while maintaining (non-inferiority) sensitivity.

      Secondary objectives are the impact of radiological factors (general/focal brain edema,
      intracerebral hematoma, hydrocephalus, amount of subarachnoid blood) as well as clinical
      factors (seizure, timing of grading, sedation) and their impact on herniation and grading of
      patients with SAH.

      Methods

      Patients with proven spontaneous SAH will be entered into the study. Upon presentation to a
      neurosurgical centre the patients will be treated according to the local protocol. The
      patient will be clinically assessed before and after neurosurgical resuscitation. Patients
      are screened for occurrence of clinical signs of brain herniation syndromes. The patients
      will be graded according to the usual WFNS scale and the modified "herniation WFNS" scale.
      Outcome will be measured at six and twelve months by trained investigators who are unaware of
      clinical data.
    
  