
    
      Aim of the study is to assess safety and efficacy of Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) for the
      treatment of refractory angina pectoris in a single blind, prospective, multicenter study.
      The study also assesses whether subliminal SCS may be as effective as paresthesic SCS in
      these patients.

      Sixty consecutive patients with refractory angina with a new SCS device implantation will be
      randomized to one of three treatment groups:

        -  paresthesic SCS (group 1);

        -  subliminal SCS (75-80% of paresthesic threshold; group 2);

        -  low stimulation, consisting of an hour of SCS a day at 0.05 mV intensity, which does not
           have any significant stimulator effect (sham stimulation, group 3).

      Study Procedure

      Medical history, clinical data, drug therapy, Angina Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS)
      classification, Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ), quality of life estimation by EuroQoL
      scale, detailed evaluation of angina attacks (frequency, intensity, duration of episodes;
      nitrates assumption) according to a structured diary, number of hospitalizations, emergency
      room (ER) admissions and cardiological visits in the previous 6 months and treadmill exercise
      stress test results will be obtained at the baseline visit.

      Patients fulfilling inclusion criteria will undergo SCS implant. During the implant,
      stimulation tests will be performed to check paresthesic coverage of angina pain chest area.

      Patients with adequate paresthesias will be randomized to one of the 3 groups. Follow-up
      visits will be performed at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after the SCS implant. Drug therapy will
      not be changed at least during the first 3 months.

      Patients assigned to group 2 (subliminal SCS) and those assigned to group 3 (sham SCS) will
      be blinded about the assigned treatment.

      After the 3 months group 3, patients will be randomized to group 1 or group 2 and reassessed
      at 6-month follow-up (comparison between paresthesic versus subliminal SCS).

      The controlled study will end at the 6-month follow-up, when each investigator will decide
      for the best stimulation for individual patients. Every patient will then be followed until
      12 months from SCS implant.

      Clinical assessment will be done at each follow-up visit. Exercise stress test results will
      be repeated at 3-, 6- and 12-month follow-up visits.
    
  