
    
      At Marmur Medical, subjects will be recruited and consented prior to any study evaluations or
      procedures; if subjects meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria, participants will be enrolled
      into this study. Informed consent will clearly say the use of hyaluronic acid filler for the
      treatment of dorsal finger volume loss is investigational. Subjects will also be compensated
      for their visits (initial and six follow-ups totalling seven visits). Pre and post treatment
      photographs will be taken. Subjects will be given lidocaine cream to apply to the area of
      injection for temporary numbing effect prior to injection (10-15 minutes). Ice packs will
      also be applied to the area temporarily for numbing effect just prior to injection. The
      patient's fingers will be injected with 0.5-2.0 mL of hyaluronic acid total at the level of
      the sub-dermal plane. The injected filler will be molded as needed to optimize the correction
      of the fingers. Syringes used and amount injected into each finger, as well as the total per
      hand, will be documented to the 0.1 mL increment (e.g. 3.4 mL). The expected volume needed is
      1-2 syringes per subject initially. On Day 14, subjects will return for evaluation and
      possible touch-up of injectable hyaluronic acid filler if needed (at the injector's
      discretion). The expected volume needed may be 1-2 syringes per subject for touch-up.

      The subjects will return for follow-up at all time-points as follows: day 14 (+/- touch-up
      hyaluronic acid injection if necessary), 6 weeks, 3/6/9/12 months. The patient and
      investigator(s) will assess the volume enhancement in the fingers. Subjects will be asked to
      rate their level of satisfaction with the treatment at follow-up visits (Global Satisfaction
      Assessment, Natural Look/Feel Scale). In addition, at the initial visit, subjects will be
      given a 30 day diary to fill out that will evaluate for symptomology after injection (pain,
      bruising, swelling, redness, sensitivity/tenderness, itching, lumps/bump development,
      temporary numbness, signs of vascular compromise or other/open comment box). The subject
      diary will be collected at the 3 month follow-up visit. Statistical analysis of the data
      gathered will be performed by an outside statistician using tests such as Wilcoxian
      signed-rank test (for two observations) or Friedman's test (for more than 2 observations)
      using STAT, version 13. All adverse events will be recorded at every follow-up visit. These
      events include: redness, swelling, tenderness, nodule development under the skin and
      restricted range of motion. More serious adverse events include: compartment syndrome,
      infection at injection site, Tyndall effect, persistent granulomatous change, injection
      necrosis, persistent erythema with edema, and vascular occlusion causing symptoms such as
      pain, numbness and necrosis.
    
  