
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the ability of a 6 week course of low dose lenalidomide to improve the
      proportion of patients with monoclonal B cell lymphocytosis (MBL) and chronic lymphocytic
      leukemia (CLL) who develop an immune response to pneumococcal vaccination as measured by the
      proportion of patients with >= 4-fold rise from pre-vaccine (day 15) for >= 2 of the 3
      serotypes measured at 28 days post-vaccination by opsonophagocytic activity (OPA) of
      antibodies from sera.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate disease status by physical exam and complete blood counts in patients
      participating in each arm of the study at the time of the 6 week assessment of immune
      response.

      II. Evaluate time to treatment for progressive CLL for patients on each study arm.

      III. Evaluate the adverse events profile in each study arm.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the immune response to pneumococcal vaccination as measured by fold-change from
      pre-vaccine (day 15) to 28 days post-vaccination in OPA geometric mean titers (GMT) of
      antibodies from sera.

      II. To assess the immune response to pneumococcal vaccination as measured by fold-change from
      pre-vaccine (day 15) to 28 days post-vaccination in quantitative Streptococcus pneumoniae
      immunoglobulin G (IgG) GMT of antibodies from sera.

      III. Evaluate the effect of 6 weeks of low dose lenalidomide on global immune function
      including T-cell repertoire, T-cell immune synapse, serum immunoglobulin levels, and absolute
      numbers of T-cell and natural killer (NK) cells.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-42 and
      pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine intramuscularly (IM) on day 15.

      ARM II: Patients receive pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine IM on day 15.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 28, and then every 6
      months for up to 2 years.
    
  