
    
      Allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is a curative, established
      treatment modality for a variety of malignant and nonmalignant hematologic disorders. Despite
      an increase in patient survival with HSCT, Graft-Versus-Host Disease (GVHD), in which donor
      immune cells detect recipient cells as foreign and attack the host tissue, is associated with
      significant morbidity and mortality after allo-HSCT. Ocular surface involvement is one of the
      most common manifestations of chronic GVHD with up to 60-90% of patients affected. Dry eye
      (DE) is the typical finding in ocular GVHD, and severe, chronic inflammation plays a crucial
      role in the pathogenesis. Therefore, topical steroids have been commonly used in patients
      with ocular GVHD (oGVHD). Although a healing effect of topical steroids has been shown in
      oGVHD, the efficacy of treatment might be reduced if it is not applied appropriately; poor
      patient compliance and improper drop administration (such as missing the eye and instilling
      an insufficient amount of medication) might diminish medication efficacy. Additionally, even
      if drops are applied appropriately, only approximately 5% of the administered dose can reach
      the target tissue because of blinking, nasolacrimal drainage, and low corneal permeability.
      Furthermore, the intermittent administration of topical drops results in a variable drug
      concentration in the target tissue and produces a suboptimal pharmacologic effect.
      Additionally, the prolonged use of topical steroids can also be toxic to the ocular surface
      due to preservatives such as benzalkonium chloride, which is used for its anti-microbial
      properties to prevent the contamination of drops. This toxicity might further disrupt the
      corneal epithelial barrier, which is already disrupted because of existing ocular surface
      inflammation.

      To address all of these obstacles associated with topical steroids in patients with oGVHD, a
      sustained-released preservative-free intracanalicular insert (Dextenza, Ocular Therapeutix)
      may be beneficial. The purpose of this clinical trial is evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      Dextenza intracanalicular inserts in patients with ocular GVHD.
    
  