
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The scientific basis for this study is the observation that antibodies directed at the
      ligand-binding site of CD30 induce apoptosis in vitro and cure animals bearing CD30-positive
      tumors.

      HeFi-1, a murine monoclonal antibody developed at the NCI, specifically binds human CD30, a
      member of the tumor necrosis receptor superfamily, at the ligand-binding site.

      CD30 is expressed on activated T-cells, Reed-Sternberg cells, anaplastic large cell lymphoma,
      and some AIDS-related lymphoma cells.

      Tumor cells from patients with anaplastic large cell lymphoma are sensitive to the effects of
      HeFi-1 but Hodgkin's disease cell lines show variable responsiveness due to the presence of
      mutations in I B kinase which result in constitutive activation of NF- B.

      OBJECTIVE:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the toxicity and maximum tolerated dose
      of HeFi-1 in patients with CD30-positive malignancy.

      This study will explore the pharmacokinetics, dose required to saturate CD30 binding sites in
      tumor aspirates, and the frequency and time course of onset of development of human
      anti-mouse antibody (HAMA).

      These studies will allow us to monitor in a preliminary fashion the clinical tumor response,
      measured by reduction in tumor lesions and by following the tumor marker serum soluble
      interleukin 2 receptor.

      ELIGIBILITY:

      Patients with measurable or evaluable CD30-positive lymphoma who have become refractory to
      standard therapy, including Hodgkin's disease, systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma,
      cutaneous T cell lymphoma and adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma are eligible for treatment.

      DESIGN:

      This is a phase I dose-escalation trial in which cohorts of three patients will be treated
      with HeFi-1 ranging from 0.5 to 5 mg/kg/dose (total dose of 2 to 20 mg/kg per treatment
      course).

      Four doses will be given on an every three days schedule over a 10-day period for each cycle.

      Two cycles of therapy will be administered provided the patient has had a partial or complete
      response and has not developed dose-limiting toxicity or HAMA.
    
  