
    
      Abdominal trauma, congenital abnormalities and ischemic injury cause intestinal damage that
      prevents the digestion and absorption of fluids and nutrients essential for life. Intestinal
      transplantation is life-saving for patients with complications related to the administration
      of intravenous nutrients. Approximately 100-160 intestinal transplants (ITx) are performed in
      the US annually. However, patient survival rates are far from optimal, due to high rejection
      rates resulting from an immune attack of the recipient against the donor, termed
      host-vs-graft (HVG) reactivity The high levels of global immunosuppression used to prevent
      rejection come with a high risk of infections and malignant disease (i.e. lymphoma). Thus,
      there is an urgent need for a well-tolerated treatment strategy that controls rejection while
      reducing these risks. Immune tolerance, in which the immune system regards the donor as
      "self" so that long-term graft acceptance is achieved without life-long immunosuppression,
      would accomplish this goal . Infusion of bone marrow cells from the same donor of the solid
      organs could promote a state called "mixed chimerism" in which both donor cells and recipient
      cells coexist in the body. Mixed chimerism has been shown to induce tolerance to the
      transplanted organ in animal models and in patients receiving kidney transplants.

      The investigators propose studies to promote tolerance induction in intestinal transplant
      recipients by administering donor bone marrow stem cells to promote lasting mixed chimerism.
      The investigators' proposal builds on their demonstration that mixed chimerism commonly
      occurs in intestinal transplant (ITx) recipients without bone marrow transplant, and that its
      presence correlates with reduced rejection rates. However, this mixed chimerism is not
      permanent. The investigators have discovered that there are bone marrow stem cells in the
      donor intestinal grafts and that some of these survive and enter the bone marrow of the
      recipient. This process is facilitated by a phenomenon called a "lymphohematopoietic
      graft-vs-host responses (LGVHR)", in which T lymphocytes from the ITx donor attack recipient
      blood-forming cells to make "space" for their own establishment in the bone marrow, but do
      not induce GVHD. The investigators have also obtained evidence that this immune response
      suppresses rejection of the graft.
    
  