
    
      Little is known on the potential relationship between Y-90 liver therapy and liver damage
      this subject. Present assumptions and calculations of Y-90 administration are based on
      surgical lobar hepatectomies and external radiation beam therapies.

      As most participants that need Y90 based liver therapies have compromised livers, the
      importance of knowing what potential collateral liver damage could be induced by Y90 is key
      so as not induce liver failure. Successful treatment of a liver malignancy would not be
      important if the potential mortality/morbidity risk of the treatment is higher or equal to
      the existing malignancy.

      As apposed to anatomical imaging looking for changes in size/shape which are late changes,
      the investigators hope that by using a functional model of the liver, which can show early
      changes of liver damage, the investigators can improve the sensitivity for detection of liver
      damage and bridge this important knowledge gap. Additionally due to compensatory hypertrophy
      of the non treated liver, potential liver damage estimated by lab tests may be masked, again
      this emphasizes the importance of the measurement of the functional approach before and after
      therapy.

      The investigators will be enrolling participants planning to receive Y-90 therapy for the
      treatment of liver malignancies. The diagnosis of a primary liver cancer, hepatocellular
      carcinoma (HCC), is usually made by a combination of specific imaging findings and clinical
      criteria; only rarely is a confirmatory biopsy performed. This is due to the high accuracy of
      the present diagnostic model and the significant risk of biopsy and tumor seeding.

      Y-90 therapy involves administering radioactive particles to liver tumors by placing a
      catheter in a hepatic artery supplying the tumor using angiographic techniques and injection
      of these particles.

      Y-90 PET/CT imaging has been established as a method to validate and quantitate distribution
      of Yttrium after Y-90 administration. The post Y-90 therapy PET/CT images provide an imaging
      distribution of the Y-90, which is essential for validation of administered versus planned
      dose to the liver lesion and background liver.

      The investigators will be performing both specialized nuclear medicine HIDA and MRI scans
      aimed at constructing a functional map of the liver before and 3 months after therapy.

      The investigators will compare the Y-90 distribution to estimate background liver radiation
      distribution and dose (generated by the Y-90 PET/CT scan) combined with the global and
      regional function map (generated by the HIDA and MRI scans performed before and after
      therapy), then the investigators will be assuming that the difference pre and post therapy in
      global and regional function can be ascribed to the Y-90 administration.

      The investigators will also analyze the MRI and NM data sets performed before and after
      therapy and correlate the imaging results collected with clinical findings such as
      ascites/encephalopathy and routine serological markers (bilirubin, albumin, INR, etc.).

      With this information, the investigators will have the potential to establish whether there
      is a relationship between Y-90 distribution to non-tumoral (normal) hepatic parenchyma and
      the incidence and severity of REILD. This would have the potential to improve selection
      criteria and outcomes in populations selected for Y-90 therapy in the future.
    
  