
    
      I: Background

      There is a remarkable lack of randomized studies concerning the potential benefit of using
      arterial grafts for coronary revascularization. Numerous observational reports consistently
      confirm, that the use of a LIMA-LAD grafts is not associated with increased peroperative
      mortality or morbidity and will result in an approximately 10% improved survival at 10 years
      postoperatively.

      The average patency for LIMA-LAD grafts is 80%-85% after 10 years. 50% of the vein grafts are
      occluded. LIMA-LAD grafting reduces the risk of of late myocardial infarction, other cardiac
      events and reoperation, however the effect on recurrent angina or need of antianginal
      medication is less certain.

      The question, whether bilateral IMA grafting has long term benefits compared to single IMA
      grafts is controversial. Numerous observational retrospective studies fail to demonstrate
      convincingly, that bilateral IMA grafting reduces long term mortality and improves the
      frequency of late cardiac events and recurrent angina, but these data are difficult to
      compare due to selection bias. It is not quite clear, if a minimal benefit represents a true
      difference in outcome, or if two different populations are compared.

      Whether an increased degree of arterial revascularization, including radial artery (RA) and
      IMA grafts, will result in an improved long term survival, reduced risk for recurrent angina,
      reinfarction, antianginal medication and improved quality of life, is unclear.

      A randomized trial has not yet been performed and current observational 5 year follow-up data
      are promising, but cannot document an anticipated benefit from a more stringent scientific
      point of view.

      II: Hypothesis

      Coronary bypass grafting with the use of LIMA + RIMA + RA (total arterial revascularization)
      vs. LIMA + saphenous vein grafts will result in equal peroperative mortality and morbidity
      rates and improve long term outcome in terms of improved patency rates, reduced risk of
      recurrent angina, infarction and other cardiac events, reduced need for antianginal
      medication, improved functional status and possibly improved long term survival.

      III: Aim of the study

      Prospective randomized trial comparing coronary bypass grafting with the use of LIMA + RIMA +
      RA vs. LIMA + saphenous vein grafts in patients with 2 or 3 vessel disease (more than 1 graft
      anticipated) with respect to:

        1. Graft patency rates at 1, 5 and 10 years postoperatively

        2. Cardiac event free survival 1, 5 and 10 years postoperatively (risk of hospital
           readmission due to infarction, suspicion of infarction, unstable angina, arrythmias,
           heart insufficiency, need for renewed angiography, angioplasty, redo surgery)

        3. Peroperative mortality and morbidity

        4. Risk of recurrent angina and need for antianginal medication 1, 5 and 10 years
           postoperatively

        5. Data on functional status and social rehabilitation at clinical controls 3 months, 1, 5
           and 10 years postoperatively

      IV: Design & methods

        1. Design

           Prospective randomized trial. Patients will be randomized into 2 groups:

           Group A: Arterial revascularization with LIMA + RIMA + RA.

           Group B: LIMA and saphenous vein grafts are used as graft material.

        2. Inclusion criteria

             -  Patients with 2 or 3 vessel coronary artery disease, where more than 1 coronary
                bypass graft is anticipated.

             -  Elective or subacute operation (unstable AP with surgery within a few days)

             -  Inclusion is independent of ventricular function, recent MI, degree and type of
                coronary lesions and secondary risk factors as diabetes, hyperlipidemia,
                hypertension, lung function, chronic obstructive lung disease, peripheral
                atherosclerotic disease, kidney function, earlier cerebrovascular disease.

             -  Age: < 70 years.

             -  Sufficient collateral blood supply to the hand by the ulnar artery, evaluated by
                the Allen test.

             -  Patients must be able to give informed consent.

        3. Exclusion criteria

             -  Concurrent malignant disease with expected survival of < 5 years.

             -  Unsuitable saphenous vein grafts evaluated preoperatively.

             -  Unsuitable saphenous vein grafts with a diameter > 6mm evaluated peroperatively.

             -  Acute operation (unstable hemodynamics in terms of need of inotropic support,
                ongoing MI with dynamic ECG changes, cardiogenic shock).

             -  Concommitant operation for valve disease or other forms of heart surgery.

             -  Redo operations.

        4. Surgery, anaesthesia and postoperative care

           Surgery, anaesthesia and postoperative care are performed according to current
           guidelines at our institution.

        5. Endpoints and follow-up

           The study is designed with respect to two primary endpoints:

             1. Distal anastomotic patency rates at 1, 5 and 10 years postoperatively

             2. Cardiac event free survival 1, 5 and 10 years postoperatively (Cardiac event free
                survival is defined as survival without readmission due to infarction, suspicion of
                infarction, unstable angina, arrythmias, heart insufficiency, need for renewed
                angiography, angioplasty, redo surgery)

           Secondary endpoints:

             1. Peroperative mortality and morbidity (frequency of peroperative/ postoperative
                infarction, arrythmias, use of IABP, inotropic support, pulmonary, renal and
                cerebral complications, length of stay in the ICU, etc. according to registration
                schemes).

             2. Risk of recurrent angina and need for antianginal medication 1, 5 and 10 years
                postoperatively

             3. Data on functional status and social rehabilitation at clinical controls 3 months,
                1, 5 and 10 years postoperatively

           According to these endpoints the follow-up is planned as:

             -  3 month clinical control at referring hospitals

             -  1 year control including angiography, which can be performed on an outpatient
                basis.

             -  5 year control including conventional angiography and computed tomography
                angiography.

             -  10 year control including computed tomography angiography, which can be performed
                on an outpatient basis.

        6. Statistics

      Sample size is calculated with respect to the primary endpoint graft patency at 1 and 5
      years. A difference of 10-15% of patency in favour of the radial artery as bypass graft is
      regarded as clinically relevant. Observational data on radial artery patency indicate patency
      rates of 90-95% at 1 year and 85% at 5 years, while saphenous vein graft patency is 80-90% at
      1 year and 60-70% at 5 years.

      To detect such a difference (15% improved patency for RA grafts, 85% vs 70%) with a 90%
      probability (type 2 error 0.10) and a significance level of 0.05, the sample size for each
      group would be n=150.

      A 15% difference in patency rates at 5 years is in our opinion an assumption that probably
      overestimates the vein graft patency, which means, that a sample size of 150 patients in each
      group should guarantee with a high probability a statistically significant outcome.
    
  