
    
      Safety is an integral part of developing new medicines. Potential drugs can be withdrawn from
      development at any stage of the process if there are concerns over safety. In recent years,
      computer models that recreate physiology have been increasingly adopted in various aspects of
      drug development, including safety, to predict the effects of new drugs. The accuracy of this
      predictive model is however, dependent on the ability for animal data (which the model is
      usually based on) to be 'translated' to human data. As no animal is identical to humans, the
      difference between species needs to be understood for the model to be accurate.

      Unwanted effects on the cardiovascular system is one of the most common causes of safety
      related discontinuation of a drug. The present study focuses on generating high quality human
      cardiovascular data that is comparable with existing animal data. This will be achieved
      through the collection of detailed pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data following
      administration of drugs that are known to affect the cardiovascular system through a range of
      mechanisms. This will be first performed in healthy participants before extending it to those
      with pre-existing (or risk-factors for) cardiovascular disease. The aim is to understand the
      differences between species and the study populations and using the collected data to help
      inform how a translational model is to be built.

      Study Design: Single centre, single (participant) blind, within subject, drug administration
      study

      Drugs used in study:

        1. Salbutamol - a beta-2-adrenergic agonist

        2. Nicardipine - a dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist

        3. Dobutamine - a beta-1-adrenergic agonist

        4. Phenylephrine - a selective alpha-1-adrenergic agonist

        5. Verapamil - a phenylalkylamine calcium channel antagonist

        6. Phentolamine - a non-selective alpha adrenergic antagonist

      Study Population:

      The study will take place in three parts (A, B and C), with each part representing population
      groups that are of interest.

      Part A (16 participants): Healthy individuals with no identifiable cardiovascular risk
      factors will be recruited for this part of the study. The aim of this part is to enable the
      collection of physiological data after drug administration in a 'normal' cardiovascular
      system.

      Part B (8 participants): Part B will involve the recruitment of participants who may possess
      an altered/challenged cardiovascular system. Participants recruited will possess one of the
      following factors: known diagnosis of diabetes, known diagnosis of hypertension, obesity
      (BMI>30), age >65. The data collected will provide information on how potential changes to
      baseline cardiovascular physiology may affect the effect of the drug.

      Part C (8 participants): In order to understand the impact of medicines on cardiovascular
      physiology in the absence of the autonomic nervous system regulation, we will recruit
      participants with dysfunction of the autonomic system to Part C of the study.

      Maximum duration of participation for each participant:

      1x screening (1 hour duration), 4x study visits (8 hour duration each) with minimum 72 hours
      gap in between visits. Maximum duration is 4 months to complete all visits.
    
  