
    
      This prospective double-blind clinical trial was conducted in the ED of Isfahan Al-Zahra
      Hospital, from May 2016 to June 2017. The sedation levels and different outcomes of patients
      receiving low-dose intravenous ketamine bolus (intervention group) were compared to patients
      receiving higher doses of intravenous ketamine (control group), for reduction of upper and
      lower extremity fractures. Inclusion criteria consisted of parents' desire and consent to
      participate in the study, body mass index (BMI) within the normal range, having age of 6
      months to 17 years, requiring a reduction of upper and lower limb fractures, not receiving
      benzodiazepines and other sedative drugs before intervention.

      Exclusion criteria consisted of patients' age <3 months with the body temperature of > 38 ̊C,
      due to upper respiratory tract infection. Patients having any other complications such as
      cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, psychological and neurological were excluded from the
      study. We also excluded the patients who have withdrawn from the study.

      Participants and Intervention The study flowchart is shown in figure 1. Two hundreds ten
      patients with a diagnosis of upper and lower extremity fractures, diagnosed by Emergency
      Medicine Specialist, were enrolled based on clinical and para-clinical images and inclusion
      criteria.

      The participants were randomly allocated into two groups, using a block randomization
      procedure with matching subjects in each block based on sex and age. One hundred ninety eight
      patients completed the study; including one hundred from the intervention group and 98 from
      the control group. The study received ethics approval from the Ethics Committee of Isfahan
      University of Medical Sciences (--------------), and all participants and their parents
      signed the informed consent form.

      After obtaining informed consent, eligible patients were enrolled. All patients were
      monitored by direct observation and continuous cardiovascular monitoring, in order to check
      the vital signs and also by pulse Oximeters to examine the blood oxygen saturation level.
    
  