
    
      Secondary objectives of this trial are:

        -  To determine the toxicity of liposomal daunorubicin when added to FLAG, in terms of
           mucosal toxicity, bone marrow aplasia, short- and long-term cardiotoxicity and other
           side effects as compared to patients treated with FLAG only.

        -  To determine the long-term clinical outcome prospectively in a large group of children
           with refractory and relapsed acute myeloid leukemia.

        -  To determine the changes in minimal residual disease over time, and the prognostic
           significance of minimal residual disease determined at various time-points.

        -  To determine the relation between in vitro cellular drug resistance and clinical and
           cell biological features, minimal residual disease and clinical outcome in this patient
           group

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics of liposomal daunorubicin in relation to its toxicity
           and efficacy

      Reinduction treatment will be done with 2 courses of combination chemotherapy, with FLAG
      (fludarabine, ara-C and G-CSF) in both courses as standard treatment. In the first course
      there will be a randomisation for liposomal daunorubicin (DaunoXome®) to be added or not. The
      second course should always concern FLAG. If patients have > 20% of blasts in the bone marrow
      after the 1st course, or if they are not in complete remission (CR) after the 2nd course,
      they will go off protocol. Patients in CR after reinduction treatment can immediately proceed
      to stem cell transplantation. Consolidation chemotherapy should be given if SCT is delayed. A
      3rd course of intensive chemotherapy (VP16 and continuous infusion with cytarabine) is the
      general recommendation. In selected patients, a low intensity consolidation may be preferred,
      and such a schedule is described as well. The type of SCT is based on the risk-group.
      Preferably, a matched sibling donor (MSD) SCT is performed. If a MSD is not available all
      patients are candidates for a matched unrelated donor (MUD) SCT. If a MUD is also not
      available, patients with primary refractory disease, early relapse (within 1 year from
      diagnosis), or greater than or equal to 2nd relapse, are candidates for the more experimental
      haplo-identical donor (HID) SCT in view of the dismal prognosis. However, patients with a
      late relapse (>1 year from initial diagnosis) have a better prognosis and should be offered
      an autologous SCT if a MSD or MUD SCT is not possible. Only in case of autologous SCT,
      maintenance treatment and/or adjuvant immunotherapy could be considered.
    
  