
    
      The RECOVERY trial has already shown that dexamethasone (a type of steroid) & tocilizumab
      reduce the risk of dying for patients hospitalised with COVID-19 receiving oxygen. The trial
      also concluded that there is no beneficial effect of hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir-ritonavir
      or azithromycin in patients hospitalised with COVID-19, and these arms have been closed to
      recruitment.

      BACKGROUND: In early 2020, as this protocol was being developed, there were no approved
      treatments for COVID-19, a disease induced by the novel coronavirus SARSCoV-2 that emerged in
      China in late 2019. The UK New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group
      (NERVTAG) advised that several possible treatments should be evaluated, including
      Lopinavir-Ritonavir, low-dose corticosteroids, and Hydroxychloroquine (which has now been
      done). A World Health Organization (WHO) expert group issued broadly similar advice. These
      groups also advised that other treatments will soon emerge that require evaluation.

      ELIGIBILITY AND RANDOMISATION: This protocol describes a randomised trial among patients
      hospitalised for COVID-19. All eligible patients are randomly allocated between several
      treatment arms, each to be given in addition to the usual standard of care in the
      participating hospital: No additional treatment vs colchicine vs corticosteroids (children
      only) vs intravenous immunoglobulin (children only) (main randomisation part A). In a
      factorial design (in the UK alone), eligible patients are allocated simultaneously to no
      additional treatment vs synthetic neutralising antibodies (REGN-COV2) (part B). Separately,
      all participants aged 18 years or older will be allocated to either aspirin vs control (part
      C), and in a further factorial, baricitinib vs no additional treatment (part D, UK only). The
      study allows a subsequent randomisation for children with PIMS-TS (hyper-inflammatory state
      associated with COVID-19): No additional treatment vs tocilizumab vs anakinra. For patients
      for whom not all the trial arms are appropriate or at locations where not all are available,
      randomisation will be between fewer arms.

      RECOVERY will also assess interventions for which additional information is required to
      determine whether they are considered for large-scale assessment as their potential to
      improve outcomes in COVID-19 is uncertain. Hence, for some patients the main randomisation
      part A will include an Early Phase Assessment arm in which patients may be randomised to
      receive dimethyl fumarate and additional information on efficacy and safety collected.

      ADAPTIVE DESIGN: The interim trial results will be monitored by an independent Data
      Monitoring Committee (DMC). The most important task for the DMC will be to assess whether the
      randomised comparisons in the study have provided evidence on mortality that is strong enough
      (with a range of uncertainty around the results that is narrow enough) to affect national and
      global treatment strategies. In such a circumstance, the DMC will inform the Trial Steering
      Committee who will make the results available to the public and amend the trial arms
      accordingly. New trial arms can be added as evidence emerges that other candidate
      therapeutics should be evaluated.

      OUTCOMES: The main outcomes will be death, discharge, need for ventilation and need for renal
      replacement therapy. For the main analyses, follow-up will be censored at 28 days after
      randomisation. Additional information on longer term outcomes may be collected through review
      of medical records or linkage to medical databases where available (such as those managed by
      NHS Digital and equivalent organisations in the devolved nations).

      SIMPLICITY OF PROCEDURES: To facilitate collaboration, even in hospitals that suddenly become
      overloaded, patient enrolment (via the internet) and all other trial procedures are greatly
      streamlined. Informed consent is simple and data entry is minimal. Randomisation via the
      internet is simple and quick, at the end of which the allocated treatment is displayed on the
      screen and can be printed or downloaded. Follow-up information is recorded at a single
      timepoint and may be ascertained by contacting participants in person, by phone or
      electronically, or by review of medical records and databases.

      DATA TO BE RECORDED: At randomisation, information will be collected on the identity of the
      randomising clinician and of the patient, age, sex, major co-morbidity, pregnancy, COVID-19
      onset date and severity, and any contraindications to the study treatments. The main outcomes
      will be death (with date and probable cause), discharge (with date), need for ventilation
      (with number of days recorded) and need for renal replacement therapy. Reminders will be sent
      if outcome data have not been recorded by 28 days after randomisation. Suspected Unexpected
      Serious Adverse Reactions (SUSARs) to one of the study medication (eg, Stevens-Johnson
      syndrome, anaphylaxis, aplastic anaemia) will be collected and reported in an expedited
      fashion. Other adverse events will not be recorded but may be available through linkage to
      medical databases.

      NUMBERS TO BE RANDOMISED: The larger the number randomised the more accurate the results will
      be, but the numbers that can be randomised will depend critically on how large the epidemic
      becomes. If substantial numbers are hospitalised in the participating centres then it may be
      possible to randomise several thousand with mild disease and a few thousand with severe
      disease, but realistic, appropriate sample sizes could not be estimated at the start of the
      trial.

      HETEROGENEITY BETWEEN POPULATIONS: If sufficient numbers are studied, it may be possible to
      generate reliable evidence in certain patient groups (e.g. those with major comorbidity or
      who are older). To this end, data from this study may be combined with data from other trials
      of treatments for COVID-19, such as those being planned by the WHO.

      ADD-ON STUDIES: Particular countries or groups of hospitals, may well want to collaborate in
      adding further measurements or observations, such as serial virology, serial blood gases or
      chemistry, serial lung imaging, or serial documentation of other aspects of disease status.
      While well-organised additional research studies of the natural history of the disease or of
      the effects of the trial treatments could well be valuable (although the lack of placebo
      control may bias the assessment of subjective side-effects, such as gastrointestinal
      problems), they are not core requirements.
    
  