
    
      Recruitment:

        -  New patients presenting for Donor egg cycles

        -  Possible print, magazine or Radio advertisement

      Experimental plan:

        1. Informed consent

        2. Baseline studies

             -  Antral follicle counts

             -  Serum FSH, LH, E2, Prog, DHEA, DHEAS, testosterone, AMH, Fragile X

        3. Randomization

             -  Group A: DHEA (25 mg three times per day)

             -  Group B: Placebo

        4. Monitoring during treatment

             -  All participants will have:

             -  USG for follicle measurement

             -  Repeat serum, FSH, E2, DHEA, DHEAS, testosterone, AMH monthly during treatment.

             -  Physical examination

             -  Completion of study questionnaire regarding possible androgen effects of treatment

        5. Analysis plan:

             -  Primary Outcome

             -  Pregnancy

             -  Pregnancy rates will be compared using logistic regression with age and
                pre-treatment AMH as covariates.

             -  Secondary Outcomes

             -  Endocrine Factors

             -  Androgen side effects

             -  Primary analysis. We will perform a factorial ANOVA for the two pretreatment
                factors DHEA and Placebo. Baseline AMH and age as main covariates

             -  Secondary analysis.

             -  Examine rate of change of estradiol and other endocrine response over the four
                cycles of treatment

             -  Compare antral follicle counts across cycles between groups

             -  Compare possible androgen related effects

             -  Power considerations:

             -  Power assumptions: alpha 0.05; 80% power

      Spontaneous Pregnancy rate for POF is less than 1% per 3 months Intervention will improve
      pregnancy rate to 10% per 3 months. Patients will be treated for 3 cycles. Require 100
      patients to complete treatment in each group. Allow for 20% dropout will need 120 patients
      randomized to each group

        -  Randomization:

      Randomization will be by permuted blocks in order to maintain an even distribution among the
      groups (because of the small numbers of participants)

        -  Human subjects issues

        -  Potential risks associated with DHEA use

        -  Potential risk of delay of treatment for 3 months and possible natural continued loss of
           fertility

        -  Informed consent issues
    
  