
    
      Design, material and method:

      The project will be conducted as a randomized controlled trial. The intervention group will
      receive a specific intervention and the control group will receive care as usual, in this
      context the standard treatment in antenatal care for vulnerable pregnant women and by the
      health visitor.

      Study setting:

      The intervention will be executed on Herlev-Gentofte Hospital in Denmark and in four of the
      affiliated municipalities: Ballerup, Gentofte, Herlev and Rødovre.

      Target group:

      The intervention is targeted vulnerable pregnant women who do not have psychiatric diagnosis
      or problems related to drug abuse, are not treated at family outpatient clinic or
      comprehensive municipal precautionary interventions (care level 4*), but who has the need for
      more than the standard treatment due to psychological and/or social challenges (e.g. previous
      traumas, problematic family relations or acute life crisis). Hence, the target group of the
      study is women with psychological or social vulnerabilities and classified as care level 3 by
      the hospital.

      It is estimated that the project can identify 100 pregnant women from the target group from
      the four municipalities during the inclusion period of 10 months. An expected drop-out on 20
      % will result in an expected amount of 80 pregnant women who can complete the project.

      Recruitment:

      Participants are recruited among pregnant women who are referred to give birth at
      Herlev-Gentofte Hospital. On the basis of information from the general practitioner, the
      referring midwife refers the pregnant women to one out of four care levels. From the above
      mentioned inclusion and exclusion criteria the pregnant women from care level 3* is
      identified as being in the target group by the referring midwife. Afterwards, the women are
      recruited to the project through an enclosed invitation and information leaflet, send from
      the hospital together with a notice for the first midwife consultation. Next, project
      personnel contact the pregnant women to consult whether they are interested to participate in
      the research project. Then, the project personnel visit the potential participants in their
      homes to give further information on the project and include the interested women and their
      families in the project.

      Selection of intervention hospitals and municipalities:

      An examination of existing or previously interventions targeting vulnerable pregnant women in
      the Capital Region of Denmark was utilized in the process of selecting hospitals and
      municipalities in the intervention and control group. Herlev-Gentofte Hospital was invited to
      participate in the project as these hospitals were suitable with regard to the projects key
      intervention components and already existing interventions on the hospitals and affiliated
      municipalities. The included municipalities confirmed that they are not participating in
      other research project in the field of early prevention of social inequality in health among
      vulnerable pregnant women as long as this project last. The municipalities are: Herlev,
      Ballerup, Rødovre and Gentofte.

      Data collection:

      Data for evaluating the efficiency of the intervention are collected on three points of time;
      at baseline, after birth, when the child is aged eight weeks, and at follow-up after the
      intervention has finished, when the child is around nine months. All data are collected in
      the homes of the families. To make an extra incentive to complete the questionnaires the
      participants receive a gift to the value of approx. 300 dk. kr. (approx. 45 USD) when
      completion of the follow-up questionnaire. Baseline data is collected for both control and
      intervention group before participants are familiar with the allocation of the randomization.
      The following paragraphs will describe the type of data that will be collected. Two different
      questionnaires will be developed specifically for the mother and for the father. The
      questionnaires look alike except that the mother's questionnaire contains questions on her
      attachment to the child in the belly and on her attitude and perception of breast feeding.

      The questionnaires will be pilot tested by individuals from the target group to ensure that
      the questionnaires have a manageable size for participants and that questions are relevant.
      Afterwards the questionnaire will be revised accordingly.

      Planned statistical methods:

      The analyses will be performed using the statistical software Statistical Analysis System
      (SAS) 9.4. Analysis and presentation of data will be in accordance with the CONSORT
      guidelines (reference). Standard descriptive statistics (means, medians, ranges, standard
      deviations, frequencies and percentages) will be used to report demographics, baseline and
      outcome scores. Data will be examined for missing data and multiple imputation strategies
      will be used if necessary. It is expected that the frequency of missing data will be low as
      data are collected through home interviews.

      The analysis of both primary and secondary endpoints will follow the intention-to-treat
      principles. However, analyses taking the actual treatment participation into account will
      also be conducted. To examine how non-compliance affects the results different levels of
      participation will be investigated.

      Primary and secondary outcomes will be analyzed using multiple regression for continuous
      outcomes, and logistics regression for binary outcomes controlling for baseline scores when
      possible.

      * * The Danish Health Authority's recommendations for antenatal care prescribe the general
      practice to classify all pregnant women in care level 1-4 based on a psychosocial anamnesis.
      Pregnant classified in care level 1 receives the standard intervention; pregnant in level 2
      receives an extended intervention in the context on antenatal care based on e.g. previously
      birth complications or disease; pregnant in level 3 receives an extended intervention
      including involvement of other professional groups in the health care sector or municipality
      based on complex social, medical or psychological problems; and pregnant in level 4 receives
      an extensive interdisciplinary and intersectorial intervention, including collaboration with
      specialized institutions based on highly complex problems e.g. alcohol or drug abuse, severe
      mental/psychiatric diseases and/or severe social load
    
  