
    
      The overall objective is to evaluate the validity of bedside US of QMLT and MF-BIA by
      comparing measurements from US and MF-BIA to those estimates of lean body mass obtained from
      CT Scan of abdomen when done for clinical reasons.

      The investigators expect to observe a high degree of correlation between these 3 baseline
      measures and the changes in US measures and MF-BIA over time to correlate with changes to CT
      Scan measures of lean body mass.

      This is a multi center, prospective, observation study across 5-6 intensive care units which
      will enroll 200 participants over a 12 month enrollment period followed by a 6 month period
      to complete data analysis.

      This study will enroll a broad heterogeneous participant population who will be admitted to
      the ICU for inpatient care. We are particularly interested in the cohort of participant with
      trauma but will enroll non-trauma participants who have CT scans as well to do some between
      group comparisons. Participants enrolled to this study will be followed until they are
      discharged from the index hospital.

      This is a prospective, observational study therefore no specific interventions will be
      associated with this study. The following information will be collected and recorded during
      ICU and hospital stay:

      CT Images - All abdominal CT images conducted during the index hospitalization ordered for
      clinical purposes will be retrieved to precisely quantify muscle and adipose tissue mass.

      Ultrasound - A portable ultrasound will be completed as soon as possible following the
      initial CT Scan, and again while a participant remains in hospital for each follow up CT of
      the abdomen for clinical reasons, where feasible, unless it is within a week of the previous
      CT scan.

      Multiple Frequency Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis (MF-BIA) -MF-BIA is a non-invasive and
      simple-to-use method of measuring body composition and nutritional status in the clinical
      setting. MF-BIA measurements will be conducted every time an US measurement is done in the
      ICU following a CT Scan done for clinical reasons, unless it is within a week of the previous
      CT Scan and accompanying MF-BIA. After discharge from the ICU to the hospital, where
      feasible, MF BIA will be done every time an ultrasound is done following CT scans done for
      clinical reasons, unless it is within a week of the previous CT Scan and accompanying MF-BIA.
      MF-BIA will not be done on individuals with a pacemaker, Baseline patient demographics data
      and nutritional adequacy data will be collected.
    
  