
    
      Skiing and snowboarding are two popular winter activities, and school sanctioned ski and
      snowboard programs hosted at local ski areas provide students the opportunity to discover and
      engage in new activities that can benefit their physical and mental well-being. However,
      these winter sports can be associated with a high risk of injury. Previous studies have found
      that the majority of injuries in snow sports are preventable and tend to be caused by poor
      decisions, actions and human error. As part of ski and snowboard school programs at
      WinSport's Canada Olympic Park (COP) in Calgary, Alberta, children receive an introduction to
      the sport including basic safety information. However, there is no consistent and
      comprehensive injury prevention component built into ski and snowboard school outing
      programs. For this research, the investigative team will implement and evaluate a video
      intervention with built-in injury prevention and safety promotion messages.

      The study design is a cluster randomized controlled trial where participating schools will be
      randomized into either an intervention or control group. The intervention video is
      approximately 10 minutes in length and will include information on proper preparation,
      correct protective equipment use, and strategies for speed control and collision avoidance
      while skiing or snowboarding. The content and format of the intervention video was developed
      and informed by focus groups with parents, students, ski patrollers, and ski instructors to
      ensure optimal information uptake for viewers.The control group will receive the standard
      orientation video that many schools usually provide for students prior to their ski/snowboard
      outings.

      The participants will be children between the ages of 6 to 15 years (grades 1 to 9) who
      participate in the ski and snowboard school programs at COP in Calgary, Alberta. The outcomes
      of interest that will be measured include knowledge uptake (through the use of pre- and
      post-test questionnaires delivered before and after watching the assigned video, and
      measuring differences in test scores before and after watching the video), behavioural
      changes (through the use of multiple observers who will collect data on unsafe behaviours and
      actions observed on the ski hill during two hour time intervals) and injury risk (through the
      use of nationally standardized ski patrol accident report forms that will be provided by the
      ski area and school program enrollment data to calculate injury rates).
    
  