
    
      Patients will be recruited from matched sets of inpatient units determined to be comparable
      in terms of staffing and types of patients admitted. One unit from each matched set will be
      selected as the intervention unit (Group 1) or the control unit (Group 2) as determined by a
      random draw.

      Group 1 patients will receive the coordinated inpatient diabetes education program (IDEP).
      Patients will be initially evaluated by a certified diabetes educator (CDE) to assess
      diabetes knowledge and to set priorities for "survival skills" education. Based on this
      individualized evaluation, a structured education plan will be devised and implemented by the
      CDE. The structured education plan will be modified as needed throughout the hospital stay to
      utilize more appropriate educational methods based on patient availability, condition or
      educational needs.

      Group 2 (Control) will receive diabetes education as it is presently provided in our facility
      by the clinical staff. The staff nurse will be alerted that the patient is a participant in
      the research study and will record education provided in the electronic medical records.

      The modified Michigan Diabetes Research and Training Center's Brief Diabetes Knowledge Test
      (DKT) and the Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (DTSQs), if diabetes was
      pre-existing, will be administered initially to all patients by a member of the research
      team. If appropriate, the patient will be asked by the research team to complete a Quality of
      Life Survey (The Medical Outcomes Survey (MOS) Short-Form 36 (SF-36) General Health Survey
      prior to discharge. Completion of the Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire -
      Inpatient (DTSQ-IP) will also be requested of the patient prior to discharge.

      All participants will be contacted 4 months after discharge for a similar assessment of
      quality of life and patient satisfaction with diabetes treatment, and for an additional
      assessment of diabetes self-management practices which includes the number of emergency room
      visits and readmissions since discharge. Comparisons will be made between the two groups and
      between baseline and follow-up assessments.
    
  