
    
      Methods to reliably predict which cutaneous wounds will heal are unreliable and clinical
      judgment inadequate. This is a problem for all health care providers and a common dilemma
      when evaluating patients in the Emergency Department. While capillary blood perfusion of the
      skin is a recognized requirement for healing, objective methods to reliably quantify this
      necessary physiological parameter are lacking. In large part, this is due to difficulties
      visualizing and recording capillary blood flow. Despite technical advances in blood flow
      imaging the capillary circulation remains poorly characterized. That is, current methodology
      can only image medium-to-large caliber vessels, not the small capillaries. The investigators
      hypothesize that with new technology, objective assessment of capillary flow can be achieved
      with fluorescence-mediated photoplethysmography (FM-PPG) methodology, and this evaluation can
      be used to objectively determine which wounds will heal promptly versus require adjunctive
      interventions.

      FM-PPG is currently being used clinically in clinics worldwide as a way to image blood flow,
      but the apparatus provides only a relative measurement. Thus, this investigation is
      Observational in nature and not Interventional. With repeated evaluations over weeks, current
      FM-PPG allows an assessment to be made on whether wound conditions are improving. The
      investigators have a device containing new imaging software which, in theory, can offer
      precise quantification of capillary blood flow. If true, a single measurement may provide the
      data necessary to predict which patients are in danger of not healing and thus requiring
      aggressive, and at times expensive or painful interventions and - even worse - limb
      amputations. This protocol is to test proof-of-concept by first evaluating cutaneous
      capillary follow in 30 normal, healthy individuals and then 30 individuals presenting for
      treatment with a variety of skin wounds to a clinic.

      FM-PPG methodology requires intravenous injection of a small amount of a fluorescent dye,
      indocyanine green (ICG). ICG is an FDA-approved agent that has been safely used in over 4000
      patients. The area of skin to be measured is positioned below a camera and low-power laser
      instrument to take fluorescent pictures. The ICG is dissolved in sterile salt water for
      injection and about one and one half tablespoons injected into a vein. Typically, the
      measuring sequence consists of obtaining fluorescence images at the rate of approximately
      30/second during a period of about 15 seconds. Following acquisition of the initial transit
      angiogram sequence, several additional 15-second-long image sequences are then acquired
      during the next half-hour, but without any additional injections. At about 60 seconds
      following dye injection, about two teaspoons of venous blood is withdrawn. This blood is used
      in the laboratory to determine the ICG dye concentration as a verification of the
      concentration determined by the camera images as part of the FM-PPG software algorithm
      (circulating dye concentration is needed in calculation of quantitative blood perfusion).

      Since this study will be the first to employ a methodology capable of acquiring absolute
      tissue blood perfusion data from multiple subjects, there exists no database to indicate the
      normal range of variation in skin tissue perfusion that occurs in normal subjects. Since
      abnormal perfusion cannot be clearly recognized until the normal range of variation has been
      established, the first 30 subjects will be normal individuals. Then the following 30 subjects
      will be patients undergoing wound healing therapy.
    
  