
    
      Gastric cancer is ranked the third malignancy carcinoma which related deaths. In china,
      gastric cancer always ranked in the top three cancer-related deaths. Early diagnosis ratio of
      gastric caner is low in china. And the proportion of gastric cancer cases which performed
      surgical treatment is less than 20% at early stage Therefore, the vast majority of patients
      with gastric carcinoma already have locally advanced tumors at the time of diagnosis in
      china, and the current treatment strategy is suggested to receive comprehensive surgical
      gastrectomy. Current research showed strong evidence that preoperative neoadjuvant therapy
      represented by neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) can downstaging the primary tumor to increase
      the possibility of a successful complete resection and destroying occult lymph node and
      distant micro metastases to decrease the rate of tumor recurrence., and thus provide the
      survival benefit for locally advanced gastric cancer patients.Therefore, the national
      comprehensive cancer network(NCCN)guidelines for gastric cancer treatment(2017 version
      5),recommended that neoadjuvant chemotherapy (evidential level category 1 ) and neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy (evidential level category 2B) can be considered.for locally advanced gastric
      caner cases(T2-4nx).

      Through the literature review, the investigators found that residual tumor evaluation
      criteria which was promoted by Becker and the criteria for tumor regression response which
      recommended by NCCN guidelines can be used to evaluate the tumor regression after
      chemotherapy/radiotherapy. However, the rating criteria for connective tissue response around
      the tumor after chemotherapy/radiotherapy still remain blank area. During the clinical
      practice, surgeons should not ignored the edema and fibrosis of tumor and connective tissue
      after chemotherapy/radiotherapy which existed objectively. Recent research generally believed
      that preoperative chemotherapy with/or not with radiotherapy may lead to edema of
      gastrointestinal tract and perigastric tissues, intraoperative effusion and fibrosis of tumor
      and lymph nodes bearing tissues，which may increase the difficulty of tissue dissociation and
      lymph node dissection, increase the risk of surgical trauma, and may lead to increased
      incidence of postoperative complications. There is till a lack of evaluation criteria for the
      degree of tissue fibrosis/edema after radiotherapy and chemotherapy which may have impact on
      surgery and long-term survival prognosis of patients.

      Therefore, it is necessary to analyze and evaluate tissue edema and fibrosis after
      chemotherapy/radiotherapy and establish corresponding criteria system to explore whether if
      the tissue fibrosis and edema are involved with the degree of tumor retreat after
      chemotherapy/radiotherapy at two aspects: general evaluation and histopathology. The
      interaction effects of tissue fibrosis and edema with the difficulty of operation and
      incidence rate of postoperative complications. In addition, the mutual effect of tissue
      fibrosis and edema with the final long-term survival outcome of tumor patients needs to be
      evaluated from two aspects: general observation and histopathology evaluation.
    
  