
    
      Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is a heterogeneous autoimmune disease characterized by the
      presence of platelet autoantibodies, low platelet counts and an increased risk of bleeding.
      TPO receptor agonists which stimulate platelet production have been shown to be remarkably
      effective in ITP. Their use as a short-term means of elevating platelet counts in preparation
      for surgical procedures has not yet been adequately evaluated.

      Many patients with moderate to severe ITP (platelet count less than 50 x 10exp9/L) have
      stable platelet counts and do not bleed; however, when surgeries or invasive procedures
      become necessary, additional treatment is often required to increase the platelet count to
      achieve adequate hemostasis. Although specific guidelines for surgical platelet count
      thresholds in ITP are lacking, platelet transfusion guidelines recommend a platelet count of
      50 - 100 x10exp9/L for the vast majority of surgical procedure; 50x10exp9/L is a typical
      threshold for minor surgeries like tooth extractions and endoscopies; and 100x10exp9/L is
      used for major surgery like cardiac surgery or neurosurgery.

      Commonly, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) is used to rapidly increase platelet counts in
      ITP patients before an invasive procedure. IVIG is associated with a transient platelet count
      response in approximately 80% of patients, which occurs within 2 - 4 days. In most patients,
      platelet counts remain elevated for approximately 4 weeks, allowing enough time to complete
      the procedure and for adequate post-operative hemostasis. However, IVIG is a
      resource-intensive and expensive blood product associated with frequent side effects.

      Eltrombopag is a small molecule, non-peptide thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor agonist indicated
      for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic ITP who have had an
      insufficient response to corticosteroids, immunoglobulins, or splenectomy. TPO receptor
      agonists are an effective new class of medications that are non-immunogenic agonists of the
      TPO receptor (c-Mpl) and work by increasing platelet production in ITP patients. In
      randomized controlled trials, eltrombopag maintenance therapy has been shown to raise the
      platelet count in 60 - 80% of ITP patients and platelet counts generally remain elevated as
      long as the drug is continued. Time to response is 1 - 2 weeks with minimal need for dose
      titration. Side effects of eltrombopag observed in clinical studies included elevation of
      liver enzymes (approximately 10% of patients). The risk of thrombosis and bone marrow
      reticulin formation remain uncertain.

      The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial (RCT) involving 74 patients (across
      approximately 8 centers) in Canada. This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of
      eltrombopag bridging therapy compared with IVIG bridging therapy in adult patients with ITP
      who require surgery. This study will also evaluate bleeding, adverse events and
      patient-reported treatment satisfaction using the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for
      Medication (TSQM). Patients will be stratified according to centre and surgery type (major
      vs. minor).
    
  