
    
      This project addresses the absence of a reliable diagnostic modality and medical therapy to
      prevent abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) growth and rupture in patients, leading to high
      mortality in those over the age of 65 years old. Due to the pathogenic role of the monocyte
      chemoattractant protein-1 / C-C chemokine receptor type 2 (MCP-1/CCR2) axis in AAA, we
      propose to study the ability of 64Cu-DOTA-ECL1i PET/CT to predict the murine AAA rupture and
      serve as a companion diagnostic to assess CCR2 molecular therapy of murine AAA. We will
      perform the first-in-patient evaluation of 64Cu-DOTA-ECL1i PET/CT to image and detect AAA
      inflammation in a preoperative setting and acquire key biological information from AAA
      specimens collected at the time of open AAA repair, in order to assess the potential of
      64Cu-DOTA-ECL1i PET in the management of AAA patients.

      Preclinical and clinical research demonstrated that monocyte chemotactic protein-1/ chemokine
      (C-C motif) receptor 2 (MCP-1/CCR2) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of AAAs. This
      axis specifically promotes AAA formation and development by mediating the recruitment of
      circulating LY6Chigh monocytes and infiltration of macrophages, which leads to the
      degradation of elastic and collagen. In AAA mouse models, the genetic depletion or specific
      inhibition of CCR2 significantly decreased the production of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs)
      and formation of aneurysms, suggesting the potential of CCR2 as a biomarker for AAA imaging
      and pre-screening for targeted intervention.

      We have developed a specific CCR2 binding radiotracer, 64Cu-DOTA-ECL1i, for targeted imaging
      of CCR2 positive pro-inflammatory monocytes/macrophages, in multiple animal inflammatory
      models using positron emission tomography (PET). This investigational PET tracer is being
      used under Exploratory IND 137620 for research imaging studies in human subjects. In patients
      with inflammatory diseases, 64Cu-DOTA-ECL1i PET revealed specific detection of CCR2+ cells in
      inflammatory tissues. In a rat AAA model, 64Cu-DOTA-ECL1i PET revealed specific localization
      within the aneurysm, as well as sensitive detection of CCR2+ inflammatory cells. Human AAA
      specimens demonstrated specific binding of 64Cu-DOTA-ECL1i to CCR2 by autoradiography. Thus,
      we hypothesize that 64Cu-DOTA-ECL1i detect CCR2+ cells mediated aneurysmal activity and can
      be utilized for AAA molecular imaging. We propose to assess the potential of 64Cu-DOTA-ECL1i
      as a biomarker for AAA patients imaging.
    
  