
    
      The Aerodentis system is intended for the treatment of tooth malocclusion and is treated by
      applying force, over time, to teeth requiring alignment. Traditionally, the force has been
      created by attaching brackets to the teeth and creating tension through the stretching of
      flexible wire connected between the brackets. Alternatively, aligners are used for the
      treatment of tooth malocclusion. In these devices, a series of mouthpieces are used, where
      the force created by each mouthpiece on the treated teeth is designed to push the teeth in
      small, one step increments, toward the desired result.The Aerodentis system is comprised of a
      plastic mouthpiece containing an inflatable balloon that provides pressure (force) on the
      selected teeth designated to be moved to a final treated state. The inflatable balloon is
      inflated to the desired pressure using an electrical air pump unit that is programmed by the
      dental practitioner using Dror Orthodesign proprietary software; thus creating a course
      treatment specially designed for each patient.

      A participant is required to wear the Aerodentis device or conventional clear correctors.
      Initial photos of participants will be reviewed to establish a pool of eligible potential
      participants. Then participants will be randomly selected for one of the two groups. Those
      wearing the Aerodentis device will be asked to answer a quality of life questionnaire.
      Follow-up assessments will be conducted every 4 weeks for both Aerodentis participants and
      clear corrector participants. During these assessment's we will look at movement of teeth,
      any side effects or discomfort the individual may be facing, patient assessment of whether
      the Aerodentis device is used regularly. Both intraoral and extraoral photos will be taken of
      patients, during certain time points of the study, as requested by PI or sponsor. If a
      participant enters and completes the entire study, then that individual will be in the study
      for up to 15 months.
    
  