
    
      Background:

      The Global Status Report on Alcohol and Health 2014 from the World Health Organization
      indicates that alcohol abuse accounts for 50% of cirrhosis worldwide. Therefore, alcoholic
      liver disease (ALD) is a main cause of advanced liver fibrosis globally. ALD encompasses a
      range of disorders including simple steatosis, alcoholic steatohepatitis, fibrosis,
      cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. In addition, patients with underlying ALD and active
      drinking can develop an episode of acute-on-chronic liver injury called "alcoholic
      hepatitis", which portends a poor prognosis.

      Most patients with ALD are identified during the late stages of the disease when liver
      decompensation occurs. In fact, a recent global epidemiologic study (GLADIS) showed that ALD
      is by far the liver disease that is detected at the latest stages (ratio of early/late
      referral negative 8-fold). These results strongly suggest that there is a dire need for the
      early detection of ALD patients, which currently is almost nonexistent.

      A non-invasive method to screen for advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis is transient elastography
      (FibroScan®). This modality could potentially diagnose silent liver disease among heavy
      drinkers, allowing for earlier referral to a specialty liver clinic for further treatment.

      Individual susceptibility to the development of advanced fibrosis among heavy drinkers is
      likely determined by a combination of environmental, genetic and epigenetic factors, yet the
      mechanisms are largely unknown.

      Exposing the exact risk factors for the progression of subclinical liver disease to advanced
      fibrosis and cirrhosis among heavy alcohol users may assist with prognostication and help
      influence a patient's decision to abstain from alcohol.

      The main goal of this study is to identify the prevalence of advanced liver fibrosis (F3 y
      F4) among patients with excessive alcohol intake using a non-invasive method (FibroScan®) and
      refer those who already have evidence of advanced fibrosis (F3-4 stage) to a specialized ALD
      clinic for treatment. The secondary goal is, to identify the main psychosocial,
      environmental, genetic and epigenetic factors that influence the individual susceptibility to
      develop advanced ALD and design a risk algorithm taking into account the interaction between
      these factors.

      Design: This is a prospective observational single center study.

      Length of participation:

        -  Subjects without detection of advanced fibrosis: no follow-up requiered.

        -  Subjects with detection of advanced fibrosis: these patients will be referred to the
           specialist for surveillance. In this group of patients, the investigators will record
           the visits every six months as standard of care during the first year, and in each
           visit, a questionnaire will be performed.

      End of the study: The duration of the project is expected to be two years.

      Study development: Patients will be recruited within UPMC Presbyterian (Oakland) and UPMC
      McKeesport.

      Study procedures:

      - Screening procedure: Those patients willing to participate in the study will sign the
      informed consent before screening process. In this process, inclusion and exclusion criteria
      will be checked.

        -  Clinical and anthropometric data

        -  Questionnaire

        -  FibroScan®

        -  Blood, liver tissue, urine and saliva collection and testing

      Statistics:

      General features and characteristics of the analysis:

      Descriptive statistics will be used to report baseline characteristics of our study
      population as well as the incidence and prevalence of variables of interest. Chi-square test
      will be used to compare frequency distributions between subgroups for categorical variables.
      Mann-Whitney U will be used to compare continuous variables when variables do not follow
      normal distributions. Univariate analyses, using Chi-square, Student's t-test and
      Mann-Whitney U test will be used to assess the association between potential factors and
      advanced fibrosis. Logistic regression models will be fitted to select the best subset of
      predictors for advanced fibrosis. Those factors showing a clinically and statistically
      significant association with the outcome in univariate analyses will be selected for the
      initial models. The final models will be fitted by using a step-wise forward method based on
      model Likelihood Ratios with the same significance level (p<0.05) for entering and dropping
      variables. The significance level will be set at p<0.05 for all the analyses. Statistical
      analyses will be performed using IBM SPSS Statistics.

      Sample size:

      The investigators calculated a sample size of 350 subjects. An interim analysis will be
      performed.

      Direct access to data source:

      Clinical data will be collected into a web-based and HIPAA-compatible database system. The
      information will be registered in the electronic record system, Research Electronic Data
      Capture (REDCap), which has been validated by the ERIS / EDC Support team to ensure HIPAA
      compliance. REDCap is also assessed by the Partners Information Security Risk Assessment Team
      to ensure compliance with all Partners HealthCare policies.
    
  