
    
      STUDY DESIGN :

      Prospective, monocentric, open-label, single-arm, observational cohort study

      Subjects hospitalized for non-surgical reasons by medical departments (ie Nephrology,
      Pneumology, Cardiology and Internal medicine) with chronic kidney disease (baseline eGFR ≤30
      ml/min/1.73 m2) receiving tinzaparin prophylaxis at a dose of 3500 IU (or 4500 IU if BMI >
      30kg/m2) once-daily.

      Pharmacokinetic parameters: Peak anti-Xa analyses done after 2 (or 3), 5, and 8 days of
      treatment, and one trough anti-Xa analysis on day 5. The bioaccumulation of tinzaparin will
      be assessed by determining whether this dosing regimen is associated with an excessive
      increase in anti-Xa levels over the course of the treatment (see below for statistical
      analysis).

      RECRUITMENT PROCESS:

      A systematic screening for potential study subjects will be made by the research coordinators
      based on key computer searches fields throughout four different softwares. Through these
      databases, researchers will be able to perform a preliminary selection of any of the eligible
      subjects by identifying hospitalized patients that will ultimately be treated. The
      pharmacists responsible for validation of tinzaparin prescriptions at the pharmacy department
      will work with the research team at the initial screening by identifying eligible candidates.
      Since the choice of prescribed agents is to the prescriber's discretion, the recruitment
      procedures will be triggered mainly as soon as a prescription of tinzaparin at
      thromboprophylaxic dose is written.Subjects who meet the inclusion criteria and do not meet
      any exclusion criteria will be considered eligible candidates and additional baseline
      information will be collected at that point, such as ethnicity and sex. The eligible
      participant will be addressed directly by a member of the research team. Informed consent
      will be sought and documented through the Information Form and Informed Consent (FIC) already
      approved by the ethics committee the hospital.

      DATA COLLECTION:

      Four blood samples, three of which will be collected 4±1 hours after the injection of
      tinzaparin at days 2 (or 3), at day 5 and at day 8, and one trough that will be collected at
      day 5.

      Pre-identified tubes (encoded) will be provided to the nursing and the sample shipping staff
      with specific instructions for manipulation of the blood sample and shipping to the
      laboratory.

      STUDY SAMPLE:

      In this study, it is considered that bioaccumulation should be statistically significant if
      Cmax of anti-Xa are increased by at least 20%. Estimation of the population size was
      performed using information obtained from Mahé et al. due to the similar nature of the
      population studied. As for mean plasma anti-Xa peak levels, a study done by Bara L et al.
      showed that 431 patients receiving 3 500 IU of tinzaparin for thromboprophylaxis had a mean
      of 0.15 IU/ml, which is the dose that will be given to most of the subjects in the present
      study. Based on the coefficient variation of Mahé et al. of 0.36 and the mean plasma anti-Xa
      level found by Bara L. et al, a standard deviation of 0.05 IU/ml was established, considering
      that the same coefficient of variation should be maintained across the dose administered. For
      the purpose of this study, researchers presumed an identical variance between all anti-Xa
      levels regardless of the day of blood sample collection. According to the null hypothesis,
      the mean of the distribution is 0.15 IU/ml while for the alternative hypothesis; the average
      would be 0.18 IU/ml (since established cut-off is a 20% increase). With a paired one-tailed t
      test, an alpha error of 0.05, a power of 0.90, and a strong correlation between measurements
      (r=0.7) , 25 participants are required to detect an increase ≥ 20% in anti-Xa activity
      between sampling on day 2 or 3 and at maximum of 8 days.
    
  