
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the overall and event-free survival of younger patients with newly diagnosed
      stage I favorable histology Wilms' tumor (< 2 years of age and < 550gms) treated with
      nephrectomy only (very low risk), or with newly diagnosed stage III favorable histology Wilms
      tumor with possible nephrectomy followed by vincristine, dactinomycin, doxorubicin
      hydrochloride, and radiotherapy (standard risk).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the effects of adding doxorubicin hydrochloride to the regimen for patients with
      stage I or II favorable histology found to have a high-risk biological marker.

      II. Determine whether the omission of adjuvant therapy increases the incidence of
      contralateral kidney lesions in patients with very low-risk disease treated by nephrectomy
      and observation only.

      III. Determine whether the omission of adjuvant therapy increases the incidence of renal
      failure in patients with very low-risk disease who have metachronous relapse.

      IV. Correlate study outcomes in patients with standard-risk disease with biological data from
      tissue collections on protocol study COG-AREN03B2.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to clinical and
      biological risk factors (very low risk vs standard risk).

      STRATUM I: (very low-risk disease) Patients undergo nephrectomy only. If they meet criteria,
      they are then observed periodically for 5 years. Patients with recurrent disease undergo
      surgery (immediate or delayed) and receive chemotherapy as in stratum III. Patients with no
      metachronous renal disease receive radiotherapy. Patients with metachronous disease undergo
      renal-sparing surgery and chemotherapy as in stratum III, but no radiotherapy. Treatment
      continues for up to 25 weeks.

      STRATUM II: (standard-risk, stage I or II disease with adverse biological marker) Patients
      undergo nephrectomy. Between 9 and 14 days post-nephrectomy, patients receive vincristine IV
      beginning on day 1, every week for 10 weeks then every 3 weeks for a total of 15 doses.
      Patients receive dactinomycin IV beginning day 1, alternating every 3 weeks with doxorubicin
      hydrochloride IV for a total of 5 doses of dactinomycin and 4 doses of doxorubicin. Treatment
      continues for up to 25 weeks.

      STRATUM III: (standard-risk, stage III disease) Patients undergo nephrectomy, if feasible, or
      biopsy. For patients who undergo biopsy only, definitive surgery is undertaken at week 7 or
      13. Between 9 and 14 days post-nephrectomy, patients receive vincristine IV beginning on day
      1 every week for 10 weeks then every 3 weeks for a total of 15 doses. Patients receive
      dactinomycin IV beginning day 1, alternating every 3 weeks with doxorubicin hydrochloride IV
      for a total of 5 doses of dactinomycin and 4 dose of doxorubicin hydrochloride. Patients
      undergo radiotherapy over 5-7 days after nephrectomy. Treatment continues for up to 25 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 8 years.
    
  