
    
      Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is a long-term condition in which the function of the kidneys -
      to filter out waste products from the blood - slowly declines. When renal function becomes
      sufficiently low it is described as End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) and renal replacement
      therapy (RRT) is likely to be needed to prolong life. The most common type of RRT is
      haemodialysis, in which the patient's blood is filtered through a machine.

      It is estimated that depression is experienced by 20-40% of people with ESRD. Depression not
      only affects the quality of life of individuals with ESRD but is also associated with higher
      rates of hospitalisation and poorer physical health outcomes.

      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) has been found to be an effective treatment for
      depression and has been used successfully as a self-help treatment. However, no study has
      examined the effectiveness of an ACT self-help treatment for depression in ESRD. This study
      aims to assess the feasibility of conducting such a study and will look at suitability of
      recruitment, assessment methods and the acceptability of the self-help treatment, as well as
      helping to calculate the number of people needed for a definitive study.

      Haemodialysis patients receiving dialysis through an NHS renal service will be invited to
      participate. To participate they will be consenting, over 18 years of age and experiencing
      depressive symptoms at a clinical level. Those eligible will be randomly assigned into one of
      two conditions; a control condition receiving treatment as usual (TAU), and an intervention
      condition receiving TAU alongside an ACT self-help manual with weekly telephone support. The
      manual will be completed over six weeks. Both groups will be asked to complete questionnaires
      prior to intervention and 2 and 4 months post-intervention. Participants from each condition
      will be asked to participate in interviews to explore their experiences of taking part.
    
  