
    
      Methodology

        1. Type of study: Experimental study, type randomized clinical trial (RCT).

        2. Conceptual framework:

             -  Quick or rapid cooling Icing: brief application of cold, for a period of up to 30
                seconds on a body surface which seeks to promote the activation of the nervous
                system to produce increased excitability.

             -  Prolonged Cold: prolonged application of cold, for at least 5 minutes or more, on a
                body surface that aims to reduce nervous system activation slowing of nerve
                conduction.

        3. Operational definition of variables:

             -  Grip strength: Strength in kilograms evaluated through manual dynamometry test the
                time for a grip. Force values are recorded in an Excel table displaying data in
                kilograms evaluated. (Manual hydraulic dynamometer brand JAMAR® be used).

             -  Quick Icing: will apply through glasses of ice on the ventral region of the
                dominant forearm of the experimental group.

             -  Prolonged cold: It shall be implemented through an ice pack (ice bag), placed on
                the ventral side of the dominant forearm in one of the comparison groups.

             -  Control: Group of people will not be subjected to any intervention.

        4. Sample:

           Place of research: The study will be conducted in the laboratory of physiotherapy
           rehabilitation science faculty building C5 401 room floor room, campus Casona de la
           Universidad Andrés Bello, Av Fernández Concha 700, Las Condes.

        5. Methodological Design

      This research has the characteristics of a random analytical experimental design (ECA), the
      study will be conducted in the laboratory Intervention Kinesics, room 401, fourth floor C5,
      Faculty of Rehabilitation Sciences, Campus Casona Las Condes, Av. Fernández Concha 700,
      Comuna Las Condes. The sample will be selected from the university community that makes up
      the faculty of Rehabilitation Sciences (FCR). The research will be registered in the network
      of clinical trials registry (www.clinicaltrials.gov), obtaining a registration number. The
      study has submitted to the ethics committee of the East Metropolitan Health Service (SSMO),
      to ensure that all bioethical labor standards are met. It is approved on August 23, 2016.
      This allowed to start the investigation. Population will be taken as students who are
      studying between first and fourth year of racing Kinesiology, Speech Therapy and Occupational
      Therapy. The sample is determined by a deliberate selection process through a survey of
      closed questions. This survey will allow participants to choose from the selection criteria
      proposed in the work. The number of participants that make up the sample will be taken for
      the convenience of researchers. As inclusion criteria have been established which follow:
      Students of the Faculty of Rehabilitation Sciences UNAB, subjects older than 18 years and
      have not submitted musculoskeletal disorders in the dominant upper extremity in the last 6
      months. Moreover, as exclusion criteria have been considered: the presence of pain or
      discomfort in performing handgrip with the dominant limb, intolerance to cold, diseases such
      as cryoglobulinemia, Raynaud's disease or paroxysmal hemoglobinuria cold, rheumatic diseases
      such as lupus erythematosus systemic, multiple myeloma or rheumatoid arthritis, positive test
      cube ice and osteosynthesis materials or stent in the dominant upper extremity. The exclusion
      criteria will be assessed in the sampling process through the selection of survey
      participants.

      They have designated three stages of conducting the study. Stage 1, called "Stage sampling"
      consist of the application of the survey to students of different levels of the three races
      of the faculty. Then it analyzes information collected by performing a first filter in
      selecting potential participants. This filter is given by the survey questions that reflect
      the inclusive and exclusive criteria. Personal contact with students who meet the
      characteristics of participation and will be invited to join the study will be conducted. A
      selectable and interested in participating they will be explained the purpose of the
      investigation and asked for their consent to participate in writing. The document will be
      given consent previously approved by the bioethics committee of the East Metropolitan Health
      Service (SSMO), based in the Salvador Hospital, Providence commune. Stage 1 will be as
      lasting three weeks, following the planned proposal on the Gantt chart.

      The second stage of the design, called "Evaluation" will last for two weeks according to the
      proposal in the Gantt chart established. This step will be the completion of the ice cube
      test following the established protocol. This will apply a second filter of selectable
      subjects and who agreed to participate consentidamente, and not excluded from the survey
      team. Then an assessment of the ability of participants will be made to perform painless
      handgrip on a stage with the same environmental conditions in which they carry out research
      (laboratory Physiotherapy Faculty Rehabilitation Sciences, Room 307, fourth floor building C5
      ). Thus the stage 2 will be an instance of second filtering selection of participants, to
      have people who eventually will make up the working groups of the study.

      Stage 3, called "Experimental", will run for eight weeks. Participants will be distributed
      forming three working groups, a group called "Quick Icing" (QI), another group called
      "Prolonged Cold" (PC) and a third group called "Control" (C). The designation for each group
      will advance by a simple randomization process using a table of random numbers, and will be
      in charge of the study director. Thus each participant will be labeled with a number and
      included in a specific group. This randomization process will seek to minimize selection
      bias. The director will be the only one who has the numbered list of participants in each
      group. From this process of randomization working groups will be established, that is, "Quick
      Icing", "Prolonged cold" and "Control". After forming the three groups, an evaluator 1 record
      demographic characteristics of each participant. This record will include data such as; age,
      body mass index (BMI), gender and body fat percentage. This information will be extracted
      from the survey participant selection that will form groups and measuring the percentage of
      body fat.

      In analysis of these data will determine the homogeneity of the groups to establish any
      comparisons at the end of the process after having results. An evaluator 2, unknown belongs
      to each participant, record the maximum handgrip strength of the dominant limb of each
      individual. The maximum handgrip strength will be evaluated following the proposed design the
      test protocol using manual dynamometry, registering the force of subjects measured in
      kilograms (kg). The evaluator 2 shall request three executions within a period of 15 seconds
      leaving a rest interval of 60 seconds between each attempt, this according to the protocol
      proposed by the researchers, based on the work of Watanabe and cols.

      The evaluator 2 tabulate the values of the three executions in an Excel spreadsheet marking
      the mean handgrip strength valoe will be recorded as the "pre" maximum force. Followed by the
      assessment process handgrip strength, we will lead each participant to the intervention group
      that corresponds, ie group "Quick icing" group "Prolonged Cold" or "Control". In the
      laboratory has established three working box, one for each intervention procedure. People
      will only have contact with subjects pertaining to your workgroup, without knowing
      participants in the other groups, this will be achieved with the double-blind establish
      avoiding bias intervention. Each participant will be seven minutes in their respective work
      box. The first minute of the time in question is used for the installation of each
      individual, leaving the remaining 6 for the application of the procedure. The protocol will
      consist of installation position the person seated, supporting the dominant forearm on a
      table leaving visible the ventral side of the segment. The participants of the group "Quick
      icing" will be subject to the application of cold on the ventral side of the dominant forearm
      for 30 seconds, using the technique of ice beakers dynamically. Participants must wait in the
      box six minutes before the therapeutic intervention. The quick icing process will be applied
      from 6 minutes for the time described above. The group of "prolonged Cold" will receive the
      intervention of "ice bag" for a period of 5 and a half minutes from 1 minute on the ventral
      side of the dominant forearm. The "Ice Bag" will have a weight of 700 grams. The "Control"
      group will receive a placebo application through an "ice bag" empty. The bag will be applied
      from 1 minute to 6 and a half minutes, as prolonged cold group. After 7 minutes of
      individuals in each group will return to the station where the evaluator 2 dynamometry record
      the handgrip strength of the dominant segment in your Excel spreadsheet tabulating the best
      record of three possible attempts again. This will get the value of maximum force "post" of
      people in each group.

      He completed the "experimental stage" proceed to step 4 called "Data Analysis" which will
      last for three weeks to allow the ordering of data, development of descriptive and
      inferential statistics. This stage will lead the research director, who will be responsible
      for storing and organizing data collected by the evaluators. Descriptive statistics for the
      variable maximum isometric muscle strength pre and post, will be from intragroup and
      intergroup averages. Secondary variables age and body mass index will be described in terms
      of average and standard deviation. The secondary endpoint genre will be described in terms of
      frequencies and percentages. To represent the descriptive statistics of the variable maximum
      force, graphic boxes, which show the averages will be used. For each variable statistical
      Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis of variance was applied to determine the normal distribution
      of the data, and thus assess whether there are significant differences in these parameters.
      To make this analysis STATA ® program will be used. According to normal or abnormal
      distribution data obtained ANOVA statistical test or SHARIPO-WILK be used. The results from
      these statistical tests allow the preparation of Table 1 (demographic data), which will
      reflect the initial data of the participants in each group. Following the framework of
      inferential statistics will proceed to compare differences in mean maximal isometric forces
      pre- and post intragroup and intergroup using ANOVA statistical test or Kruskal-Wallis
      depending on whether the distribution of these variables was normal or abnormal. The analysis
      will also consider the differences in the mean values of maximum force considering the
      variable intra- and inter-group genre. Once the statistical analysis done, it is considered
      two weeks to analyze the results and approach a discussion around them.

      After completed all stages of design, we will proceed to spread the work through the
      application to national and international scientific journals, it will be drafted in
      accordance with the regulations required by the journal to which it will run. It has seen a
      period of three months for the dissemination of research.

      Parallel each stage of the design will be registered on the clinicaltrials.gov mode page
      report the status of the investigation.

      7. Procedures

      Ice Cube Test

        1. Subject seated.

        2. Shoulder adducted without rotation.

        3. Elbow flexed at 90 °. This is ensured by a splint.

        4. Forearm in supination.

        5. Placing an ice cube on the ventral side of the contralateral forearm during a time of 5
           minutes.

        6. Unwanted response like hives, blisters, cold intolerance, severe erythema or pain is
           observed.

      Palmar Grasping Protocol

        1. Subject seated.

        2. Shoulder adducted without rotation.

        3. Elbow flexed at 90 °. This is ensured by a splint.

        4. Forearm supination neutral Prone.

        5. Wrist in a neutral position, that is, spread between 0 and 30, with ulnar deviation from
           0 to 15 degrees.

        6. Gripping palmar in 3 attempts, recording the best value of maximum force obtained when
           performing the maneuver.

        7. Standing Time 60 seconds between each attempt, this recovery the muscle ATP.
    
  