
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare time to objective progression in patients with prostate cancer and a rising
           prostate-specific antigen (PSA) after androgen suppression when treated with second-line
           hormonal therapy (ketoconazole and hydrocortisone) vs combination chemotherapy
           (docetaxel and estramustine).

        -  Compare time to PSA progression and correlate this with time to objective progression in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the natural history of progression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Identify prognostic indicators of clinical outcome by immunohistochemical evaluation of
           apoptopic biomarkers in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior
      treatment with bisphosphonates (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral ketoconazole three times daily and oral hydrocortisone
           twice daily. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral estramustine three times daily on days 1-5 and docetaxel
           IV over 1 hour on day 2. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, on day 1 of week 9, at 6 months and 1 year, and then
      annually for up to 10 years or until beginning of first non-protocol therapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 590 patients (295 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4 years.
    
  