
    
      Study design This is randomized controlled study. There are two groups classified randomly
      (group A & group B); group (A); will receive upper extremities biodex balance training. 3
      times/week for 8 weeks and group B that receive no treatment just assessment pre and post.
      Both groups will receive their regular weightlifting training exercises 4times/week.

      Procedures Testing procedures Data collection from the testing procedures in the pre and post
      interventional phase will take place over two days to avoid the impact of fatigue on the
      participants' physical performance. In the first day, descriptive data will be measured and
      recorded for each subject including age, height, weight, upper extremity dominance (defined
      as the hand reported to be preferred for ball throwing). This will be followed by the upper
      quarter Y- balance (UQ-YBT) and the Dynamic limits of stability (DLOS) using the Biodex
      balance system. In the second day, data will be collected from the 2-minutes 90° push-up test
      and the one-arm hop test. The order of days and testing procedures will be randomized for all
      participants.

      Training procedure Total number of 24 training sessions will be scheduled to the participants
      in group A over a period of eight weeks (three sessions/week). The Rating of perceived
      exertion (RPE) or Modified Borg scale (MBS) was used to monitor and guide exercise intensity.
      The scale allowed participants to subjectively rate their level of exertion during training.
      It starts at number 0 where training is causing no breathing difficulty at all and progress
      through to number 10 where breathing difficulty is maximal. Training will start with the
      current level of balance of each participant at which he reports exertion level of ≥ 5 based
      on modified Borg scale and progressed towards the more difficult ones. The Biodex display
      screen will be connected to a computer screen that will be positioned at a level to allow
      visual feedback to the participants during training The transition from one level to the more
      difficult one will be based on composite score of > 95% at the present level. Each training
      session will consist of three minutes training and one-minute rest, repeated for a total of
      20 minutes.
    
  