
    
      Inflammatory arthritis in patients with gout is caused by crystals of monosodium urate (MSU)
      that form as a result of chronically elevated levels of uric acid in plasma and extracellular
      fluids. Recurrent attacks can usually be prevented by treatment with drugs that block urate
      synthesis by inhibiting xanthine oxidase, or that promote uric acid excretion. If for various
      reasons (noncompliance, drug intolerance, inadequate dosage, or inefficacy) therapy fails to
      maintain serum urate concentration below about 6 mg/dL, gout can progress to a chronic stage
      characterized by destructive arthropathy, deposition of urate crystals in soft tissues
      (tophi), and nephropathy. The management of chronic gout in such patients is often
      complicated by co-morbidities such as hypertension, heart disease, diabetes, and renal
      insufficiency, which may limit the use of anti-inflammatory agents to treat arthritis.

      Urate levels are low and gout does not occur in species that express the enzyme urate oxidase
      (uricase), which converts urate to the more soluble and easily excreted compound allantoin.
      Humans do not express this enzyme owing to a mutation of the uricase gene during evolution.
      Parenteral uricase is thus a potential means of controlling hyperuricemia and depleting urate
      stores in patients with chronic, refractory gout. Infusion of recombinant fungal uricase is
      effective in preventing acute uric acid nephropathy due to tumor lysis in patients with
      malignancies. However, the short circulating life and potential immunogenicity of fungal
      uricase prevents its chronic use for treating gout.

      PEG-uricase is a recombinant porcine urate oxidase to which multiple strands of polyethylene
      glycol (PEG) of average molecular weight 10,000 have been attached. "PEGylation" is intended
      to reduce the immunogenicity of uricase, and greatly prolong its circulating life. This
      "mammalian" PEG-uricase was non-immunogenic and effective in preventing uric acid nephropathy
      in a uricase-deficient strain of mice (Kelly et al, J Am Soc Nephrol 12:1001-09, 2001). It
      has been licensed to Savient Pharmaceuticals for clinical development, and has received
      Orphan Drug designation for the treatment of refractory gout by the FDA Office of Orphan
      Product Development.

      In a Phase I trial sponsored by Savient Pharmaceuticals in 24 subjects with symptomatic gout,
      single intravenous (IV) infusions of 0.5 to 12 mg of PEG-uricase were well tolerated, and at
      doses of 4 mg to 12 mg, were effective in normalizing plasma and urinary uric acid levels
      over a 21-day period post-infusion. Some subjects in this trial developed antibodies to
      PEG-uricase, but the only serious adverse events observed were attacks of gout. The present
      Phase II clinical trial in subjects with refractory gout will evaluate the efficacy, safety,
      and immunogenicity of PEG-uricase when administered at a dose of 8 mg by IV infusion once
      every 3 weeks, for a total of 5 infusions. The primary measure of efficacy will be a
      reduction in plasma uric acid to less than 6 mg/dL, and reduction in the ratio of uric acid
      to creatinine in urine to <0.2. In addition, the ability of PEG-uricase to lower the total
      uric acid pool size will be evaluated in a subset of treatment subjects. Uric acid pool size
      will be measured by a method that involves an infusion of uric acid labeled with N15, a
      stable (non-radioactive) isotope of nitrogen.
    
  