
    
      The physiological and psychological benefits of regular physical activity (PA) and reduced
      sedentary behavior are well documented. Nevertheless, the majority of adolescents in western
      countries, e.g., Switzerland, do not meet the recommendations for moderate to vigorous PA of
      at least one hour per day. However, changing PA seems to be a major challenge even for
      individuals with good intentions to do so. This phenomenon is the so called
      intention-behavior gap. Planning interventions have been proposed as an effective way of
      translating intentions into action. Planning includes action planning (i.e., individual
      creation of plans when, where and how to engage in a behavior change) and coping planning
      (i.e., what an individual will do in case barriers arise). So far, good evidence has been
      found for individual planning increasing PA among adults. Such research with adolescents,
      however, is in its early stages. Moreover, recent research suggests that an individual's
      behavior change is also dependent on members of the social network. Consequently, the idea of
      conjoint planning was introduced recently. Conjoint planning comprises two planning formats,
      namely collaborative and dyadic planning. Dyadic planning implies creating plans together
      with a partner, but executing the behavior individually. In contrast, collaborative planning
      is defined as conjoint planning of at least two individuals when, where and how to perform a
      behavior together. An example would be "If we go shopping, we will take the bicycles to get
      there". It is assumed that conjoint planning stimulates social exchange processes between the
      planning partners. Social exchange processes are interactions between individuals that
      influence an individual's behavior, emotions, and cognitions and have been shown to play a
      significant role for health behavior change. A central component of social exchange processes
      is social support. Regarding PA in adolescents, the influence of peers and friends become
      increasingly important due to increased autonomy in adolescence. However, past research on
      health behavior change in adolescents has not yet examined effects of conjoint planning to
      enhance PA in adolescents. Although a few studies showed promising effects of conjoint
      planning in adults and adolescents, some important questions still remain open, which will be
      addressed in this project focusing on individual and collaborative planning. Our research
      questions and hypotheses are the following:

      Research question 1: Is planning an effective strategy to promote PA in adolescents when
      using daily based measures of PA and long-term follow-ups?

      Hypothesis 1.1. Adolescents, who take part in one of the two planning interventions, will
      show higher levels of (self-reported/objectively measured) PA compared to the control groups
      when comparing PA on a daily basis, one week (directly after the intervention), one month
      (after the booster session) and six months after the intervention.

      Hypothesis 1.2. Adolescents in the individual and collaborative planning intervention will
      report higher PA one month and six months after the intervention compared to the control
      groups.

      Research question 2: Do collaborative and individual planning differ regarding their
      effectiveness to promote PA in adolescents?

      Hypothesis 2.1. Adolescents, who take part in the collaborative planning intervention, will
      show higher levels of (self-reported/objectively measured) PA compared to the individual
      planning intervention when comparing PA on a daily basis, one week (directly after the
      intervention), one month (after the booster session) and six months after the intervention.

      Hypothesis 2.2. Adolescents in the collaborative planning intervention will report higher PA
      one month and six months after the intervention compared to the individual planning
      intervention and the control groups.

      Research question 3: Does the planning intervention increase individual self-regulatory
      processes over time?

      Hypothesis 3.1. Adolescents in the individual and collaborative planning intervention will
      report higher daily self-efficacy one week (directly after the intervention), one month
      (after the booster session) and six months after the intervention compared to the control
      groups.

      Hypothesis 3.2. Adolescents in the individual and collaborative planning intervention will
      report higher self-efficacy one month and six months after the intervention compared to the
      control groups.

      Hypothesis 3.3. Adolescents in the individual and collaborative planning intervention will
      report higher daily (self-reported) planning one week (directly after the intervention), one
      month (after the booster session) and six months after the intervention compared to the
      control groups.

      Hypothesis 3.4. Adolescents in the individual and collaborative planning intervention will
      report higher (self-reported) planning one month and six months after the intervention
      compared to the control groups.

      Research question 4: Does the collaborative planning intervention increase social exchange
      processes over time?

      Hypothesis 4.1. Adolescents in the collaborative planning intervention will report higher
      daily levels of social support one week (directly after the intervention), one month (after
      the booster session) and six months after the intervention compared to the individual
      planning condition and the control groups.

      Hypothesis 4.2. Adolescents in the collaborative planning intervention will report higher
      levels of social support one month and six months after the intervention compared to the
      individual planning condition and the control groups.

      Research question 5: What are the underlying mechanisms of the planning interventions in
      adolescents regarding PA?

      Hypothesis 5.1. The effect of the individual planning intervention on daily
      (self-reported/objectively measured) PA, one week (directly after the intervention), one
      month (after the booster session) and six months later is mediated by changes in daily
      individual self-regulatory strategies like self-efficacy, and self-reported planning.

      Hypothesis 5.2. The effect of the individual planning intervention on (self-reported) PA, one
      month and six months later is mediated by changes in individual self-regulatory strategies
      like self-efficacy, and self-reported planning.

      Hypothesis 5.3. The effect of the collaborative planning intervention on daily
      (self-reported/objectively measured) PA, one week (directly after the intervention), one
      month (after the booster session) and six months later is mediated by changes in daily levels
      of social support, as well as by changes in daily individual self-regulatory strategies like
      self-efficacy, and self-reported planning.

      Hypothesis 5.4. The effect of the collaborative planning intervention on (self-reported) PA,
      one month and six months later is mediated by changes in levels of social support and changes
      in individual self-regulatory strategies like self-efficacy, and self-reported planning.

      Design: This study is designed as a single-blind four-arm parallel-group cluster randomized
      controlled trial with longitudinal design. The design will comprise a baseline assessment,
      the intervention and two follow-ups one and six months after baseline. The sample will
      consist of 400 friendship dyads between 14 and 18 years of age. Recruitment will take place
      at schools. Therefore, a cluster randomization based upon the schools of all dyads to the
      four intervention arms is used. In addition, a blocked randomization is used to ensure an
      equal allocation ration of all a school types (level A; secondary school; vocational school)
      to the study conditions. All participants being interested in the study, fill in a
      pre-screening online questionnaire (runin) with the inclusion and exclusion criteria.
      Afterwards, the friendship dyad will be contacted to make an appointment for the first
      baseline measurement (T1). Subsequently, adolescents fill in the end-of day diaries and wear
      the accelerometers for eight days. After this week, the dyads will be invited for the
      intervention session (T2). All participants will receive an education and general
      motivational treatment to enhance daily physical activity and are then blocked randomly
      assigned to one of four intervention conditions: (a) a collaborative planning intervention,
      in which both adolescents form action and coping plans together to increase daily physical
      activity together, or (b) an individual planning intervention, in which both adolescents form
      such action and coping plans individually, or (c) a no-planning control condition, in which
      both adolescents perform a distraction task together, or (d) a no-planning control condition,
      in which both adolescents perform a distraction task alone, separately from each other. After
      the intervention session all adolescents fill in the end-of day diaries and wear the
      accelerometers for the following seven days. Adolescents of the two planning conditions will
      receive weekly messages to rethink and adapt their plans with the request to send them to the
      experimenters. One month (T3) after the intervention all participants are invited for the
      booster session. Adolescents of the two planning conditions will work on their plans again to
      adapt or improve them. After this session all participants fill in the end-of day diaries and
      wear the accelerometers for the following seven days. On a monthly basis all participants of
      the planning conditions will receive messages to rethink and adapt their plans with the
      request to send them to the experimenters. Six month after the intervention the participants
      will be invited to the six-month follow-up (T4). Again, all participants subsequently fill in
      the end-of day diaries and wear the accelerometers for the following seven days. During all
      sessions and the daily diaries both partners of the friendship dyad will complete all
      questionnaires. Self-reports of PA and sedentary behavior, as well as objectively measured PA
      as the main constructs will be assessed at all time points. Self-regulation constructs (e.g.,
      self-efficacy) will be assessed at time point 1, 3, and 4, whereas social support will be
      assessed at time T2-T4. In addition, the body weight, height, and body fat tissue will be
      measured objectively at T1, T3, and T4. The Ethics Committee of the Faculty of Arts and
      Social Sciences of the University of Zurich, ref: 2017.10.3 approved the study.

      Results of this project aims at closing the empirical gap of the question whether planning
      interventions of PA in adolescents are successful and which planning intervention is the most
      effective one. By investigating this systematically by means of daily diaries, long-term
      follow-ups and objective measurements this study will provide novel knowledge about social
      exchange processes as the mediating mechanism of the effectiveness of collaborative planning
      for health behavior change in adolescents. Consequently, effective theory-based and
      evidence-based interventions to promote PA in adolescents can be developed.
    
  