
    
      Detailed Description: The overall objective of the study was to evaluate whether the
      standardized proprietary formulation of curcumin [Super Curcumin@ :C-3 Complex@ with
      Bioperine@) manufactured by American Finest Inc. NJ USA ] extracted from the curry plant
      (Curcuma Longata) , can improve the negative symptoms and cognitive impairments in patients
      diagnosed as schizophrenia and to determine the response rate in negative symptoms at 16
      weeks. Response rate was defined as the positive change of minimum 30% or higher from
      baseline to the score measured at 16 weeks. Negative symptoms refer to the cluster of
      symptoms of apathy, alogia, blunted affect and lack of motivation affecting severely the ways
      the individual functions in the community at large. In the study, the investigators proposed
      to test the hypothesize that Super curcumin@ is efficacious and safe when combined with
      standard antipsychotic drugs in the cohort of patients diagnosed as schizophrenia. Throughout
      the study, the proprietary product(Super curcumin@) was used. Supercurcumin@ consisted of the
      primary medicinally active ingredient, Curcumin C-3 Complex, in combination with Bioperine@,
      the metabolic enhancer extracted from black pepper, in order to increase the systemic
      bioavailability of curcumin C-3 complex. For the oral formulation of Super- curcumin@: 1
      gm-capsule has 1 gm of curcumin C-3 complex and 5 mg of Bioperine@ . The study protocol
      consisted of recruiting subjects with diagnosed as schizophrenia who would be receiving
      either 1 gm or 4 gm of Super-Curcumin@ given orally once daily for 16 weeks, on negative
      symptoms and cognition. For assessing the safety and tolerability of Supercurcumin@ , the
      study protocol required that the patients would be monitored regularly for vital signs:blood
      pressure, pulse,body weight, routine blood chemistry and comprehensive adverse events profile
      (Treatment Emergent Adverse Events checklist) including the AIMS (Abnormal Involuntary
      Movement Scale). At baseline and at regular intervals throughout the 16-week treatment
      period, standardized measures of negative and positive symptoms and neurocognition would be
      administered to examine the efficacy of Curcumin C-3 complex in schizophrenia. For analysing
      the results, within-subject pre- and post-treatment responses would be subject to statistical
      procedures to evaluate whether Super-Curcumin@ can ameliorate the persistent negative
      symptoms and cognitive deficits in schizophrenia.
    
  