
    
      The term "Occult Pneumothorax" (OPTX), describes a pneumothorax (PTX) that while not
      suspected on the basis of either clinical examination or plain radiograph, is ultimately
      detected with thoraco-abdominal computed tomograms (CT). This situation is increasingly
      common in contemporary trauma care with the increased use of CT. The incidence appears to
      approximately 5% in injured populations presenting to hospital, with CT revealing at least
      twice as many PTXs as suspected on plain radiographs. While PTXs are a common and treatable
      (through chest drainage) cause of mortality and morbidity, there is clinical equipoise and
      significant disagreement regarding the appropriate treatment of the OPTX. Based on level III
      evidence, some authors have recommended observation without chest drainage for all but the
      largest OPTXs, recommendations that contravene the standard dictum for ventilated patients as
      recommended by the Advanced Trauma Life Support Course of the American College of Surgeons.
      The controversy is the greatest in the critical care unit population who require positive
      pressure ventilation. This is also the group for whom the highest rates of chest tube
      complications have been reported. Complication rates related to chest tubes in general, have
      been claimed in up to 21% of cases.

      No previous studies have focused specifically on the population of mechanically ventilated
      patients. There have been only 45 reported ventilated trauma patients ever randomized to
      treatment or observation. Enderson found that 8 (53%) of 15 patients had PTX progression with
      3 tension pneumothoraces. Brasel found that of 9 observed OPTXs, 2 progressed. Brasel
      concluded observation was safe, while Enderson felt chest tubes were mandatory. The
      investigators thus propose to carry out a prospective randomized trial to examine the need
      for chest drainage in small to moderate sized OPTX's, as well as the practicalities of
      carrying out such a study.

      The experience and knowledge gained from this pilot will be intended to provide additional
      support to a future submission to the Canadian Institute for Health Research in order to
      carry out a multi-centre prospective trial involving the member institutions of the Canadian
      Trauma Trials Collaborative (CTTC). The investigators believe they have invested more time
      and effort into developing this line of investigation than any other group in the World. The
      investigators first reviewed the pertinent literature and subsequently retrospectively
      reviewed the outcomes of this entity at both this institution and with collaborators at other
      CTTC sites. The investigators have examined the anatomic and practical reasons as to why
      OPTXs are occult, as well as novel investigation methods to detect them during the initial
      evaluation for trauma, and documented the morbidity that may occur with their treatment.
    
  