
    
      Management of intracranial hypertension (ICH) in patients with severe traumatic brain injury
      (TBI) is crucial to their survival and optimal recovery. The evidence-based Guidelines for
      the Management of Severe Traumatic Brain Injury, 3rd Edition recommends use of intracranial
      pressure (ICP) monitors to assess ICH and know when and how to intervene. Unfortunately in
      most areas of the world there is no access to ICP monitor technology. This means that most
      people with severe TBI are treated without use of ICP monitoring. There are no Guidelines and
      no literature on how to treat severe TBI without use of ICP monitors.

      The objective of this project is to create guidelines for the treatment of severe TBI in the
      absence of ICP monitoring and test them. We propose to derive these guidelines by working
      with a team of clinicians that practice in austere environments in low-to-middle income
      countries (LMICs) and routinely make decisions based either on a treatment protocol, their
      clinical experience, or both. We will use a new, systematic and innovative technology and
      process to accomplish consensus for the guidelines among the clinicians. We will implement
      the Consensus-Based Guidelines (CBG) in resource-poor centers, some of which have prior
      exposure to less well developed ad hoc protocols for treatment of TBI, and others that do not
      have prior exposure. We will test the influence of the CBG on outcomes of severe TBI in a
      before/after design in these two sets of centers. In the first two years, patients will be
      treated according to the ad hoc protocol or according to individual clinician best judgment.
      Then the Guidelines will be developed, all sites will be trained in their use, and they will
      be used to guide treatment in all sites for the next 2 years. .We will evaluate the effect of
      using an ad hoc protocol by comparing outcomes between the two sets of centers before the
      Guidelines are developed. In each set of centers we will evaluate the effect of using the
      consensus-based guideline protocol compared to either no protocol or the ad hoc protocol by
      comparing the outcomes in the first and second periods. Finally, we will evaluate how much
      more the consensus-based protocol effects outcome than the ad hoc protocol by comparing the
      difference from the first to the second period between the two sets of sites

      In accomplishing the study objectives, we will create and test a guideline for the treatment
      of severe TBI that could be used globally to improve outcomes for these patients. We will
      validate in LMICs a new, systematic and innovative technology and process to accomplish
      consensus that was derived in an HIC. Finally, we will train personnel in centers new to
      research in how to conduct high-quality scientific studies, and will extend the training for
      the personnel with whom we have been working, solidifying previous capacity-building efforts,
      and initiating new efforts.
    
  