
    
      Interventions The intervention room was divided into two sections (intervention section and
      waiting section) using a blinded partition, for prompt coming and going by the investigators.
      Before the CEI, patient was informed about how to use a VAS and a five-point Likert scale.
      Then, patient anxiety about CEI was measured using the Likert scale with the following
      statement: "I am anxious about undergoing a CEI". After that, the patient was positioned on
      the table in a prone posture, and the interventionist, who was blinded to the other study
      procedures, palpated the sacral hiatus and marked with an indelible pen. Then he went behind
      the partition.

      Thereafter, the principal investigator entered the intervention section, opened and checked
      the sealed envelope. And he prepared the sacrococcygeal area using an iodine-based povidone
      and an alcohol swabs. As a topical pre-CEI anesthesia, the marked site was infiltrated
      subcutaneously with 3 ml of 2% lidocaine in the local infiltration group. In the spray group,
      the marked site was sprayed using an vapocoolant spray (Walter Ritter GmbH and Co., Hamburg,
      Germany) for 10-sec from a distance of 30 cm. To enhance a blind design, 10-sec spray was
      performed with targeting to the open air after 3 min (time for manifesting the effect of
      lidocaine) in the local infiltration group. In the spray group, there had been same time
      interval of 3 min before spraying.

      Immediately after these procedures, the marked site was prepped again using alcohol swab,
      then the principal investigator left and the interventionist entered the intervention
      section. And the interventionist inserted a prepared 20-gauge spinal needle into the marked
      site and pointed the needle toward the sacral hiatus under ultrasonography (Xario, Toshiba,
      Otawara, Japan) guided. When neither tissue resistance nor subcutaneous injection was noticed
      after injecting saline, 15 ml of 0.5% lidocaine and 10 mg of dexamethasone were injected.

      After finishing the CEI, each patient was asked to fill out the self-administered documents
      for outcome measures, seal them in an envelope, and submit them to the principal
      investigator.

      Outcome Measures Pain induced by spinal needle insertion was assessed using a 100-mm VAS as
      well as patients' satisfaction about the topical pre-CEI anesthesia using a five-point Likert
      scale. The 100-mm VAS consisted of a 100-mm horizontal line labeled "no pain" at the left and
      "worst pain imaginable" at the right. The five-point Likert scale (1, strongly agree; 2,
      agree; 3, undecided; 4, disagree; and 5, strongly disagree) was used to answer two questions:
      ''Are you satisfied with the topical pre-CEI anesthesia used before the spinal needle
      insertion of CEI?'' and ''Will you use the topical pre-CEI anesthesia applied today again if
      CEI repeated in the future?''
    
  