
    
      Rationale: Vaccination against rotavirus is the most appropriate mean for prevention and
      control of rotavirus infections. Israel is highly endemic for diarrheal diseases but limited
      data exist on the burden & epidemiology of rotavirus diarrheal diseases. Such data are
      essential to assess the relevance of potential future vaccination against
      rotavirus-associated gastroenteritis in Israel.

      Objectives

        1. To determine the burden and characteristics of rotavirus-associated hospitalizations
           among children under five years of age of northern Israel

        2. To identify potential risk factors of rotavirus infections associated with
           hospitalizations among Jewish and Arab children younger than five years of age.

      Methods:

      Study design: A two-year prospective study and a nested case control study will be carried
      out Study population: About 45000 children aged less than five years, residing in the
      catchment areas of three pediatric wards of sentinel hospitals (Laniado - Netanya, Carmel -
      Haifa & Hillel Yaffe -Hadera) will be under daily surveillance for hospitalizations due to
      rotavirus diarrheal diseases for two years. The catchment area of the 3 hospitals has a good
      representation of both Jewish and Arab pediatric population. During the study period we
      expect 400 hospitalizations due to diarrheal diseases and 80 hospitalizations due to
      rotavirus gastroenteritis annually, in each of the three hospitals (i.e. 480 cases of
      rotavirus- diarrheal disease in the two year study). 100 subjects hospitalized because of
      rotavirus associated diarrhea and 100 controls matched by age, gender and origin will be
      recruited for the nested case-control study.

      Collection of data: Questionnaires will be filled in with demographic characteristics of
      patients and data on the clinical manifestation of the diarrheal episode leading to
      hospitalization. Stool specimens will be systematically collected from all children
      hospitalized because of diarrheal diseases and examined for rotavirus and for bacterial and
      protozoan enteropathogens. Positive samples for rotavirus will be tested for G and P
      genotypes.

      For the nested case control study additional data will be obtained from parents' interviews
      on variables such as: parents' education, parents' age, parents' occupation, no. of siblings,
      age of siblings, breastfeeding etc. to identify potential risk factors for rotavirus diarrhea
      necessitating hospitalization.

      Data analysis: Methods of descriptive statistics / epidemiology will be applied to determine
      the characteristics of the burden of rotavirus-associated hospitalizations (the distribution
      of diarrhea associated hospitalizations by etiology, rates of rotavirus diarrheal diseases in
      Jewish and Arab children, age specific rates of rotavirus infections, the percentage of
      hospitalizations due to rotavirus diarrhea by month, etc.

      For the nested case control study, univariate analysis will be first performed using Student
      t test for continuous variables and chi square test for categorical variables to study the
      statistical significance of predictive factors of rotavirus diarrheal diseases necessitating
      hospitalization. Multivariate analysis using logistic regression models will be performed to
      study the independent effect of each variable. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% CI will be computed
      for each variable. Two tailed p < 0.05 will be considered significant.
    
  