
    
      Background

      Asthma represents the most common chronic disease of childhood and adolescence and an
      important cause of morbidity worldwide. The disease is characterized by episodes of
      reversible airway obstruction (exacerbations), associated with specific symptoms (wheeze,
      dyspnea, cough, chest tightness) and decrease in peak expiratory flow (PEF) and forced
      expiratory volume at 1 sec (FEV1). However, these spirometric changes occur in parallel with
      clinical deterioration, thus presenting limited ability to predict the exacerbation of the
      disease.

      Both PEF and FEV1 demonstrate significant daily variability, i.e., circadian and/or
      day-by-day fluctuation of the measured values. In healthy individuals the pattern of these
      fluctuations remains constant over long time periods (weeks, months), as opposed to asthmatic
      patients where PEF and FEV1 variability is increased, especially prior to exacerbations when
      the control of the disease is lost. Thus, the analysis of PEF and FEV1 variability has been
      used in research to evaluate the effectiveness of treatment, recognize high-risk patients and
      predict asthma exacerbations.

      In clinical practice, however, the evaluation of PEF and FEV1 variability requires at least
      daily measurements with special devices, recording in diaries, and periodic evaluation of the
      data by the attending physicians. The process may be proven both complicated and time
      consuming, thus reducing patients' adherence especially in the case of asthmatic children and
      adolescents. In addition, the periodic review of measurements may hamper the prediction of
      exacerbation, as the time of evaluation may not coincide with changes in the variability of
      lung function that characterize the loss of asthma control.

      Over the last years, technological advancements in the field of biosensors and
      microprocessors have permitted the development of reliable, low-cost, portable spirometers,
      able to connect with cutting-edge mobile phones (smartphones) and monitor lung function
      parameters in real time and from a distance. The use of such devices may overcome most of the
      aforementioned barriers in following-up lung function parameters in the long term.

      Currently, there is a paucity of data regarding PEF and FEV1 variability in children and
      adolescents with asthma. Such data would improve our understanding regarding the disease and
      permit the development of integrated tools for assessing the level of asthma control and the
      risk of future exacerbations

      Objectives

      The objectives of the study are:

        1. Assessment of PEF and FEV1 variability in healthy children and adolescents: definition
           of the normal range of daily PEF and FEV1 fluctuation and the parameters that may
           influence it

        2. Assessment of PEF and FEV1 variability in children and adolescents with asthma:
           differences from healthy subjects and definition of specific changes prior to
           exacerbation

           Methods

           A. Study population

           The study will include two cohorts:

             1. Healthy children and adolescents aged 6 to 18 years (N=100) for the assessment of
                normal PEF and FEV1 variability (objective #1).

             2. Children and adolescents aged 6 to 18 years with diagnosed asthma [2] (N=100) for
                the assessment of PEF and FEV1 variability in asthmatics (objective #2).

           B. Lung function measurements

           a. Device: PEF and FEV1 measurements will be performed using an FDA-approved portable
           spirometer (Spirobank Smart, MIR, Rome, Italy), with a disposable bi-directional digital
           turbine (flow range ±16L/s, volume accuracy ±3% or 50 mL, flow accuracy: ±5% or 200
           mL/s, dynamic resistance <0.5 cm H2O/L/s), capable to connect to smartphone via
           Bluetooth® using a dedicated freeware application (iSpirometry, MIR, Rome, Italy). Each
           participant will receive his personal spirometer. Detailed information regarding the use
           and maintenance of the device will be provided (brochure & online resources).

           b. Measurements: The correct technique for PEF and FEV1 measurements (ERS/ATS standards)
           will be demonstrated by one of the investigators at enrollment. Detailed information
           regarding the technique (brochure & online resources) will be also provided.
           Measurements will be performed twice a day between 07:00-09:00 and 19:00-21:00 hours,
           for a period of 3 months.

           c. Completed measurements (encrypted pdf format) will be dispatched via email to a
           central database by the participants or their parents.

           d. Monitoring: Participants' adherence will be monitored continuously. The investigators
           will notify the participants in case of lost measurements or inappropriate technique.

           C. Variability analysis

           PEF and FEV1 variability will be assessed by:

           a. The coefficient of variation b. Detrended Fluctuation Analysis (DFA), a method that
           has been widely used for the investigation of intrinsic correlation within time
           series.14 Initially, the square root of the time series [F(n)] is calculated for
           segments of different (time) length n. A linear relationship in the logarithmic graph F
           (n) - log (n) indicates the existence of fractal architecture in the scaling of the
           specific data, while the slope a of the line describes the pattern of long-term
           fluctuations.14 A change in daily variability of PEF or FEV1 results in a simultaneous
           deviation from the predetermined a value.6 This deviation can easily be detected and
           quantified. It has been shown that the magnitude of a deviation reflects the likelihood
           of asthma exacerbation within the next month.6 c. Variability analysis will be performed
           in MatLab (MathWorks, Inc., Natick, MA, USA) environment.

           D. Additional data Patients' characteristics (age, sex, baseline lung function, allergy,
           comorbidities, medication, etc) will be also recorded. These parameters will be included
           in regression models to explore their effect on the pattern of PEF and FEV1 variability.

           E. Statistics All analyses will be performed with the IBM SPSS software version 25.0
           (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY).

           F. Timeframes The expected duration of the study is 24 months. • Part I: Assessment of
           PEF and FEV1 variability in healthy children and adolescents Duration: 9 months (January
           - September 2020).

           PEF and FEV1 measurements from 100 participants (3 months each)

           • Part II: Assessment of PEF and FEV1 variability in asthmatic children and adolescents
           Duration: 15 months (October 2020 - December 2021). PEF and FEV1 measurements from 100
           participants (3 months each)

           G. Ethics The study will comply to the regulations and standards of good medical
           practice. Participants will receive a unique study number and no personal data will be
           recorded. Measurements will be dispatched via email in encrypted pdf format. Informed
           written parental consent will be obtained prior to enrollment. Children aged >12 years
           will also provide a written consent. The study has been approved by the Ethics Committee
           of the University Hospital of Patras, Greece (decision # 329/02-04-2019).
    
  