
    
      Acutely ill infant inpatients who have an undiagnosed illness, and their families, will be
      eligible to participate in the study. The investigators will enroll up to 1,000 infants.
      Locally, the study population will be recruited from Rady Children's Hospital (RCH) inpatient
      population, primarily the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), pediatric intensive care unit
      (PICU), and cardiovascular intensive care unit (CVICU), with a smaller population presenting
      to other hospital in-patient services. Recruitment will be targeted at the RCH main campus,
      but it may include referrals from satellite locations in the RCH network (particularly the
      RCH NICU network throughout San Diego County). All patients will continue to receive routine
      care as clinically indicated, including the state newborn screen and other genetic testing as
      determined by their treating providers. Half of the affected study participants will be
      randomized to receive rapid whole genome sequencing (WGS) and the other half will receive
      rapid whole exome sequencing (WES). Each arm will initially be analyzed using the patient's
      (proband's) sample only. If a proband-only analysis fails to yield a diagnosis, genomic data
      from the biological family members (typically parents), when available, will be used to
      supplement analysis (trio analysis). Occasionally, a second affected sibling may be available
      for family analysis. Not infrequently, the father is not available for study. Similarly, the
      investigators anticipate the need for targeted genetic analysis of biological parents, and
      possibly other family members, to confirm diagnostic results and/or provide additional
      information regarding inheritance.

      The investigators anticipate that in rare cases a newborn may be so ill that the team lacks
      equipoise that the child can wait for the estimated ten day turnaround time of our send-out
      exome testing. In these rare cases, the PI, or his delegate, will decide if the child is not
      eligible for randomization. These children will remain in the research study throughout the
      entirety of the study, but will receive in-house ultra-rapid whole genome sequencing by the
      Rady Children's Institute for Genomic Medicine (RCIGM, also called RadyPGSMI) laboratory in
      lieu of either a rapid genome or rapid exome (both anticipated to be 10 day turn-arounds).

      Enrollment will be sought within the first 96 hours following admission to RCH or an RCH
      network ICU or within 96 hours of meeting criteria for the study if the infant was not
      previously eligible. Patients and their family members who consent to participate will have
      their blood drawn and will be randomized to receive either rapid WGS or rapid WES. The
      initial symptom-driven analysis will be conducted on the patient's sample only (singleton
      analysis). If a diagnosis is not found promptly (within 24 hours) via a singleton analysis,
      the family (or any combination of parents and/or other family members) will be analyzed using
      the same technology that the patient was randomized to receive. Pathogenic and likely
      pathogenic variants (as determined by American College of Medical Genetics (ACMG) guidelines)
      that relate in part or in whole to the patient's current phenotype will be clinically
      confirmed and reported into the patients' medical record. Although the intention of the study
      is to return symptom-driven results to the medical record, the clinical report for
      confirmation of symptom-driven findings may include negative findings of testing. In the
      event that our analysis incidentally finds a pathogenic variant for which a treatment or
      intervention exists to improve morbidity and/or mortality, families may choose not to receive
      this additional information.
    
  