
    
      A pilot study ECOCAPTURE (ClinicalTrials.gov/NCT02496312, 2015) applied to a group of
      participants with the behavioural variant of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (bvFTLD)
      matched for age, gender and level of education to healthy participants (n=7 per group). This
      pilot validated the concept of ECOCAPTURE.

      The purpose of this trial is to continue the implementation of the ECOCAPTURE tool, extending
      it to three pathological models: bvFTLD, Parkinson's disease and depression.

      The objectives aim to assess behavior directed towards a goal and identify apathy, analyze
      data to obtain a behavioral signature of apathy and to produce more finely differentiated
      apathetic patients profiles by specifying the pathophysiological mechanisms (cognitive
      mechanisms, as well as the neural bases and the neuro-hormonal mechanisms) underlying apathy.

      The investigators use multimodal recording tools to track behavior. A multiple-camera system
      is set up with video coverage of the whole room. A sensor (Move II, Movisens, Karlsruhe,
      Germany) fixed to the subject's hip, records data such as 3D acceleration, barometric
      pressure and temperature. From these data, secondary parameters like activity class, body
      position, steps, energy expenditure and metabolic equivalents are calculated. Video data
      analysis is performed with The Observer XT software (Noldus, Wageningen, The Netherlands)
      using an ethogram to identify the frequency and duration of behaviors. For 10 min, during the
      experimental session, participants ware eye-tracking glasses (ETG 2w, SMI, Teltow, Germany)
      that record natural gaze behavior.

      Metrics built from raw data (video, sensors) are analyzed to reveal a behavioral signature of
      apathy, highlighting a quantitative reduction in goal-directed behavior.

      The study takes place on two visits (one per day). It consists of the observation phase, a
      neuropsychological assessment, experimental tasks, some of which are computerized, an MRI
      examination and finally a blood test.
    
  