
    
      Background

        1. The hospital environment is conducive for the rapid spread of pathogens, especially
           antimicrobial-resistant bacteria. Hospital-acquired methicillin-resistant staphylococcus
           aureus (MRSA) and vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) infections are increasing
           worldwide, including Singapore.

        2. Good hand hygiene is the single most important measure to prevent the nosocomial spread
           of pathogens in healthcare settings. However, most studies have reported compliance
           rates of <50%, under routine hospital practice. The last hand hygiene audit in TTSH
           revealed a compliance rate of merely 20%. Recent studies have observed that this level
           of compliance would not reduce the transmission risk of multi-resistant bacteria in the
           hospital. A high workload and insufficient time for hand hygiene are common reasons
           cited by healthcare workers for poor compliance with hand hygiene.

        3. Hospital staff are responsible for 20-40% of nosocomial spread of pathogens from patient
           to patient through contact transmission. Bacterial contamination of healthcare workers'
           hands during routine patient care has been reported to increase linearly with time, with
           an average increase of 16 colony-forming units (CFUs) per minute of patient care.

        4. The use of alcohol handrubs has been demonstrated to significantly reduce time spent on
           hand hygiene (40-80 seconds required for hand-washing vs 20 seconds for alcohol
           hand-rubbing). Although there is growing evidence from experimental studies that
           alcohol-based products are more effective than soap or antimicrobial soaps, there have
           been very few trials done in the clinical setting evaluating the two hand hygiene
           protocols in everyday practice.

        5. A randomised controlled trial carried out in 3 intensive care units (ICUs) of a
           940-bedded French tertiary care and referral university hospital demonstrated the
           superior antimicrobial efficacy of alcohol hand-rubbing compared with chlorhexidine
           hand-washing. The median percentage reduction in bacterial contamination was
           significantly higher with alcohol hand-rubbing than with hand-washing (83% vs 58%, p =
           0.012). Another randomised clinical trial involving 4 general wards and 3 ICUs at the
           850-bedded University of Barcelona Hospital demonstrated similar findings. It reported
           an average reduction in hand bacterial load of 88.2% with alcoholic hand-wash, compared
           with 49.6% with regular liquid soap.

        6. Since the introduction of alcohol handrubs at Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH), the
           hospital has adopted the hand hygiene guidelines issued by the Centers for Disease
           Control and Prevention (CDC). The CDC guidelines do not specifically discuss the
           technique for using alcohol-based handrubs. However, the recent World Health
           Organization (WHO)'s Guidelines on Hand Hygiene in Health Care (Advanced Draft) April
           2006 have detailed the hand hygiene technique with alcohol-based formulation. WHO's
           recommended alcohol hand-rubbing technique involves the same standard 7-steps adopted in
           hand-washing with antiseptic soap and water.

        7. Busy healthcare staff are often unable to adhere to the 7-step hand hygiene technique.
           Hence, the most convenient hand hygiene protocol would be hand-rubbing with alcohol,
           covering all hand surfaces until dry, as recommended by the CDC. This is the protocol
           currently adopted by TTSH. However, there has been growing concern that there could be
           missed areas on the hands after alcohol hand-rubbing, which might affect the efficacy of
           the alcohol handrub [20, 21].

        8. There have been very few published clinical studies comparing the efficacy of alcohol
           hand-rubbing with antiseptic hand-washing in healthcare workers during routine patient
           care. To our knowledge, there has not been a published international study comparing
           CDC's recommended alcohol hand-rubbing protocol with that of the WHO's. This study will
           provide important information on the efficacy of alcohol hand-rubbing using the current
           technique adopted in TTSH (CDC's guidelines), compared with the WHO's recommended 7-step
           technique for alcohol hand-rubbing and the standard 7-step chlorhexidine hand-washing
           respectively. This study will also provide local data on the actual time spent on hand
           hygiene, during everyday practice. The findings from this study will contribute
           significantly towards understanding hand hygiene practices during routine patient care
           in our local healthcare setting and hence guide infection control strategies to reduce
           hospital-acquired infections. Reducing hospital-acquired infections would lead to
           improved clinical outcomes for our patients.

           Study Hypothesis:

        9. Alcohol hand-rubbing covering all hand surfaces is not less effective in reducing
           bacterial hand contamination of healthcare staff than alcohol hand-rubbing using 7-step
           technique; and is more effective than chlohexidine handwashing. Time spent on alcohol
           hand-rubbing covering all hand surfaces is less than that required by the other 2 hand
           hygiene protocols respectively.

           Objectives

       10. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of 3 hand hygiene
           protocols: hand-rubbing with alcohol covering all hand surfaces, hand-rubbing with
           alcohol using the standard 7-step technique, and hand-washing with chlorhexidine using
           the standard 7-step technique. The secondary objectives include the estimation of time
           spent on hand hygiene, for each hand hygiene protocol; and the evaluation of bacterial
           hand contamination after key patient care activities.

           Methods

       11. This study will be a prospective randomised controlled trial, with blinded evaluation of
           microbiological results. Three hand hygiene protocols will be compared: hand-rubbing
           with alcohol covering all hand surfaces, hand-rubbing with alcohol using the standard
           7-step technique, and hand-washing with chlorhexidine using the standard 7-step
           technique.

       12. Medical and nursing staff from general wards in TTSH will be invited to participate in
           the study. 60 medical staff (namely medical officers and house officers) and 60 nursing
           staff (namely registered nurses and enrolled nurses) will be recruited for the study.
           The medical and nursing teams working in the selected wards will be informed of the
           study prior to its commencement, and the support of the respective unit and department
           heads sought. An information sheet describing the study will be circulated prior to the
           study.

       13. The study will be carried out over 8 weeks, during the day shifts, from Monday to
           Friday. Two infection control nurses and a research associate will work as a team,
           moving systematically from one ward to the next. On the day of the study, the team will
           observe the patient care activities in the participating ward, and look out for
           activities involving direct patient contact (such as physical examination, temperature
           or blood pressure taking), without the use of gloves.

       14. Whenever a medical or nursing staff is about to perform an activity involving direct
           patient contact without the use of gloves, the staff will be approached and invited to
           participate in the study. Verbal consent will be taken from staff who accept the
           invitation to participate. To protect the identity and confidentiality of the
           participating staff, written consent will not be taken.

       15. Three samples for bacterial counts will be taken from the dominant hand of each
           participant: just prior to patient contact, after patient contact, and after hand
           hygiene.

       16. Each participant will be randomly assigned to one of the 3 hand hygiene protocols:

             -  hand-rubbing with alcohol covering all hand surfaces,

             -  hand-rubbing with alcohol using the standard 7-step technique, or

             -  hand-washing with chlorhexidine using the standard 7-step technique. Pre-prepared
                sealed envelopes will be used. Participants allocated into hand hygiene protocols
                (1) and (3) will be asked to perform the hand hygiene method, as they normally
                would. Participants assigned to hand hygiene protocol (2) will be requested to
                perform hand-rubbing with alcohol, using the technique they would normally adopt
                for chlorhexidine hand-washing.

       17. The two infection control nurses will separately monitor the time taken by each
           participant for the patient care activity using a stopwatch, and record the duration and
           type of patient care performed in the data collection form. The data collection form
           will only contain a study number and will not bear the name or identification of the
           participant. A study number will be randomly assigned to each participant using
           pre-numbered data collection forms. Similarly, the infection control nurses will observe
           and record the duration of each hand hygiene and note adherence to the allocated hand
           hygiene technique. The infection control nurses will only make observations, and will
           not interfere with hand hygiene whatever the method used. (Pls see attached data
           collection form)

       18. Participants assigned to one of the 2 alcohol hand-rubbing protocols but whose hands
           become visibly soiled after patient care, will be advised to perform chlorhexidine
           hand-washing instead.

       19. The research associate, who has undergone training in the sampling technique, will be
           responsible for taking hand samples for bacterial counts, using the glove juice
           technique. Samples will be labelled with study numbers only. Innoculated agar plates
           will be incubated at 37 degC under aerobic conditions. The total bacterial contamination
           of hands in terms of the number of colony forming units (cfu) will be recorded after 48
           hours of incubation. Bacteria present in the samples will also be qualitatively
           identified and reported. The microbiologist examining the culture plates and reporting
           the microbiological results will be blinded to the hand hygiene method used.

       20. Each staff will only be approached once. The time taken for each sample collection will
           be less than a minute. The study team will ensure that the study will not interfere with
           routine patient care activities.

       21. Strict confidentiality of participants will be maintained. All data collected, including
           microbiological results, will be identified only by the study number and cannot be
           traced to the participating staff.
    
  