
    
      Disparities exist in early identification of developmental disabilities, particularly for
      families from low-income and/or racial ethnic minority backgrounds. As WIC has frequent
      contact with children and families in the first five years of life, it is optimally
      positioned to play a unique role in early identification of developmental disabilities.
      However, WIC staff are not formally trained in child development outside of program's primary
      focus on nutrition and supporting the feeding relationship nor is formal screening for
      potential developmental delays an allowable WIC expense. In our prior research Oregon WIC
      staff reported being frequently asked by parents about potential concerns yet they also
      reported not being well connected to pediatric primary care, Part C Early Intervention (EI),
      or other resources who could further assess these concerns. In this study the investigators
      propose to design and pilot test a 2-part intervention to enhance the link between WIC and
      early childhood resources. The 2-part intervention includes: (1) WIC staff training delivered
      at the Local Agency which will: build staff confidence in discussing developmental concerns
      with families, familiarize staff with the CDC Learn the Signs Act Early (LTSAE) material
      which may be used to support those conversations, provide easy tips for encouraging early
      language and literacy development with parents, and study procedures (2) the creation of a
      standardized, direct, closed-loop referral process from WIC to EI for families with an
      identified concern who agree to the referral. EI will notify the child's primary care
      provider of the referral as per usual EI protocol. A referral form has been approved by the
      Oregon Department of Education (ODE) to support the direct referral from WIC to EI, meeting
      all ODE FERPA requirements. In addition, a data use agreement has been approved by ODE to
      allow the study team to access data on referred children to determine if they completed
      further assessment and the given diagnosis (if any). While our primary quantitative outcomes
      of interest are the number of children with a potential developmental concern who are
      referred directly from WIC to EI, the timing of follow-up assessment by EI from that
      referral, services plan & start of services; the project really centers on improving
      processes between organizations who are key stakeholders in referral, assessment, and
      treatment. Therefore, secondary outcomes include feasibility and acceptability of the
      intervention amongst WIC staff, EI staff and primary care providers Upon completion of the
      study the investigators hope to apply our findings to scale up the WIC staff training and
      closed-loop referral process to take it Statewide. If successful the investigators will
      disseminate findings through the National WIC Association to encourage other State and Tribal
      WIC Authorities to adopt our procedures as best practices.
    
  