
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial primarily designed to compare an alternative method for
      Bichectomy using hydrodissection. All procedures were performed by the same surgeon using the
      same technique, the only difference was the infiltration methods.

        1. Two groups were assigned:

             -  Group A - Bichectomy with hydrodissection = infiltration of 15ml per side of a
                special solution (250ml of saline 0.9% + 1mg of epinephrine + 20ml of 2% Lidocaine,
                equivalent to 0.0555mg of epinephrine and 22.2mg of Lidocaine per side), prior to
                the incision with the following distribution: 1ml in the form of a wheal in the
                oral mucosa with a 22G needle 1cm behind the Stenon canal opening that corresponds
                to the incision site and 14 ml on the virtual space where the buccal fat pad is
                located, which is immediately identified after penetrating the fascia of the
                buccinator muscle where you can feel a difference in resistance.

             -  Group B - Bichectomy without hydrodissection = infiltration with 3ml per side of 2%
                Lidocaine with 1: 200,000 epinephrine ( equivalent to 0.015mg of epinephrine and
                60mg of Lidocaine per side) at the operative site.

        2. Inclusion criteria : Adult patients older than 18 years old with a round face and
           prominent cheeks undergoing bichectomy to improve aesthetic facial contour during the
           period April 2016 and October 2017.

        3. Exclusion criteria : Patients with previous facial procedures, malar hypoplasia,
           obesity, metabolic diseases, coagulopathies or neuropathy diagnosis confirmed by a
           neurologist.

        4. Patient Sample : Total of 54 patients were included.

        5. Surgical technique: patient lay down at 30ยบ angle, a 0.5cm incision of the mucosa with a
           15 blade in a horizontal fashion placed 1cm posterior to stenon canal opening, then a
           Kelly clamp is introduce pushing towards the ear lobe until a resistance is passed which
           corresponds to the buccinator fascia, the Kelly clamp is opened following the
           buccinators muscle fibers direction and the fat pad is immediately identified,
           extracted, and leaving the wound open for closure by second intension.

        6. Variables analyzed:

           6.1) Transoperative pain - Patients were provided with a validated visual analogue scale
           (VAS) for pain and asked to rate their pain in a range of 0-10

           6.2) Postoperative pain at 2 hours - Patients were provided with a validated visual
           analogue scale (VAS) for pain and asked to rate their pain in a range of 0-10.

           6.3) Maximum pain in first 72 hours postoperative - Patients were provided with a
           validated visual analogue scale (VAS) for pain and asked to rate their pain in a range
           of 0-10.

           6.4) Procedure time - surgical time was quantified with a digital chronometer (IPhone
           5s) managed by an independent operator, from the initial incision to the time of
           extraction for both fat pads.

           6.5) Bleeding - was recorded by measuring total number of soaked gauze with each piece
           of gauze holding 5cc of blood.

           6.6) Complications - complications were collected prospectively, defined as being within
           the first 90 postoperative days.

        7. Postoperative care was standardized and patients were followed up for at least 6 months.
    
  