
    
      The investigators aim to explore if systematic follow-up of newer generation serum
      antiepileptic drugs levels can provide a tangible benefit in the care of people with
      epilepsy. "Systematic therapeutic drug monitoring" performed at each clinic consultation and
      automatically transmitted to the clinician will be compared with clinically required
      therapeutic drug monitoring ("rescue therapeutic drug monitoring", transmitted only in case
      of predefined inefficacy or tolerance problems, as defined in the combine endpoint below), to
      assess if systematic therapeutic drug monitoring can prevent a proportion of treatment
      failure or adverse events. In the "rescue therapeutic drug monitoring" arm, communication of
      levels results will only be provided if a study endpoint (treatment failure or side effect as
      discussed below) is reached. This design has been previously successfully used by our group
      in an oncological setting. A combined endpoint will be used accounting for both efficacy and
      adverse events; occurrence of any of those events will be considered as an endpoint: 2
      seizures with impaired consciousness, status epilepticus (defined as any seizure lasting >5
      minutes), need of an add-on antiepileptic drugs, need to discontinue the study drug (lack of
      efficacy or adverse reactions) or hospital admission.

      You will be included if you have epilepsy followed in our epilepsy outpatient clinic, on
      newer generation antiepileptic drugs, and requiring treatment adjustment because of
      inefficacy or tolerance problem. Pregnant women in whom therapeutic drug monitoring is
      recommended will be excluded. Outcome will be measured by the occurrence of a composite
      endpoint including inefficacy or treatment and emergent adverse events.

      The study power would certainly have been maximal for a trial comparing therapeutic drug
      monitoring-based dosage individualization to a complete abstention from TDM. However,
      according to our experience, the mere existence of analytical services makes it difficult to
      deny access to certain patients on the argument that they belong to a control group, raising
      ethical concerns in case of perceived need for measurement in potentially worrying clinical
      conditions. Therefore, this study adopts a pragmatic approach, aiming to compare a routine a
      priori adjustment of newer generation antiepileptic drugs dosage based on therapeutic drug
      monitoring with a selective a posteriori offer for therapeutic drug monitoring services in
      case of clinical problems (such as insufficient response, or suspicion of medication
      toxicity). It is conceivable that such a design could lower the risk of bias favouring
      therapeutic drug monitoring, as prescribers willing to obtain measurement results in patients
      from the control group may be subtly incited to notify more easily the occurrence of clinical
      problems in this group. The endpoint will be however well defined to minimise this potential
      bias.
    
  