
    
      The study that BMH and SFU will coordinate together consists of the following steps:

        1. A screening and eligibility survey (3 min) that determines a participant's risk for type
           2 diabetes.

        2. Participants receive an email informing them of their relative risk (above average or
           below average).

             1. Above average risk: Participants are invited to participate in the study. Of the
                interested participants 100 will be randomly assigned to the Transform group or the
                Control group (n = 50 in each group). They have the option of deferring study
                enrollment until after an onsite information session.

             2. Below average risk: Participants are informed that they do not qualify to
                participate in Transform but they are welcome to participate in the Control group.
                There are 50 spots for below risk participants in the Control Group (total in
                control group = 100).

        3. The information session will take place for eligible participants assigned to the
           Transform group. Attending this session is voluntary.

        4. Both groups (Transform and Control) complete Monitor Survey 1 including questions on
           health behaviours, workaholism and work outcomes.

        5. The Transform intervention delivers weekly learning sessions and health coaching via the
           Transform mobile app to initiate and sustain changes to health behaviors. Participants
           receive a wireless scale at the start of Transform, and a wearable activity tracker
           (Fitbit) after 4 weeks provided that they meet the minimum engagement criteria . Both
           devices synchronize with the Transform app to transmit and automatically track activity
           and weight data. The program runs for six months; 4 months of core programing and 2
           months of maintenance programing.

        6. At month 3, the Transform group and Control group are invited to complete Monitor Survey
           2 (15-minutes) to report their health, well-being and work outcomes. This survey is
           meant to capture Transform's short-term effectiveness.

        7. At month 6, when the Transform maintenance program ends, Monitor Survey 3 is sent to the
           Transform and Control group participants to capture Transform's longer-term
           effectiveness on participants' health, well-being and work outcomes.
    
  