
    
      Groups of adolescents from the Danish National Birth Cohort (DNBC) will be offered to
      participate in the health educational programs. At 14 years and 14 years plus 3 months all
      children DNBC are invited to report comprehensively on their dietary and physical activity
      habits by means of a web-based questionnaire (FFQ). Eligible DNBC adolescents for the
      SMS-educational program will be invited among those who have completed the FFQ. Thus, once
      they have completed the DNBC FFQ, they may be invited to participate in the SMS-based
      educational programs, either addressing only one of the three target factors: sugar sweetened
      beverages, fruit & vegetables, or fish (SSB, F&V, or Fish) or addressing all three factors
      (cluster). The adolescents may also potentially be invited to include a friend, their mother
      or both.

      Trial Organization:

        -  Sjurdur F Olsen, MD PhD, Lead Principal Investigator (Responsible Party), SSI

        -  Eric Ding, ScD, Co-PI, Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health

        -  Daniel Zoughbie, Co-PI, Epidemic Health Inc

      Design for Inviting Adolescents to Educational Program: The study will be conducted
      corresponding to a '2x2x2 factorial plus 1' design, with 9 arms. In addition to allowing
      testing of the effect of participating in an SMS based educational program as compared to not
      participating in such program, this will allow for additional testing of effect of
      implicating a friend v. not implicating friend; of implicating the mother v. not implicating
      the mother; and of delivering tailored messaging targeting only one of the three dietary
      factors (SSB, F&V, or Fish) v. delivering uniform messaging targeting all three factors.

      In the tailored program, the participants will receive messages distributed over 4 weeks,
      whereas in the FULL program (addressing all three clusters) messages are distributed over 12
      weeks. Messages can be divided into five categories: Information, quizzes, tips, challenges,
      and reminders.

      Hypotheses to tested:

        1. Overall effect. Hypothesis 1: SMS messaging will improve dietary habits 1a) tailored 1b)
           non- tailored

        2. Effect of including a friend. Hypothesis 2: Including a friend will increase above
           effects 2a) tailored 2b) non- tailored

        3. Effect of including the mother. Hypothesis 3: Including the mother will increase above
           effects 3a) tailored 3b) non- tailored

        4. Effect of tailored program v. a cluster of factors. Hypothesis 4: A tailored program
           will be more efficient than a full program in changing specific outcome.

      For testing this hypothesis, which addresses one of the three specific, tailored programs
      (underlined below), eligible adolescents will be stratified into four strata depending on
      their FFQ response:

      Stratum 1: Nearly all participants have a low intake of fish; whereas there will be no
      problem with sugar sweetened beverages and no problem with fruit and vegetables. Tailored
      program AND outcome measure to be tested: FISH / fish intake.

      Stratum 2: All participants have problems with fruit and vegetables, and no problems with
      sugar sweetened beverages, but (NB!), like in stratum 1, nearly all have a problem with fish.
      Tailored program AND outcome measure to be tested: F&V / intake fruit and vegetable.

      Stratum 3: All participants have problems with sugar sweetened beverages; whereas nearly all
      will have NO problem with fruit and vegetables. Nearly all have a problem with Fish
      (986/1195). Tailored program AND outcome measure to be tested: SSB / intake of sugar
      sweetened beverages.

      Stratum 4: All participants have a problem with sugar sweetened beverages, fruit and
      vegetables and fish. Tailored program AND outcome measure to be tested: FISH / fish intake.

      Strata 1 & 4 can be aggregated and, when effect on fish intake is tested, a test for
      interaction by intake of sugar sweetened beverages or by intake of fruit and vegetables can
      be made.
    
  