
    
      Background / Rationale: Osteoarthritis (OA) is the one of the most common chronic conditions
      among veterans, and over half of VA health care users with OA report being limited in their
      daily activities because of joint symptoms. However, studies have not examined interventions
      to improve outcomes or quality of care among the large and growing number of veterans with
      OA. Telephone-based self-management interventions may be a cost-effective way to improve
      pain, physical function, and other outcomes in this patient population. Objective: The
      purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of a one-year telephone-based
      self-management intervention for veterans with hip or knee OA. The primary hypothesis is that
      the self-management intervention will result in a greater reduction in pain as compared to
      both usual care and attention control conditions. Methods: This will be a randomized control
      trial of 519 veterans at the Durham VAMC who have radiographic evidence and a physician
      diagnosis of OA of the hip or knee. Participants will be equally allocated to
      self-management, attention control, and usual care groups. The self-management intervention
      is designed to provide participants with key information about OA and its treatment and to
      enhance participants' self-efficacy for managing OA-related symptoms. This intervention will
      involve provision of written, audio, and video educational materials, as well as monthly
      telephone calls by a nurse. The nurse will guide participants in developing personal
      OA-related goals, as well as specific plans for meeting these goals. Other strategies for
      enhancing self-efficacy will include modeling and mastery of self-management behaviors,
      persuasion to adopt these behaviors, and reinterpretation of OA symptoms. The attention
      control group will receive written materials on health screening related topics (not
      OA-related), and the nurse will call participants on a monthly basis to discuss these
      materials. The primary outcome measure for this study will be self-reported pain (Arthritis
      Impact Measurement-2 (AIMS2) subscale), and secondary outcomes will be self-reported function
      (AIMS2 subscale), affect (AIMS2 subscale), and arthritis specific self-efficacy. Outcomes
      will be measured at baseline and following the one-year study period. Analysis of covariance
      will be used to compare primary and secondary outcomes between the intervention group and
      each of the control groups, adjusting for baseline measures, participant demographic and
      clinical characteristics. We will also examine the cost-effectiveness of the intervention.
      Impact: This study is significant because it examines a highly prevalent but understudied
      chronic illness among veterans. In addition, this OA self-management program will contribute
      to the VA health care system's specific mission to improve pain management through patient
      education and participation. The proposed self-management intervention will be low-cost and
      easy to disseminate within the VA health care system. Therefore it may be an important tool
      for improving outcomes, especially pain, among many veterans with OA.
    
  