
    
      Patients with diagnosed LD-SCLC, after radical treatment with remission or at least a good
      response after radical therapy, will be eligible for the study. Patients would have had
      radical radiotherapy to the chest with chemotherapy according to current international
      guidelines and institutional protocols. A detailed medical history will be collected
      regarding SCLC and comorbidities. During the qualification visit, the remission or good
      response should be confirmed based on chest/abdomen/pelvis CT examinations. After obtaining
      the patient's informed consent to participate in the clinical trial, a brain MRI (MRI-1) will
      be performed and a baseline assessment of cognitive functions will be carried out using the
      battery of test listed below.

      Patients who at MRI-1 will be diagnosed with cerebral metastasis, depending on the size and
      number of lesions will be eligible for WBRT (whole brain irradiation) or SRT (brain
      stereotactic radiotherapy). We propose SRT eligibility treatment criteria as in NSCLC
      according to the standards of the participating centers. All participating radiotherapy
      centers must have experience in SRT of brain metastases and up to date radiotherapy equipment
      suitable for SRT. Subjects who will not have cerebral metastases in the MRI-1 after
      chemo-radiotherapy will have their next follow-up every 3 months (+/- 2 weeks) up to 2 years,
      and then every 6 months (+/- 2 weeks) up to 3 years.

      At the qualifying visit before MRI-1, and then every 6 months +/- 2 weeks), the patients will
      have a cognitive examination performed using dedicated neuropsychological tests and QoL
      assessment using the QLQ-C30 questionnaire. The tests will be conducted in the following
      order: California verbal learning test (CVLT) with a delay of 15 min, Color connection test
      (CTT), CVLT (after delay), Benton visual memory test (BNRT), Verbal fluency test by the
      certified psychologist.
    
  