
    
      Dual antiplatelet therapy consisting in aspirin and clopidogrel is the cornerstone of the
      treatment of the prevention of the thrombotic events in patients with coronary artery disease
      (CAD), showing a reduction in adverse events . However, there is a considerable number of
      patients who continue to have recurrent ischemic events despite this regimen . In fact, in
      the last years several clinical factors have been associated with impaired
      clopidogrel-induced effects. Moreover, these clinical factors are strongly related with the
      presence of high on-treatment platelet reactivity (HPR), which is also associated with the
      occurrence of adverse thrombotic events, including stent thrombosis, despite correct
      treatment compliance. Diabetes mellitus, acute coronary syndromes, obesity or chronic kidney
      disease (CKD) are common examples . This observation encourages the search for new more
      potent antiplatelet therapies. A new P2Y12 receptor antagonist, ticagrelor, has been approved
      for clinical use . Ticagrelor is a new non-thienopyridine, a cyclopentyltriazolo-pyrimidine
      (CPTP), direct acting reversible P2Y12 antagonist. This compound has a more favorable
      pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) profile than clopidogrel , which has
      translated into better clinical outcomes in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in a
      recent large, international clinical trial . Interestingly, ticagrelor has showed an
      impressive clinical benefit in patients with CKD in comparison with those patients without
      renal impairment .

      CKD is highly associated with an increased risk of atherothrombotic events, including stent
      thrombosis, in patients with CAD . PD studies have shown that patients with impaired renal
      function are characterized by reduced clopidogrel-induced antiplatelet effects and higher
      rates of HPR compared with patients with preserved renal function.
    
  