
    
      Excessive pregnancy-related weight retention is an important determinant of obesity and is
      more common among African American women. At the same time, breastfeeding, which has been
      recommended as a strategy to decrease weight retention is lowest among African American
      women. This racial disparity in breastfeeding may partly explain the disparity in obesity,
      but even if the two are not causally related, a dual intervention designed to increase
      breastfeeding duration and decrease postpartum weight retention makes practical sense because
      both are associated with the same critical postpartum time window.

      For this study, the investigators will incorporate a postpartum weight management component
      into an effective breastfeeding support program. This dual intervention will use a
      combination of in-person, telephone, and interactive web/mobile-based health counseling to
      provide education and support for breastfeeding difficulties and postpartum weight
      management. The intervention will be delivered by peer counselors who will be trained to
      provide support using motivational interviewing techniques with consultation by experts. The
      investigators have designed the dual intervention to provide encouragement, information, and
      problem-solving assistance at the appropriate pre or postpartum stage for both breastfeeding
      support and maternal weight management. The mixed delivery mode has proven effective in other
      settings and is important to build a trusting relationship while allowing frequent and
      flexible methods for communicating during this vulnerable time in a new mom's life. The
      overall goal of this developmental/exploratory R21 proposal is to gather pilot data to
      effectively refine the intervention so that it can be tested in a larger, longer study using
      a factorial design in a future R01 phase. The investigators will recruit, in one large
      inner-city prenatal care clinic (Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI), pregnant African
      American women (32-36 weeks gestation) who are considering breastfeeding (n=80), randomize
      them to the intervention or to a usual care group, and follow all participants to 20 weeks
      postpartum. The specific aims are to: 1) test feasibility; 2) assess acceptability; and 3)
      estimate the effect size of the intervention at 20 weeks postpartum relative to the usual
      care group on (1) breastfeeding duration and (2) postpartum weight retention. This project is
      significant because the combined intervention is designed to work synergistically on two
      interrelated, highly prevalent problems that disproportionately disadvantage African American
      families.
    
  