
    
      Colorectal disease as a common human disease seriously affects the health of human life. With
      the aging of the population, the change of diet structure and the aggravation of
      environmental pollution, the incidence of colorectal diseases, such as colon cancer, Colon
      Polyp and inflammatory bowel disease, has gradually increased.

      Colonoscopy is the simplest and most widely available screening procedure for colorectal
      cancer(CRC) prevention and early detection. Colonoscopy can clearly observe the small changes
      in the terminal ileum and the colorectal, such as erosion, ulcers, bleeding, congestion,
      edema, polyps, early cancer, and so on. Colonoscopy can biopsy the lesion site for
      pathological examination, to histologically qualitative the characterization of mucosal
      lesions, such as inflammation, polyp nature, the degree of differentiation of cancer, and so
      on. It is helpful to understand the severity of the lesion and guide the formulation of the
      correct treatment plan or judgment of treatment effect. Colonoscopy can also be the minimally
      invasive endoscopic treatment of colorectal polyps, early cancer, bleeding, foreign bodies
      and other diseases.

      Because the quality of bowel preparation affects the colonoscopy's ability to detect adenomas
      and polyps, adequate bowel preparation is necessary to ensure optimal use of colonoscopy in
      CRC prevention. Almost all clinical guidelines recommend adequate bowel preparation before
      colonoscopy. However, up to one third of colonoscopies have been found to show inadequate
      bowel preparation, which is estimated to increase the cost of colonoscopies by 12% to 22%.
      And there are 20% of patients' bowel is not adequately prepared. When the patient's bowel
      preparation is inadequate, the difficulty of flushing may lead to missed detection of
      adenomas. so doctors need to accurately identify such patients and tell them to have a second
      colonoscopy after a full bowel cleanse. However, the evaluation of intestinal cleanliness is
      decided by doctors subjectively, and there is no objective and effective scoring standard to
      guide the patients to accept the second colonoscopy.

      Deep learning is an important breakthrough in the field of artificial intelligence in the
      past decade. It has great potential in extracting tiny features in image analysis and image
      classification. In 2017, the journal Nature published a paper showing that using artificial
      intelligence to diagnose skin diseases can reach the level of experts. Subsequently, in the
      field of digestive endoscopy, more and more studies began to apply artificial intelligence to
      assist doctors to find polyps and improve the detection rate of polyps and adenomas.Urban, G.
      team used artificial intelligence to identify polyps with 95% sensitivity. Misawa, M team
      used artificial intelligence to identify polyps with 90% sensitivity. The purpose of our
      research group is to develop the EndoAngel with real-time intestinal cleanliness assessment.
      It can derive a decision curve for bowel cleanliness based on the relationship between the
      percentage of bowel segments with a Boston score of 0-1 and the detection rate of adenomas.
      It can help endoscopists to identify patients who need a second colonoscopy, to avoid the
      missed adenomas and the high cost of cleaning time caused by the wrong decision-making. At
      the same time, artificial intelligence is in the preliminary research stage in the field of
      digestive endoscopy, our research results are expected to provide new ideas in improving the
      detection rate of colonoscopic adenomas.

      The study Process is: Subjects who met all inclusion criteria and did not meet all exclusion
      criteria were included in the study before colonoscopy. During the colonoscopy, the
      endoscopists need to remain in the same without withdrawal while flushing the bowel. The
      biopsied patients are followed up for one week. the non-biopsied patients are followed up at
      the end of their colonoscopy , and the results are sent to an independent data analysis team
      for review. We will collect the patients' video and exclude the clips of irrigation, biopsy,
      and observation of polyp. Then the EndoAngel evaluates the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale of
      the ascending colon, transverse colon and descending colon, and calculates the proportion of
      1 Score.
    
  