
    
      Five million Americans require admission to intensive care units (ICU) annually due to life
      threatening illnesses, and this number is expected to rise.4 Two million of these ICU
      admissions are secondary to Acute Respiratory Failure (ARF) with more than half requiring
      mechanical ventilation. Greater than 50% of the patients with ARF who survive their ICU stay
      suffer from long-term morbidity in the form of functional disability, cognitive disability,
      major or minor depression, and anxiety. These complications negatively impact the quality of
      life (QOL) of ARF survivors, interfere with their physical and emotional recovery, and lead
      to long-term disability with less than half of ARF survivors returning to the work force.
      Ongoing care for ARF survivors has been estimated to cost $3.5 million per ARF survivor at 1
      year. This constellation of ICU sequelae with attendant morbidity has been designated as the
      post-intensive care syndrome (PICS). There are community resources and rehabilitation
      services available to ARF survivors, but the current fragmented nature of our healthcare
      system is unable to integrate and coordinate care in order to provide the most meaningful
      recovery.

      The Institute of Medicine recommends the development of care coordination programs to deliver
      patient-centered and interdisciplinary-based medical care. Indiana University Center for
      Aging Research (IUCAR) has over 20 years of experience in delivering interdisciplinary,
      collaborative care through pragmatic interventions utilizing care coordinators. Care
      coordinator delivery models have improved care of patients with dementia, depression,
      functional decline and PICS. Our PICS clinic, the Critical Care Recovery Center (CCRC) was
      developed in 2011 to enhance cognitive, physical, and psychological recovery of ICU
      survivors.

      Since then, CCRC has provided care to over 200 survivors with a high burden of PICS (88% had
      cognitive impairment; 60% had depression). CCRC showed feasibility and initial efficacy in
      managing PICS. However given its traditional outpatient clinic structure, CCRC has limited
      physical access to ARF survivors, leading to delayed evaluation and an added travel burden on
      ARF survivors. Building from the experience of the CCRC and our other successful care
      coordinator based programs; we now propose a mobile model of post-ICU collaborative care with
      greater access to enhance the recovery of ARF survivors.

      The overarching aim of the proposed program is to improve the QOL of patients who survived an
      episode of ARF by maximizing their cognitive, physical, and psychological recovery utilizing
      a mobile care coordinator. The care coordinator will bring the intervention to the patient
      irrespective of the patient's physical location and will be supported by an interdisciplinary
      team of a critical care physician, a health services scientist, an ICU nurse, and a
      psychologist, with input from other consultants as needed. In addition, dynamic feedback
      through process measurement tools and care coordination support software will inform the
      recovery process. We propose to evaluate the efficacy of our collaborative care intervention
      termed the "Mobile Critical Care Recovery Program (m-CCRP)" through a randomized clinical
      trial among survivors of ARF.
    
  