
    
      Patients on dialysis are at risk for several infectious diseases, since they have reduced
      immunological and have to regularly attend dialysis centres from once to thrice a week
      depending on their residual renal function even if a pandemic is going on.

      Dialysis patients and healthcare professionals of dialysis centres can become infected one
      with the other.

      The incident risk of COVID-19 in dialysis centres is still unknown. Given the challenges of
      an early diagnosis of COVID-19, the likely transmission with outbreaks, the possibility of
      reciprocal transmission of the infection among patients and healthcare professionals, the
      frequent clinical severity of COVID-19 in dialysis patients because of the coexistence of
      several comorbidities, CONTACT TRACING could be an effective and efficient tool to contrast
      COVID-19 spreading in dialysis centres. This modality keeps trace of the contacts the new
      COVID-19 case have had and allow the identification of other possible cases in that outbreak

      Contact tracing is the key tool to detect and trace COVID-19 cases among patients and health
      care professionals, i.e. the space-time mapping of the contacts among these two categories:

        1. Daily for healthcare professionals

        2. At every dialysis session for haemodialysis patients

        3. At every hospital visit for patients on peritoneal dialysis

      Maximum follow will be up to 12 months excepting in those patients who develop a
      COVID-19-related clinically significant event:

        1. Diagnosis of symptomatic COVID-19 with or without hospitalisation

        2. Respiratory insufficiency with the need of CPAP or mechanical ventilation

        3. Death associated or related to COVID-19

      In the participating centres, the enrolment of patients and healthcare professionals will be
      prospective, progressive and competitive till the number of cases of COVD-19 will reach 200
      subjects. If study participation will be 10% and COVID-19 will be taken by 4% of the patients
      with no prior exposure to COVID-19, we can estimate to enrol 5000 subjects (dialysis patients
      and healthcare professionals) over a period of 12 months in 50-150 centres. The length of the
      enrolment period of 6-12 months will depend also on future evolution of the pandemic in the
      Italian regions that have not been massively hit by the infection.

      Study data will be stored on a web-database, which will be created on purpose. Privacy
      protection of patients and health care professionals will be pursued and granted by anonymous
      data collection.

      Given the longitudinal and prospective design of the study, Kaplan-Meier curves will be used
      to describe the incidence of COVID-19 infection and the survival of dialysis patients and
      their healthcare professionals.

      Cox multivariate analysis will be used to:

        1. Estimate the incidence, morbidity and mortality of COVID-19 in the two categories

        2. Estimate predictors and/or confounders associated with the incidence of the three study
           outcomes (infection, morbidity and mortality)
    
  