
    
      Paralytic ileus, a temporary inhibition of bowel motility, is believed to follow all
      abdominal surgery. Surgeons have customarily withheld postoperative oral intake until the
      return of bowel function as evidenced by a presence of bowel sound, a passing of
      flatus/stool, and a feeling of being hungry. The major concern has been that early oral
      intake would result in vomiting from severe paralytic ileus with subsequent aspiration
      pneumonia, wound dehiscence, and anastomotic leakage. Recently, the practice of delayed
      postoperative oral intake has been challenged by evidence from extensive gastrointestinal
      physiologic studies that examine contractile activity of the intestine. These data have
      suggested that the concept of postoperative ileus as paralysis of the entire bowel with
      complete absence of any functional contractile activity is misleading. If postoperative ileus
      takes place, it is usually transient and not significant clinically. Several possible
      clinical benefits of early feeding after surgery exist that include better wound healing,
      postoperative stress ulcer prevention, reduced sepsis, improved sense of well being, shorter
      length of hospital stay, and cost saving. Currently, the practice of early administration of
      liquid diet after surgery has become widely accepted. For early regular diet administration,
      the proposed additional benefits would be lesser risk of aspiration, faster recovery of
      intestinal motility, and better nutritional status. Patients who had surgery as a treatment
      for gynecologic cancer deserve special attention in this regard as they generally have higher
      risk of developing postoperative ileus due to extensive and/or multiple intraabdominal
      surgical procedures including radical hysterectomy, pelvic lymph node dissection, and
      surgical staging procedures. At the same time, this is the group of patients that would
      benefit most from the aforementioned positive effects of early regular diet feeding.

      Comparisons: Regular versus liquid diet as the first postoperative meal on the first day
      after surgery for clinically early-stage gynecologic cancer.
    
  