
    
      Study purpose: This investigator iniiated pilot study is designed to investigate the efficacy
      and safety of SD-OCT-guided intravitreal ranibizumab treatment in choroidal
      neovascularization (CNV) due to myopia. Newly diagnosed and active CNVs due to myopia are
      treated with one intravitreal injection of Ranibizumab 0.5mg (Lucentis) at baseline. During
      the follow up period of 12 months monthly ophthalmological examinations including best
      corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and high resolution spectral-domain optical coherence
      tomography (SD-OCT) assessments are performed. Detection of persisting or new signs of CNV
      activity at OCT triggers ranibizumab re-treatment considering that any ranibizumab injections
      can maximally be applied as often as monthly.

      Objectives: To investigate the efficacy and safety of SD-OCT-guided intravitreal ranibizumab
      treatment in choroidal neovascularization (CNV) due to myopia.

      The primary objective is to demonstrate that a SD-OCT-guided intravitreal ranibizumab
      treatment in CNV due to myopia may prevent vision loss as evaluated as change in BCVA from
      baseline.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  To evaluate the changes in BCVA at 6 and 12 months compared to baseline.

        -  To evaluate the number of treatments needed at 6 and 12 months and the time course of
           re-treatments.

        -  To evaluate the time course of re-activation of CNV as evaluated by High Resolution OCT.

        -  To evaluate the incidence of fluorescein leakage as well as the mean and percent change
           in total area of CNV, total area of leakage from CNV, and total lesion area at 6 and 12
           months.

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of up to monthly dosing of ranibizumab in CNV
           due to myopia by determining the rates of adverse events and serious adverse events at
           month 6 and 12.

      Population: This outpatient study population will consist of a representative group of male
      and female patients ≥ 18 years of age. The study population will include patients with newly
      diagnosed and active choroidal neovascularization (CNV) due to myopia. 20 Patients will be
      enrolled in one study center (Vista Klinik, Binningen).

      Investigational and reference therapy:

      This study will include the following study drug:

      • Ranibizumab (Lucentis®) 0.5 mg for intravitreal injection.

      Study design: This is a prospective, 1-arm, monocenter, investigator initiated study designed
      to evaluate the efficacy and safety of SD-OCT-guided intravitreal ranibizumab treatment in
      choroidal neovascularization (CNV) due to myopia. Newly diagnosed and active CNVs due to
      myopia are treated with one intravitreal injection of ranibizumab 0.5mg at baseline. During
      the follow up period of 12 months monthly ophthalmological examinations including best
      corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and high resolution spectral domain optical coherence
      tomography (SD-OCT) assessments are performed. Detection of persisting or new signs of CNV
      activity at OCT, as defined by intraretinal cysts or subretinal fluid, triggers ranibizumab
      re-treatment considering that any ranibizumab injections can maximally be applied as often as
      monthly.

      For this study, a month is defined as 28 days. During the 12-month study period, a maximum of
      12 ranibizumab injections may be administered.
    
  