
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) characterized by a fast and anarchic electrical activation of the
      atria, results in uncoordinated and inefficient atrial contractions that increases the risks
      of heart failure and strokes. Besides being a major source of morbidity and mortality, AF is
      one of the most common heart condition and its prevalence increases with age. Radiofrequency
      catheter ablation of AF has become one of the treatment of choice in AF resistant to
      conventional antiarrhythmic drugs. For paroxysmal AF, the ablation strategy is clear and
      consists in complete pulmonary veins isolation (PVI). However, if this strategy works well in
      paroxysmal AF, the recurrences rate remains high in persistent AF. Beyond PVI, the ablation
      strategy that has prevailed over the past two decades remains controversial: the left atrium
      partition using linear lesions ("cox-maze" strategy); the mapping of the left atrium in AF to
      identify and localize the arrhythmia sources. Both methods have, besides favoring atrial
      flutters, failed to demonstrated superiority compared to PVI alone (as showed by the clinical
      trial STAR AF 2). The investigators aims to test a new method of ablation for patients
      suffering from persistent AF in order to decrease post ablation recurrence. They propose a
      strategy targeting the native structures facilitating reentries including the ligament of
      Marshall (LOM), an embryological remnant. Indeed, two studies have demonstrated that LOM
      could be the source of focal activities, the substrate of reentries and a strong
      parasympathetic modulator. For these reasons, LOM may represent a major target in AF
      treatment besides PV isolation. To date, ablation techniques do not ensure the complete
      destruction of the Marshall's musculature and parasympathetic ganglia that surround it,
      largely isolated by a sheath of adipose tissue. To overcome this technical limitation, LOM
      elimination can be achieved by alcohol injection into the vein of Marshall. This innovative
      approach will then consist in 3 consecutive steps: 1) the destruction of Marshall bundles by
      ethanol infusion followed by the ablation of the distal and proximal muscular ramification
      (coronary sinus and ridge); 2) the standard PV isolation; 3) the linear lesions: the mitral,
      the roof and of the cavo-tricuspid isthmus, main causes of recurrence in atrial flutter.
    
  