
    
      Patients

      Eligible patients should have the following characteristics: age >16 years; diagnosis of
      high-grade osteosarcoma confirmed histologically and reviewed centrally; prior treatment
      (completed >4 weeks before trial entry) consisted of standard high-grade osteosarcoma
      chemotherapy agents including doxorubicin, cisplatin, high-dose methotrexate, and ifosfamide;
      metastatic relapsed and unresectable progressive disease (PD); Eastern Cooperative Oncology
      Group performance status 0-1 with a life expectancy >3 months; adequate renal, hepatic, and
      hemopoietic function. Additionally, the investigators require normal or controlled blood
      pressure, as well as surgery and/or radiotherapy completion at least 1 month before
      enrollment. All enrolled patients showed radiological evidence of disease progression and the
      lesion could be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 before treatment start.

      Treatment

      Patients are planned to be treated with a dose of apatinib 500 mg(BSA ≤1.5) or 750mg(BSA>1.5)
      once daily. The dose was reduced or temporarily suspended according to predefined rules and
      after considering any observed toxicity, which was assessed according to the Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0. Following adverse event resolution,
      apatinib can be restarted at the maximally tolerated dose and continued until progression,
      unacceptable toxicity or patient refusal. The study was approved by participating hospital
      review boards, and conducted according to the Declaration of Helsinki and the International
      Conference on Harmonization of Good Clinical Practice guidelines. Each patient provided
      written informed consent.

      Efficacy Assessment

      Before starting treatment, patients should be staged with chest and abdomen computed
      tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (whenever indicated by the clinical
      situation). And all those patients should be tested by Immunohistochemistry of the VEGFR-2
      over-expression of the paraffin embedded samples of the lesion or mRNA testing VEGFR-2
      over-expression of the fresh specimen. Baseline assessment included also full blood count,
      serum chemistry, electrocardiogram and physical examination. In light of its potential role
      in osteosarcoma response assessment, [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose-positron emission
      tomography (FDG-PET) is suggested but not mandated for patient enrollment, and its impact on
      tumor response assessment was purely exploratory. All tests were repeated after 2 months and,
      thereafter, at 2-month intervals unless there were toxic effects or disease progression
      suspicion. Response was assessed by CT/MRI scan according to RECIST 1.1. Thus, both complete
      and partial remission needed confirmation within 4 weeks of when a response was first
      demonstrated. Stable disease (SD) was confirmed after a minimum of 8 weeks. The investigators
      thoroughly probe for and record any sign(s) of treatment-induced improvement, be it minor
      response (MR) as tumor shrinkage <30%, and/or nondimensional tumor responses including
      Hounsfield unit measured tissue density changes or osteoid matrix calcification.

      The primary end point progression-free survival (PFS) at 4 months is calculated from the date
      of treatment start until the time of disease progression or death, whichever came first.
      Patients alive and free from progression would be censored. Secondary end points included the
      following: PFS; OS; overall response rate, defined as complete responses (CRs) + partial
      responses (PRs) + MRs; disease control rate (overall response rate + SDs); patterns of
      nondimensional response; clinical benefit rate (CBR) (PFS rate at 4 months) and duration of
      response. Duration of response is calculated from the day of first response assessment until
      either progression/death (event) or last day of follow-up (censored). Last, the investigators
      evaluate any clinical improvement by means of the Pain Analgesic Score via the Brief Pain
      Inventory (BPI) score form that was filled in by patients themselves. Analgesic medication
      use was recorded according to the analgesic score: 0 = none; 1 = minor analgesics; 2 =
      tranquillizers, antidepressants, muscle relaxants and steroids; 3 = mild narcotics; 4 =
      strong narcotics.
    
  