
    
      The sound overexposure is a major cause of hearing disorders. The installation of hearing
      disorders can be temporary or permanent. Most of the time the investigators see a rise in
      hearing thresholds that can be accompanied by tinnitus. However, sometimes-hearing disorders
      aren't characterized by higher auditory threshold but by a complaint of understanding in
      noise. Two explanation are the either possible with a lesion at the peripheral level (sensory
      organ) or central lesion (auditory pathways). Peripheral damage is easily analysed by
      conventional tests such as the audiogram. Concerning the central lesions, through to the
      Electrocochleography, one sees a diminution of the wave I which corresponds to the nerve
      fiber injury. The wave I can more easily be analysed by the Electrocochleography method. This
      technique previously used an electrode deposited trans-tympanically in contact with the
      sensory organ. But, the evolution of a non-invasive technique is now available. However,
      several assemblies of the electrode are then possible without knowing the impact of these on
      the morphology of the wave I. Moreover, no normative values are also referenced in the
      literature on the population without hearing problems. It's in this context that clinical
      study is carried out in order to optimize the technique on the assembly of the electrode and
      the acoustic stimulation delivered. After this analyses and obtaining an optimal technique
      it's envisaged to study the morphology of the wave I in healthy volunteers aged 18-25 years.
      A pre-inclusion visit will verify the volunteers doesn't have a hearing disorders through a
      questionnaire, otoscopy, tympanometry and audiometry. Then two steps will be realized. The
      first is to evaluate the morphology of wave I according to assembly of electrode and acoustic
      stimulation delivered (machine calibration or calibration in the external auditory canal).
      The second step will provide normative values for people 18-25 years old who aren't
      hearing-impaired. Volunteers will have the choice to participate in one or both stages. The
      aim is to obtain wave I reference values for Electrocochleography technique. The secondary
      objectives are to analyse the impact of the assembly of the electrode and the adaptation of
      the acoustic stimulation presented.
    
  