
    
      Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH), especially poor-grade aSAH, is a medical emergency
      with very high morbidity and mortality rates. SAH constitutes a major public health concern
      in developed and developing countries. There were several clinical trials of hypothermia for
      aSAH conducted, however, with conflicting results.

      Hypothermia therapy treatment is currently used in our department and other large
      neurosurgical centers across China to decrease the intracranial pressure (ICP), mitigate some
      of the destructive processes, and improve the functional outcome of patients with poor-grade
      aSAH. When the decision was made, the patients would be placed in wrapped cooling blankets or
      intravascular cooling device after they were sedated, intubated and mechanically ventilated.
      The patients would receive continuous infusions of some drugs using an infusion pump to
      prevent shivering. Once the patient's rectal, nasopharyngeal or blood temperature reached
      32˚C, it was kept at approximately that temperature (32-35˚C) 3 to 7 days. Then the patients
      were passively rewarmed to a temperature of 36 to 37˚C at a rate no greater than 0.25˚C/hour,
      by gradual adjustment of the blanket thermostat.

      The present multi-center, randomized controlled trials is designed to investigate the
      efficacy and safety of long-term (3 days) mild hypothermia versus normothermia on the outcome
      of patients with poor-grade aSAH. The primary outcome is the neurological function assessed
      at 1,3, 6 months post injury with the Glasgow Outcome Score (GOS). Additionally, the
      following data will also be recorded and compared: the baseline data, Glasgow Coma
      Score,imaging examination (e.g. CT scan), intracranial pressure, laboratory tests (e.g. blood
      routine test, liver and kidney function, blood gas analysis, etc), the complications (e.g.
      pneumonia, significant bleeding) and so on.
    
  