
    
      There is sound evidence that quetiapine is effective in the treatment of manic and depressive
      episodes associated with Bipolar Disorder (BD) (Yatham et al 2006). However, even with the
      development of effective new treatment options, not all patients respond to treatments
      available. Biological markers have been investigated as predictors of response to treatment
      and of remission of symptoms. This would explain in part the individual's differences in the
      response to treatment, taking into account the genetic variability plus environmental factors
      influencing specific biological markers. A potential biological marker of response to
      treatment in BD would be the levels of neurotrophins, as they are, in fact, altered during
      acute mood episodes (Cunha et al 2006). Among neurotrophins, the Brain-Derived Neurotrophic
      Factor (BDNF) has been repeatedly and consistently reported to be associated with BD
      physiopathology (Post 2007). Furthermore, medications that are known to be effective in BD,
      like lithium and divalproex, increase BDNF levels. Diverse sources of evidence provide
      support to the alteration of BDNF in mood disorders:

        -  Patients with major depressive disorder showed lower levels of BDNF and the treatment
           with antidepressants recovered those levels back to normal. (Gonul et al 2005).

        -  Studies with brain tissue (post-mortem) showed that BDNF levels were decreased only on
           those who were not on antidepressants. (Karege et al 2002).

        -  The polymorphism of BDNF gene was associated with response to treatment with lithium
           during maintenance phase. (Rybakowski et al. 2005).

        -  Our group showed that BDNF levels are decreased during mania and depression, but not
           during remission (Cunha et al 2006, Machado-Vieira et al. 2007). Therefore, BDNF appear
           to be involved in the mechanisms of acute mood episodes.

        -  Treatment with mood stabilizers, such as lithium and divalproex, increase BDNF levels
           (Frey et al. 2006).

      Prediction of drug treatment response based on variation in genetic make up is a rapidly
      growing area. However, few studies examined the association between single nucleotide
      polymorphisms and drug response in bipolar disorder. The design of this study offers a unique
      opportunity to examine genetic predictors of drug response. Interestingly, a single
      nucleotide polymorphism at nucleotide196 (G/A) in the human BDNF gene at codon 66 (Val66Met)
      have been reported to be associated with a predisposition to BD in family-based studies
      (Rybakowski et al 2006, Green et al 2006). In humans, this polymorphism produces a valine -
      to - methionine substitution in the proBDNF protein and reduces the trafficking and secretion
      of BDNF protein. This is relevant because it has been estimated that 20-30% of the human
      population is heterozygous for the Met polymorphism of BDNF. Furthermore, there are
      consistent findings in BD regarding the association of Val66Met polymorphism of BDNF gene
      with prefrontal cognitive impairment, which was recently confirmed in a large sample of
      bipolar subjects (Rybakowski et al 2006). In addition, crosssectional studies showed that the
      polymorphism of BDNF gene (Val66Met) was associated with response to lithium prophylaxis, but
      findings were not universal (Rybakowski et al 2005, Masui et al 2006). However, there is a
      need for prospective studies in order to confirm these findings. It is possible that a single
      polymorphism of BDNF gene would have a negative impact of BDNF levels and, consequently, a
      negative impact in the response to treatment.

      Despite consistent evidence of changes in BDNF levels during mood episodes and treatment, one
      important aspect remains unknown: Whether the change in BDNF levels is required for treatment
      response and whether the magnitude of change happens in portion with the response to
      treatment and remission of symptoms.

      The hypothesis for this project is that those patients who have a good response to treatment
      are the same ones who show the greater increase in BDNF levels earlier in the course of
      treatment, and who are less likely to present a polymorphism of BDNF gene. Given this
      context, we aim to investigate BDNF levels prospectively in patients with BD, before, during
      and after the treatment with quetiapine and compare measures with response to treatment, as
      indicated by remission in symptoms. We also aim to investigate the polymorphism of BDNF gene
      (Val66Met) and its correlation with BDNF serum levels and treatment response.
    
  