
    
      The study will be performance in 12 patients submitted to a bilateral sinus lift procedure.

      Six months after the bilateral sinus lifting performed in a randomly way, using as graft
      materials (100% of autologous bone graft or 100% of xenograft), will be placed 1 to 3
      implants in each maxillary sinus.

      Wait more six months to expose the implant. At the end of 13 months after implant placement
      it should be in charge.

      Implant placement (6 months after sinus lift procedure):

        -  Both sides should be treated during the same session.

        -  Patients will receive 2g Amoxicillin one hour before the procedure. Patients allergic to
           penicillin will be given Clindamycin 600 mg 1 hour before implant placement procedure.

        -  Patients will rinse for 1 minute prior to flap elevation with 0.12% chlorhexidine
           mouthwash.

        -  After delivery of local anaesthesia, incision and flap elevation, the recommendation of
           the various implant manufacturers will be followed for placing 1 to 3 implants 9-11 mm
           long per posterior upper (premolar-molar areas) below the maxillary sinus and a
           histological sample for each side will be collected.

        -  The neck of the implants will be placed flush to the bone and implants will be submerged
           under the soft tissues and flaps will be sutured.

        -  Baseline intraoral radiographs of the study implants have to be taken.

      Post-implant placement instructions:

        -  Chlorhexidine mouthwash 0.12% for 1 minute twice a day for 2 weeks.

        -  Ibuprofen 400 mg will be prescribed to be taken 2-4 times a day during meals, but
           patients will be instructed not to take them in absence of pain. Patients with gastric
           problems or allergic to ibuprofen will receive paracetamol 1 g instead.

        -  Sutures will be removed after 10 days.

      Abutment connection (6 months after implant placement):

        -  Both sides should be treated during the same session.

        -  Patients will rinse for 1 minute prior to flap incision with 0.12% chlorhexidine
           mouthwash.

        -  Mucosa can be punched or a flap will be elevated according to personal preference of the
           surgeon, it is important that both sides are treated in the same way.

        -  Individual implants will be tested for stability.

        -  Impressions will be taken.

        -  Healing abutments will be placed.

      Post-abutment connection instructions:

        -  Chlorhexidine mouthwash 0.12% for 1 minute twice a day for 2 weeks.

        -  Ibuprofen 400 mg will be prescribed to be taken 2-4 times a day during meals, but
           patients will be instructed not to take them in absence of pain. Patients with gastric
           problems or allergic to ibuprofen will receive paracetamol 1 g instead.

        -  Sutures will be removed after 10 days.

      Prosthetic phase:

        -  Within one month after abutment connection, implants will be manually tested for
           stability.

        -  Provisional reinforced acrylic restorations or definitive screw-retained or
           provisionally cemented (to allow implant stability assessment) metal-resin or
           metal-ceramic bridges rigidly joining the 2 or 3 implants will be delivered.

        -  Implants will be splinted under the same prosthesis, each implant supporting one tooth
           element.

        -  The connection of teeth with implants under the same prosthesis is not allowed.

        -  Similar procedures and materials have to be used in the same patient.

        -  The occlusal surface will be in slight contact with the opposite dentition.

        -  Intraoral radiographs and clinical pictures of the study implants will be taken at
           initial loading.

      Maintenance:

        -  All patients will be recalled every 6 months after prosthetic loading for delivery of
           professional maintenance on individual basis.

        -  Dental occlusion will be evaluated at each maintenance visit.
    
  