
    
      Methods

        1. Divide patients into 3 groups ,First group patients doing Soap suds enema (S.S.E.),
           second group patients doing sodium chloride enema and the last group patient Non per os
           (NPO) before surgery

        2. Patients information such as age, height, weight, smoking, history of surgery, number of
           surgeries, diagnosis that required surgery. The complete blood count and the laboratory
           prior to surgery record by the research team.

        3. Patients do self questionnaire about symptoms such as abdominal pain or discomfort ,
           anxiety ,nausea and vomiting etc. these are for understanding symptoms of patients
           before bowel preparation perform.

        4. Computer-generated sequence into block for 30 person

        5. Random into 3 groups by nurses .in opaque envelopes with number infront of to identify
           patients. Surgeon must not know what group of these patients get in.

        6. Patients in S.S.E. group will bowel preparation by soap suds enema until clear at night
           before surgery.

        7. Patients in unison enema group will Unison enema 100 ml per rectal at night before
           surgery

        8. Patients NPO groups will NPO and no bowel preparation.

        9. Patients in all group are doing operative preparation such as NPO after midnight,
           retained foley catheter and clean abdomen and perineum before surgery. Closs matching
           blood.

       10. In the morning before surgery , patients do self questionnaire about symptoms score such
           as abdominal pain or discomfort , anxiety ,nausea and vomiting etc. for symptoms of
           patients after bowel preparation perform last night.

       11. In operation room , surgeon evaluate surgical view, bowel handling after use swabs for
           bowel packing and record by nurse and after operation finish surgeon evaluate
           satisfaction of operation.

       12. One day after surgery and before discharge from hospital patients do self questionnaire
           about symptoms score such as abdominal pain or discomfort , anxiety ,nausea and vomiting
           etc
    
  