
    
      Background: Health care professionals commonly provide education to patients who are in pain.
      Traditionally, this education has focused on pathoantaomical aspects of the patient's
      condition.(1,2) Despite the popularity of this type of education the evidence has indicated
      that it either has little effect (2-4) or in some cases can have a negative effect on pain
      and disability.(3,5-7) In contrast, therapeutic neuroscience education (TNE) directly
      addresses cognitions about pain by teaching patients basic pain physiology and addressing
      abnormal pain beliefs (e.g., pain=harm). TNE has been shown to produce positive changes in
      pain beliefs, including a reduction in pain catastrophizing, and improvements in both pain
      levels and pain-related disability. (2,3,8) To date, research on the impact of TNE has
      focused on working-aged adults. Pain however, is highly prevalent among the older adult
      population, leading to activity limitation and pain-related disability.(4-7) The purpose of
      this project is to determine whether older adults are receptive toTNE, if TNE can have an
      impact on the gait speed of older adults and if TNE can have an impact on pain beliefs.

      Methods: This will be a single group, uncontoled pilot study of 15-20 adults aged 65 years
      and older who report low back or lower extremity pain. Subjects will be recurited from
      physician offices and the community via flyers and word of mouth. Subjects will be screened
      for eligibility and informed consent will be obtained. Inclusion criterion will include age
      over 65, self-reported back and/or lower extermity pain present on most days for at least
      three months, be independent with ambulation (with or without and assistive device) and
      English speaking. Exclusion criteria include cancer-related pain, recent (within 6 months)
      surgery on the back or lower extremities affecting mobility, current ongoing treatment by
      another healthcare professional for low back or lower extremity pain (including physical
      therapy, chiropractic or massage) or other diagnoses that impact mobility or rusult in
      cognitive limitations.

      Upon enrollment in the study each subject will complete intake questionnaires (basic
      demographic information, the Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia (TSK), Pain Disability Index (PDI),
      and Resilience Scale( RS), and one physical performance measure (Gait Speed, preferred and
      maximal).

      The educational material will be delivered in two, one on one, meetings for a total time of
      approximately ninety minutes. The first meeting will last about one hour and all of the
      educational content will be delivered in this session. A supplemental handout (reference),
      which will highlight the concepts covered in the presentation, will be given to each subject.
      The second educational session will serve as a review of the material covered in the first
      meeting and described in the supplemental materials. During this session subjects will be
      encourage to ask questions and get clarification about any of the covered topics which are
      unclear. At the conclusion of the second session the surveys initially administered will be
      repeated (TKS, PDI, RS), the gait speed test will be repeated and a brief survey about the
      education will be administered.

        1. Butler D, Moseley L, eds. Explain pain. Australia: NOI Group Publishing; 2003.

        2. Brox JI, Storheim K, Grotle M, Tveito TH, Indahl A, Eriksen HR. Systematic review of
           back schools, brief education, and fear-avoidance training for chronic low back pain.
           Spine J. 2008;8(6):948-958.

        3. Maier-Riehle B, Harter M. The effects of back schools--a meta-analysis. Int J Rehabil
           Res. 2001;24(3):199-206.

        4. Koes BW, van Tulder MW, van der Windt WM, Bouter LM. The efficacy of back schools: A
           review of randomized clinical trials. J Clin Epidemiol. 1994;47(8):851-862.

        5. Nachemson AL. Newest knowledge of low back pain. A critical look. Clin Orthop Relat Res.
           1992;(279)(279):8-20.

        6. Poiraudeau S, Rannou F, Baron G, et al. Fear-avoidance beliefs about back pain in
           patients with subacute low back pain. Pain. 2006;124(3):305-311.

        7. Hirsch MS, Liebert RM. The physical and psychological experience of pain: The effects of
           labeling and cold pressor temperature on three pain measures in college women. Pain.
           1998;77(1):41-48.

        8. Louw A, Diener I, Butler DS, Puentedura EJ. The effect of neuroscience education on
           pain, disability, anxiety, and stress in chronic musculoskeletal pain. Arch Phys Med
           Rehabil. 2011;92(12):2041-2056.
    
  