
    
      Back pain during the adolescent years is a precursor to chronic back pain in adulthood. The
      prevalence of back pain among schoolchildren is growing across the world, and it is similar
      to that of the adult population. Back pain is the first cause of disability in the world.

      The main physical condition factor related to back pain and mobility among adolescents are
      trunk endurance and hamstring extensibility. The Pilates Method (PM) can be used as a
      specific exercise technique to train trunk endurance and hamstring extensibility, but there
      is little evidence regarding its effect in adolescents with a history of back pain.

      The objectives of this study was: a) to analyse the effect of a Pilates programme on trunk
      endurance and extensibility in adolescents with a history of back pain and b) to determine
      the differences between the sexes.

      The present research was a 6-week randomised controlled trial in which adolescents with a
      history of back pain were randomly assigned to a Pilates-based exercise group (PEG; n = 26)
      and a control group (CG; n = 26).

      The sample was composed of 52 students with a mean age of 14.44 ± 0.7 years who had suffered
      back pain during the past year. They were distributed into the Pilates Exercise Group (PEG, n
      = 26) and the Control Group (CG, n = 26).

      The Pilates exercise programme was implemented over 6 weeks, with 2 sessions/week (55
      minutes/session). Adolescents assigned to the CG did not receive any structured exercise
      programme; they just attended their usual Physical Education sessions.

      The Pilates programme was conducted by the Physical Education teacher, who was certified in
      Pilates training. The Pilates programme began at the basic level, incorporating more
      difficult principles and exercises gradually.

      For measuring trunk flexion and extension endurance, the bench trunk curl (BTC) test and the
      Sorensen (SOR) test were used, respectively. Hamstring extensibility was measured with the
      toe touch (TT) test. After the Pilates intervention, either the whole sample or males and
      females separately improved significantly (p ≤ 0.05) in the BTC, SOR or TT test.
    
  