
    
      The prognosis for patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer remains poor despite
      aggressive surgical resection and platinum-based chemotherapy. More than 60% of patients will
      develop recurrent disease, principally intraperitoneal, and die within 5 years. The use of
      whole abdominal irradiation (WAI) as consolidation therapy would appear to be a logical
      strategy, but despite whole abdominal irradiation has clinically proven efficacy the use of
      radiotherapy in ovarian cancer has profoundly decreased mainly due to high treatment-related
      toxicity. Modern intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) could allow to spare kidneys,
      liver, and bone marrow while still adequately covering the peritoneal cavity with a
      homogenous dose.

      The OVAR-IMRT-01 study is a single center pilot trial of a phase I/II study. Patients with
      advanced ovarian cancer stage FIGO III (R1 or R2< 1cm) after surgical resection and
      platinum-based chemotherapy will be treated with whole abdomen irradiation as consolidation
      therapy using intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) to a total dose of 30 Gy in 1.5 Gy
      fractions. A total of 8 patients will be included in this trial. For treatment planning bone
      marrow, kidneys, liver, spinal cord, vertebral bodies and pelvic bones are defined as organs
      at risk. The planning target volume includes the entire peritoneal cavity plus pelvic and
      para-aortic node regions.

      The primary endpoint of the study is the evaluation of the feasibility of intensity-modulated
      WAI, the secondary endpoint is evaluation of the toxicity of intensity modulated WAI before
      continuing with the phase I/II study. The aim is to explore the potential of IMRT as a new
      method for WAI to decrease the dose to kidneys, liver, bone marrow while covering the
      peritoneal cavity with a homogenous dose, and to implement whole abdominal
      intensity-modulated radiotherapy into the adjuvant multimodal treatment concept of advanced
      ovarian cancer FIGO stage III.
    
  