
    
      This is a non-interventional study; no investigational product is administered in this study.
      Information collected in this study may be used to identify potential participants for
      clinical gene therapy trials in HoFH.

      The investigator will discuss the study with participants who have a clinical presentation
      consistent with HoFH and where possible, the treating physician, in order to assess their
      interest to participate. After informed consent has been obtained, participants will be asked
      to provide a blood sample (up to 40 mL) for genotyping to confirm genetic diagnosis of HoFH
      due to mutations in LDLR, a lipid panel and anti-AAV8 NAb titer. Participants and, whenever
      possible, their treating physician will complete a medical history questionnaire and provide
      supporting documentation. The informed consent form (ICF) and data collection methods may
      vary depending whether the informed consent is obtained remotely or at a participating study
      site.

      Information collected will include the following:

        -  patient demographics (age, sex, weight)

        -  medical history

        -  previous genotype results (if available)

        -  results of most recent lipid panel(s)

        -  use of lipid lowering therapies, including failure to respond

        -  assessment of presence of liver disease, including history of hepatitis B and C, human
           immunodeficiency virus (HIV), cirrhosis, and alcohol use

      Once this information is received by the investigator and Sponsor, a preliminary assessment
      of confirmation of a diagnosis of HoFH will be performed. Participants and/or their treating
      physician will be informed of the results of the genetic testing. All participants will be
      provided an opportunity to speak with a genetic counselor upon receiving the results of the
      genetic testing.

      Data collected in this study may be used to identify potential candidates for separate
      clinical trial(s) using gene therapy.
    
  