
    
      Family members of critically ill patients suffer symptoms of post-intensive care
      syndrome-family (PICS-F), including anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder
      with a diminished quality of life. These symptoms persist long after the episode of critical
      illness and can linger for years. Cognitive behavioral therapy has become the primary
      non-pharmacological treatment of an increasing list of psychological symptoms and disorders,
      including anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress. For mild-to-moderate symptoms,
      mobile technology delivery of cognitive behavioral therapy without input from a clinician has
      been found to be feasible and well-accepted with efficacy that rivals face-to-face therapy.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to examine the efficacy of smartphone delivery of
      cognitive behavioral therapy via a mobile health app (intervention) on the severity and
      prevalence of PICS-F symptoms in family members of critically ill patients. The study will
      include family members of critically ill patients admitted to two 26-bed ICUs at the Akron
      campus of Summa Health System. A prospective, repeated measures, longitudinal design with
      randomization to two groups (control, intervention) will be employed. Primary outcome
      measures will include symptoms of PICS-F (anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress),
      health-related quality of life, and mental health self-efficacy measured at enrollment, 30
      days after enrollment, and 60 days after enrollment. App usage over the course of the study
      (number of logins, total time spent with app) will be obtained at the final time point of the
      study (60 days after enrollment). A sample size of 60 family members is planned for this
      pilot study (30 intervention, 30 control). The sample size was determined according to the
      recommendations of Whitehead et al.estimating an a priori small effect size and an attrition
      rate of 30% derived from previous studies.

      The aims of the study are:

      Aim 1: Determine the prevalence and severity of PICS-F symptoms (anxiety, depression,
      post-traumatic stress), health-related quality of life (HRQOL), and mental health
      self-efficacy (MHSE) in family decision makers of critically ill patients and their change
      over time (enrollment, 30 days, 60 days).

      Aim 2: Determine differences in PICS-F symptom severity, HRQOL, and MHSE in family decision
      makers of critically ill patients receiving a mobile health app (MHapp) intervention compared
      to family members receiving standard care and support.

      Aim 3: Determine the relationship between the dose of the MHapp (total time spent with the
      app, total log-ins) over the course of the study (60 days) and changes in PICS-F symptom
      severity (anxiety, depression, post-traumatic stress), HRQOL, and MHSE.

      Data Analysis and Statistical Plan: Data will be analyzed using Statistics Package for the
      Social Sciences (SPSS, Version 25) software. Descriptive statistics will be used to assess
      frequencies and variability of the data, coding inaccuracies, outliers, and missing data. The
      statistical plan for each specific aim is as follows:

      Aim 1: The investigators will report study variables with descriptive statistics. Change over
      time will be examined with repeated measures ANOVA.

      Aim 2: Differences between intervention and control groups will be assessed with student's
      t-test. Differences between groups in regard to severity of PICS-F symptoms will be used to
      calculate effect size for the intervention.

      Aim 3: Relationship between total MHapp dose and longitudinal change in study variables will
      be examined with Pearson's correlation.

      Human Subjects and Ethical Issues: The research presents no more than minimal psychological
      risk or harm, largely from the possibility that answering the questions on the anxiety,
      depression, and stress instruments may be distressing for participants. Psychological risk
      will be minimized by emphasizing that study participants can stop participating in the study
      at any time and are not obligated to answer any question that they find distressing. Family
      members who endorse clinically significant symptoms will be referred to their primary care
      physician. Family members of patients who die during the study will be referred to local
      bereavement support groups.

      There is a low risk of privacy or confidentiality loss. Risk will be minimized by the
      following measures: (a) the only record linking the participant and the research data is the
      consent document; (b) consent documents will be kept in a locked cabinet in the locked office
      of the PI; (c) data will be entered and stored by the RA on REDCap, a secure, HIPAA-compliant
      web-based platform; (d) all data files obtained for analysis will be stored on a
      password-protected laptop computer stored in a locked room; and (e) The PI, co-investigators,
      and research assistant (RA) are the only individuals with access to the data files.
    
  