
    
      This is a 4-period, randomized, active-and placebo-controlled, double-dummy, double-blind
      cross-over study to evaluate the effect of single doses of GEn on cardiac conduction
      parameters in healthy subjects.

      Screening will occur within approximately 28 days of the first scheduled dose of study
      medication. Each subject will participate in 4 dosing sessions at least one week apart. Prior
      to dosing in each period, the investigator will review the scheduled assessments to confirm
      the subject's suitability for the study including review of study entry criteria and
      lifestyle restrictions.

      All subjects will receive single doses of GEn 1200 mg, GEn 6000 mg, moxifloxacin 400 mg and
      placebo in a randomized sequence.

      Dosing with moxifloxacin will be in the fasted state and GEn will be administered following a
      standard meal. A double dummy approach will be used to maintain blinding. Thus, on each
      dosing day, moxifloxacin or moxifloxacin placebo will be administered in the fasted state in
      the morning and GEn or matched placebo will be administered 2 hours later after a standard
      meal.

      During each treatment period, subjects will report to the clinical research unit the day
      before dosing (Day 1) and will remain until completion of the last assessment on Day 2.
      Twelve-lead ECGs including continuous Holter monitoring, clinical laboratory safety tests,
      vital sign measurements, physical examinations, adverse event reports, and pharmacokinetic
      samples will be collected throughout the study.

      In each study period, cardiac conduction will be measured using a 24-hour continuous 12-lead
      Holter monitor from the morning of Day 1 until the morning of Day 2. Extraction of the Holter
      monitor data in triplicate for analysis will begin on Day 1 at timepoints indicated in the
      Time and Events Table (Section 4.7). These timepoints were selected to cover the Cmax of both
      moxifloxacin and GEn. If no clinically significant abnormalities are noted, subjects will be
      discharged from the clinical research unit after the completion of all assessments on Day 2
      in each period. A minimum 7-day washout period will separate each treatment period. A
      follow-up visit will be conducted approximately 7 to 14 days after administration of the last
      dose of study medication in treatment period 4
    
  