
    
      Participants who decide to take part will be assigned to a treatment or a control groups.
      Both groups will have the same assessments and the same number of therapy sessions. Therapy
      group will have a training that consist of Brain Computer Interface controlled Functional
      Electrical Stimulation followed by physical practice of the dominant upper limb while the
      control group will have physical practice only. One experimental session including will last
      about 60 min for both groups (including setup and therapy) and participants in each group
      will receive 20 sessions, about 3 times per week.

        1. Assesments There will be three assessments: an initial assessment within a week prior to
           the first therapy session, a final assessment within a week following the last therapy
           session and a follow up session 3 months after the last therapy session. Assessments
           will consist of qualitative and quantitative measures. It will comprise of assessments
           of motor functions, neurological functions and participants feedback on the therapy
           (questionnaires and. Interviews)

        2. Therapy There will be 20 therapy sessions for each group 2.1. Therapy Treatment Group
           This will consist of 30 min of BCI FES followed by 30 min of physical practice of the
           dominant upper limb. We decided to include only dominant arm/hand from two reasons: Each
           participant can be their own control to compare the outcome between hands. The other
           reason is that it is not possible to find more than an hour free time in between of
           their regular physical therapies and other activities. 2.1.1. BCI FES Participants will
           be wearing an EEG device (Epoch, Emotiv) and will have several pair of self-adhesive FES
           electrodes attached to their arms, over muscles that control reaching and grasping. The
           exact location and number of FES electrodes will be patient specific and will depend on
           their functional ability.

      Each therapy session will start with a 5 min long calibration (to set BCI parameters for that
      day) followed by training.

      During calibration phase participants will watch a computer screen showing a hand squeezing a
      ball. Participants will imagine doing the same action while their EEG will be recorded.
      BCI-FES Upon seeing a visual cue (a small cross) on a screen, participants attempt to move
      their dominant arm and hand to achieve reach and grasp movement towards an object (e.g. a
      plastic bottle). They repeat this 30 to 40 times in total, targeting 30 successful trials.
      The number of trials is based on our previous study (Osuagwu et al 2016, J Neural Eng).
      During each trial, upon the appearance of cue on the screen, the participant has 10 seconds
      to attempt movement to activate FES. They will practice movements of one hand only so there
      will be only one type of cue. On a successful attempt, FES will be initiated for 10-15
      seconds to complete reach and grasp movement. An anti-gravity support will be used to assist
      movement, if necessary. This might be mentally demanding for some participants, and they
      might require breaks in between trials. Thus although BCI FES effectively lasts about 10 min
      (the same as in our previous study) the whole BCI FES session will take about 30 min. BCI FES
      will be immediately followed by physical practice. It is not possible to wait for
      participants regular occupation therapy because of a relatively short duration of the motor
      priming effect (from the literature it is 10-30 min).

      After 1st, 5th, 10th , 15th and 20th session participants will fill out NASA task load index
      questionnaire, which takes about 5 min. This measures their workload. 2.1.2. Physical
      practice Immediately after BCI FES, participant will have physical therapy for 30 min. The
      objects and devices typically used in occupational therapy, putty, pegboards,
      nut-bolt-boards, rings, etc will be used for reaching and grasping tasks. These tasks may
      change over time depending on the capability of participant. FES will not be used in this
      phase 2.2. Therapy Control Group Control group will receive 40 min of physical practice only,
      that will be similar to the physical practice in the treatment group. Total duration is based
      on the total duration of BCI FES (10 min) and physical practice (30 min) in the treatment
      group.
    
  