
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you join this study. Up to 5 groups of up to 6 participants will be
      enrolled in Phase 1 of the study, and up to 60 participants will be enrolled in Phase 2.

      If you are enrolled in Phase 1, the dose of nilotinib and MEK-162 you receive will depend on
      when you joined this study. The first group of participants will receive the starting dose
      combination level. The next group will receive a higher dose of MEK-162 than Group 1, if no
      intolerable side effects were seen. If intolerable side effects are seen, the next group may
      receive a lower dose level of nilotinib and/or MEK-162. This will continue until the highest
      tolerable combination dose is found.

      If you are enrolled in Phase 2, you will receive nilotinib and MEK-162 at the highest dose
      that was tolerated in Phase 1.

      Study Treatment:

      You will take nilotinib and MEK-162 two times every day by mouth.

      Participants enrolled in Phase 1 of the study will start taking MEK-162 on Day 1 and
      nilotinib on Day 2.

      Participants in Phase 2 of the study will be divided in 2 groups: one group will start
      MEK-162 on Day 1 and nilotinib on Day 2, while the other group will start MEK-162 on Day 1
      and nilotinib on Day 8. You will be placed in a Phase 2 treatment group based on the
      characteristics of your disease type.

      You will be given a drug diary and asked to write down what time you take the study drugs
      every day. Bring in any unused study drugs and bottles to each study visit.

      Each cycle is 28 days.

      If the disease does not appear to get better after 1 or 3 cycles, you may be able to receive
      a higher dose of the study drug as long as you are not already receiving the highest dose
      planned for this study. The study doctor will tell you if you can receive a higher dose.

      Study Visits:

      On Days 1 and 8 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have an EKG.

      At the end of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have an EKG and either a MUGA scan or an ECHO.

        -  You will complete a questionnaire about how you are feeling.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a bone marrow aspirate to check the
           status of the disease.

      At the end of Cycles 2, 3, and every 3 cycles after that (6, 9, 12, and so on):

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have an EKG.

        -  You will complete a questionnaire about how you are feeling.

      At the end of Cycles 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12, blood (about 3-4 tablespoons each time) will be
      drawn for tests to check how the disease is responding to therapy. If the doctor thinks it is
      needed, these tests may be performed more often.

      Every 8-12 weeks, you will have a MUGA scan or an ECHO.

      You will have an eye exam by an eye doctor at the end of Cycles 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12, and then
      every 3 months after that until the End of Study Visit.

      You will have blood draws and/or bone marrow aspirations at any time that the doctor thinks
      it is needed while you are on study.

      Length of Study:

      You can take up to 12 cycles of nilotinib and MEK-162 on study. If the disease responds a
      certain way (called a hematological response) while you are on study, you may be able to
      continue taking the study drugs longer than 12 months, as long as the doctor thinks you are
      benefiting from the treatment. Even if the disease has not responded in this way, you may be
      able to continue taking the study drugs if the doctor thinks it is in your best interest. You
      will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side
      effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      If you come off study before the end of Cycle 12, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have an EKG and either an ECHO or a MUGA scan.

        -  You will have an eye exam by an eye doctor.

        -  You will complete a questionnaire about how you are feeling.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a bone marrow aspirate to check the
           status of the disease.

      If you come off study at the end of Cycle 12, you will not have the End of Study visit.

      Follow-Up:

      You will be called about 30 days after you go off study and asked if you have had any side
      effects and/or any new treatment(s). This call will last about 5 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Nilotinib is FDA approved and commercially available to
      treat CML and philadelphia-positive acute leukemia. MEK-162 is not FDA approved or
      commercially available. It is currently being used for research purposes only. The
      combination of nilotinib and MEK-162 to treat CML and Philadelphia-positive acute leukemia is
      investigational. The study doctor can explain how the study drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 90 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson Cancer
      Center.
    
  