
    
      Depression is highly common in MS with a lifetime risk for major depressive disorder (MDD) as
      high as 25-50% and a 12-month prevalence of up to 25%, particularly in younger patients.
      Depression in MS has been linked to biological as well as psychological factors and
      substantially impacts psychosocial function. Importantly, depressive symptoms correlate with
      decreased quality of life, absence from work, and lower social support and are among the
      strongest predictors for suicidal ideation in MS patients.

      Despite its immediate clinical relevance, depression in MS remains underdiagnosed and often
      untreated and evidence for the efficacy of pharmacological or non-pharmacological
      interventions for MS-associated depression is scarce. For example, guidelines recently
      published by the AAN concluded that evidence for pharmacotherapy and individual or group
      therapies for MS-depression was insufficient but recommended cognitive behavioral therapy
      (CBT) delivered by phone with weak level of evidence. Such approaches, however, still require
      availability of a trained psychotherapist.

      Given the mobility problems, cognitive impairment, and fatigue typically associated with MS
      as well as the limited availability of psychotherapists, self-guided, automated,
      internet-based interventions may help to overcome treatment barriers often encountered by
      patients with MS. In a recent phase II randomized controlled trial (RCT) in Germany, the
      investigators found one such internet-based CBT program, Deprexis, to significantly reduce
      depressive symptoms in MS (Fischer et al., Lancet Psychiatry 2015). Despite these encouraging
      results, large, definitive trials of the most promising therapeutic approaches for
      MS-associated depression that could inform clinical practice are completely lacking.

      Here, the investigators conduct a large, international, multicenter RCT of the Deprexis
      program to treat depression in MS patients. Patients will be recruited in five specialized MS
      centers in Germany (Charité Berlin and University Medical Center Hamburg) and the US (Cedars
      Sinai Los Angeles, University of Missouri - Kansas City, and Penn State University). The
      investigators plan to enroll n=400 patients who will be randomly assigned to two different
      versions of Deprexis (either Deprexis alone or Deprexis plus regular Email support,
      DeprexisPlus) for 3 months or a waitlist control group and undergo clinical assessments at
      baseline and month 3. In addition, the investigators will conduct long-term online follow up
      at month 6 and month 12.

      The trial will address the following three main aims:

      Aim 1: To definitively test the effectiveness of Deprexis for reducing depressive symptoms in
      MS at the end of treatment.

      Aim 2: To determine the added value of email support for Deprexis (DeprexisPlus) in MS.

      Aim 3: To explore the long-term stability of therapeutic effects (12 months) and the
      potential of a booster session to enhance maintenance.
    
  