
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the effectiveness of a preference-tailored (PT) intervention vs standard
           information (SI) delivered via computer for increasing patients' adherence to colorectal
           cancer (CRC)-screening guidelines in a randomized controlled trial in two
           racially/ethnically diverse geographic locations.

        -  To assess the impact of the intervention on patient perceptions of informed-decision
           making, physician recommendation for CRC screening, decision conflict and satisfaction,
           and intention to get screened 3 days after a primary care visit.

        -  To conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of a preference-tailored strategy for
           increasing CRC screening utilization.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are randomized by the computer program to 1 of
      3 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (preference-tailored intervention): Patients receive overview information about
           colorectal cancer (CRC), including graphics and descriptions of the colon and colon
           polyps. Patients then complete a preference-assessment exercise test by using a
           specially designed website. A brief description of the test is given at this time, and
           patients are offered the option to learn more about their preference-matched test.
           Patients are then given a list of other available CRC-screening tests with a brief
           description and option to learn more about each test. The program informs them when all
           information has been viewed. At the time the patients exit the program, or have viewed
           all the information available, they are asked to choose which test is preferable to
           receive from a list of existing test options.

        -  Arm II (standard information intervention): Patients receive overview information as in
           arm I. The patients then use a website listing of the four existing CRC screening test
           options along with graphical representations. They are allowed to interact with this web
           page to view basic or more information about any or all of the tests. The program
           informs them when all the information has been viewed. At this point, patients are asked
           to choose which test they would prefer to receive from a list of existing test options,
           as in arm I.

        -  Arm III (usual care): Patients receive usual care and do not receive any extra
           educational materials. Patients may receive a telephone follow up at 12 months.

      Upon completion of the intervention, patients in arms I and II receive a printout to take
      with them to their upcoming appointment. For those in arm I, this printout will include their
      top three attributes, their preference-matched test, and their final test choice. For those
      in arm II, this printout will include a list of the four screening tests but will not list
      their final test choice.

      Patients in arm I and II undergo a 3-day follow-up telephone interview. Medical charts of all
      patients in all 3 arms are reviewed at 12 months.
    
  