
    
      The aim of the study is to determine VAP (Ventilator Associated Pneumonia) baseline incidence
      in the ICU in patients receiving endotracheal tubes with evacuation lumen with and without
      Bactiguard Infection Protection (BIP) coating.

      VAP is likely to occur in 10-20% of patients who are ventilated for at least 48 hours. These
      patients face a mortality risk estimated to be twice as high compared with similar ICU
      patients without VAP. Furthermore, VAP results in an average excess length of ICU stay with
      high hospital cost.

      Bactiguard has developed an endotracheal tube coated with a thin layer of non-releasing
      metals (gold, silver and palladium) firmly attached to the surface. This Bactiguard coating
      is tissue friendly and aims to achieve an optimal combination of anti-infective properties to
      reduce biofilm formation, colonization and subsequent respiratory infection. Bactiguard
      coated urinary products have been on market since 1995 (initially in US, then also in Japan &
      Europe) and used in a large number of clinical studies and evaluations, showing reduction of
      urinary tract infections and also antibiotics use. A BIP ETT (without evacuation lumen)
      clinical safety and tolerability study was performed at Karolinska University Hospital during
      20128. The study showed that BIP ETT is safe, well tolerable and performs well in clinical
      settings.

      The present study of BIP ETT with evacuation lumen is randomized, prospective, controlled and
      blinded. All adult ICU patients hospitalized in the ICUs from two tertiary hospitals (i.e.:
      Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Sart Tilman Liège , Centre Hospitalier Chrétien de Liège)
      and considered to be ventilated for more than 24 hours will be eligible to participate in the
      study. 300 patients in total will be used to determine baselines levels (150 in each group).

      The study tubes will be available not only in the ICUs but also in the emergency department,
      including the emergency vehicles, and in every hospital wards. The study tubes will not be
      available in the operating rooms except in the Post Anesthesia Care Units (PACU) and Recovery
      rooms.
    
  