
    
      Sleep disorders are very common in Parkinson's disease (PD). They are present in almost all
      patients. They have an important impact on quality of life. To improve the comfort of
      patients, neurologists typically offer either dispersible form of levodopa, prolonged release
      dopaminergic agonists treatments or deep brain stimulation surgery. Unfortunately these
      treatments are too short-acting for the dispersible form of levodopa or not always sufficient
      for the oral or transdermal dopamine agonist or are very heavy to implement as surgery.

      Some sleep disorders such as restless legs syndrome and periodic leg movements, and
      obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome, seem to be more frequent in PD patients than in general
      population and could be improved by a continuous dopaminergic treatment the night.

      Finally, daytime sleepiness is a major problem in PD patients. Although it seems most often
      linked to dopaminergic treatments given during the day, it could also be, in some patients
      the result of a very bad night's sleep, leading to a rebound of sleep during the day.

      The main objective is to demonstrate that compared with placebo, nocturnal continuous
      apomorphine treatment improves sleep quality assessed by the patient on the PDSS-2 scale in
      fluctuating parkinsonian patients with complaints of insomnia.

      The secondary objectives are to measure the effectiveness of nocturnal continuous apomorphine
      on sleep quality : total sleep time, sleep efficiency, arousal index, ventilatory events and
      legs movements indexes, to measure the relative proportion of sleep stages (N1, N2, N3, Rapid
      Eye Movement ou REM sleep), position changes during sleep index and the percentage of time
      spent in the supine position, percentage of time with SpO2 <90%), sleepiness (Epworth and
      Multiple Sleep Latency Test) and their consequences on quality of life (EuroQol 5),
      depressive symptoms (Beck II), anxiety (STAI), overall cognition (MOCA), pain and engine
      condition after waking up.
    
  