
    
      Urinary incontinence is a global condition and its prevalence increases with age. It impairs
      quality of life of patients and has a significant burden on the health care system. Stress
      urinary incontinence (SUI) is defined as involuntary leakage of urine when there is an
      increase in pressure on the bladder, i.e. during exercise, coughing or sneezing. It is the
      commonest form of urinary incontinence and affects around 50% of women with symptoms of
      incontinence.

      The development of mid urethral tapes (e.g. the tension free vaginal tape [TVT]) in 1998 has
      greatly changed clinical practice. The introduction of TVTs has reduced the average length of
      hospital stay for patients undergoing surgical treatment of SUI by over 50%. As a result, the
      hospital bed occupancy for the treatment of SUI has decreased by a similar amount. Studies
      have shown it to have similar effectiveness to the main alternative surgical treatments in
      SUI.

      In Gloucestershire Royal Hospital, we perform the procedure as a daycase with local
      anaesthetic infiltration under sedation. Routine cystoscopy is performed as a part of the
      procedure to exclude bladder trauma. The bladder is emptied at the end of procedure. Patients
      are then allowed to drink as normal and post void residuals are checked before discharge to
      rule out any problems emptying the bladder. It has been observed that the major limiting
      factor in early discharge of patients is the time to first void following surgery. As the
      patients are starved for surgery, they are often dehydrated and therefore require enough oral
      fluids to rehydrate and fill their bladder in order to void. If we can somehow reduce this
      waiting period, we can discharge patients sooner improving their experience with the surgery.
      We would like to examine whether filling up the bladder intra-operatively with intravenous
      fluid will reduce this time limiting step.
    
  