
    
      Inherited cardiac conditions (ICC) comprise any hereditary condition which may affect cardiac
      muscle, vasculature, or conductive system. More than 50 ICCs have been recognised and our
      diagnostic capabilities ever improve. However, whilst our understanding of ICCs and their
      molecular basis has increased, management of these conditions remains challenging owing to
      their heterogeneity, both genetically and clinically. ICC clinics aim to improve and
      standardise the care of patients with ICCs but improving diagnosis, risk stratification, and
      management, and by coordinating specialist care provided by other specialities. The UHSM ICC
      clinic has recently been established, providing tertiary care for patients across a large
      geographical area. As such, it is well placed is well placed to do this study.

      Sudden cardiac death may be the first presentation of ICC, and a new diagnosis has
      significant implications for families. Risk may be augmented by a multitude of clinical and
      genetic factors, and there is an increasing need for tools that may be used by clinicians to
      identify patients at increased risk. Biomarkers are one such tool which may be able to assist
      in the complex identification of high-risk individuals, to effectively prognosticate and
      monitor treatment patients with disease.

      As part of this study, all patients due to attend the ICC at USHM will be approached over a 5
      year period. The expectation is to recruit 750 patients. Patients will undergo their clinic
      appointments in the usual manner. As part of the study, a peripheral blood sample of
      approximately 10mL will be taken to allow measurement of cardiac biomarkers in order to
      further characterise cardiovascular status and to relate clinical findings to other markers
      of cardiac disease. Biomarker levels will be related to the presence and severity of
      cardiovascular disease, at the time of the clinic visit and over subsequent 10 year
      follow-up, as documented by validated health status questionnaires and information in
      patients' medical records.

      This is an observational study of patients referred clinically to the Inherited Cardiac
      Conditions clinic at the University Hospital of South Manchester.

      As part of this study, all patients referred to this clinic will be approached over a 5 year
      period. The expectation is to recruit 150 patient per year.Patients will attend clinic and
      other related clinically indicated appointments in the usual manner. As part of the study, a
      blood sample of approximately 10mL will be taken from the patients arm to allow measurement
      of cardiac biomarkers in order to further characterise cardiovascular status and to relate
      these findings to other markers of cardiac disease.

      The patient will also be asked to complete a questionnaire about their symptoms and quality
      of life.
    
  