
    
      Most patients with minimal consciousness status in Critical Care Units (CCU) are considered
      as an 'unconscious patient' with a neurological examination. A study showed that only 5% of
      intensive care nurses communicate with the unconscious patients and the content of the
      communication with them is to explain only the procedures to apply. Lack of communication
      with these patients can be transformed into the sense of 'non-responsive patient' among
      healthcare providers. Evaluating these patients as unconscious patients may lead to neglect
      of psychosocial needs in patient-care, a continuation of unchanged treatment protocols for a
      long time and desperate evaluation of prognosis. Moreover, it may lead to burnout syndrome
      over time for physicians and nurses in the CCU. In particular, the futile care perception of
      caregiving about unconscious patient prolongs the recovery process and length of stay in CCU.
      On the other hand, it may lead to the occupation of beds and increases the costs. Coma and
      sedation scoring systems such as Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), Ramsey Sedation Scale (RSS) and
      Full Outline of Unresponsiveness (FOUR) have traditionally been used to assess the
      consciousness in CCU. These scoring systems may be insufficient to assess the
      psychophysiological status of the patients. Some researches on the unconscious patients have
      shown that these patients are aware of their surroundings. However, the data for these
      studies were obtained from interviews with patients who were previously experiencing
      unconsciousness, or with caregivers in CCU. The balance between sympathetic and
      parasympathetic systems is controlled by the autonomic nervous system. The response of the
      sympathetic system to external stimuli is different in many organs of the body. For example,
      a painful stimulus causes myosis in the eyes, hypertension, and tachycardia. Emotional
      stimuli also activate the sympathetic system. Fear and excitement lead to mydriasis,
      elevation of blood pressure and tachycardia, and activation of eccrine gland increase to
      release of sweating. Electrophysiological tests are objective methods in which the
      physiological signals and psychological states of emotion are acquired by noninvasively
      connected superficial electrodes. Through this method, the R-R interval (velocity analysis)
      can be evaluated by the Poincare Plot analysis in the electrocardiogram (ECG) to measure the
      electrical activity of the heart. Electrooculography (EOG) is a test that evaluates the eyes
      movements. In EOG, the source of the signals is the stationary electrical potential between
      the cornea and the retina. The EOG is composed of the changes of the electricity based on the
      movements of the eyeball around the eye center. Galvanic skin response (GSR) is a test used
      to measure skin conductivity and reflects electrodermal activity. In addition, blood pressure
      and pulse rate (PR) measurements provide information about the psychophysiological status of
      patients as a result of a sympathetic activity. In this study, the investigators aimed to
      evaluate the emotional responses of patients who were considered by the healthcare providers
      and relatives of patients as an 'unconscious patient' by using electrophysiological tests.
    
  