
    
      Familial amyloid neuropathies (FAP) are hereditary disease due to a mutation of the
      tranthyretin gene (TTR). These neuropathies are severe and life frightening. Treatment is
      based on tafamidis and liver transplantation. Clinical trials of RNAI therapy are on-going.
      Treatment must be performed early to avoid clinical consequences.

      Asymptomatic carrier of TTR mutation are now detected in large TTR-FAP family. Time of the
      beginning of the disease is quite variable among the patients and very difficult to predict.
      Penetrance is low and incomplete. It is estimated to be respectively 1.7% and 69% at the age
      of 30 and 90 years in the Swedish population. It is very hard to detect the moment where a
      TTR mutation carrier become symptomatic: too early diagnosis exposes the patients to side
      effect of the treatment and too late diagnosis exposes the patient to disease progression and
      clinical sequels.

      Neurological monitoring comprises clinical examination, electrophysiology and imaging.
      Sensitivity and specificity of these tools are not sufficient and we have to develop new
      biomarkers sensitive enough to detect modifications under treatment and the moment where a
      TTR mutation carrier become symptomatic Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can well evaluate
      neuromuscular diseases. Nerve and muscle magnetization transfer are related to the disability
      in peripheral neuropathies. Specific MRI protocols permit to distinguish healthy control,
      asymptomatic carrier and symptomatic carrier of TTR mutation. In Kollmer et al study[9],
      high-resolution magnetic resonance neurography was applied at the thigh of 13 patients with
      symptomatic polyneuropathy and seven asymptomatic gene carriers. Quantification of mean
      proton spin density and T2 relaxation time was significantly different in symptomatic and
      asymptomatic TTR mutation gene carriers.

      Electrophysiological examination is also a good tool to evaluate NAF. MUNIX is a technique
      that permits to estimate the number of motor unit in one muscle. MUNIX has been applied in
      large population of athletes and in chronic neurologic disorders as Amyotrophic Lateral
      Sclerosis (ALS) and inflammatory neuropathies. MUNIX is related to the disability in chronic
      inflammatory neuropathies, and It is more sensitive than clinical scales to detect the
      worsening of the disease in ALS. In TTR-FAP, the loss of motor unit is compensated by
      collateral sprouting of the terminal axons. Muscle weakness and muscle atrophy are delayed in
      the evolution of the disease and the involvement of the motor unit is not clinically detected
      in the early stage of the disease. We hypothesize that the variation of the MUNIX could be
      more sensitive than clinical scales and other electrophysiological data to detect
      modification of the disease in TTR-FAP.

      The objective of this exploratory study is to test the applicability of MUNIX and MRI as
      early measures for detecting the transition from asymptomatic to symptomatic TTR-FAP.

      In symptomatic TTR-FAP we will determine if MUNIX and MRI data are related to clinical
      deficiency and disability of the patients.

      This is a transversal exploratory study. If we manage to demonstrate that MRI and MUNIX can
      segregate symptomatic versus asymptomatic TTR mutation gene carriers, we will propose a
      longitudinal study with a follow up of more asymptomatic gene carriers.

      Will be included 10 healthy controls, and 15 TTR mutation gene carriers comprising 5
      asymptomatic carriers and 10 symptomatic carriers. The sample size may look small, but it is
      similar to other published studies. Kollmer et al analysed magnetic resonance neurography in
      13 symptomatic TTR-FAP and 7 asymptomatic gene carriers. In our study about MUNIX in
      inflammatory neuropathies, the analyse of 14 patients had enough statistical power to
      demonstrate that the MUNIX was related to the disability. Furthermore, TTR-FAP is a rare
      disease with a prevalence of 1 in 100 000, so we had to adapt the sample size is to an
      exploratory monocentric study. Furthermore, symptomatic TTR-FAP patients have frequently pace
      maker which prevent MRI assessment and will exclude patients from this study.
    
  