
    
      It was reported that upper limb hemiparesis happened in 80% of stroke patients and only 20%
      regained full arm function 6 months post stroke. The paretic upper arm accounted for 50% of
      the variance in functional limitation after stroke. Early and intensive upper limb
      intervention can promote motor recovery of paretic arm and is associated with better upper
      limb functional outcomes on 6 month post stroke. Mirror therapy (MT) is one of the potential
      approach in enhancing motor recovery of paretic arm after stroke. However, the effect of
      intensive MT on the motor recovery of severely impaired paretic arm after stroke has not been
      investigated. Knowledge on the effect of intensive MT on motor recovery can enhance
      formulation of effective and efficiency treatment protocol in stroke rehabilitation.
      Therefore, our study aims at investigating the effect of intensive MT on the motor recovery
      of severely impaired paretic arm of patients at subacute phase of stroke.

      Stroke patients admitted to Haven of Hope Hospital will be screened according to inclusion
      and exclusion criteria. Eligible subjects will consent and be randomized into two groups: MT
      group- subjects will have daily two 30-min sessions of standardized bilateral upper limbs
      exercise with presence of mirror, 5 days per week for 4 consecutive weeks. During MT, a
      mirror is placed in the patient's mid-sagittal plane, with the reflecting surface facing the
      non-paretic upper limb so that the reflected image of this non-paretic limb would be
      perceived as the paretic upper limb. Subjects are instructed to watch at the movements of the
      reflected image of the non-paretic limbs and at the same time, the paretic upper limb should
      imitate the observed movements and be synchronized with those of the good side. Standardized
      bilateral upper limbs exercise (4 sets of 30 repetitions of shoulder, elbow, wrist and
      fingers movements) will be carried out within 30 min per session. Control group subjects will
      receive same daily two sessions of standardized bilateral upper limbs exercise without
      mirror, 5 days per week for 4 consecutive weeks. Motor functions of paretic arm of subjects
      measured by Fugl-Meyer Assessment (motor domain) and Wolf Motor Function Test will be
      assessed by independent assessor who is blinded to the group allocation of subjects before
      and after the 4-week intervention. Baseline comparison between the two groups was tested with
      independent t-test and the difference among and between groups after intervention will be
      tested by repeated measures ANOVA with level of significant at 0.05.
    
  