
    
      Low back pain (LBP) is a common problem among US adults. Initial episodes tend to be
      self-limited ("acute"), but some people can progress to a state of persistent pain. Often
      termed "chronic" LBP (cLBP), this condition can cause prolonged difficulty with most daily
      activities, including job performance. Most patients see chiropractors or primary care
      physicians (PCPs) for initial episodes of LBP. This study will compare two approaches for
      preventing patients with acute LBP (aLBP) from developing cLBP using a cluster randomized
      trial. Both treatments can be delivered in an outpatient PCP setting. The first approach is
      to provide PCPs with information regarding a patient's risk of transitioning from aLBP to
      cLBP and to encourage PCPs to treat patients according to accepted clinical guidelines
      (Guideline Based Care, GBC). The second approach is to provide the same risk information and
      have PCPs team up with physical therapists to deliver psychologically-informed physical
      therapy (PIPT) for those patients determined to be at high risk for transitioning to cLBP
      (GBC+PIPT). PIPT is designed to help patients identify and overcome physical and
      psychological barriers to recovery. The 1,860 patients expected to be enrolled as part of
      quality improvement at five regional sites (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Boston, Massachusetts;
      Baltimore, Maryland; Charleston, South Carolina; and Salt Lake City, Utah) will start the
      study when their LBP is in an acute phase. The study's primary aims are to compare the
      proportions of cLBP and measures of functional ability between the two groups at 6 months.
      Secondary aims are to measure the referrals to physical therapists and specialists, opioid
      prescriptions, LBP-related x-rays or MRIs, surgeries, and other medical procedures during a
      12-month follow-up period. This study was designed with input from a variety of national and
      local stakeholders, including patients with LBP, providers, payers, professional
      organizations, purchasers, and policy representatives.
    
  