
    
      LPV was first introduced in the intensive care units but has been recently adopted in the
      operating rooms. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a widely prevalent condition in obese
      patients and requires special attention in the operating room. Screening for OSA risk in
      surgical patients is a common practice. The STOP-BANG questionnaire is a common screening
      tool for OSA (Snoring, Tiredness, Observed apnea, high blood Pressure, BMI, Age, Neck
      circumference, and male Gender). The American Society of Anesthesiologists practice
      guidelines for the perioperative management of patients with OSA do not recommend any
      specific ventilation strategy to prevent PPCs in this population. To the knowledge of the
      investigators, the association between intraoperative ventilation strategies and PPCs in
      laparoscopic bariatric surgery patients, who have a high STOP-BANG score, has not been
      adequately investigated. The investigators propose a retrospective chart review of patients,
      18 years of age and older, who underwent laparoscopic bariatric surgery, in reverse
      Trendelenburg position, using pressure controlled ventilation (PCV/PCV-VG) at the Ohio State
      University Wexner Medical Center, between January 01, 2012 and November 22, 2016, to
      determine whether intraoperative driving pressure is a predictor of postoperative pulmonary
      complications. No procedures will be done for the sake of conducting this study except for a
      retrospective review of patient charts. Preoperative and intraoperative variables will be
      collected to determine their predictive value of postoperative complications. No risks to the
      patients' health or well being are anticipated due to the conduct of the proposed study. No
      immediate benefits to the patients from whom data was collected is anticipated either.
      Results obtained from this study may provide valuable information on the preferred
      ventilation strategies in the operating room for future patients who have a high risk of
      postoperative lung complications.
    
  