
    
      Children born with congenital anomalies of the urinary tract are susceptible to kidney
      infections and scarring. They form a high risk group for developing renal insufficiency in
      adulthood. A basic tenet in pediatric urology is that kidney infections should be prevented
      and otherwise promptly identified to minimize the risk of acquiring renal scars and permanent
      tissue damage.

      The current radiologic standard for renal infection and scarring is the
      99mTechnetium-dimercaptosuccinic acid (99mTc- DMSA) renal scan. This exam requires an
      intravenous injection, occurs over a 3 hour period, involves exposure to radiation, and can
      require sedation of young children. The investigators propose a new imaging method that is a
      rapid, injection-, sedation-, and radiation-free alternative: the quick renal MRI. This
      proposal hypothesizes that the quick renal MRI has high validity compared to the DMSA scan in
      the detection of acute renal infections and scars. If the quick renal MRI is accurate, it
      could potentially replace the DMSA scan for those specific questions and ease the burden of
      testing for children with chronic renal disease. Findings from these studies will provide
      preliminary data and rationale for a multi-centered study to further test this new
      technology.

      There are two separate aims to this study, and study activities/schedule will vary depending
      on which aim the participant is in:

      Aim 1: Inpatients presenting with acute pyelonephritis or possible acute pyelonephritis will
      be approached about the study. After participant's consent to the study, they will complete a
      clinical DMSA scan and quick MRI for the study. The DMSA scan and quick MRI will be completed
      within one week of each other, and ideally during the participant's inpatient stay.

      Aim 2: Patients presenting to clinic for visits regarding their renal scarring will be
      approached about the study. If participant's consent to the study and if possible, they will
      schedule the quick MRI during this visit. The clinical DMSA scan and quick MRI should be
      completed within 6 months of each other for this patient population.
    
  