
    
      To address the aforementioned objectives, we propose a multicenter, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled clinical trial.

      Eligible patients and/or their proxies will be verbally informed by the investigator on the
      content of the study, benefits and risks, and will receive a patient information folder on
      the nature of the study (version number, see appendix). The time to consider participation to
      the trial will be 4 hours maximum. Subsequently, the patient and/or their proxy will be asked
      for informed consent.

      Subjects are screened for delirium-risk by the executive investigator administrating three
      delirium-risk questions to the patients or their care-givers, as recommended by the Dutch
      Safety Management (VMS) program:

        1. Do you have memory complaints?

        2. Did you need any help with activities of daily living in the past 24 hours?

        3. During previous illness or hospital admission(s), did you have periods of confusion? One
           or more positive answers will identify at-risk patients. Eligible patients will be
           assigned a daily intervention with either low-dose haloperidol (an oral dosage of 1mg,
           twice-daily at 12pm and 8pm) or placebo by stratified randomization. The maximum
           intervention duration is 7 days. Hospital admission course of non at-risk patients
           according to the three VMS delirium-risk questions will be retrospectively assessed by
           medical chart review. Different study measurements will be collected on admission. A
           baseline ECG and standard ED laboratory will be done. Two additional blood samples of
           10ml each will be drawn (one on admission and one at admission day 4) to determine
           haloperidol plasma levels and stored for future research. The investigator will assess
           baseline cognitive- and physical functioning on admission with different questionnaires
           and observational measures: the 6-item cognitive impairment test (CIT), the 6-item Index
           of Independence in Activities of Daily Living (ADL), the 8-item Instrumental Activities
           of Daily Living scale (IADL) and Informant Questionnaire on Cognitive Decline in the
           Elderly (IQCODE-N). The presence of delirium in the ED will be established according to
           the CAM-ICU and DSM-IV criterial. During admission, all subjects will receive the same
           'high standard delirium care' based on effective non-pharmacological delirium
           intervention methods. Additionally to the standard ward rounds, the investigator will
           visit the patient at least on day 2, 4, and 8 for (extended) physical examination to
           evaluate any possible side-effects related to the intervention. According to protocol,
           an ECG is performed at least 24 hours (2 doses) and 72 hours (6 doses) after the first
           intervention dose, and if possible and the end of the study intervention period on
           request of the investigator. An ECG will be repeated at a 24-hour time-interval after
           every dose until a steady state is reached, when QTc >420ms-500ms on baseline ECG, or
           QTc prolongation >25% from baseline, of in case other QTc prolonging drugs are used. If
           QTc ≥ 500ms, the study medication will be discontinued. A list of QTC prolonging drugs
           contraindicated when using haloperidol (1st degree drug interactions, reason for action)
           is available and a warning system is implemented in the medication prescription system.

      Development of delirium symptoms during the study will be evaluated by the Delirium
      Observation Screening (DOS) scale, administered 3 times per day. When delirium is suspected
      based on a mean DOS scale score >3/24 hours, the diagnosis is established according to the
      DSM-IV criteria by either the geriatrician or psychiatrist.

      In case of established delirium within 7-day after initiation of the study intervention,
      administration of the assigned intervention is stopped since one of the primary endpoints
      (i.e. incidence) is reached. Unblinding will be performed immediately (24-hours a day, 7 days
      a week through the local hospital pharmacy at VUmc, procedures and argumentation will be
      recorded), and the treating physician will further decide on the treatment of the patients'
      delirium. Nursing staff will perform the DOS score 3-times daily to assess the duration of
      delirium, according to protocol. In addition, the investigator will assess delirium duration
      and severity with the DRS-R-98 once-daily. Both the DOS scale and DRS-R-98 are performed
      until delirium symptoms resolve or if participation in the study is no longer possible due to
      for example transfer to an other facility, ICU/CCU admission or death.

      If no delirium symptoms develop within 7-days after initiation of the study intervention,
      administration of the assigned intervention treatment is stopped (after 14 doses). Further
      admission course will be evaluated by retrospective analysis of patients' charts. In patients
      discharged home within 7-days after initiation of the study intervention, study medication is
      aimed to be stopped the day before discharge since it takes approximately 12 - 38 hours to
      eliminate half of the originally administered oral haloperidol dose. These patients will be
      subjected to en extended physical examination on the day of discharge to evaluate any
      possible side-effects related to the intervention, if possible. The independent physician and
      researchers can be contacted for questions any time.

      At the end of the study, all subjects' charts will be reviewed by one of the investigators.

      During the follow-up period, an investigator will contact the subject and/or proxy by
      telephone, respectively at 3- and 6-months after hospital discharge, to evaluate physical
      function at that time with the ADL and IADL scale, and cognitive function with the 6-item
      CIT. Also, information on hospital re-admission(s), need for additional (health)care or
      (permanent) institutionalization after hospital discharge and death are reported. Each
      telephone conversation will take an estimated 20 minutes.
    
  