
    
      Generations of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) have spent their childhoods fighting for
      breath and losing. Until recently, CF patients succumbed to this fatal, inherited lung
      disease as infants, young children or adolescents. With cutting-edge research spurring
      medical advances, each decade has shown improved survival, from a median life expectancy of 5
      years in 1960, to 16 years in 1970, to 35 years today. Yet, the disease remains complex and
      adolescents with CF experience challenges that can reduce their adherence to treatment
      regimens and undermine their long-term well-being.

      Poor adherence to complicated life long treatments impacts a patient's health and burdens the
      medical system. Adolescents are particularly vulnerable to poor adherence and its high costs.
      Even adolescents who experience comparatively mild symptoms of CF must follow a 3-hour
      treatment regimen every day, and medical experts report that their adherence ranges from poor
      (50% doing less than prescribed airway clearance regimen) to very poor (30% not doing any
      prescribed treatments).

      CF can cause a host of social-emotional stressors, including uncertainty about the future,
      poor self-image, low self-esteem, and frustration with delayed growth/maturation all of which
      can impede adherence. Absences from school, being teased, keeping their illness secret, and
      lack of access to peers with CF due to risk of infection leave many adolescents with CF
      feeling isolated and alone. Due to parent over-protection and medical services that focus on
      symptoms, these patients often lack supportive coaching on issues (e.g., alcohol-and
      tobacco-related risks, sexual health, infection control, pain control, career prospects) that
      can impact the quality of their life.

      This Phase II Randomized Control Trial (study) will test the hypothesis that adolescents with
      cystic fibrosis (CF) ages 11-17 (adolescent participants) and young adults with CF, ages
      18-20 (adult participants) who access a password-protected, secure mobile website (CFFONE),
      via a web capable cell phone and use the site's age appropriate medical and behavioral
      information, disease management tools and social networking features will demonstrate: (1) an
      increase in CF knowledge- the primary end point of the study; (2) improved treatment
      adherence and improved quality of life- the secondary end points of the study and; (3)
      enhanced social support- the exploratory end point of the study, when compared to control
      group adolescent participants and adult participants.

      To test this hypothesis, a longitudinal experimental design will be carried out in which
      participants will be randomly assigned to one of two conditions: cell phone access to CFFONE;
      or registering with a CF-related educational website containing CF information and services
      relevant to adolescents.

      A recent National Institutes for Health solicitation for research to improve self-management
      and quality of life in children and adolescents with chronic diseases stated that, "Children
      with a chronic disease face a lifetime of careful health management requirements and
      lifestyle adaptations to prevent or manage related health complications. Interventions that
      make a difference in childhood disease self-management may set the stage for health outcomes
      later in life." (2003) We believe that CFFONE, with its innovative approach for enhancing
      self-management, has the potential to make that kind of difference in the lives of
      adolescents with cystic fibrosis.
    
  