
    
      The AFPCs is the most common complication in SAP and debate continues regarding the
      appropriate timing for drainage of sterile APFCs in SAP patients. Some researchers have
      reported that the massive amounts of inflammatory mediators in the peripancreatic fluid may
      aggravate the inflammatory reaction and contribute to organ failure (OF) when liberated into
      the bloodstream by peritoneal absorption. Additionally, bacterial colonization of APFCs may
      lead to peritoneal abscess formation and sepsis. In a recent study, Wang et al. revealed that
      early-stage PCD effectively attenuated the peritoneal pressure and decreased the incidence of
      infection and OF. Finally, APFCs and secondary infection are considered major causes of
      alimentary tract hemorrhage. Based on these factors, prompt drainage of APFCs seems
      reasonable for patients in early SAP. In addition, unlike the original 1992 Atlanta
      classification guidelines (1992-AC), the revision of the 1992-AC by international consensus
      in 2012 (2012-RAC) highlighted the significance of persistent OF in the classification of
      SAP. To be exact, those patients diagnosed with SAP according to the 1992-AC without OF or
      with transient OF were reclassified as having mild AP (MAP) or moderate severity AP (MSAP) by
      the 2012-RAC. Therefore, many studies have reported changes in the treatment of SAP in the
      early stages since the 2012-RAC were published. We have retrospectively analyzed 361 patients
      with AP and found that the early-stage PCD of sterile APFCs in SAP-2012RAC patients can
      significantly reduce the mortality rate. However, on the contrary, the mainstream viewpoint
      holds that drainage is not necessary in the absence of infection of the peripancreatic fluid
      as the fluid can be absorbed completely and sterile PCD may increase the risk of iatrogenic
      infection. However, these mainstream views aimed at 1992-AC's SAP patients, which actually
      contain 2012-RAC's SAP and MSAP. Therefore, we hypothesized that the introduction of new AP
      severity classification methods may alter the indications for early aseptic drainage of
      AFPCs.

      Does early PCD of sterile APFCs benefits patients or increases the secondary infection rate?
      In view of these problems, we plan to design a randomized controlled trial to compare the
      outcomes in terms of mortality, secondary infection of peripancreatic collections, organ
      failure, length of hospital/ICU stay and inflammatory biomarkers between the early-stage PCD
      of sterile AFPCs and conservative therapy. The aim of this prospective study is to
      investigate whether early PCD of sterile AFPCs can be used to SAP patients with AFPCs at
      early stage.
    
  