
    
      Objectives.

      The goals of this protocol are to study the pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis (MS),
      primarily through small studies that utilize magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and to
      correlate the results with clinical and biological measures. The protocol includes only
      techniques with minimal risk (standard and quantitative clinical evaluation, MRI, blood
      draws, saliva testing, urine and stool collection, visual evoked potentials, ophthalmologic
      evaluation) or more-than-minimal risk (injection of approved gadolinium-based contrast
      agents, lumbar punctures) that are appropriate and common in this study population. Under
      this protocol, we will conduct:

        -  Pilot substudies. These studies are exploratory and hypothesis generating. Once
           sufficient data are collected to justify a hypothesis-driven study and a formal power
           analysis, further work will continue under either a dedicated protocol or, if
           appropriate, a hypothesis-testing substudy. There are no enrollment limitations for
           pilot substudies.

        -  Hypothesis-testing substudy. These studies have a specific hypothesis that can be tested
           with at most 6 participants per arm. If additional participants are required, a memo
           will be sent to the Protocol Review Committee (PIRC) and its statistical reviewer to
           request review of a hypothesis-testing substudy for possible additional enrollment.The
           memo will also be forwarded to the IRB.

        -  Individual patient substudies. These studies seek to increase knowledge of a disease
           process or to assist in the diagnosis of an individual patient.

        -  Technique development substudies. These studies will lay the groundwork for new
           experimental paradigms, using the methods approved under this protocol, which can be
           further tested in the substudies listed above.

        -  Training of investigators. These studies will be done to train new investigators in
           techniques relevant to the studies under this protocol.

      Study Population

      Three groups of study participants will be enrolled:

        -  MS patients. Participants with definite, probable, or possible MS.

        -  Patient controls. Participants with diseases that share features with MS.

        -  Healthy volunteers.

      Design

      We will design small substudies as ideas arise in the course of our work that are pertinent
      to the theme of the pathophysiology of MS (or of diseases that share features with MS). If a
      hypothesis testing sub-study leads to results of interest and if a larger population is
      necessary to reach statistical significance, a separate protocol will be submitted with a
      priori hypotheses, specific study design and power analysis adapted from the pilot or
      exploratory substudies performed in the present protocol.

      Outcome Measures

      These will include MRI, clinical, and biological outcome measures consistent with the
      objectives of the study and its investigators. Imaging measures will focus on features
      related to the central nervous system (CNS), particularly focal lesions. Clinical measures
      will include standard and established MS disability scales as well as quantitative measures
      related to function. Biological measures will include genotype, gene expression, proteomics,
      virological studies, and immunological profiling.
    
  