
    
      Physical therapy is the best adopted cure strategy in all over the world towards "excellence
      of life in post stroke patients." Physical therapy can be well-defined as "the health
      approach whose purpose is to make people able with good health conditions, undergoing or
      prone to undergo disability for the attainment and maintenance of optimum functioning in
      collaboration with the surroundings. The main objective of stroke physical therapy is to
      reduce disability and make people as healthy as to perform their daily life activities
      independently, do not relay on others and integrate into social life up to their own desires
      and expectations.

      Significant reduction in impairments of upper limbs in stroke patient was noticed after goal
      oriented computer gaming. Motor function of upper limb has shown significant results after
      mirror therapy in comparison to conservative treatment.

      Among new approaches used for rehabilitation, Robotic assisted therapy is also included.
      After neurological injury, the current technological advances ensure to the improvement of
      robotic devices to offer harmless and intensive recovery to the person with mild to moderate
      motor impairments. Robotic devices in physical therapy, offer more power, repeated, and task
      based interactive treatment session for impaired motor function of upper limb by providing
      patient's progress. So it's considered as the reliable source of rehabilitation. Rather like
      physical therapy exercises robotic devices can also be used to affect arm by high power and
      task specific movement. Repetitive movements are guided through a stereotyped procedure. If
      the movements are facilitated by external forces applied to the limb, highly repetitive
      stereotyped movements can be effective in stroke subjects.

      A comparatively novel tool evolving in the field of physical rehabilitation is virtual
      reality based rehabilitation. Virtual reality (VR) can be well defined as an non natural and
      artificial computer generated reproduction or creation of a real life environment or
      condition permitting the user to navigate through interact with.

      Virtual reality consists of computer hardware and software, provides a sort of interactive
      simulation to users which are almost near to real environment. Subjects participate in VR
      environment with pronounced motivation and enjoyable manner due to realistic visual sensory
      perception and thus simulates body movements of daily life.

      There are two main types of VR. Non-immersive virtual reality and immersive virtual reality.
      In non-immersive environment user feels both the real and virtual environment. While in
      immersive, real world perception of subjects is being blocked and only virtual images are
      being seen.

      The use of VR in physical rehabilitation programs can offer several benefits. First,
      environments and situations that are excessively dangerous, costly or impossible in real life
      can be computer-generated with the use of VR.

      Second, these virtual environments (VEs) are fully controllable by therapists and
      researchers, giving the chance to bring real environments or situations.

      Third, VE are artificially made and can therefore easily be changed, constructing the
      possibility to design modified environments and therapies.

      Fourth, VR has the potential to increase patient 's enthusiasm by creating more exciting
      training environments causing in more repetitions and longer training duration, eventually
      improving patients' treatment compliance. VR interventions are advantageous for motor
      rehabilitation of the stroke survivors.

      VR systems enhance movement intensity which is compulsory for the induction of neuronal
      plasticity. VR actually provides immediate feedback which allows users to interact with full
      attention and patient does so because he was determined to attain maximum scores. VR works
      upon the cortical reorganisation which is also facilitated by sensory visual and auditory
      feedback.There is an enormous literature supports for the use of Virtual reality based
      rehabilitation as compared with conventional therapies
    
  