
    
      Dystonia is a movement disorder seen in both children and adults that is characterized by
      "sustained or intermittent muscle contractions causing abnormal, often repetitive, movements,
      postures, or both." Secondary dystonia has evolved to refer to dystonia resulting from damage
      to the nervous system or degenerative disease processes. While primary dystonia is generally
      thought to arise from genetic causes, secondary dystonias have a variety of causes including
      perinatal injuries (cerebral palsy), central nervous system infections, traumatic brain
      injuries, and many different metabolic, neurodegenerative, and mitochondrial conditions.
      Secondary dystonia is far more common in pediatric populations than primary dystonia, and far
      more recalcitrant to standard pharmacologic and surgical treatments including Deep Brain
      Stimulation. Given that most treatments for dystonia are developed for primary dystonia and
      then applied to secondary dystonia, it is not surprising that this effectiveness gap exists.
      Thus, there exists a large unmet need to develop new therapeutics, treatment strategies, and
      outcome measures for pediatric secondary dystonia.

      Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) is one such therapeutic intervention that has potential to
      improve secondary dystonia. DBS is a surgical treatment for several different movement
      disorders that evolved from functional stereotactic neurosurgery techniques initially used to
      lesion specific deep brain structures. While Essential Tremor and Idiopathic Parkinson's
      Disease have predictable and consistent response rates to DBS in carefully selected patients,
      response rates of dystonia have been much more inconsistent. One predictor of success has
      been the presence of DYT-1 mutation, the most common known genetic cause of primary dystonia.
      Success rates in DYT-1 dystonia are consistently high with reductions in dystonia typically
      greater than 80%. However, the results in secondary dystonia have been much more modest and
      inconsistent. A recent meta-analysis found that on average, dystonia symptoms as measured by
      common rating scales improve 23% following DBS for dystonic cerebral palsy (the most common
      cause of secondary dystonia), however there are frequent cases of non-responders.
      Additionally, there have been very few examination, radiological or laboratory predictors of
      good response to DBS, except for genetic confirmation of DYT-119. However, across both
      primary and secondary dystonia, younger age at the time of surgery (less than 21 years old)
      and shorter duration of symptoms (less than 15 years) have been shown to be the most likely
      predictive factors for a good postoperative outcome. This has led many to suggest that DBS
      should be offered earlier in the course of intractable dystonia, prior to the development of
      permanent complications such as orthopedic contractures. Thus, we are setting an upper age
      limit of 25 to account for the concern that earlier implantation leads to improved outcomes.
      The lower age limit of 7 reflects the fact that the current humanitarian exemption for DBS
      for dystonia currently goes down to age 7. Thus, there exists a need to both improve patient
      selection as well as application of DBS for secondary dystonia in children.
    
  