
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II
      dose (RP2D) of leflunomide, when given as a single agent. (Phase I) II. To assess the safety
      and tolerability of leflunomide at each dose level by evaluation of toxicities including:
      type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration. (Phase I) III. To evaluate
      the anti-myeloma activity of leflunomide, when given as a single agent, as assessed by
      overall response rate (ORR). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To obtain estimates of: response duration, clinical benefit
      response, overall survival, progression-free survival. (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES: I. To characterize the relationship between serum concentration of the
      active leflunomide metabolite, teriflunomide (A77 1726), and toxicity. (Phase I/II) II. To
      assess the relationship between serum concentration of the active leflunomide metabolite,
      teriflunomide (A77 1726), and disease response. (Phase I/II) III. To explore the relationship
      between polymorphisms in the CYP1A2, CYP2C19, or DHODH genes and toxicity/response. (Phase
      I/II) IV. To explore the ex vivo cytotoxicity of leflunomide toward primary multiple myeloma
      (MM) cells, in order to evaluate whether individual ex vivo leflunomide response might be a
      useful predictor of therapeutic response. (Phase I/II) V. To explore the potential additive
      or synergistic effects of combining leflunomide with other classes of Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA)-approved drugs. (Phase I/II) VI. To generate a preliminary ribonucleic
      acid (RNA)/microRNA (miRNA) and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation signature associated
      with response of MM cells to leflunomide in vivo (mRNA/miRNA and DNA methylation, phase II
      only) and teriflunomide ex vivo (messenger RNA [mRNA]/miRNA). (Phase I/II)

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients receive leflunomide orally (PO) once daily
      (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30
      days and then every 28 days until disease progression (active follow-up) or every 3 months
      (long term follow-up).
    
  