
    
      Hypoparathyroidism (HypoPT) is a relatively rare disease, where the level of parathyroid
      hormone (parat hormone [PTH]) cannot maintain a physiologically sufficient concentration of
      plasma calcium (P-Ca). This may be due to neck surgery (most frequently), congenital HypoPT,
      auto-immune destruction of the parathyroid gland, peripheral resistance to PTH, pseudoHypoPT
      or magnesium deficiency, by which PTH cannot be released from parathyroid gland.

      Low plasma levels of P-Ca are registered by the calcium-sensing-receptors (CaSR) located e.g.
      in the gld. Parathyroid cell membranes and in the renal tubules, by which the flow of PTH
      into plasma increases, with normalization of P-Ca and decreasing P-phosphate to follow. By
      lack of PTH the renal synthesis of 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol is dismissed, with decreased
      bone turnover as a consequence.

      Congenital causes of HypoPT are very rare and seen either sporadic or hereditary. The
      hereditary forms are more frequent in some areas of the world: founder-effect and familial
      marriages. Autoimmune HypoPT caused by mutations in the AIRE gene results in lack of negative
      selection of the T-cells in thymus. Autosomal dominant hypocalcaemia is caused by
      gain-of-function mutations in the G-protein receptor CaRS in the main cells in the
      parathyroid gland and kidney tubules. PseudoHypoPT is due to resistance in the target organs,
      despite high concentrations of PTH. The symptoms are shown by Albrights's hereditary
      osteodystrophy, (AOH), (maternal allel). PseudopseudoHypoPT is characterized by AOH, but
      without the typical biochemical findings (paternal allel).

      The clinical manifestations of HypoPT depend on whether it occurs acute or chronic. The
      affected systems are the neuromuscular, ectodermal, ocular, cardia and neuropsychiatric
      system and manifest by increased neuromuscular irritability including weakness, muscle
      cramps, paresthesias of the lips, tongue, fingers and feet, memory loss, cardiac arrhythmias
      and heart insufficient headaches, and uncontrollable cramping muscle movements of the wrists
      and feet (carpopedal spasms) and possibly dry and scaling skin. In severe cases there may be
      cataract. In children symptoms may include malformations of the teeth. Due to high blood
      phosphorous levels, intracranial calcifications (basal ganglia), renal stones, and renal
      failure may develop. Studies have shown that HypoPT patients have reduced quality of life
      compared to a control group; more often have anxiety, depression and feel somatic.
      Furthermore, they have more physical symptoms like fatigue, ache, pain in the extremists and
      heart complaints.

      The level of PTH decreases during pregnancy, while the level of 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol
      almost double due to placental and increased renal expression of 1α-hydroxylase with
      increased intestinal calcium absorption to follow, This improves maters calcium homeostasis
      why pregnant women should be monitored closely to prevent complications for the fetus.

      Standard therapy includes treatment with calcium and 1alfa-hydroxylated forms of vitamin D
      (e.g. calcitriol or alphacalcidol) in order to relieve the symptoms associated with
      hypocalcaemia.

      Aim The aim of the project is to identify the number of people in Denmark with HypoPT incl.
      autosomal dominant hypocalcaemia and pseudohypoparathyroidism (case-finding-study), identify
      possible complications, especially the prevalence of kidney disease, cardiovascular disease,
      neuropsychiatric disease, fertility, hospitalization required hypo- or hypercalcaemia,
      overall number of hospitalizations and mortality (case-control study).

      Design The study is primarily conducted as a case finding study where patients with possible
      hypoparathyroidism are identified through registry extracts with subsequent validation of the
      diagnose (case-status) by reviewing their medical charts. Secondary there are preformed a
      case-control-study and a clinical characterization of patients with idiopathic
      hypoparathyroidism.

      Definition (verification) of hypoparathyroidism: A patient is considered to have verified
      HypoPT when a person in question has been diagnosed with hypoparathyroid hypocalcaemia witch
      has made it necessary to treat with drug from pharmaceutical group A11CC (vitamin D), whom
      the person in question has redeemed a prescription for at least 2 times.

      Patient materials The participants are selected through two registry studies (search
      strategies) see flowcharts. The first register study is via the National Patient Register,
      while the second search is based on the Medicine Database.

      Data extraction: For individuals identified through one of the two search strategies the
      following information are requested through the National Patient Registry, the Registry of
      Abortion, the Death Registry and the CPR Registry. All diagnose codes (from 1977-today),
      vital status, information about fertility and in case of death, the cause of death.

      Data processing: All patients who have been identified though one of the above-mentioned data
      extraction will have copy of their journals, discharge summary and blood samples required
      concerning verification of the diagnose. In case of doubt the general practitioner can be
      contacted. For patients with a verified diagnose sex, birth data, time of onset and the cause
      of the disease will be registered. For patients with idiopathic HypoPT data about the
      examinations conducted to clarify the possible causes of the disease are also recorded.

      To clarify the possible complications (comorbidity) to HypoPT, including the diseases
      influence on the patient's life expectancy a matched control population is requested from the
      CPR Registry. For each case with verified HypoPT 3 random control person matched on sex and
      age are withdrawn. For the control group a data extraction corresponding to the extraction on
      the patients with HypoPT are made. For both the patients with HypoPT and the control group
      the diagnoses are verified through review of journals and medical summaries. In case of doubt
      the general practitioner can be contacted. Besides clarifying the overall mortality and
      co-morbidity a stratified analysis of co-morbidity is conducted separated on ATC-groups with
      focusing on the cardiovascular, renal and neuropsychiatric complications. Stratification will
      also be conducted on reasons for developing HypoPT.

      Research biobank The withdrawn blood samples will be stored in a research biobank for 15
      years. The participants will be asked to give consent for this purpose. In addition they will
      be requested to give consent so the biological material can be used for further research upon
      specific approval by the local ethical committee. The biobank will be notified to the Danish
      Data Protection Agency under applicable law.

      Statistic There will be calculated prevalence and incidence with corresponding 95 %
      confidence interval, CI, and mortality. Since the presence of HypoPT in Denmark and worldwide
      is unknown, it is not possible to perform power calculations for the case-control study.
    
  