
    
      Dementia is a clinical syndrome with insidious onset that is difficult to diagnose in its
      earliest stages. Presentation to healthcare depends not only upon the rates of disease
      progression, but also on social support, recognition by clinicians, and patients' and carers'
      fear of diagnosis. Maintaining complete follow up in cohorts of patient with dementia is
      difficult, because patients with dementia are frequently lost to follow up.

      Most patients with dementia in the UK use their local hospitals and general (family)
      practices throughout their illness. Linked electronic health records from primary care,
      hospital and death certificates records should therefore provide useful information about the
      diagnosis and prognosis of patients who develop dementia with minimal loss to follow-up rates
      and improved completeness of diagnosis.

      Demonstrating that patients with recorded dementia have an earlier onset of typical symptoms,
      functional impairment and death than patients in the general population would support the
      veracity of diagnosed dementia recorded in electronic health records and its use as an
      outcome or exposure in cohort studies and for evaluating policy. Previous studies have found
      that dementia is poorly recorded in routine clinical practice in comparison to face-to-face
      studies, although this varies by setting and region. However, ascertainment may be improved
      by examining linked, longitudinal resources. Comparing the lifetime risk of dementia
      calculated from linked electronic health records with lifetime risks from other sources will
      also be a useful information to support the use of linked electronic health records in
      dementia research.

      Electronic health records contain information on important health transitions in patients
      with dementia: from the earliest stage of the illness (depression, anxiety, memory
      complaints); the development of cognitive impairment that manifest as loss of capacity or
      missed appointments; and significant functional impairment, with admission to nursing homes
      or hospital admission. In this study, we will assess the validity of dementia diagnoses in
      linked primary care, hospital and death records, by examining the timing of important health
      transitions in patients with recorded dementia, and estimate the lifetime risk of recorded
      dementia in different age and sex groups.
    
  