
    
      The most recent World Health Organization (WHO) definition of palliative care advocates that
      palliative care principles "…should be applied as early as possible in the course of any
      chronic, ultimately fatal illness". The difference with the previous WHO vision was
      substantial, as the earlier definition recommended Palliative Care to patients not responsive
      to curative therapy, limiting its role to the last period of life.

      Evidence about the effectiveness of an early integration of palliative care has begun to
      emerge in the last years, primarily for cancer patients. The results of experimental studies,
      showed the effectiveness of early integration of palliative in the management of advanced
      illness, in improving quality of life, reducing consumption of resources, and possibly
      increasing survival. These data were also confirmed in Italy.

      Hematological advanced patients suffer from a very high symptoms burden, psychological,
      spiritual, social and physical symptoms. They are very similar to oncological advanced
      patients. Hematologic patients during the last 30 days of their life are more frequently
      admitted in Hospital setting, emergency departments and high care ward than oncological
      patients, they received more aggressive treatments and more chemotherapy or biologic active
      treatments than oncologic patients.

      Looking to WHO's palliative care definition and hematologic patients' symptoms burden it's
      simple to imagine that an early access to palliative care service could be the answer, as it
      was for advanced oncologic patients. The rational of the new vision lied on the recognition
      that palliative care had the potential to improve quality of life of patients and their
      family members during the whole trajectory of an incurable disease, through an effective
      management of psychological and physical symptoms, appropriate relationships, effective
      communication and support in decision-making.

      In addition, even if WHO definition is referred to incurable patients, recent experience on
      Palliative care and Hematology is also about potentially curative patients.

      Nonetheless, access to palliative care in hematologic patients care results totally absent or
      confined in the last days of life.There is a resistance by hematologic specialists to address
      patients to a palliative care service because of the possible misunderstanding between active
      treatment and palliative care assistance, identified from many professionals as terminal care
      A call to a new model of integration between palliative care and hematologic service is
      strong; for some authors just from the beginning of an advanced disease and for other authors
      modelled on the different patients' needs.

      The aim of the study is to pilot a new model of integration for advanced hematological cancer
      between hematology and palliative care. Eligible patients will be at their last active
      treatment (chemotherapy or immunotherapy) as decided by hematologists.

      The primary aim is to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability and efficacy of this novel
      intervention.

      The evaluation procedure will be evaluated for feasibility and applicability To the
      investigators knowledge this is the first trial on an integrative model between palliative
      care and hematology for an advanced hematological population.

      Primary aim

      To evaluate the feasibility of integrated versus standard involvement of palliative team for
      hematological advanced patients.

      Secondary aims to evaluate the efficacy of this new model on Quality of Life (QoL) until 6
      months after the enrollment.

      to evaluate the impact of the intervention on care pathways (number of chemotherapies in the
      last 30 days, number of exams, length of stay in Hospital or Hospice, access to emergency
      department, setting of death and so on) to evaluate the acceptability of the intervention by
      patients, professionals and caregivers.
    
  