
    
      Through a prospective multi-centre cross-sectional study, the utility of outpatient
      tablet-based audiometry (Shoebox MD, Clearwater Medical Ltd) and a novel interactive
      web-based hearing app developed in collaboration with the Dyson School of Audio design
      engineering, Imperial College (Project: 3D Tune-in) will be compared to standard sound-booth
      extended high-frequency audiometry performed by an audiologist and a validated ototoxicity
      screening questionnaire (HHIA). 200 adults with CF presenting either to the Specialist Adult
      Cystic Fibrosis Centre at the Royal Brompton and Harefield Foundation Trust or Kings College
      Hospital NHS Foundation Trust will be prospectively recruited to the study over a 12-month
      period. Blood samples for genomic DNA isolation will additionally be taken for all
      participants for mitochondrial DNA sequencing.

      Hypothesis:

      Tablet-based audiometry is a valid reliable tool to screen for drug-induced hearing loss in
      adults with CF.

      Blinding:

      - Audiologists performing standard sound-booth extended high-frequency audiometry will be
      blinded to results of tablet-based audiometry and web-based hearing app results.

      Outcome measures:

        -  Warble-tone thresholds will be analysed through both tablet and standard extended
           high-frequency audiometry.

        -  Interclass correlation coefficient (ICC) with a 95% confidence interval will be used as
           a measure of reliability.

        -  Sensitivity, specificity and negative predictive value will be analysed to determine
           utility of tablet based audiometry, web-based hearing app, standardised hearing
           questionnaires and mitochondrial mutation screening to identify ototoxicity in adults
           with CF.

        -  Logistic regression modelling (complex statistical modelling) will be used to determine
           risk factors for developing hearing loss within adult CF.

        -  7-point Likert scale questionnaires will be used to evaluate patient satisfaction,
           perceived usefulness and usability of tablet audiometry, web-based app hearing testing
           and formal audiometry.
    
  