
    
      This research study is being done to determine if Occupational Therapy Driving Intervention
      (OT-DI) can improve the safe driving performance (less errors) over the short term
      (immediately following intervention) and intermediate term (3 months).

      Baseline testing-Pre-test 1-- will include clinical battery of tests and a simulated driving
      test, a Brief Driving Questionnaire, Community Integration Questionnaire, and a Satisfaction
      with Life Questionnaire. Caregivers/ family members will rate the participants' driving
      behaviors using a Fitness-to-Drive Screening Measure( FTDS). After baseline testing the 60
      participants (and 60 associated caregivers) will be randomly assigned to a balanced
      intervention group (15 participants with Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI)/ Post Traumatic Stress
      Disorder (PTSD) and 15 participants with orthopedic conditions and caregivers) and a control
      group (15 with TBI/PTSD and 15 with orthopedic conditions and caregivers).

      The intervention group receives Occupational Therapy Driving Intervention (OT-DI), consisting
      of three x 1 hour sessions will include: Session 1: Driving evaluator reviews explicit
      driving errors with participants; Session 2: Driving evaluator provide tailored strategies to
      mitigate errors; Session 3: Participants drive simulator with targeted feedback from driving
      evaluator.

      The control group will receive, from a driving safety professional, three x 1 hour general
      safety sessions (Session 1: General traffic safety discussion; Session 2: Rules of the road
      and knowledge of the road discussion; Session 3: drive the simulator without any feedback
      from traffic safety professional). Immediately after session 3, Post-test 1 will occur using
      the same standardized protocol outlined for baseline testing. Post-test 2 will consist of
      testing with the same standardized protocol as administered during baseline testing.
      Caregivers/ family members will rate the participant driving behaviors using the FTDS. In
      addition, the investigators will obtain driving data from the Department of Motor Vehicles
      which will include: citations, violations, driving mishaps, and crashes that have occurred
      for each participant.
    
  