
    
      Setting The study would be conducted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New
      Delhi, a tertiary care teaching hospital, in the departments of Gastroenetrology and
      Radiodiagnosis.

      Sample size Taking RFA as a standard procedure with an estimated success rate of 95%, a
      sample size of minimum 27 for each arm is required to detect an equivalence difference of
      10%, assuming that PAI has a success rate of 85%. This sample size is expected to provide a
      power of 80%.

      Randomization

        -  Stratified randomization of Child A and B will be done.

        -  Randomization into A (Acetic acid) and B (Radiofrequency ablation) will be done.

      Diagnostic criteria

        -  Cirrhosis of liver- Diagnosis will be founded on the basis of clinical, biochemical,
           imaging and endoscopy findings.

      Hepatocellular carcinoma- when any one of the following is present

        1. Two imaging modalities (dual phase CT (DPCT)/ contrast enhanced Magnetic Resonance
           Imaging (MRI)) showing arterialization of the hepatic mass

        2. AFP more than 400ng/ml along with arterialisation on one imaging modality (DPCT/
           contrast enhanced MRI)

        3. Fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC)

      Definitions

        1. Local recurrence : When the Triple phase CT shows-

             -  An area of nodular enhancement that abuts or surrounds the ablation defect or
                protrudes into the low attenuating necrotic tissue (may sometimes be seen only on
                arterial phase of CT)

             -  Recurrent soft tissue causing distortion of the otherwise smooth interphase with
                the adjoining liver parenchyma.

        2. Fresh lesion- When a new lesion is seen in the liver at a site other than the primary
           site of the treated lesion with normal liver parenchyma intervening in between will be
           considered as a fresh lesion.

        3. Residual disease or incomplete ablation When the follow up Triple phase CT shows-

             -  Residual nodular enhancement that abuts or surrounds the low attenuating ablation
                defect or protrudes into the low attenuating necrotic tissue (may sometimes be seen
                only on arterial phase of CT)

             -  Residual soft tissue causing distortion of the otherwise smooth interphase with the
                adjoining liver parenchyma.

             -  Concenteric hyperemia around the low attenuating defect showing area of focal
                nodularity or asymmetric thickness.

        4. End point of ablation When the Triple phase CT shows-

             -  A homogenous, well defined, uniformly low attenuating defect larger than the
                pretreatment size.

             -  No residual soft tissue seen within or at the periphery of the low attenuating
                defect

             -  Concentric hyperemia around the low attenuating defect of uniform thickness with no
                focal nodularity.

      Follow up

        1. Clinical follow up

             -  All patients would be followed up in the Liver clinic monthly unless their clinical
                condition warrants earlier follow up

             -  Liver function tests/ complete blood count would also be done at each visit and
                Alfafetoprotein (AFP) every six months

             -  Patient tolerance, child's status would be estimated.

        2. Imaging follow up

             -  At one month, a dual phase CT would be done to ascertain the local response to
                therapy and the need to repeat the procedure. After achieving the end point after
                ablation (PAI and RFA, the DPCT would be done at 3 and 6 monthly intervals.

      Duration of follow up - Since more than 80% recurrence occurs in 2 years therefore the
      duration of follow up would be 2 years after ablation.
    
  