
    
      METHODOLOGY

      Type of study - Randomised controlled trial (RCT)

      Study period - March 2014 to July 2016

      Place of study - Department of Pulmonary Medicine and Sleep Disorders, All India Institute of
      Medical Sciences, New Delhi

      Study group - Bronchiectasis that is not attributable to Cystic fibrosis

        -  Group 1 - Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR)

        -  Group 2 - Standard care

      Sample size - 20 in each arm

      The study requires patients to attend the pulmonary rehabilitation program twice a week for 8
      weeks.

      Consent will be taken from all patients prior to enrollment.

      Exacerbations of bronchiectasis will be defined by the following criteria:

      At least four of the following clinical signs and symptoms suggestive of an acute
      exacerbation of bronchiectasis over two consecutive days:

        -  Increase in sputum quantity

        -  Change in sputum colour

        -  Change in sputum viscosity

        -  Increase in cough

        -  Increase in dyspnoea

        -  Increase in fatigue/lethargy

        -  Fever (self-reported)

        -  Episode of haemoptysis

      The number of acute pulmonary exacerbations per year in the previous years will be recorded.

      All patients attending the out patient department of pulmonary department of All India
      Institute of Medical Sciences will be screened for recruitment in the study.

      Baseline evaluation

      All patients who qualify for the study will undergo a detailed evaluation. This will include
      demographic data, complete medical history and clinical examination including anthropometry.
      Baseline assessment will include the following parameters:

      i. Anthropometry

      ii. Pulmonary Function Tests and Respiratory muscle strength

      iii. Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPET)

      iv. Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT)

      v. Severity of dyspnoea (Dyspnoea scale)

      vi. Limb muscle strength

      vii. Inflammatory markers in the serum - C-reactive protein

      viii. Quality of Life

      The participants will then be randomly assigned to receive either standard care alone or
      pulmonary rehabilitation. The randomisation will be completed by the creation of a random
      numbers table.

      Intervention

      Standard care group

      Candidates randomized to the "standard care group" will receive standard care for
      bronchiectasis according to current guidelines. These participants will receive instruction
      and review of airway clearance therapy (ACT). Each participant will be provided with written
      information about bronchiectasis and education regarding self-management of the condition.
      Participants who have not been previously instructed in any ACT will be taught the active
      cycle of breathing technique. These participants will not receive any supervised exercise
      training.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation group

      Participants randomised to the Pulmonary Rehabilitation group will receive exercise training
      and regular instruction in self-management of ACT along with standard care. Patients will be
      enrolled into the pulmonary rehabilitation programme, in the Department of Pulmonary Medicine
      and Sleep disorders, All India Institute of Medical Sciences.

      The total duration of the programme would be 8 weeks, with thrice weekly sessions of exercise
      training of 1 hour duration each. Of these sessions, at least 2 will be supervised while one
      will be at home. The patient will be asked to maintain a personal log recording the date,
      time, duration and type of exercise performed to ensure compliance, and these will be
      regularly reviewed and monitored.

      The Rehabilitation Programme will include the following:

      i. Patient education

      ii. Exercise training

      iii. Ventilator and breathing exercises

      Outcome Assessment

      The patients will be reassessed at the end of the 8 week training programme.

      Primary outcome measures:

        -  Maximum exercise capacity - measured with the 6MWT (the primary outcome is the greatest
           distance walked) and the CPET (VO2 max)

        -  HRQoL measured with the St. George Respiratory Questionnaire

      Secondary outcome measures:

        -  Change in the Leicester Cough Questionnaire

        -  Change in the C- reactive protein

        -  Change in the lung Functions

        -  Change in the anxiety and depressions score

        -  Change in the hand grip dynamometry
    
  