
    
      Malaria in pregnancy often results in high degree of morbidity and mortality of the pregnant
      mother and the fetus. Early and accurate diagnosis of subclinical infections will be critical
      to malaria elimination and specifically the goals of the World Health Organization to reduce
      the burden of disease by 90% before 2030. This goal can only be achieved using highly
      sensitive methods such as LAMP that are capable of detecting subclinical infections with very
      low parasitemia. Currently both Giemsa stained blood film microscopy and RDT are the only
      laboratory methods that are used to diagnose malaria both in pregnant mothers and the general
      population. This leaves a big gap in the detection of low-level infections and asymptomatic
      malaria due to the documented lack of sensitivity of the aforementioned methods. This, in
      turn, predisposes pregnant mothers to malaria-related complications that endangers the life
      of the mother and the fetus. In this study, we propose that the use of a highly sensitive
      LAMP technique will enable us to detect more asymptomatic Plasmodium infections in pregnant
      women. This consequently results in early treatment of the pregnant mothers and may avert
      maternal and fetal morbidity and mortality. This study is of particular importance in
      Ethiopia where IPT is not used for pregnant women and therefore accurate screening is
      paramount.

      OBJECTIVES

      General objective To assess the impact of LAMP in the diagnosis of malaria in pregnancy and
      its potential role in reducing mortality and morbidity attributable to malaria. We
      hypothesize that the additional sensitivity of LAMP coupled with active case detection in
      detecting malaria in pregnancy will result in additional cases being identified and treated.

      Specific objectives

        1. To evaluate the impact of LAMP versus microscopy/RDT for the detection of malaria in
           pregnant mothers in terms maternal and infant morbidity and mortality.

        2. To evaluate the impact of enhanced case detection of malaria in pregnancy by screening
           asymptomatic mothers at each antenatal visit until delivery.

        3. To determine the impact of treating LAMP-positive asymptomatic and symptomatic pregnant
           women as compared to standard of care. Treatment is per national guidelines.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS

      Study area The study will be conducted at sites across several sites in Ethiopia to obtain
      sufficient enrolment and spanning different transmission settings based on epidemiological
      data provided by the Federal Ministry of Health. The study sites are in the Amhara region
      (Chisabay Health center, Hamusit health center and Andasa Health center), and in the Jimma
      area (Bonga (GebreTsadik Shawo) General hospital, Uffa health center and Lare health center).
      In Ethiopia, malaria is characterized by its seasonality where the peak transmission season
      is from October to December with a second peak in June. P. falciparum and P. vivax are the
      predominant species in the area.

      Study design and period

      The study is a prospective diagnostic study of malaria in pregnant women. The goal is to
      determine whether: (i) LAMP provides a clinically measurable benefit compared to current
      first line diagnostic test of Giemsa-stained microscopy and whether (ii) enhanced case
      detection of asymptomatic mothers with LAMP has added value in terms of outcomes. We
      hypothesize that addition of LAMP to one arm will be of greater benefit than microscopy alone
      due to additional LAMP sensitivity. We further hypothesize that enhanced case detection by
      screening asymptomatic mothers at each antenatal visit will be of additional value in
      treating malaria. Both symptomatic and asymptomatic first and second trimester mothers will
      be included in the study and individually randomized to one of two arms: standard of care or
      enhanced cased detection arms using LAMP for malaria. Mothers will be enrolled during a
      seven-month period from March 2021 to January 2022 and then followed until 28 days after
      delivery. Given the rate of pregnant mothers at the locations, we anticipate that the
      required minimum of 2583 mothers will be enrolled in the study during the study period. In
      the first standard of care arm, venous blood sample will be collected from each study
      participant and the presence of Plasmodium infection will be diagnosed by microscopy in
      symptomatic patients. Pregnant women who test positive for malaria will be referred and
      treated for malaria with quinine or ACTs as per national guidelines. In the second (test)
      arm, mothers whether symptomatic or asymptomatic will be tested by a commercially available
      CE-approved LAMP malaria test (Human Diagnostics LoopAMP (Wiesbaden, Germany)) at each clinic
      visit in addition to RDT/microscopy. The commercial LAMP tests can distinguish P. falciparum
      and P. vivax and treatment will be given according to national guidelines. The purpose of
      doing all tests in the intervention arm is to determine how many additional cases LAMP
      identified. The primary outcome is the proportion of deliveries with low birth weight, with
      secondary outcomes of: (i) absolute birth weight; (ii) maternal hemoglobin; (ii) neonatal
      hemoglobin at birth (Standard Hgb testing from peripheral blood or finger prick); (iv)
      neonatal mortality; (v) pregnancy loss; and (vi) prematurity in each of the two arms.
    
  