
    
      Background: Brain metastases affect one third of adult cancer patients. Stereotactic
      radiosurgery (SRS) is standard of care for patients with limited brain metastases. Yet most
      patients will experience post-treatment cognitive decline given the potential for high doses
      to eloquent white matter and the hippocampus.

      Objective/Hypothesis: The investigator's team has developed innovative, robust imaging
      methods and automated segmentation techniques to identify critical white-matter tracts and
      the hippocampus using advanced diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and volumetric imaging. These
      novel imaging techniques also allow us to directly and non-invasively measure microstructural
      changes after RT to critical brain structures in vivo. The investigators will use these
      advanced imaging technologies in a prospective trial of cognitive-sparing brain SRS for brain
      metastases patients.

      Specific Aims: 1: To evaluate whether relative sparing of eloquent white matter tracts
      (critical for memory, language, attention, and executive functioning) and hippocampi from
      high doses during brain SRS results in improved 3-month post-SRS cognitive performance
      relative to historical controls in patients with 1 to 3 brain metastases. 2: To measure
      longitudinal trends in white matter damage (using DTI) and hippocampal atrophy (using
      volumetric change) among patients receiving cognitive-sparing brain SRS and correlate these
      imaging biomarkers with domain-specific cognitive outcomes.

      Study Design: The investigators will prospectively enroll 60 adult patients with 1-3 brain
      metastases who are eligible for brain SRS and MRI. Patients will undergo MRI with DTI and 3D
      volumetric imaging at baseline (pre-SRS) and 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months afterwards.
      White matter and hippocampal segmentation will be performed and critical regions integrated
      into cognitive-sparing brain SRS planning with automated knowledge-based optimization.
      Cognitive-sparing dose constraints are derived from previous data. A well-established,
      validated battery of neurocognitive tests will be performed at baseline and 3 months
      post-SRS. Cognitive deterioration rate will be compared between the current trial and
      historical controls and linear regression used to analyze patient, tumor, and treatment
      related predictors of cognitive decline. Statistical modeling will be used to analyze changes
      in imaging biomarkers as a function of time and radiation dose, and these changes will be
      tested for association with domain-specific cognitive tests. Spatial sensitivity to RT dose
      across white matter tracts will be analyzed.
    
  