
    
      The interest of perioperative brain monitoring to reduce neurological and cognitive damage in
      surgery has been the subject of much research and corresponds to a crucial issue.

      The notion of quantitative EEG covers all the electrical signal processing techniques (fast
      Fourier transformation, evoked potentials, EEG mapping, etc.) made possible through the
      digitization of EEG data and the development of software to process these signals. In this
      context, EEG-derived indices have been set up to monitor hypnosis during general anesthesia.
      Between 0 (deep hypnosis) and 100 (awakening), the Bispectral Index (BIS) integrates in its
      calculation the percentage of fast waves, the degree of wave synchronization and the periods
      of EEG suppression (or "Burst suppression") and allows an adaptation of the dosage of
      anesthetic products according to its value.

      Avoiding too deep anesthesia through neuro-monitoring could help to reduce postoperative
      delirium by reducing the burst suppression pattern.

      Pre-operative cognitive status assessment :

      The investigators observe a great delay in the means implemented to have an objective
      evaluation of cognitive disorders in preoperative care.

      One of the pitfalls of our anesthetist specialty is the lack of continuity of medical care in
      the perioperative period.

      The geriatric evaluation including a MMSE (mental mini state examination) and a MoCA
      (Montreal cognitive assessment) is performed only occasionally.

      Interest of the resting pre-operative EEG :

      Sleep EEG analysis is already used in cognitive studies. Slow Wave Activity (SWA) is a
      parameter known to be inversely correlated with chronological age and lowered more
      significantly in the context of cognitive dysfunction.

      The power of spindles or sleep spindles and particularly fast spindles have been shown to be
      potentially predictive of poor cognitive development in patients already showing symptoms
      (Mild Cognitive Impairment).

      It is likely that per operative susceptibility to Burst suppression and the appearance of
      postoperative cognitive dysfunction are linked to a set of per operative factors (anesthesia,
      surgery, inflammation, pain...) but also preoperative factors (cognitive state, physiological
      age and cerebral fragility...).

      The investigators hypothesize that there is an association between preoperative resting EEG
      abnormalities and the risk of postoperative cognitive dysfunction.

      The goal of this observational clinical study is to assess the fragility of a patient under
      general anesthesia and based on the perioperative quantitative analysis EEG. Thus, this
      project should help specialists in perioperative medicine to identify patients at risk of
      cognitive dysfunction and could lead to proposing strategies for its prevention.

      Measures are based on neuro-psychological tests (Montreal cognitive assesment -MoCA) and EEG
      signal and subfrequency power spectral densities including alpha band as well as the amount
      of Propofol, each measured for EEG periods where SEF 95 = 8-13Hz.

      Analysis includes the characteristics of the preoperative sleep EEG (SWA, fast spindles).

      Experimental design: This is a single-center, observational prospective study.

      Population concerned :

      Patients eligible for interventional neuroradiology or surgery performed under General
      Anesthesia are selected to participate in this prospective, observational, single-center,
      routine care study. Patients will be included if they received, for a non-urgent scheduled
      procedure.

      Patients over 18 years of age are eligible to participate in this protocol. During the
      anesthesia consultation, they will be given a hand-delivered letter of information on the
      objectives and the course of the study. Their non-opposition to participating in this study
      will be collected at the latest during the pre-anesthetic visit, on the eve of the operation
      after a period of reflection.

      The protocol will start the day before the intervention. The interventions will be performed
      under general anaesthesia. The protocol does not interact with the care procedure. All the
      measures are obtained non-invasively.

      The day before the procedure: performance of a sleep EEG (DREEM速) and a MoCA test. On the day
      of the procedure, monitoring of the depth of anesthesia using the quantitative EEG (Sedline
      Masimo速) ensures continuous recording of intraoperative EEG data. Postoperatively the same
      investigator performs MoCA at Day1, Day2 and Day5. A sleep EEG (DREEM速) is performed at Day2
      and Day5 if the patient is still hospitalized.

      During their general anesthesia, all patients' routine monitoring will consist in collecting
      the following parameters: electrocardiogram, pulsated oxygen saturation, endtidal CO2,
      respiratory rate, tidal volume and neuromuscular function.

      For all patients whatever the comorbidities, anesthesia induction will be performed using a
      target-controlled infusion (Orchestra速 Base Primea - Fresenius Kabi France).

      No additional additional examination will be performed. The anesthetic strategy is decided by
      the anesthetist in charge of the procedure.

      The doctor in charge of the study collecting the data does not interfere at any time in the
      management of the patient. The measurements cannot influence the prescribing physician since
      at this stage the data are not yet analysed and available.

      Number of selected subjects: Assuming an incidence of DCPO of 30%, with power at 80% and
      alpha risk at 5%, it is necessary to include 100 patients to demonstrate an area under the
      ROC curve of 80% with a confidence interval width of 0.1

      Statistics:

      Continuous data will be expressed in median [interquartile] and qualitative data in n (%).
      Categorical variables will be compared by Mann-Whitney test and continuous variables by
      Wilcoxon test.

      In this study, the primary endpoint was the occurrence of post-operative cognitive
      dysfunction, defined as a decrease in MoCA score of more than 4 points between preoperative
      and postoperative periods (worst value of the score measured at D1, D2 and D5). The main
      exposure is the quantitative score obtained from the analysis of the pre-operative sleep EEG.

      The ability of the various parameters of interest of the preoperative sleep EEG to predict
      the occurrence of DCPO will be estimated by constructing an ROC curve. The area of these ROC
      curves will be measured and the corresponding 95% confidence interval estimated. The areas
      under the ROC curve of the different parameters will be compared by DeLong test. A uni- and
      then multivariate analysis will be performed to identify the clinical parameters associated
      with the occurrence of a DCPO. The possible added value of the sleep EEG parameters on the
      clinical parameters will be evaluated by reclassification techniques.

      The statistical analysis will be carried out using the statistical analysis software "R" (The
      R Foundation, Vienna, Austria)
    
  