
    
      Renal transplant is the most effective treatment for end-stage renal disease. It provides
      improved survival and quality of life. Maintenance of a functioning renal transplant mandates
      lifelong immunosuppressive therapy to prevent immune destruction of the graft. Current
      immunosuppressive regimens yield 1-year survival rates of 89% for cadaveric and 94% for
      living-donor grafts. Over time, however, there is progressive loss of both subjects and
      grafts. Five-year graft survival for cadaveric and living related donor renal transplants is
      67% and 80%, respectively.

      The most common causes of long-term subject and graft loss in kidney transplant recipients
      are cardiovascular disease and chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN), respectively.
      Paradoxically, the principal immunosuppressive therapies for renal transplant, the
      calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs), cyclosporine (CsA) and tacrolimus, directly contribute to
      long-term allograft loss and subject death, since they are inherently nephrotoxic and can
      cause or exacerbate cardiovascular risks including hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and
      diabetes mellitus.

      There is, therefore, a substantial unmet medical need for new therapies in renal transplant
      that can provide short-term subject and graft survival comparable to the CNIs without their
      long-term nephrotoxic, cardiovascular, and metabolic effects. Because belatacept can be
      administered at the time of engraftment rather than in a delayed fashion, as is frequently
      necessary with CNIs - especially in those allografts with initial impaired renal function--
      it affords immunosuppression in a timely manner. Unlike CNIs, the targeted mechanism of
      action of belatacept should provide immunosuppression without nephrotoxicity or adverse
      effects on the cardiovascular/metabolic profile.

      Glucocorticoids have been a cornerstone of immunosuppressive therapy for six decades.
      Although glucocorticoids provide potent suppression of allo-immune responses in humans, their
      adverse effects including infection, diabetes, weight gain, hypertension, hyperlipidemia,
      bone disease, dermal thinning, collagen loss in multiple tissues, and cataracts, combined
      with a lack of available therapeutic monitoring all argue against their continued use in
      transplantation.

      Belatacept represents a potential new treatment option for renal transplant recipients, which
      addresses the current unmet need for an immunosuppressive treatment that provides short-term
      outcomes comparable to calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs) with the potential to avoid their renal,
      cardiovascular, and metabolic toxicities. However, the initial Phase 3 studies exhibited in
      higher rate of acute rejection and malignancy. The malignancies were associated with
      recipients who were EBV negative at the time of transplant. All EBV negative patients are
      precluded from treatment with Belatacept. Due to the limitations of Phase 3 trial designs and
      the required use of basilixumab induction, it is intuitive that the addition of a potent t
      cell depleting induction agent may decrease the overall acute rejection rate in patients
      treated with belatacept.

      The current study tests these assumptions with the following immunosuppressive regimens.
      Group A and B consist of potent T-cell depleting induction agents combined with belatacept.
      Group C represents the most common immunosuppressive regimen currently utilized in the United
      States. Each of these regimens include early withdrawal of glucocorticoids along with
      maintenance mycophenolate mofetil.

      Based upon the totality of available evidence, the current study offers a favorable
      benefit/risk profile to study subjects, and the potential to continue to provide important
      data for the development of new immunosuppressive regimens that address important unmet
      needs.

      The proposed Phase 4 study is designed to determine whether belatacept, in combination with
      other immunosuppressive agents (rabbit antithymocyte globulin or alemtuzumab, mycophenolate
      mofetil/EC mycophenolate sodium), may provide acceptable efficacy and safety in de novo
      kidney transplant recipients, in a regimen that provides simultaneous CNI freedom and early
      CSWD.
    
  