
    
      HIV infected women face the challenges of preventing both pregnancy and HIV transmission to
      their sexual partners. However, OCs may interact with antiretroviral therapy (ART), and data
      suggest that higher doses of OCs may increase cervical shedding of HIV-1, which may increase
      an HIV infected woman's infectiousness to her sexual partners. A physical barrier
      contraceptive would be useful to HIV infected women to circumvent the problems associated
      with concurrent use of OCs and ART. The levonorgestrel IUD has proved highly effective in
      preventing unwanted pregnancies in HIV uninfected women since its introduction in the United
      States in 1999. This study will evaluate the effect of the levonorgestrel IUD on HIV viral
      load in an HIV infected woman's cervix after 4 weeks of IUD use.

      This study will last approximately 48 weeks; there will be 4 study visits. At screening,
      participants will undergo medical and medication history assessment; a complete physical
      exam; a pelvic exam, including genital tract sample collection; blood collection; sexually
      transmitted disease (STD) testing; and a Pap smear, if needed. The levonorgestrel IUD will be
      inserted into the participant's uterus at study entry. At study entry and at Weeks 4, 16, and
      48, participants will undergo a targeted physical exam; a pelvic exam, including genital
      tract sample collection; and blood collection. Participants will be given a menstrual diary
      at the start of the study and at each study visit and will be asked to document all menstrual
      cycles they have for the duration of the study.

      To be eligible for this study, participants may not have had ART within 90 days prior to
      study entry. However, after the Week 4 study visit, participants may reinitiate (if they were
      on ART more than 90 days prior to study entry) or initiate (if they are ART naive) ART, if
      deemed necessary to do so by their physicians.
    
  