
    
      The study site will be the Tororo district hospital campus situated in Eastern Uganda, an
      area of high malaria transmission. Using convenience sampling, we will enroll 500
      HIV-infected pregnant women and their infants from the Tororo community. Eligible women
      between 12-28 weeks gestation will be randomized at enrollment to receive either a PI- based
      or an NNRTI-based ART regimen after stratification by gravidity (G1 versus G2+) and
      gestational age (<24 weeks versus ≥ 24 weeks at enrollment).

      Treatment group A will receive Zidovudine 300mg + Lamivudine 150mg + Lopinavir/ritonavir
      200mg/50mg. Treatment group B will receive Zidovudine 300mg + Lamivudine 150mg + Efavirenz
      600mg.

      At enrollment, all study participants will receive a long lasting ITN and, as available, a
      basic care package including a safe water vessel, multivitamins and condoms, as per current
      standard of care for HIV-infected pregnant women in Uganda, if they have not already received
      these interventions from the referral site. Two ITNs will be provided for each mother-infant
      pair. Participants will receive all routine and acute medical care at a designated study
      clinic open 7 days a week from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. If medical care is needed after hours,
      participants will be instructed to come to Tororo District Hospital premises (where the study
      clinic is located) and request that the study physician on-call be contacted. They will be
      followed up from the time of enrollment during pregnancy and through the cessation of
      breastfeeding; seen monthly for routine assessments and laboratory evaluations. Following
      delivery, the infants of enrolled women will be followed until 6 weeks following the
      cessation of breastfeeding but not beyond 58 weeks of life. Study participants will be
      followed closely for adverse events potentially due to study drugs and for malaria and HIV
      treatment outcomes. During the follow-up period, all patients presenting to the clinic with a
      new episode of fever will undergo standard evaluation (history, physical examination and
      Giemsa-stained blood smear) for the diagnosis of malaria.

      Women will receive the study treatment from the time of study entry and randomization (12-28
      weeks gestation) until 1 week following the cessation of breastfeeding (but no longer than 1
      year + 1 week postpartum). If a subject experiences a toxicity endpoint, ART will be changed
      to provide antiviral activity prior to delivery. Exclusive breastfeeding will be encouraged
      until 24 weeks postpartum which is the standard of care in Uganda. As per updated WHO
      guidelines, women will be encouraged to introduce food at 6 months of life and continue
      breastfeeding until 1 year of life. Women will be counseled to wean over the course of 1
      month and continue antiretrovirals for at least 1 week following weaning. Furthermore, if an
      infant is found to be HIV-infected, Uganda MOH and WHO guidelines recommend the continuation
      of breastfeeding until 2 years of life and daily TS. All women will receive daily oral
      trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TS) per Ugandan MOH guidelines.

      Per Ugandan MOH guidelines, all newborns will receive nevirapine syrup (10mg/ml) starting
      within 12 hours after birth for 6 weeks, daily oral TS from 6 weeks of life until 6 weeks
      following the cessation of breastfeeding, and their mothers will be instructed on ITN use for
      their infants.
    
  