
    
      In December 2019, several patients were diagnosed with pneumonia of undefined etiology in
      Wuhan, China. A few days later, a virus was identified as the etiologic agent. It was a new
      beta coronavirus that received the name of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coroinavirus
      (SARS-COV-2).

      The disease quickly spread to the Wuhan region and in March reached northern Italy and soon
      across Europe. On March 14, the World Health Organization declared that COVID-19 had acquired
      seriousness and spread to be defined as a pandemic.

      Since then, COVID-19 has challenged the ability of rich countries to meet the demand for
      beds, especially ICU beds, and it has also challenged science in search of effective
      treatment, while in record time research centers begins testing with a vaccine.

      Although a significant percentage of patients with COVID-19 have a benign evolution, around
      20% of cases the disease acquires sufficient severity from the point of view of lung
      involvement to justify treatment in the ICU. In addition, around 5% of patients evolve with
      extremely serious forms and are associated with a lethality of up to 60%. Some of these
      patients demonstrated in studies alterations in cellular and humoral immunity compatible with
      the cytokine release syndrome, an entity that has been described complicating the use of
      antineoplastic drugs and viral infections.

      At this moment several studies, some of them with conclusions already seek to identify
      effective forms of treatment. Antiviral drugs such as Lopinavir-Ritonavir, which has already
      been tested in a prospective randomized study and has not been shown to be effective. The
      antiviral rendecivir was tested in a preliminary study brought a positive expectation and the
      hydroxychloroquine in studies with small samples is the drug that currently meets the highest
      expectations. None of these drugs, however, is effective in the case of the group of patients
      who acquire severity as a result of what has been called a cytokine storm. In this case,
      expectations are turned to interleukin antagonists and corticosteroids. Among the interleukin
      antagonists the drug that meets the most expectations is Tocilizumab, an interleukin-6
      antagonist that has proven efficacy in the cytokine release syndrome caused by antineoplastic
      drugs. There are currently ongoing studies analyzing the role of tocilizumab and, at the same
      time, and along the same line, corticosteroids are being tested. There is currently no
      prospective randomized study examining the role of tocilizumab. Regarding corticosteroids,
      the only evidence comes from a retrospective study involving 201 patients with COVID
      pneumonia 19 and acute respiratory distress syndrome. This study showed an association
      between corticosteroids and reduced risk of death (HR 0.38; p = 0.003).
    
  