
    
      Title

      MARC (Markers And Response to CRT) - Prospective CRT study

      Sponsor and study management

      The MARC study is being sponsored by all participants of the COHFAR project as being defined
      in the COHFAR project agreement (Medtronic, UMCU, AMC, MUMC, VUMC, UMCG and ICIN). Study
      management will be done by Medtronic.

      Purpose

      To investigate the relation of a set of (bio)markers and response to Cardiac
      Resynchronization Therapy (CRT); the interrelationship as well as the potential predictive
      power of these (bio)markers on improvement and/or deterioration of cardiac function, cardiac
      geometry (reverse re-modeling during CRT) will be evaluated.

      (Bio)markers include but are not limited to: collagen, genomic markers, molecular markers,
      electrocardiographic markers, echocardiographic markers, arrhythmogenic markers and markers
      for renal function: blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine, glomerular filtration rate
      (GFR).

      Design:

      This is a multi-center, exploratory, prospective, interventional post-market release,
      non-randomized, study.

      Medical device:

      For reasons of uniform therapy delivery and homogeneity of (device diagnostic) study data,
      only Medtronic CRT-Defibrillator devices are used in this study with CareLink transmission
      functionality, OptiVol and Cardiac Compass report. Any commercially available leads can be
      used upon discretion of the investigator. All CRT-D devices and additional components (leads,
      programmer) incorporated in this study are CE-marked and market-released devices and used
      within the intended use of these devices.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective

      • To investigate the relationship between a set of (bio)markers and response to cardiac
      resynchronization therapy (as measured by echocardiography) at 6 months.

      Secondary objectives

        -  To investigate the relationship between a set of (bio)markers and response to cardiac
           resynchronization therapy (as measured by echocardiography) at 12 months

        -  To investigate the relationship between (bio)markers and atrial fibrillation during
           follow-up

        -  To investigate the relationship between (bio)markers and ventricular tachycardia/
           fibrillation and/or appropriate shocks during follow-up

        -  To investigate the relationship between (bio)markers and reverse remodeling

        -  To relate baseline cardiac anatomy, function and mechanical dyssynchrony by cardiac MR
           and PET imaging in a subset of patients to CRT-response and to atrial and ventricular
           arrhythmias.

      The biomarkers include:

        -  Genomics (while blood cells): candidate gene approach with micro-RNA's (analysis will be
           performed at the Genetics Core laboratory at study end. A inal list of micro-RNA's will
           be determined at study end).

        -  Blood markers (serum or plasma) are but not limited to: biomarkers of fibrosis,
           inflammation, cardiac damage, hemodynamic stress and extra-cardiac markers and will be
           analyzed at the Blood Biomarkers Core laboratory at study end.

        -  CMR Imaging at baseline for patients enrolled at the VUMC, AMC and UMCU investigational
           centers: function, anatomy, hemodynamics, global and local mechanical dyssynchrony
           assessment (tagged MR, CURE, torsion), Scar Imaging (DCE-MRI) will be measured.

        -  PET Imaging for patients enrolled at the VUMC, AMC and UMCU investigational centers:
           Perfusion (Adenosine), Innervation withHED tracer will be performed.

        -  Electrocardiography: Beat-to-beat Variability of Repolarization (BVR) / Short-Term
           Variability (STV) protocol

        -  Echocardiography: function and structure (including but not limited to LVEDD, LVESV,
           LVEDV, LVESVi, LVEF, MR, LVFT, IVMD, atrial volumina), in combination with
           electrocardiographic investigation: PA-TDI (P-wave duration). Echo 2D-Speckle Tracking:
           Radial Strain, Septal Rebound Stretch, standard deviation of Time to peak systolic
           Strain (final set of parameters will be determined at study end).

        -  Clinical parameters including among other coronary artery disease, Body Mass Index,
           gender, Myocardial Infarction at baseline.

      All blood samples will be taken from peripheral venous blood and during implant also from the
      coronary sinus.

      Additional prospective analysis:

        -  HF monitoring: intra-thoracic impedance (Optivol), patient activity, heart rate
           variability, Cardiac Compass arrhythmic episodes, continuously recorded through Carelink

        -  Electrical markers: arrhythmogenic markers (final list of markers to be determined at
           study end).

        -  Correlation of AT/AF episodes as detected by Carelink with baseline PA Tissue Doppler
           Imaging data.

        -  Correlation of echo strain measurements and MRI strain measurements

        -  Occurrence of clinical events during long-term follow-up; clinical events include:

             -  Cardiovascular hospitalizations

             -  Heart failure hospitalizations

             -  All-cause mortality

             -  Heart transplantation

             -  Acute implantation of a left ventricular assist device

             -  Atrial and ventricular arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter,
                atrial tachycardia, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, as
                documented by continuous device diagnostic monitoring through CareLink

      Subject selection:

      The study will enroll 240 symptomatic heart failure patients (NYHA functional class II-III)
      with a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction and a prolonged QRS duration as measured
      prior to implantation of a cardiac resynchronization device (CRT-D). All patients will be
      followed for 1 year after implant. Each patient will visit the clinical site at baseline,
      1-month, 6-month and 12 month follow-up. The total study duration will be 3 years. The 5
      participating clinical institutions are all located in the Netherlands and member of the
      COHFAR project which is a partnership of the Center for Translational Molecular Medicine
      (CTMM) and Universitair Medisch Centrum Utrecht (UMCU), Universitair Medisch Centrum
      Groningen (UMCG), Academisch Medisch Centrum (AMC), VU Medisch Centrum (VUMC), Maastricht
      Universitair Medisch Centrum (MUMC), Medtronic and MSD with support from the Dutch Heart
      Foundation.

      Treatment:

      Each study subject will receive cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT-D) according to the
      ESC/AHA guidelines and per local hospital routine. Additionally, optimal medical therapy for
      heart failure is up to the investigator's discretion.
    
  