
    
      Effective and culturally relevant interventions are needed to curb the rising tide of
      overweight and obesity. This study adapts an evidence-based weight loss intervention for use
      in Native Hawaiian-serving organizations in Hawai'i, using a community-based participatory
      research (CBPR) approach. Findings from our two previous NIH-funded projects help to inform
      this proposed research: 1) The Designing Healthy Worksites (DHW) Project and 2) the PILI
      Lifestyle Intervention (PILI), developed by the PILI 'Ohana (family) Project: Partnerships to
      Overcome Obesity Disparities in Hawai'i.

      The DHW Project engaged with eight Native Hawaiian-serving organizations to obtain data on 1)
      existing worksite policies that support and/or promote health and well-being of employees and
      2) the perspectives and ideas of employees and employers around creating a healthy workplace.
      DHW participants expressed enthusiasm for health promotion programs at the worksite,
      especially weight-loss programs.

      The PILI 'Ohana Project adapted an evidence-based lifestyle intervention for use with Native
      Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders who sought care at community health clinics and/or were
      members of civic groups. The PILI Lifestyle Intervention (PILI) has two phases-PILI Weight
      Loss and PILI Maintenance. Both PILI Wt Loss and PILI Maintenance were designed for deliver
      to community-based groups. In pilot testing, all participants participating in PILI Wt Loss
      and realized significant weight loss after 3 months. Participants then were randomized into
      PILI Maintenance or standard behavioral treatment (SBT); those in PILI Maintenance performed
      better than those in SBT. PILI Wt Loss and PILI Maintenance were improved based on feedback
      from the pilot. Because of reported time constraints by pilot participants, a DVD version of
      PILI Maintenance was developed that people could use instead of attending group sessions. In
      a subsequent community-based study of PILI (funded by NIH-NCMHD and now underway),
      non-worksite participants are being randomized into a face-to-face or DVD delivery of PILI
      Maintenance after completion of PILI Wt Loss.

      Our specific aims and hypotheses for its application in worksites are as follows:

      Specific Aim 1: To adapt and implement PILI Wt Loss and PILI Maintenance in Native
      Hawaiian-serving organizations, working with employee representatives to determine how the
      intervention can be best implemented with employees in worksites (PILI Wt Loss and PILI
      Maintenance together will be called PILI@Work).

      Primary hypothesis: A community-tested, evidence-based intervention for obesity reduction and
      weight-loss maintenance can be effectively adapted and implemented in worksite settings with
      active participation by employees and employers.

      Specific Aim 2: Among employees participating in PILI@Work, to test whether PILI Maintenance
      in DVD format is as effective as PILI Maintenance in Group in maintaining weight loss for
      employees who complete PILI Wt Loss.

      Primary hypothesis: Overweight (BMI ≥ 25) and obese (BMI ≥ 30) employees who complete PILI Wt
      Loss will have successful weight loss outcomes, and those randomized to PILI Maintenance in
      DVD will have similar success at maintaining weight loss compared to those randomized to PILI
      Maintenance in group meetings or settings. Successful weight loss maintenance will be
      measured as a ≥ 3% mean weight change.

      Secondary hypothesis: Employees participating in PILI Maintenance in DVD and those in PILI
      Maintenance in Group will show similar maintenance of, or improvements in, physical
      functioning, blood pressure, daily self-weighing, low to moderate fat and low calorie diets,
      and daily physical activity.
    
  