
    
      Background

      Malnutrition occurs in up to 50% of patients requiring elective surgery for neoplastic
      diseases. It exerts a detrimental influence on outcome of surgery, because it can suppress
      immune function, exaggerate stress response and cause organ system dysfunction. Increased
      susceptibility to infection, protracted wound healing, impaired blood clotting and vessel
      wall fragility have been shown to be the leading causes of postoperative morbidity and
      mortality in malnourished patients undergoing major surgical resections.

      Immuno- or pharmaconutrition, defined as enteral or parenteral nutritional therapy based on a
      variety of products, such as omega-3-fatty acids, glutamine, arginine, sulfur-containing
      amino acids, nucleotides and anti-oxidants, is thought to have beneficial effects on
      postoperative recovery in a wide variety of surgical patients. Studies have shown its
      clinical effectiveness in terms of reduced postoperative complications, shortening the
      hospital stay and reduced hospitalization costs. Torosian et al. showed that severely
      malnourished patients benefit from preoperative nutrition, which reduce postoperative
      complications by 20%.

      Although there is clinical evidence for the administration of immunonutrition to patients in
      the perioperative period, our understanding of the optimal type and time of immunonutrition,
      the characteristics of patients that benefit most, as well as the immunological mechanisms
      responsible for its beneficial effect is limited.

      Objective

      To assess in malnourished cancer patients the effect of 30g oral glutamine/day (3 sachets
      KABI® glutamine, Fresenius Kabi/day) for a preoperative course of 5 days on:

        1. Postoperative morbidity (surgical site infections, pneumonia, sepsis, incidence of wound
           and fascial dehiscence, incisional hernia, anastomotic break down)

        2. Nutritional status of the patients

        3. Postoperative cell damage and inflammatory response

        4. Perioperative immunocompetence

      Methods

      Seven days before surgery, the patients will receive a tetanus booster shot and will be
      randomly enrolled in either the 'glutamine group' or into the 'placebo group'. The patients
      as well as the responsible surgeons will be blinded.

        -  Patients in the 'glutamine group' will receive 30g oral glutamine / day for 5 days
           before surgery.

        -  Patients in the 'control group' will receive 30g oral maltodextrin / day for 5 days
           before surgery.
    
  