
    
      General description:

      A prospective comparative study with historical control group will be performed.The test
      group will consist of 22 children aged 4-9 years old who are found to be suitable candidates
      for treatment with a BAHI (BI300 implant and BA300 abutment). The control group consists of
      approximatley 50 children, aged 4-9 years old, who already underwent insertion with a wide
      diameter implant between 2012 and 2018. In the test group, BAHI insertion will be performed
      using single-stage surgery. Patients in the control group already underwent BAHI insertion
      using two-stage surgery.

      Recruitment and consent:

      All children planned for implantation with bone anchored hearing implants will be screened
      for inclusion in the present study. Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be
      approached for participation by their ENT-specialist, after patients' and parents/caretakers'
      approval they will be informed and screened for participation by one of the researchers. The
      study protocol will be discussed with the potential study participant and his/her
      parents/caretakers by the researcher. The potential study participant and his/her
      parents/caretakers will be given/sent the Informed Consent Form to read. Potential study
      participants will be encouraged to discuss the study with family members and personal
      physician(s) before deciding whether to participate in the study. Patients and their
      parents/caretakers have 14 days to consider their decision. In order to participate in the
      study, both parents/caretakers need to sign the informed consent form.

      Data handling:

      Data captured will be recorded in Castor using electronic Case Report Forms (eCRFs). All
      data, patient and product related, must be accurately recorded in the eCRF by the delegated
      site staff. All users of the Castor system have personal, password protected accounts
      allowing tracking of all data entry in the system. Data management and data cleaning will be
      performed in the eCRF using the queries function to ensure traceability of all data entry and
      changes by the assigned data manager. Data including patient identifying information (i.e.
      name, initials, birth date) will be stored on a secured network drive using a code. Only the
      investigator who has the code can correlate the data with the patient's name and date of
      birth. It is the responsibility of the investigator to make sure that patient identification
      listings with patient code and identity are kept. Raw measurement data and other data such as
      historical information will be storedin the patient file, since data may be partly acquired
      and/or evaluated during standard patient care to limit the amount of extra procedures and
      hospital visits. For data analyses, data will be exported and stored in a digital research
      environment, separate from the key to the code. After completion of the study data collection
      and final monitoring visit, the electronic database will be locked and exported to SPSS
      format, which will be archived for 15 years after completion of the study. The coded study
      data will be archived separately from the key to the subject code in a secured digital
      research environment, also for a period of 15 years.

      Reporting (severe) adverse events:

      The investigator will report the Severe Adverse Events (SAEs) through the web portal
      ToetsingOnline to the accredited Medical Ethical Committee (METC) that approved the protocol,
      within 7 days of first knowledge for SAEs that result in death or are life threatening
      followed by a period of maximum of 8 days to complete the initial preliminary report. All
      other SAEs will be reported within a period of maximum 15 days after the investigator has
      first knowledge of the serious adverse events.

      Device deficiency:

      Inadequacy of an investigational medical device related to its identity, quality, durability,
      reliability, safety or performance. This may include malfunctions, use error, or inadequacy
      in the information supplied by the manufacturer. Device deficiency's will be logged together
      with an assessment by the investigator and reported to the manufacturer where applicable.

      Follow-up of adverse events:

      All Adverse events (AEs) will be followed until they have abated, or until a stable situation
      has been reached. Depending on the event, follow up may require additional tests or medical
      procedures as indicated, and/or referral to the general physician or a medical specialist.
      SAEs need to be reported until the end of study within the Netherlands, as defined in the
      protocol.

      Monitoring and Quality Assurance:

      In accordance with the guidelines of the 'Dutch Federation of university medical centers'
      (NFU) for monitoring of studies with negligible risk, a qualified monitor of another
      department of the Radboudumc, who is not part of the research team of this study, will be
      appointed. 28% of informed consents, 10% of inclusion and exclusion criteria (and three
      subjects who were enrolled first), 10% source data verification, reported SAEs and 10% of
      participants with regard to missed SAEs will be monitored.

      Statistical analysis:

      The main analyses will be the comparison between the test group, in which single-stage
      surgery is performed and the control group undergoing two-stage surgery.

      Concerning the primary outcome, the proportions of implant loss in the test and control group
      will be compared using an exact binominal test and a one tailed confidence interval of 95%.

      Secondary outcome measures will be compared between groups using the unpaired t-test
      (normally distributed data or Mann-Whitney U tests (not normally distributed data) for
      continuous variables, Mantel Haenszel chi-square test for ordered categorical variables,
      Fisher's exact test for dichotomous variables and Chi-square test for non-ordered categorical
      variables. If significant differences are found for baseline variables between the test group
      and the control group a complementary analysis between the two groups will be performed with
      adjustment for these variables.

      Handling of missing data for secondary and tertiary endpoints (especially applicable for
      control group data), depends on the reason why this data is missing and on the amount of
      missing data. Therefore decisions on handling of missing data will be made after all data is
      collected.

      All tests will be performed using a confidence interval of 95% and a significance level of
      0.05.
    
  