
    
      Investigators propose to constitute a prospective cohort of subjects carrying chronic
      disease. The main objective is to study the correlation between the vertical acceleration
      during the sit to stand phase of the instrumented Timed Up and Go test (TUG) and the
      isokinetic muscle strength of the quadriceps. In addition, as secondary objectives, we will
      study the potential correlations between the other parameters collected with the inertial
      sensors during instrumented tests (Timed-Up and Go test, and 6-Minute Walk Test) and the
      isokinetic muscle strength of the lower limb muscles, posturography parameters, gait
      parameters, apprehension of fall and others.

      In the present protocol, parameters will be measured once at inclusion day (to). Only the
      falling incidences will be collected prospectively at 6 months and at 1 year from the
      inclusion day.

      Statistical analyses will be carried out using Stata software (version 13, StataCorp, College
      Station, USA). Qualitative variables will be described in terms of numbers and associated
      percentages. The quantitative variables will be described in terms of numbers, associated
      mean and standard deviation, median and interquartile range. Wherever is possible, graphic
      representations will be associated with these analyses. All tests will be performed for a
      bilateral hypothesis and a p-value <5% will be considered statistically significant. For the
      main outcome, the Pearson correlation coefficient (or Spearman if data are not normally
      distributed) will be calculated with its 95% confidence interval. The analysis of the
      relationships between the continuous criteria will be carried out using Pearson correlation
      coefficients (or Spearman if data are not normally distributed).

      The search for fall risk factors (at 6 months / 1 year) will be carried out using standard
      tests:

        -  Chi-square test (or exact Fisher test when appropriate) for the categorical criteria.

        -  Student test (or Mann and Whitney test if data not normally distributed) for continuous
           criteria.

      These analyses will be completed using a logistic regression model by adjusting to the
      clinically relevant criteria or highlighted in the univariate analysis. Results will be
      presented as an odd ratio with their 95% confidence interval

      Little or no missing data is expected on the main criteria, however if a rate of missing
      data> 5% is observed, a sensitivity analysis for missing data will be carried out in order to
      characterize their nature (MCAR, MAR, MNAR) in order to propose the most suitable imputation
      method.
    
  