
    
      The data collection, evolution and physiotherapy treatment will be carried out on the
      premises of the Hospital de Clinical de Porto Alegre (HCPA), after approval by the Ethics and
      Research Committee (ERC) of the institution. The population will consist of patients
      undergoing surgery for THA at HCPA.

      The researchers invite patients that intern consecutively at HCPA, for surgery of THA and
      fall within the eligibility criteria, to participate in the research. They will be informed
      about the study, objectives, benefits and potential risks. After the informed consent of the
      patients and signed the Free and Informed Consent, the patients will be randomized into two
      groups: Intervention Group that will perform the PPTHA associated with FES in the gluteus
      medium; and a Control Group that will perform only the PPTHA.

      All patients are evaluated by physiotherapists of Hip Surgery Group of HCPA (HSGHCPA), who
      helped in the process of randomization, while revaluations are performed at hospital
      discharge through blinding simple by a researcher linked to the work that will take place
      only the revaluations and do not have access to the methodological aspects and randomization
      of the study, the patients are also instructed to not inform what kind of intervention
      received. The perform assessments are carried out through Amnesia idealized by authors,
      composed by identification data, history of pathology and current history of previous
      pathologist. In addition, all patients also underwent the following evaluations: before the
      intervention and after completion of the interventions, pre hospital discharge.

      The evaluation of joint ranges of motion will be carried out through the goniometry which
      will be performed in accordance with the methodology proposed by Manual Goniometry. Will be
      assessed by means of goniometry the movements of flexion, extension, adduction, abduction,
      internal and external rotation of both sides of the hip.

      The maximum muscle strength of the gluteus medium will be evaluated through a dynamometer
      load coupled to a support, stuck to the knee of the patient that will be in lateral
      decubitus, and will cause the movement of hip extension with both legs. The force shall be
      measured three times with intervals of 2 minutes of rest between the assessments. The maximum
      value obtained will be used as voluntary force maximum of the gluteus medium.

      Clinical evaluations and functional will be measured by means of the scores of Merle
      D'aubigne and Postel that has as objective to evaluate the motor performance regarding pain,
      gait and mobility. The clinical evaluation, the maximum score for pain (total absence),
      mobility (equal to normal hip) and gear (normal) is 6 and the sum total of the three
      evaluated areas is 18. The functional assessment the maximum score for pain (no pain) and
      ability to ambulate (normal) is 12.

      The structural adaptations of the gluteus medium from the rehabilitation will be assessed by
      means of images of ultrasound. For evaluation of muscle architecture will be used a System of
      portable ultrasound (VIVID i®, GE) with a probe of linear arrangement (60 mm, 7.5 MegaHertz
      (MHz) - VIVID i®, GE). The portable system will allow the easy scroll for assessment of
      patients in Inpatient Units. A single researcher is responsible for collection of all images,
      which are obtained with the muscles at rest. Maps are made in layers of acetate to ensure
      that images are collected in the same points during the assessments pre and post-training.
      These images are used in the evaluation of the following parameters of muscle architecture:
      (1) muscle thickness, which is measured by means of a perpendicular line between the
      superficial aponeurosis and the deep aponeurosis muscle; (2) length of volume, which
      represents the length of the muscle fiber and is a parameter that denotes the number of
      sarcomeres aligned in series and (3) angle of affliction of fibers, obtained by means of the
      angle formed between the deep aponeurosis and the volume, which is an indication of the size
      of the muscle fibers (i.e. the number sarcomeres aligned in parallel).

      The Control Group receives daily visits of HSGHCPA workouts from PPTHA, already established
      at HCPA. Already the Intervention Group performs the PPTHA associated with FES during the
      hospital phase.
    
  