
    
      A multicenter time series with segmented regression analysis will be conducted at three
      national high-volume centers of pancreatic surgery: The General and Pancreatic Surgery
      Department, Pancreas Institute, of Verona, the Oncological and Robotic General Surgery,
      Careggi University of Florence, and the Department of Surgery, University Campus Bio-Medico
      of Rome. All patients visited at the General and Pancreatic Surgery Department, Pancreas
      Institute, of Verona, the Oncological and Robotic General Surgery, Careggi Hospital,
      University of Florence, and the Department of Surgery, University Campus Bio-Medico of Rome
      and scheduled for pancreatic resection will be enrolled. The patients will be submitted to
      the routinely diagnostic preoperative procedures, including the RS culture, two weeks before
      surgery. All patients enrolled will receive a preoperative clinical visit two weeks before
      surgery. During the patient's interview, the surgeon will collect the medical history,
      exposing the clinical and surgical perioperative pathways. The patient is also submitted to
      the routinely preoperative lab tests, including the RS. The study design is based on evidence
      collected by previous studies of the group and after a systematic review of the literature.
      The ASP has been shown to effectively reduce unnecessary antibiotic use and optimize the
      treatment of infectious diseases. To be successful, multiple aspects should be considered in
      the ASP. Initially, the infection control specialists will follow the routine activity of
      each department in order to define what could immediately be improved. Internal antibiotic
      prophylaxis and therapy guidelines will be defined and shared between groups. The RS,
      collected at the preoperative testing, is evaluated by the infection control specialist. In
      case of identification of MDR bacteria, each patient will receive a tailored AP based on the
      antibiograms of the RS. In any case, the infection control specialist will choose the best
      solution for the patient avoiding the key antibiotics.
    
  