
    
      Acupuncture (ACP) is frequently used to treat tinnitus, the condition defined as the
      perception of sound in the absence of an external auditory stimulus. However, no information
      is available regarding the consequences of ACP on the neural architecture and functionality
      of the brain in tinnitus patients. The aim of this study was to investigate changes in brain
      activity using ethylcysteine dimer single-photon emission computer tomography (99mTc-ECD
      SPECT) in patients with tinnitus and normal hearing who underwent ACP treatment. Methods and
      Findings: This was a randomized, single-blinded, sham-controlled study. The participants were
      adults (18-60 years old) with either normal hearing or chronic, idiopathic and continuous (+
      3 months) tinnitus. Fifty-seven (57) subjects were randomized to receive true (n=30) or sham
      (n=27) ACP, and 99mTc-ECD SPECT exams were performed seven days before (baseline) and seven
      days after twelve ACP sessions (up to six weeks), which were performed twice a week.
      Secondary outcomes included changes in the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory (THI), the Visual
      Analog Scale (VAS), the Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAS) and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI).
      Data regarding imaging outcomes were analyzed with Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM8)
      software using a factorial design. For secondary outcomes, regression models were built
      considering two different analytical paradigms: intention-to-treat (ITT; where multiple
      imputations were conducted due to loss to follow-up) and complete cases. No significant
      differences in brain perfusion were observed between patients who underwent true versus sham
      ACP treatment. However, a significant improvement in THI scores at the end of true ACP
      treatment was observed for all domains (all p < 0.001), with the exception of the
      catastrophic field. For the other outcome measurements (VAS, BDI and HAS), no significant
      differences were observed between groups. The small sample size represents a potential
      limitation of this study. Conclusions: These findings suggest that ACP may improve the impact
      of tinnitus on daily life, although additional studies are needed to verify the consequences
      of ACP on the neural architecture and functionality of the brain in tinnitus patients.
    
  