
    
      Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by increased airway sensitivity to
      various stimuli and reversible airway obstruction (Soyuer et al., 2013). Bronchial
      hypersensitivity associated with chronic airway inflammation causes wheezing, dyspnea, chest
      tightness, and cough attacks, especially at midnight or morning. These attacks are associated
      with varying degrees of airway obstruction and usually improve with treatment or
      spontaneously (Arslan, 2011). Three mechanisms are responsible for the pathogenesis of
      asthma. These include reversible airway obstruction, airway inflammation, and increased
      airway sensitivity (Soyuer et al., 2013). Although it is known that genetic and environmental
      factors play a role in asthma formation, etiopathogenesis has not been fully explained
      (Arslan, 2011). Approximately 300 million people worldwide suffer from asthma and this
      prevalence increases by 50% every ten years. Hospitalization is frequently seen in patients
      with asthma (Autumn, 2015). It is estimated that approximately 250,000 people die annually
      due to asthma. No relationship was found between prevalence and mortality (Autumn, 2015).
      Asthmatic patients have intermittent symptoms such as wheezing, dyspnea, chest tightness, and
      dry cough. Stimulants such as allergens, air pollution, gastroesophageal reflux, stress and
      exercise cause these symptoms. 90% of untreated asthmatics develop asthma symptoms during
      exercise (Dursun et al., 2013). Airway obstruction due to exercise occurs in 40-90% of
      asthmatics, decreases the ability to exercise and patients prefer a more sedentary lifestyle.
      Patients with asthma have low physical activity levels because they avoid exercising due to
      anxiety and depression, inactivity, fatigue, dyspnea (Autumn, 2015). The ability to perform
      activities and the ability to perform daily living activities are components of quality of
      life. In many studies, it has been found that quality of life is affected in individuals with
      chronic lung disease. Quality of life can be assessed with many disease-specific
      questionnaires. Asthma patients experience problems in many areas in terms of quality of
      life, including day and night disease symptoms, impaired daily living activities, and reduced
      quality of life. Asthma is associated with decreased quality of life and morbidity. Asthma
      symptoms reduce performance at school and at work; affects learning and reduces quality of
      life. It is stated that asthma has a negative effect on quality of life, physical,
      physiological and social function (Autumn, 2015).

      Airway obstruction due to exercise decreases physical activity in asthmatic patients. This
      may give rise to fear of movement over time. Avoidance of movement is called kinesiophobia.
      Kinesiophobia is a condition that occurs when patients want to perform their previous
      functions, especially in chronic painful disease processes.

      Kinesiophobia is an avoidance phenomenon within the cognitive behavioral avoidance model and
      patients may limit their activity in daily life in case of symptoms of deterioration or the
      occurrence of symptoms. This may result in emotional problems and life dissatisfaction in
      later periods (Yumin et al., 2017). Kinesiophobia has been the subject of study in
      cardiopulmonary cases, but there is no research on kinesiophobia in asthma. In this study,
      the effect of kinesiophobia on physical activity level and quality of life in asthma will be
      investigated.
    
  