
    
      Chronic heart failure is a complex clinical syndrome that can result from any structural or
      functional cardiac or non-cardiac disorder that impairs the ability of the heart to respond
      to physiological demands for increased cardiac output. Chronic heart failure is characterised
      by symptoms such as exertional breathlessness and fatigue, and signs of fluid retention as
      well as signs associated with the underlying cardiac disorder. Patients with chronic heart
      failure suffer from reduced quality of life and a significantly higher risk of morbidity and
      mortality.

      There is cumulating evidence of a high prevalence of sleep breathing disorders in both
      patients with acute and chronic heart failure. Most of these reports, however, suffer from
      important limitations including small sample size, retrospective study design, and/or use of
      pulse-oximetry or cardio-respiratory polygraphy to screen for sleep disordered breathing
      rather than full-night polysomnography. Hence, previous studies may have underestimated the
      full scale of concomitant sleep disordered breathing in patients with chronic heart failure.
      Furthermore, to the best of our knowledge, there is no report on the incidence of sleep
      disordered breathing in patients with chronic heart failure.

      In this context the presence of sleep disordered breathing in patients with chronic heart
      failure has important prognostic relevance. Pathophysiological effects of sleep apnea include
      intermittent hypoxia, sympathetic hyperactivity, systemic inflammation, and sleep
      fragmentation. These factors may contribute to the worsening of cardiac function and explain
      the reportedly higher risk of cardiac morbidity and mortality in patients with both chronic
      heart failure and concomitant sleep disordered breathing. Accordingly, the aims of the
      present study are three-fold. First, to investigate the prevalence of sleep breathing
      disorders in patients with stable moderate-to-severe chronic heart failure using the
      diagnostic gold standard of full-night-polysomnography. Second, to assess the two-year
      incidence of sleep disordered breathing in patients with chronic heart failure. Third, to
      identify potential risk factors associated with the presence or absence of sleep disordered
      breathing in patients with chronic heart failure. The latter will be assessed by using lung
      function measurements, hemodynamic parameters, and laboratory markers of neurohumoral
      activation, systemic inflammation, and endothelial function in patients with chronic heart
      failure.

      For this purpose 200 patients with stable moderate-to-severe chronic heart failure will be
      studied during a 2 year-period. Patients with chronic heart failure will be screened for
      eligibility during their regular visits at 4 independent heart failure outpatients clinic in
      Vienna. Eligible patients will undergo full-night-polysomnography, lung function testing,
      non-invasive hemodynamic monitoring, a six minute-walking-test, and laboratory measurements
      at 6 months intervals for a total of 2 years (4 visits).
    
  