
    
      Lung cancer has been the leading cancer worldwide since 1985 both in terms of incidence and
      mortality. According to the GLOBOCAN project of World Health Organization (WHO), there were
      about 1.6 million new cases (12.7% of the total) and 1.4 million deaths (18.2% of the total)
      in 2008 globally. Although the prevalence rates have already been decreasing in males, there
      are increasing trends in females and less developed countries. From the data of Hong Kong
      Cancer Registry for 2009, there were 4,365 new cases and 3,692 deaths, representing 16.8% and
      28.8% of all cancers, respectively.

      Lung cancer can be divided into small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) based on biology, therapy, and prognosis. NSCLC accounts for more than 85% of all
      lung cancer cases and includes two major types: squamous cell (epidermoid) carcinoma and
      nonsquamous carcinoma (including adenocarcinoma, large-cell carcinoma and other cell types).
      Conventional treatment modalities for patients with NSCLC include surgery, radiation therapy
      and chemotherapy. Surgery is the most potentially curative therapeutic option, while
      postoperative chemotherapy may provide an additional benefit. However, NSCLC is frequently
      diagnosed at an advanced stage and not suitable for surgery. Chemotherapy has produced
      short-term improvement in disease-related symptoms, and offers modest improvements in median
      survival in patients with advanced-stage disease. Radiation therapy combined with
      chemotherapy can produce a cure in a small number of patients and palliation in most others.
      Generally, NSCLC has a poor prognosis with only 15% of all lung cancer patients alive 5 years
      or more after diagnosis.

      Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) originated from Chinese philosophy is a different medical
      system from conventional western medicine. It focuses on health maintenance and emphasizes on
      harmonizing the imbalance of body. Related records about cancer can first be found in Yellow
      Emperor's Inner Classic compiled between 200 B.C. and 100 A.D. Nowadays, TCM is increasingly
      used as an adjunctive treatment for cancer patients. According to the survey carried by the
      Hong Kong Baptist University and Queen Elizabeth Hospital in 2008, over half of all cancer
      patients had received at least one form of TCM therapy. Current studies also show that TCM
      has the advantages of increasing the sensitivity of chemo- and radio-therapeutics, reducing
      the side effects and chemo- and radio-therapeutics associated complications, improving
      patients' quality of life and survival time. However, how TCM can work with conventional
      medicine for the treatment of carcinoma is still an important research topic worldwide.

      Syndrome, the essential concept in TCM theory, is a diagnostic conclusion of the pathological
      changes at a certain stage of a disease, including the location, cause, and nature as well as
      the trend of development. It is derived from all symptoms and signs collected by the classic
      four diagnostic methods, including observation, smell/listening, inquiry and palpation.
      However, there is no consensus on the definition of diagnosis of syndromes for NSCLC as
      different diagnostic and treatment guidelines are published by TCM experts, colleges and
      associations. In practice, TCM practitioners are used to make diagnosis and provide treatment
      on the basis of their own experiences. Therefore, more consolidated evidences are urged for
      standardizing the diagnosis and distribution of syndrome for routine practice and research.

      Apart from traditional syndrome studies, advance studies about the influence of conventional
      treatments on syndromes, and the correlation between syndromes and conventional measures had
      been done in the past decades. From the review summarizing the syndrome changes after
      surgery, radiation therapy or chemotherapy, deficiency syndrome and blood stasis syndrome are
      the fundamental syndrome patterns among cancer patients while tongue manifestation is
      significant for early stage diagnosis, outcome assessment and prognosis. A number of studies
      have analyzed the distribution of symptoms for NSCLC patients in different TNM stages, cell
      types, and assessment indexes, including quality of life, immunological indexes and
      hemorheology. However, most of them were cross-sectional epidemiological studies or with
      short follow-up period. Therefore, the impact of these factors on syndromes cannot be
      completely elucidated.

      In this present longitudinal study, patients with new diagnosed NSCLC will be followed for
      two years. During this period, the changing patterns of TCM syndromes for patients before and
      after conventional treatment, including surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy will be
      analyzed. Furthermore, the correlations between TCM syndromes and quality of life or
      progress-free survival will also be investigated. We hope that the results from this study
      can provide more consolidated evidences about the effects of conventional treatments on TCM
      syndromes, for standardizing the diagnosis of TCM syndromes for NSCLC for clinical practice,
      and promoting further research on integrated medicine for NSCLC.
    
  