
    
      Head and neck cancer (HNCa) patients often lose significant body weight and lean mass which
      is associated with higher mortality, greater fatigue, poorer quality of life, and reduced
      physical functioning. Because nutritional supplementation may not consistently improve lean
      body mass, resistance training may be beneficial. HNCa patients experience unique side
      effects that impact nutritional status, limiting generalization of exercise intervention
      study results in other cancer types to HNCa patients. Therefore, 44 HNCa patients will be
      enrolled in a randomized controlled trial with the following study aims:

      Primary study aim: Because this pilot proposal is among the first to attempt a randomized
      controlled exercise trial in HNCa patients, the primary study aim examines feasibility (e.g.,
      study acceptance, recruitment, intervention process evaluation, adherence, adverse events,
      retention). The investigators hypothesize that study procedures will require minor
      alterations in future studies.

      Secondary study aim #1: Because effect sizes are necessary for planning efficacy trials, the
      proposal will compare the effect of a 12-week resistance training plus nutritional counseling
      intervention versus nutritional counseling alone on muscle strength, lean body mass, physical
      functioning, fatigue, and quality of life in HNCa patients receiving radiation with or
      without chemotherapy. The investigators hypothesize that patients receiving resistance
      training with nutritional counseling will demonstrate greater improvements in the outcomes
      when compared with participants receiving nutritional counseling alone.

      Secondary study aim #2: To enhance adherence in future intervention trials, this proposal
      will determine resistance training and nutritional adherence rates and associated factors
      among HNCa patients using attendance records, exercise logs, diet records, self-administered
      survey, and medical record review. The investigators hypothesize that adherence rates will be
      lower than that of other cancer populations with correlates including demographic, medical,
      and psychosocial factors.

      Assessments will occur at baseline (first week of radiation), week 6 (mid-intervention), and
      week 12 (post-intervention). Qualitative and quantitative (e.g., rates, 95% confidence
      intervals) will assess feasibility and mixed model ANOVA will examine group differences. This
      information is critical for the design of future resistance training efficacy trials in HNCa
      patients to prevent lean body mass loss in HNCa patients, potentially reducing mortality,
      minimizing fatigue, and improving physical functioning and quality of life.
    
  