
    
      Core study After eligibility assessment participants will be randomized and will receive the
      study drugs. We will define D1 as the first dose of the medication which can be the morning,
      midday or evening dose. They will be treated for 5 consecutive days.

      In patients with a positive PCR at D5 (CT value with threshold below 30) and/or presence of
      clinical symptoms after exclusion of hospitalization criteria (flowchart emergency department
      appendix 4), the treatment will be extended up to D10 at the same dosage in both treatment
      arms for 5 consecutive days: D6 and D10).

      Follow-up will be as follows:

        -  D1->D14: The study participants will be asked to fill in daily questionnaires assessing
           symptoms (cfr daily self-score). They will receive a kit enabling to monitor heart rate
           (HR), respiratory rate (RR), temperature and oxygen saturation 3 times per day (every
           4-8 hours, preferentially at the timing of medication intake at D1 to D5 or D10). This
           will be extended to D28 if patients are still symptomatic at D14.

        -  Compliance and tolerance will be assessed during the treatment period, D0->D5 (or
           D0->D10 if the treatment is prolonged).

        -  During the study D1-D28: If indicated in the opinion of the investigator, a physical
           exam and biochemistry will be performed through a consultation at the clinic. This can
           be requested at any time during the study based on clinical symptoms or signs.

        -  Consultation at D0, D5, (D10) and D28 at our COVID consultation facility. This will be
           done by a study nurse and/or a study physician.

      At D0 (screening and inclusion) a standardized history, clinical exam will be performed,
      including blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), respiratory rate (RR), blood oxygen
      saturation, temperature. Socio-demographic parameters such as age, gender, treatment, smoking
      status, BMI, diabetes, race and comorbidities will be assessed. If unavailable, a COVID
      screening test will be performed to confirm COVID 19 infection. A baseline lab for toxicity
      will be done on D0 (max 21ml).

      In case of negative screening test and suggestive clinical picture as described above, the
      test can be completed with additional blood analysis, arterial blood gas and/or lung imaging
      to assess the probability of COVID-19. The additional tests are SOC. It is the treating
      physician who will decide whether these test are valuable. In this case the study physician
      can decide to rescreen the patient (with PCR) after minimum 24h and within the 5 days of
      occurrence of symptoms.

      The medication will be initiated as soon as possible after inclusion and randomisation. D1 is
      defined as the first dose of the study medication at whatever point of time during that day.

      At D1 up to D14 (or until D28 if they still have symptoms at D14), participants will be asked
      for the presence of symptoms and signs by a questionnaire and to monitor temperature, blood
      oxygen saturation, heart rate and respiratory rate.

      If indicated in the opinion of the investigator, a physical exam and biochemistry will be
      performed through a consultation at the clinic. This can be requested at any time during the
      study based on clinical symptoms or signs.

      At D5 a scheduled study visit is planned with a clinical exam including BP, RR, HR,
      temperature, blood oxygen saturation. Nasopharyngeal (or combined nose/throat) swab will be
      taken for PCR. CRP can be assessed by point of care test or routine lab when clinically
      relevant as part of SOC. A toxicity screening will be performed through a venous blood draw
      (max 21ml). At the day of consultation the time point at the hospital will replace the
      monitoring measurement at home.

      At any given time between D1 and D28 an additional blood draw (max. 21 ml) can be asked by
      the study team to assess severity of infection (peripheral blood count, inflammation,
      electrolytes, kidney and liver function.) If CRP values are available at baseline and/or
      follow-up they will be analyzed as part of the study, however this will only be performed as
      SOC. If HRCT or a lung X ray are available at baseline or follow-up, they will be analyzed as
      part of the study, however they will only be performed as SOC.

      At D28 an additional blood draw (9 ml) will be done for neutralizing antibodies (Nabs) titer
      assessment.

      At D10 an additional study visit will be planned in individuals that are retested with
      positive PCR at D5 and when treatment is prolonged after D5 up to D10. This will include a
      clinical exam including BP, RR, HR, temperature, blood oxygen saturation. At the day of
      consultation the time point at the hospital will replace the measurement at home.

      At D10 and D28 an additional nasopharyngeal swab or combined nose/throat swab will be
      performed in individuals that still had a positive PCR result at day 5 and D10 respectively.

      Questionnaires will be sent through email and can be filled in online and transferred
      directly to the eCRF or will be filled in on paper and handed to the study personnel at the
      time of consultation.

      Home monitoring of heart rate, respiratory rate, temperature and oxygen saturation will be
      done through a kit provided by Byteflies. A manual with usage instructions will be delivered
      to the patients. The patient will be asked to register these parameters 3 times a day through
      an online platform. If they are unable to register the parameters themselves, a back-up
      through email or phone can be proposed. If these parameters are not within normal range as
      defined by cut-off criteria (appendix 8), the system will ask either to remeasure or to
      contact the study-team based on the reported values. The study will be interrupted in
      participants that meet hospitalization criteria.

      PK substudy Participants will be asked to participate in a PK substudy. The aim is to include
      50 patients samples in the Camostat treatment arm, therefore sampling approx. half of the
      participants in both arms. When 50 participants have been included in the camostat arm,
      inclusions will be stopped. Drop-outs however will be replaced. If the participant agrees, PK
      samples will be taken during the treatment phase between D1 and D5. 4 additional blood
      samples will be taken between two intakes of the study medication: at 30', 60', 2-4h, and
      4-8h (on the same day, between D1 and D5). The samples will be deblinded during the study by
      an unblinded person. After unblinding, only the samples from patients in the Camostat group
      will be sent for analysis. Samples that are not used for PK analysis, will be stored in the
      prospective Biobank for future studies. 2x3ml of blood will be taken per sampling point
      =24ml.

      Odor substudy: Odor sampling SARS-CoV-2 patients All participants will be asked to
      participate in a substudy analysing odor samples from COVID 19 infected individuals. The goal
      of this study is to take odor samples at the arm pit and between the legs, in order to train
      dogs to identify COVID-19 infected individuals. In this way, dogs can be trained to identify
      COVID 19 infected individuals in groups and avoid transmissions. If participants consent, at
      D5 a cotton pad will be put in the arm pits and between the legs to capture the odors for
      approx 60 minutes. The samples will be sent to the dog training centre (K9 Training Centrum,
      Brugsesteenweg 105 8450 Bredene, responsible: Johan Weckhuyzen (CEO)) where they will be used
      to train dogs to identify COVID-19 infected individuals. These samples will be used one time
      and will be destroyed after usage at the training centre.

      COVIM2.0 substudy: Immunological and virological assessment Deep characterization of
      patients' inflammatory profile offers a unique opportunity for comprehensive understanding of
      the pathophysiological mechanisms behind SARS-CoV2. All participants will be therefore asked
      for additional blood sampling at D0 and D28 (8X9ml). The lipidomics analysis will be
      performed at the laboratory of Dr. Jesmond Dalli. In addition, immunological functions on the
      level of both adaptive and innate immunity will be studied by performing extensive
      immunophenotyping, cytokine analysis and RNA sequencing analysis. Biomarker analysis will be
      performed on protein and on RNA single cell level. Infectivity of different cell types
      including macrophages will performed. These analyses will be performed at the HCRC
      laboratory, the laboratory of Prof. Rafick-Pierre Sékaly and the VIB-UGent Center for
      Inflammation Research. To gain a deeper understanding of pathways potentially leading to
      severe disease courses, and also to chart where in the body there is tissue damage (apart
      from the lungs), aim to analyze patient plasma samples with several other analytics
      technologies as well. Bacterial extracellular vesicles, due to microbial translocation after
      hyperinflammation, will be quantified from plasma in the laboratory of Experimental Cancer
      Research of Ghent University. Furthermore, normal cell turnover in tissues results in the
      release of some of their nucleic acid content into the blood. This can then be found as
      circulating free RNA and DNA (cfRNA and cfDNA). These analyses will be performed at the
      laboratory of Prof. Jo Vandesompele (Biogazelle). Virological evaluations will be based on
      nasopharyngeal (or nose-throat) swab samples, used to diagnose and quantify SARS-CoV2. In
      addition a swab will be taken to culture the SARS-CoV2 virus at D0. This will be repeated at
      D5, D10 and D28 if PCR is positive on these timepoints (an extra swab will be taken). On a
      selection of nasopharyngeal swab samples from patients whole genome sequencing of the
      SARS-CoV2 virus will be performed to study the viral diversity and trace patterns of spread
      across multiple epidemiological scales. In addition, a viral metagenomics analysis using
      Nanopore sequencing will be used to reveal the presence of other viruses besides SARS-CoV2
      (lab of Hans Nauwynck).

      Screening failures substudy Asymptomatic individuals with positive PCR and high CT values
      that are not eligible for the clinical trial and drug administration, but who otherwise meet
      all in- and exclusion criteria, can participate in a substudy, wherethe investigators want to
      see whether these individuals, despite their high CT values and therefore low viral load can
      carry viable virus and therefore can transmit the disease. This implicates whether or not
      they should be isolated. Furthermore, in individuals with low viral load there is a
      possibility that they do not develop antibodies against SARSCOV2. Therefore the investigators
      want to 1) culture virus from throat/nose swabs from these individuals at D0 2) measure
      antibodies at D28.
    
  