
    
      Study Design For this study, a non-randomized, controlled trial study design will be
      employed. Qualitative focus groups will be conducted to gather personal demographic
      information as well as information regarding the feasibility of implementing an online
      psychotherapy clinic. Additionally, quantitative analyses of e-CBT treatment efficacy will be
      conducted using standardized and clinically validated symptomology questionnaires. All study
      procedures have been approved by the Queen's University Health Sciences and Affiliated
      Teaching Hospitals Research Ethics Board.

      Participants Patients (n = 110; 55 e-CBT participants, 55 in-person CBT participants) aged
      18-65 years will be recruited at Queen's University from outpatient psychiatry clinic at both
      Kingston Health Sciences Centre sites (Hotel Dieu Hospital and Kingston General Hospital) as
      well as Providence Care hospital, family doctors, physicians, clinicians, and self-referrals
      in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. Once informed consent is provided, participants will be
      evaluated by a psychiatrist on the research team through secure video appointment to make or
      confirm a diagnosis of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) using the Diagnostic and Statistical
      Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th Edition (DSM-5).

      The inclusion criteria for the study include the following: at least 18 years of age at the
      start of the study, diagnosed with major depressive disorder according to DSM-5 by an
      attending psychiatrist on the research team, competence to consent to participate, ability to
      speak and read English, and consistent and reliable access to the internet. Exclusion
      criteria include active psychosis, acute mania, severe alcohol or substance use disorder,
      and/or active suicidal or homicidal ideation. If a participant is receiving another form of
      psychotherapy, they will also be excluded from the study, to avoid any confounding effect on
      the efficacy of this e-CBT program. If eligible for the study, participants will choose
      between the e-CBT program (n = 55) or the in-person CBT offered individually through this
      program at Hotel Dieu Hospital (n = 55).

      During the informed consent process, it is explained to all participants that this program is
      not a crisis resource and that they will not have access to their therapist at all times. In
      the case of an emergency, participants are directed to the proper resources (e.g., emergency
      department, crisis lines, etc.) and this event will be reported to the principal investigator
      of the study.

      Procedures The e-CBT care plan consists of 12 weekly sessions of approximately 30 slides and
      interactive content, delivered through OPTT. The e-CBT module content mirrors in-person group
      CBT content, including different weekly topics, general information, skill overviews, and
      homework. The efficacy of the therapeutic content has previously been tested through email
      administration and shown to significantly reduce depressive symptoms Participants are
      instructed to go through the content and complete homework at the end of the session which
      helps them practice skills they learned through that session. Homework is submitted through
      OPTT and reviewed by the therapist assigned to the participant, who will provide personalized
      feedback within three days of submission. Therapists have access to pre-designed
      session-specific feedback templates to use as a basic structure to write their feedback. By
      doing so, the time needed to respond to each patient is reduced and therefore the number of
      patients each therapist can handle increases. At the same time, by using a structured format
      in responding to patients, more standardized quality of care can be assured. The general
      structure of the feedback template is as follows: -validating the participant's time and
      effort, -reviewing the event they have used in their homework, -summarizing the previous
      module's content, and -discussing the participant's homework submission and how they could
      improve it. In addition to these points, the feedback will have an emphasis on specific
      content from the participant's submission, reassuring them that their therapist is reading
      and understanding their challenges. All feedback submissions are finished with a personalized
      signature from the therapist, helping to develop a rapport between the therapist and the
      participant. On average, developing this feedback takes a therapist 15-20 minutes per
      patient. In addition to the weekly feedback, participants have the option to message their
      therapist through the platform throughout the week regarding any questions or concerns they
      may have. All technical issues are handled directly through OPTT's technical support team.

      Participants in the in-person CBT group will attend weekly sessions at Hotel Dieu Hospital
      (12 weeks) where they will receive standardized individual (one-on-one) CBT for MDD from a
      trained therapist. All content covered and skills taught will mirror the e-CBT program.
      Similar to the e-CBT group, participants will be assigned weekly homework assignments that
      they will complete during the week and hand-in at the start of their next session. At this
      time, participants will receive personalized feedback for their previous week's homework from
      their therapist.

      At the end of the study, a few participants and healthcare providers (i.e., 8 participants, 2
      providers) are recruited for focus groups. The focus group prompts will pertain to experience
      and expectations of service during the study and how they think the service could be
      improved.

      Online Module Content Both e-CBT modules and in-person CBT sessions are designed to instill
      constructive and balanced coping strategies in participants. During the program, we focus on
      essential thinking and behavioural skills to help the patients become more engaged in
      day-to-day activities. The focus of the sessions is placed on the connection between
      thoughts, behaviours, emotions, physical reactions, and the environment. We work on
      evaluating negative beliefs and thought processes and their relationship with depression. Our
      goal is to adjust the negative thinking so that participants can think about and adapt to the
      things that are happening to them. This allows them to adjust the way they behave and think
      about their problems in a way that is not as negative and replaces those thoughts and
      behaviours with potentially more realistic and productive ones.

      Training All therapists are research assistants hired by the principal investigator. They all
      undergo training in psychotherapy and additional training from a psychiatrist on the research
      team before any interaction with participants. During this training, therapists complete
      feedback on practice homework, which is reviewed by a psychiatrist on the research team to
      ensure adequate quality of work. All therapists are supervised by the lead psychiatrist, who
      is an expert in the area of electronically delivered psychotherapy. Feedback is always
      reviewed by the lead psychiatrist, before submission to the participants.
    
  