
    
      TUMOR COLLECTION: Tumor cells will be collected from the participant to make the study
      vaccine. Based on the location of the tumor, a decision will be made as to the best approach
      to obtain these cells.

      DENDRITIC CELL COLLECTION: Participants will undergo a procedure known as leukapheresis to
      obtain their dendritic cells (this procedure may be done before or after the tumor cells have
      been obtained). This procedure takes about 2-4 hours. If not enough cells are collected, the
      participant may be asked to return for an additional leukapheresis procedure. If sufficient
      number of cells are obtained, tumor cells and dendritic cells will then be fused (combined
      together to make one larger cell) together in the laboratory and divided into the appropriate
      dose for administration.

      TREATMENT: Treatment will consist of an injection of tumor cells fused with dendritic cells
      under the skin every 3 weeks for a total of 9 weeks. The dose that the participant receives
      will depend on the total number of fusion cells that are made.

      STUDY COHORTS: The first group of three participants will receive the DC/Tumor Fusion study
      vaccine alone. The next group of 3 participants will receive the DC/Tumor Fusion study
      vaccine with a low dose of Il-12. If there are no significant side effects the following
      groups of subjects will be treated with the DC/Tumor Fusion study vaccine and a higher dose
      of Il-12.

      PATIENT MONITORING: Participants will be carefully monitored during the study period and the
      following tests and procedures will be performed: physical exams (weekly); blood collections
      (weekly); DC/Tumor Fusion study vaccine Journal (for the participant to record any side
      effects or other medications they may be taking); tumor cells skin test (before the first
      vaccine and one month following the last vaccine); skin biopsy at the site of the vaccination
      administration, accessible tumor site, or if there is a local reaction site.
    
  