
    
      This retrospective study reviewed infants (≤1 years old) with CC who were undergoing cataract
      extraction without IOL implantation at the Eye Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University,
      Hangzhou, China. CC patients with preexisting PCDs were placed in Study group, while CC
      patients with intact posterior capsule were included as controls.

      The preexisting PCD was diagnosed if signs of a sharply bordered defect or white dots on the
      posterior capsule and/or in the anterior vitreous were detected. The intraoperative diagnosis
      of preexisting PCD was confirmed when the signs were observed after uneventful aspiration of
      the lens cortex. Patients who were incooperative to complete the preoperative examinations
      were excluded.

      All CC patients were divided into two groups according to integrity of posterior capsule.
      Patients with a confirmed preexisting PCD were placed into the PCD group. Others with intact
      posterior capsule were in the control group. The preoperative data including sex, age at
      surgery, laterality of disease, and accompanying ocular anomalies were collected.

      For all the CC patients, the preoperative examinations were completed under sedation. Central
      corneal thickness was obtained by a handheld ultrasonic pachymeter (PachPen, Accutome, US).
      Axial length, anterior chamber depth, lens thickness and length of vitreous cavity were
      measured via an immersion A-scan (Axis nano, Quantel Medical, French). An experienced
      examiner repeated the measurement 10 times and the mean value was included. The keratometry
      values and intraocular pressure were gained by a handheld keratometer (HandyRef-K, NIDEK,
      Japan) and a handheld tonometer (Icare, Vantaa, Finland), respectively. Diameter of cornea
      and dilated pupil (dilated by tropicamide 0.5% and phenylephrine hydrochloride 0.5%) was
      measured just before surgery.

      All surgeries were performed by the same surgeon (Y.E.Z.) under general anesthesia. Bimanual
      irrigation/aspiration and 2-port 23G anterior vitrectomy were performed. Three
      ophthalmologists reviewed all surgical recordings. The integrity of posterior capsule was
      masked to them. Morphological characteristics of cataracts were documented before surgery.
      After removing opaque cortex and/or nucleus, the configuration of preexisting PCDs was
      described.
    
  