
    
      The DFA transaminase test provides rapid categorical measurement of ALT in a whole blood
      specimen taken via finger-stick. The test is based on the platform technology of "paper
      microfluidics" (also known as "patterned paper"), in which hydrophobic barriers are patterned
      into a sheet of paper in order to create microfluidic, hydrophilic paths within the paper,
      through which flow can be directed towards specific detection zones. The test is designed for
      visual color-coded readout in three ALT ranges ("bins") that correspond to the ranges of AST
      and ALT (<3x the upper limit of normal (ULN), 3-5x ULN, and >5x ULN) currently used for
      clinical management decisions per US TB and HIV treatment guidelines. The bin cutoffs are
      common to treatment guidelines used around the globe, including those used by the Vietnam
      Ministry of Health.

      The colorimetric readout is designed to be read by eye using a visual "read guide" allowing
      the reader to make a semi-quantitative estimate or assign a categorical value into one of
      three bins. Alternatively, if the device is scanned (e.g. desk-top scanner) or photographed
      (e.g. cell phone or standard digital camera, see (9)) and read with image-analysis software,
      it should be possible to generate a quantitative result. Additionally, multiple control zones
      notify the user of insufficient sample volume, hemolysis, or damaged reagents.

      The overall goal of this study is to conduct a preliminary field evaluation of an
      investigational transaminase test in a population at risk for DILI. The primary objectives
      are:

        1. Determine device accuracy by measuring the percent agreement of the categorical visual
           readout DFA transaminase test and the standard of care tests used in the HTD HIV clinic.

        2. Determine inter-operator variability.

        3. Determine device failure rate as defined by invalid test results.
    
  