
    
      This exploratory proposal will exploit 3D hyperpolarized xenon-129 MRI (HXeMRI), an imaging
      tool that our research group has pioneered, to address this urgent need. The HXeMRI technique
      has unique abilities to quantify regional ventilation (airflow), and gas uptake by tissue
      (interstitium), and blood (pulmonary vasculature) in the human lung with high spatial
      resolution. HXeMRI is anticipated to overcome the limitations of PFT and MDCT. Because HXeMRI
      images are acquired in a single breath-hold, pixel-based ratio maps can quantify xenon
      movement crossing from airways to tissue and finally to RBCs. The calculated ratios are
      closely related to important lung physiological factors: Tissue-to-Gas ratio (T/G) reflects
      tissue integrity and alveolar surface-to-volume ratio; RBC-to-Gas ratio (R/G) reflects
      overall gas exchange efficiency from the airspaces to the blood, and RBC-to-Tissue ratio
      (R/T) reflects capillary perfusion and gas-blood barrier functional integrity. The
      sensitivity and specificity of these parameters have been shown to be highly relevant in
      clinical arenas. For example, decreases in gas uptake by tissue and blood are consistently
      found in COPD and interstitial lung disease. Alteration of gas exchange measured by
      RBC-to-tissue ratio in COPD and asthma is associated with changes in the alveolar septal wall
      and capillary perfusion. Investigators have found regionally heterogeneous tissue gas uptake
      and impairment of gas exchange in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. This actively-funded NIH
      study has found highly heterogeneous airway obstruction and alterations of gas exchange in
      patients with cystic fibrosis that are routinely undetectable by clinical PFT. These results
      demonstrate the unique advantages of HXeMRI to quantitatively assess comprehensive regional
      physiology of microscopic pulmonary compartments.
    
  