
    
      Investigators will conduct a feasibility and acceptability study of Narrative Exposure
      Therapy (NET) to treat up to 30 pregnant trauma survivors with clinically-significant
      symptoms of PTSD.

      Up to 100 participants will be recruited with the aim of enrolling 30 participants in NET.
      Pregnant patients will be recruited from Rush OB/GYN resident training clinics. The
      racial/ethnic composition of patients served at these clinics (>70% ethno-racial minorities)
      will ensure that participants of color will be highly represented. Methods of recruitment
      include NET brochures that will be placed in the clinic's waiting rooms, OB/GYN physicians
      and nurse referring patients with a known history of trauma, and a 2-item screening measure
      -- the PTSD Checklist, Civilian Version (PCL-2) -- at the patient's initial OB appointment to
      facilitate recruitment.

      Following initial referral, the study team will conduct a brief phone screen to ensure basic
      eligibility criteria are met, describe the study purpose, and schedule eligible participants
      for an initial study session (week 0). During the initial visit participants will sign
      informed consent and complete self-report measures (week 1 of the study) - after which they
      will then be enrolled in the intervention (weeks 1-6 of the study). Participants will
      complete post-treatment self-report measures and treatment evaluation measures at 1 week and
      1-month following their last NET session (week 7 and week 10, respectively), and again at
      1-month postpartum. The participant will also be invited to complete a qualitative feedback
      interview upon completion of the intervention (or early withdrawal from intervention).

      Participants will be compensated for completion of all assessments and study components.

      Due to the Coronavirus/COVID-19 pandemic, all study activities will be conducted via
      telephone or telehealth.

      Schedule of Activities:

        -  Week 1: Consent and Pre-Intervention Clinical AND NET Session 1 Consent
           Session/Pre-Intervention Clinical interview

             1. Informed Consent: If patients are interested in participating in this study, they
                will undergo the informed consent procedure. A trained clinician with experience
                working with trauma survivors will verbally review the informed consent document.

             2. Interview and Self-Report Measures:

             3. Participation in Treatment while enrolled in the study: Patients may be in or seek
                psychological or psychiatric treatment and still enroll in the study, as long as
                they are not undergoing exposure therapy. If patients indicate that they are
                already or wish to seek such treatment, they will be asked to provide consent for
                study personnel to contact their mental health provider to obtain this single piece
                of information, as well as whether or not they are being prescribed anti-psychotics
                (which is a reason for study exclusion)

        -  NET Session 1

           1. For each weekly session, the content of each session will be taken from the NET
           manual, a developed manualized treatment. The NET manual can be accessed here:
           https://www.psychologytools.com/category/narrative-exposure-therapy-net/

        -  Weeks 2-6: Sessions 2-6 of NET

           1. Participants will also complete self-report measures before the beginning of each NET
           session via REDCap.

        -  1 Week Post-treatment: Post-treatment Evaluation

        -  1 Month Post-treatment 10: Post-treatment Evaluation

        -  1 Month Postpartum: Follow-up Evaluation

        -  Qualitative Feedback Interview (upon completion of the intervention or early withdrawal
           from intervention)
    
  