
    
      Craniofacial injuries have serious psychosocial sequele and affect quality of life. Many
      individuals who suffer significant facial disfigurement from injury experience psychological
      distress and impairment in functioning not limited to the acute phase of injury, but over a
      longer term period of treatment, recovery, and adjustment. Until recently, treatment of
      disfiguring craniofacial injuries has been mostly limited to surgical flap procedures,
      microsurgical tissue transfer, and implantable prostheses. However, these methods can leave
      conspicuous scars on the face and the donor site, and in the case of implants can lead to
      complications associated with foreign materials. Autologous fat grafting with minimally
      invasive cannulas is a procedure that has been used for decades in common plastic surgery
      practice for facial aesthetic procedures. This technique is also a promising treatment for
      soft tissue reconstruction after craniofacial trauma because the graft harvest and injection
      are minimally invasive. The treatment is performed by using a small liposuction cannula to
      aspirate fat tissue from the donor site, and then re-injecting the fat into the recipient
      site with specialized injection cannulas. After harvest, and prior to injection, the fat
      graft is subjected to a mechanical processing step to separate the aqueous layer and
      concentrate the adipocytes. This often takes the form of centrifugation or filtering.

      The main problem with autologous fat grafting is a variable resorption of the graft volume
      over time. As much as 30-60% of the graft volume can diminish over time. Many variables may
      influence the behavior of clinical fat grafts, including harvest site, harvest technique,
      graft preparation, and injection technique.

      Concentrating the already present autologous adipose stromal cells within the fat grafts is
      not expected to increase subject risk levels beyond the risk levels of the application of fat
      grafts. We are currently approved for the application of fat grafts with concentrated
      autologous adipose stromal cells [IRB#10100293]. This proposal uses an increased
      concentration of adipose stromal cells compared to the above referenced study; no increase of
      risk to the subject is anticipated. We hypothesize that fat grafting for facial trauma,
      facilitated by enhancing graft quality with a higher concentration of endogenous autologous
      vascular adipose stromal cells in the grafted tissue, will enhance the successful restoration
      of tissue volume and craniofacial form. The use of a higher concentration of autologous
      adipose stromal cells may lead to lower fat resorption rates that may be observed in the
      approved IRB study [PRO10100293]. Additionally, we hypothesize that the clinical results
      using the concentrated autologous stromal vascular cells will be durable and the subject's
      quality of life scores will be improved compared to subjects who have had fat grafting alone
      using historical controls.
    
  