
    
      Patients with severe or very severe COPD are more likely to suffer repeated exacerbations and
      more rapidly declining lung function generating increased risk of death and time to a COPD
      related hospitalization. Although many therapies exist and are being developed to relieve
      symptoms and reduce mortality in COPD, most have only been studied in moderate to very severe
      COPD. There are few clinical trials to compare therapeutic alternatives in severe and very
      sever COPD. Furthermore, some randomized controlled trials on comprehensive Traditional
      Chinese medicine (TCM) interventions, especially based on the TCM patterns, have been the
      certain evidence for showing definite effect for COPD patients. In addition, a study about
      the effect of TCM on outcomes in mild and moderate COPD patients has been in progress and
      will be carried out in December 2014 (NCT01486186). Hence, corresponding to the mild to
      moderate COPD patients, The this study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of TCM on severe /
      very severe COPD patients.

      This is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, controlled study to evaluate the
      effectiveness of TCM on severe / very Severe COPD patients. Following a 14 day run-in period,
      approximately 564 subjects will be randomly assigned to conventional medicine treatment
      group, TCM and conventional medicine treatment group for 52 weeks. After the 52 weeks
      treatment period, subjects in two treatments arms will follow-up 52 weeks. The primary
      outcome measure is the frequency of exacerbations. The secondary efficacy measures include
      all-cause mortality, FEV1, dyspnea (MMRC), exercise capacity( 6MWD), quality of life ( CAT,
      SF-36 and COPD-PRO), and effectiveness satisfaction with treatment(ESQ-COPD) . Safety will be
      assessed through the collection of adverse events. There will be a total of 9 study visits
      (baseline, the 13, 26, 39 and 52 weeks of the treatment, the 13, 26, 39 and 52 weeks of
      follow-up).
    
  