
    
      Patients surviving critical illness experience significant skeletal muscle dysfunction and
      weakness. Muscle atrophy suffered during critical illness has a long-term impact on the
      functionality and mobility of these individuals.1-6 The underlying etiology is
      multifactorial, but largely thought to be caused by immobility(bed-rest), severity of
      illness, prolonged mechanical ventilation, sepsis, systematic inflammation, and delirium.7-9
      Additionally, these alterations are purported to impair recovery of muscle function following
      discharge from the intensive care unit (ICU) leading to long-term physical deficits. From
      previous randomized controlled trials, results have demonstrated that early rehabilitation
      focused on mobility may positively influence patient functional outcomes.10 However, a number
      of randomized controlled trials implementing early rehabilitation fail to demonstrate robust
      immediate or long-term benefits.11,12 Mixed results may in large part be due to inconsistency
      in early assessment and classification of these patients.

      In recent years, researchers have utilized ultrasound to classify and track changes in muscle
      size and quality; demonstrating up to 30% decline in rectus femoris cross-sectional area in
      the first ten days of critical illness.13,14 In addition, muscle tissue analysis have
      elucidated morphological changes including myofiber necrosis in 40% of patients with acute
      respiratory distress syndrome. In the recovery phase, tissue analysis revealed a reduction in
      satellite cells within the muscle, sparking the hypothesis that these individuals have an
      impaired regenerative capacity.15 The absence of satellite cells may not be responsible for
      alterations in recovery solely, if at all.16 The investigators propose that increased
      collagen production within the muscle tissue is a major contributor to impaired or slow
      recovery of muscle tissue. The investigators hypothesize that distinct phenotypes of patients
      exist with different activation of physiologic pathways and therefore different clinical and
      functional presentations. The primary purpose of this study is to develop a model to classify
      patients based on markers of muscle function, clinical composition, and functional data. This
      classification is multifactorial which will enable improved prediction of the patient's
      recovery trajectory at very early time-points.

      Moreover, studies elucidating the underlying muscle biology and physiologic mechanisms have
      yet to connect those changes to physical function and independence. Correlating specific
      markers of muscle health to functional outcome measures is a necessary step to provide
      clinicians with evidence to support and adapt their practice in relation to the
      pathophysiology of the muscle. Finally, muscular power has not been examined in this
      population. Muscular power is a key component of functional mobility that is not a current
      focus in critical care rehabilitation. Power may be a primary culprit of reductions in
      functionality specifically related to performing simple task such as sit-to-stand with
      adequate strength and velocity. Studying power in this population is novel and could lead to
      immediate changes in rehabilitation practice.

      Aim 1: Examine and quantify changes in muscular power during critical illness and through the
      first six months of recovery. Hypothesis: Patients with longer times immobilized and higher
      severity of illness will have larger declines in muscle power during hospitalization with
      slower recovery of muscle power in the first six months after discharge. To test this
      hypothesis, the investigators will longitudinally record muscular power using a linear
      transducer with a standardized weight-apparatus. This is an innovative approach and novel in
      this population.

      Aim 2: Determine the relationship of the physical function and independence to muscle
      function. The correlation between characteristics of muscle health to patient's functional
      status has not been performed to this extent. Hypothesis: Patients with the steepest declines
      in rectus femoris muscle cross-sectional area in the first seven days of ICU admission will
      have lower scores of functional outcomes requiring higher levels of assistance at hospital
      discharge. Researchers will compare findings from muscle ultrasound (size and structure),
      muscle strength, muscle power, and functional endurance to functional outcomes during
      critical illness and across the first six months of recovery. These data will be analyzed and
      stratified based on predictive functional recovery trajectories.

      Aim 3: Elucidate the molecular and cellular mechanisms leading to muscle dysfunction and
      impaired recovery following critical illness. Specifically, to determine the effect of
      myofiber type on functional capacity and explore the role of collagen and lipid deposition in
      the capacity for muscle to regenerate. Hypothesis: Patients with higher severity of illness
      that require more days on mechanical ventilation (MV) will have increased collagen production
      in the extra-cellular matrix leading to larger disability at 6-month follow-up. To test this
      hypothesis, muscular biopsies will be performed within two weeks of hospital discharge and
      again at 6 months post hospitalization.

      This study builds the understanding that clinicians have the knowledge and resources to
      predict which patients will suffer the largest deficits. Thus, these classifications will
      enable clinicians to identify, at very early-timepoints, which patients will benefit from
      rehabilitation interventions. Furthermore, this proposal starts to address classifying
      patients based on phenotypes, including the concept of responders and non-responders.
      Establishing a multi-factorial classification system with components of muscle function will
      support rehabilitation clinicians in their decision to allocate early interventions.
      Streamlined allocation of interventions will mitigate the negative consequences of critical
      illness and maximize long-term patient outcomes
    
  