
    
      This study is a longitudinal analysis of the outpatient prescription data of psychiatric
      hospitals. It includes two aspects: 1) Develop evaluation methods for the risk of
      sedative-hypnotic addiction in psychiatric hospitals; 2) Construct a predictive model for the
      risk of iatrogenic addiction to sedative-hypnotics.

      Step 1. Export all sedative hypnotic prescription information from the outpatient medical
      record system of Shanghai Psychiatric Hospital.

      The data range is from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2020. The data items that need to be
      exported include: patient identification information, gender, age, diagnosis, prescription
      drug name, drug use method, total dose, time , and the physician number of the prescription.
      Generate a unique patient number based on identification information (such as ID number), and
      merge all prescription information and electronic medical records of the same patient during
      the study period.

      Step 2. Identify patients at risk of addiction to sedative hypnotics. This study defines the
      risk of addiction to sedatives and hypnotics when the outpatients appear "double off-label
      prescriptions". The standard of "double off-label prescriptions" is: the highest daily
      average dose of prescriptions obtained by patients>60 mg diazepam equivalent milligrams, and
      the number of consecutive prescription days>120 days. Firstly, mark whether the patient has a
      prescription that exceeds the specification range (over indication, over daily dose range,
      over treatment course) during the study period. Secondly, the analysis data set is further
      converted and labeled, including: all benzodiazepine doses are converted into diazepam
      equivalents according to the "Benzazepine Dose Conversion Table". Calculate the "average
      daily prescription dose" for each patient: add up the prescriptions of benzodiazepines to get
      the total prescription, and divide by the number of days to get the average daily
      prescription dose. Finally, calculate the monthly or annual cases or proportion of "double
      off-label prescriptions" patients who are at risk of addiction to sedatives and hypnotics.

      Step 3.Establish a risk prediction model for iatrogenic addiction to sedative and hypnotics
      in psychiatric hospitals.

      Use correlation analysis or machine learning methods to explore the formation trajectory of
      the "double off-label" pattern of sedative hypnotic prescriptions, and build a predictive
      model that can predict the formation of the "double off-label" pattern. Use a subset of
      prescription data to identify patients with status of "double off-label", then evaluate and
      review them to confirm the addiction status of sedatives and hypnotics. Use the validation
      subset to verify and improve the addiction risk prediction model based on the training data
      set.
    
  