
    
      Any adult patient age 18 and above, scheduled for routine CTA (Computed Tomography
      Arteriograms) of the chest or chest, abdomen and pelvis meeting inclusion criteria and not
      meeting any exclusion criteria will be included in the study. The patient will be
      administered a low dose of intravenous contrast based on the study examination as described
      below.

      CTA of the chest: 40 mL of intravenous contrast (Omnipaque) at a rate of 5mL/sec. A region of
      interest (ROI) to trigger the scan will be placed in the aortic arch. If scan is performed
      using high pitch helical mode, the scan delay will be increased by 2 seconds.

      CTA of the chest and abdomen or CTA of the chest, abdomen and pelvis: 50 mL of intravenous
      contrast (Omnipaque) at a rate 5mL/sec. A region of interest (ROI) to trigger the scan will
      be placed in the aortic arch. If scan is performed using high pitch helical mode, the scan
      delay will be increased by 2 seconds.

      Following the examination, the primary investigator (PI) or team members will evaluate the
      images obtained with low contrast dose and each patient's prior CTA examination performed
      with routine contrast dose, 100mL at a rate of 4mL/sec. This will be done by quantitative and
      qualitative measures. For the quantitative portion, the PI or team members will place regions
      of interest on predetermined arterial locations to obtain measure the degree of
      opacification. For qualitative measurement, the images will be presented in a blind fashion
      to two thoracic trained board certified radiologists and a board certified interventional
      radiologist to determine the quality of the images based on a Likert numerical scale.
      Qualitative and quantitative data for the images obtained with low contrast dose and those
      for the prior CTA examinations performed with routine contrast dose will be compared. This
      data along with details of the scan protocol (dose, dose rate, scanning parameters etc.) and
      demographic data (such as sex, age and BMI at the time of examination) will be recorded.
    
  