
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of gemcitabine based on when you join this study. Up to 6 dose levels of gemcitabine
      will be tested. Up to 3 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of
      participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose
      than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects are seen. This will continue until
      the highest tolerable dose of gemcitabine is found.

      Each study cycle is 28 days. You will take gemcitabine by mist 2 times each week for 4 weeks
      (28 days). Treatment will be administered at MD Anderson. A machine called a nebulizer will
      be used to make the gemcitabine mist. The study staff will provide you with protective
      materials and instructions on how to take the treatment. You will breathe the drug mist
      through the mouthpiece of the nebulizer. The study staff will tell you which days you will
      receive the study drug. If the doctor thinks it is in your best interest, you may continue to
      receive the study drug for up to 12 cycles.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug for up to 12 cycles. You will no longer be able to
      take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you
      are unable to follow study directions. If you have developed a tumor outside of the lungs
      either before or while you are on study, and the doctor thinks it is in your best interest,
      you may have a local control procedure (such as radiation or surgery) that may help to
      control the disease while continuing to receive the study drug. You would sign a separate
      consent form explaining these procedures and their risks. If you and your doctor decide on a
      systemic cancer treatment by mouth or vein, you will no longer be able to receive treatment
      on this study. A systemic cancer treatment is designed to spread and treat cancer cells
      throughout the body.

      Your participation on the study will be over after your last follow-up phone call.

      Study Visits:

      Within 3 days before Day 1 of every cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your liver
           function.

        -  You will have PFTs.

        -  You will have your blood oxygen level measured by pulse oximeter.

        -  If you can become pregnant, urine will be collected for a pregnancy test.

      On Day 8 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your liver
           function.

      You will have a CT scan at the end of Cycles 2, 4, and 6, and then every 3 cycles after that.
      The study doctor will tell you when you will have these scans. If you have a chest X-ray,
      MRI, and PET scan as part of standard of care while you are on study, the study doctor may
      use the results to check the status of the disease.

      To avoid having to come to the study clinic too often, you may have blood draws done by your
      personal doctor.

      You may be called by the study staff and asked about how you are doing and about any side
      effects about 1 day after your first 2 doses of the study drug, at the end of Cycle 1, and 1
      time every 3 months after that until you leave the study or the study ends. These calls
      should last about 15-20 minutes each time.

      Other Information:

      Each day that you take study drug:

        -  You will write down the date and the day of the study cycle in a dosing diary given to
           you by the study staff. You should bring the diary to all clinic visits.

        -  You will be given a pulse oximeter to measure your heart rate and blood oxygen level.
           °You should record your results in the dosing diary.

        -  You will use a small hand-held device to test your lung function before the dose and
           answer questions about side effects you may be having.

      You will also be given an electronic device (such as a laptop or tablet) so that you can
      upload the information from the lung function tests and send it to the study doctor. You will
      only be able to access study specific material on this device. The study staff will show you
      how to use all of the provided machines. If the device is lost, stolen, or damaged, you will
      need to immediately report it to the study staff and you will be responsible for its
      replacement.

      You should bring the nebulizer with you to all study visits.

      You will be asked to return the nebulizer, pulse oximeter, lung function device, and
      electronic device when your participation on this study is over.

      End of Dosing Visit:

      Within 30 days of your last dose of the study drug:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have PFTs.

        -  You will have your blood oxygen level measured by pulse oximeter.

        -  You will have a CT scan.
    
  