
    
      This is a prospective study for evaluation of a diagnostic and therapeutic tool.

      "Be An Airplane Pilot" 3DMA:

      The protocol consists of 5 complementary bimanual tasks that are integrated into a scenario
      game of "becoming an airplane pilot". It allows the exploration of all degrees of freedom of
      the UL kinematics of the non-dominant/hemiplegic.

      The protocol will take place in a session that corresponds to the driving of an airplane and
      includes several tasks which consist of 5 repetitions of movements (= 5 cycles).

      The kinematics of the trunk (flexion-extension, lateral flexions and rotations), shoulder
      (elevation, plane of elevation, rotations), elbow (flexion-extension and pronosupination) and
      wrist (flexion-extension and adduction/abduction) will be explored. The calculated kinematic
      parameters are the range of motion (ROM) and the maximum angle (MAX) of the degrees of
      freedom (DoF) of interest.

      Group 1: uCP children without botulinum toxin injections

      The 3DMA protocol will be performed in two sessions separated from 2-4 weeks to explore the
      between day reliability in uCP children.

      During the first session, this will be associated to physiotherapist and occupational
      therapist evaluation in order to correlate kinematic parameters to clinical score. During the
      first session, this will be associated to clinical assessment (muscle strength and tone,
      pinch, grasp) by a physiotherapist and bimanual performance-based measures (Assisting Hand
      Assessment (AHA) and Abilhand-kids) by an occupational therapist.

      Group 2: uCP children with botulinum toxin injections

      Five uCP children will perform the BE-API protocol before and after botulinum toxin
      injections in the upper limb. This treatment is used for its effect on the local reduction of
      spasticity after intramuscular injection. It is usually proposed to these children every 6-8
      months.

      Visit 1 is similar to Group 1 with 3DMA, occupational therapy and physiotherapy.

      The second 3DMA will be done during the planned visit for toxin injections (2 to 4 weeks
      after visit 1) and before treatment administration. Injections of botulinum toxins will be
      followed by rehabilitation's intensification for 4 weeks (physiotherapy and home exercise)
      according to the usual care of treated patients.

      During Visit 3, 4 to 6 weeks after treatment by botulinum toxin injections, children will
      have 3D analysis for the third time, with assessment in physiotherapy and occupational
      therapy, comparable to the Visit 1.

      Group 3: healthy volunteers (TDC children)

      Their participation in the study will consist of a single visit, during which they will
      realize the 3DMA protocol only.

      Clinical measures

      For uCP children, with or without toxin injections, descriptive characteristics such as age,
      sex, hemiplegic side, as well as Manual Ability Classification System (MACS), Bimanual Fine
      Motor Function (BFMF) and Modified House Classification will be collected in consultation.

      The physiotherapy will do a clinical examination of the upper limbs: passive and active
      measurement of the range of motion by goniometry, muscle strength, motor selectivity,
      spasticity, grasp and pinch test, and sensitivity.

      The evaluation of the bimanual performance will be carried out by a certified occupational
      therapist with a validated scale: the Assisting Hand Assessment (AHA) and a questionnaire:
      the Abiland-Kids (10) which will be filled with the parents
    
  