
    
      Metastasis is a leading cause of cancer related deaths and is also one of the poorly
      understood aspects of cancer progression. During metastatic outgrowth, a cancer cell from a
      primary tumor locally invades the surrounding tissue, undergoes intravasation to enter
      hematogenous circulation and translocates to distant tissues through extravasation, survives
      and adapts to the foreign microenvironment leading to formation of a macroscopic secondary
      tumor (Figure 1, Chaffer and Weinberg (2011)). Several cancer therapies have been introduced
      in the last few decades from cytotoxics to targeted agents. However, these therapies fail to
      modulate growth of metastatic tumor cells which are often resistant, with most cancer
      patients succumbing to metastatic disease. There is a key need to further the understanding
      of metastatic disease in order to develop newer therapies. A central and somewhat unaddressed
      question is whether this acquisition of malignant traits occurs as an inevitable consequence
      of tumor progression or as an accidental product thereof. A widely accepted but not so well
      proven model of primary tumor formation suggests that cancer cells acquire a sequence of
      genetic and epigenetic alterations, each of which confers one or another form of increased
      fitness.

      Figure 1: The metastatic cascade. Metastasis can be envisioned as a process that occurs in
      two major phases: (i) physical translocation of cancer cells from the primary tumor to a
      distant organ and (ii) colonization of the translocated cells within that organ. (A) To begin
      the metastatic cascade, cancer cells within the primary tumor acquire an invasive phenotype.
      (B) Cancer cells can then invade into the surrounding matrix and toward blood vessels, where
      they intravasate to enter the circulation, which serves as their primary means of passage to
      distant organs. (C) Cancer cells traveling through the circulation are Circulating free DNA.
      They display properties of anchorage-independent survival. (D) At the distant organ,
      Circulating free DNA exit the circulation and invade into the microenvironment of the foreign
      tissue. (E) At that foreign site, cancer cells must be able to evade the innate immune
      response and also survive as a single cell (or as a small cluster of cells). (F) To develop
      into an active macrometastatic deposit, the cancer cell must be able to adapt to the
      microenvironment and initiate proliferation.

      It is somewhat accepted that tumors are clonally derived through unregulated growth of single
      cells that have likely accumulated the necessary number and types of heritable genetic and
      genomic alterations. Despite the monoclonal origin of cancer, the investigators see many
      tumors display a large amount of genetic, genomic and signaling heterogeneity. This
      heterogeneity is also believed to be one of the main drivers of metastasis. This
      heterogeneity has implications for understanding the disease progression landscape on one
      hand and diagnosis and treatment decisions on other. It is therefore of direct clinical
      importance to study the similarities and differences between the primary tumor and metastatic
      variants
    
  