
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Occluded Artery Trial (OAT) is an international study with 3200 participants. Its goal is
      to determine if delayed mechanical reperfusion by means of percutaneous transluminal coronary
      angioplasty (PTCA) and stenting reduces death, heart attacks, and hospitalization in
      individuals with New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class IV heart failure and a persistently
      occluded infarct-related artery (IRA) 3 to 28 days following a heart attack. While left
      ventricular (LV) function improvement has been suggested as a benefit of late reperfusion,
      solid evidence to support this claim is lacking. Furthermore, while stenting has reduced
      reocclusion rates after total occlusion PTCA, the reocclusion rate after a recent heart
      attack is unknown.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This study is a substudy of OAT and will enroll 380 participants. The primary aims of the
      study include the following: 1) to compare long-term patency rates between the two treatment
      groups (conventional medical therapy or PTCA and stenting) by means of follow-up coronary
      angiography one year after enrollment; and 2) to compare the change in global LV ejection
      fraction between the two treatment groups utilizing baseline and follow-up contrast LV
      angiograms. Secondary aims include the following: 1) comparison of regional wall motion and
      LV volumes; 2) study of the effect of reocclusion and spontaneous recanalization on LV
      function; and 3) study of the effect of duration of occlusion on changes in LV function after
      Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI). The substudy will be conducted at 21 OAT study
      sites. The Substudy Coordinating Center (SCC) is at the University of Alberta in Edmonton,
      Canada. The Data Coordinating Center (DCC) is at the Maryland Medical Research Institute,
      which is the DCC for the OAT study. The Angiographic Core Laboratory is at the University of
      British Columbia.
    
  