
    
      Chronic pelvic pain is a complex multi-faceted problem that places a substantial burden on
      the healthcare resources. In Canada, the average hospital related cost for women requiring
      surgery or inpatient admission for chronic pelvic pain is $25 million each year. Chronic
      pelvic pain is defined as either persistent pain for at least 6 months or "recurrent episodes
      of abdominal/pelvic pain, hypersensitivity, or discomfort, often associated with elimination
      changes and sexual dysfunction in the absence of an organic etiology." Chronic pelvic pain is
      common and affects women of all ages and backgrounds. 15-20% of women have chronic pelvic
      pain lasting for more than 1 year.

      Pelvic floor myalgia is an important and common contributor to chronic pelvic pain that may
      be present alone or may co-exist with other gynecological, urological, colorectal, and
      musculoskeletal medical conditions. The International Urogynecological
      Association/International Continence Society joint report published in February 2017 defines
      pelvic floor myalgia as pain in the musculature of the pelvic floor.6 Patients with high-tone
      pelvic floor dysfunction (HTPFD) have levator hypercontractility and present with pain with
      internal vaginal examination and intercourse. In a 2011 prospective cross-sectional study by
      Fitzgerald et al., 63% of patients with self-reported chronic pelvic pain examined by a
      physician and 73.7% of patients examined by a physiotherapist were found to have pelvic floor
      myalgia. Although pelvic floor myalgia is a common condition encountered in gynecology, it is
      frequently an unrecognized and under-treated component of chronic pelvic pain. Pelvic floor
      myalgia has a significant impact on the patient's quality of life. Persistent chronic pain
      may result in patient's anxiety, low mood, depression, sleep disturbances, feeling of
      hopelessness and helplessness, frustration, and psychological distress.

      The first line of treatment for pelvic floor myalgia is pelvic floor muscle relaxation.
      Reducing the resting tone of pelvic floor musculature has been shown to improve chronic
      pelvic pain. Current treatment options for pelvic floor myalgia include pelvic floor
      physiotherapy, Thiele massage, biofeedback with electrical stimulation, behavioural
      modifications, acupuncture, medications such as antidepressants,1 trigger point injections
      with botulin A toxin, warm sitz baths, and neuromodulation.

      Recently, intravaginal diazepam has been used an off-label treatment option for high-tone
      pelvic floor myalgia. Diazepam is a benzodiazepine derivative that has both antispasmotic and
      anxiolytic activity. It is used as a muscle relaxant and enhances the inhibitory action of
      gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) on neuronal excitability, resulting in decreased action
      potentials. The benefit of local therapy is the avoidance of the common side effects of
      benzodiazepines such as drowsiness, fatigue, and ataxia. Currently, evidence is lacking in
      regards to the effectiveness of intravaginal diazepam on treatment of chronic pelvic pain.
      The 2010 retrospective chart review of 26 patients by Rogalski et al. revealed clinically
      significant reduction in Visual Analogue Scale for Pain (VAS-P) and Female Sexual Function
      Index (FSFI) with diazepam suppositories used for 30 days as an adjuvant therapy to pelvic
      floor physiotherapy and intramuscular trigger point injections. Similarly, the 2011 study
      revealed 62% improvement in symptoms with intravaginal diazepam.

      Baclofen is a skeletal muscle relaxant. It is a GABA-B receptor agonist which is commonly
      used for treating spasticity. The literature on topical baclofen use in pelvic floor
      dysfunction is minimal. Topical therapy is advantageous to avoid the common systemic side
      effects such as drowsiness, hypotonia, hypotension, and headache. A retrospective study
      examining the use of topical baclofen for provoked vulvodynia showed an improvement in pain
      and sexual function.

      Baclofen may also be used in combination with diazepam for treatment of pelvic floor myalgia.
      A 2016 retrospective chart review performed at the University of Saskatchewan revealed a
      reduction in both dyspareunia and pelvic floor muscle spasm with the use of baclofen and
      diazepam vaginal suppositories.
    
  