
    
      Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE or BuChE) is a cholinesterase enzyme that is very similar to
      acetylcholinesterase (AChE). However, though the role and function of AChE in the human body
      are widely studied and known, BChE is usually referred to as an 'orphan enzyme' because its
      specific physiological role is still under question. Lastly, it has been found, however, that
      BChE has more specific functions than it was previously believed and acetylcholine (ACh),
      which will be further analyzed, can affect the immune system and is associated with
      inflammation-related events. Butyrylcholinesterase is an enzyme that for several years was
      not considered to have a specific physiological role but lately, it has been observed that
      plays an important role in inflammation as acetylcholine is a major player of the
      'cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway' inhibiting inflammation. It has been proved that BChE
      activity can be affected by several diseases. Low-grade inflammation is associated with an
      increase of its levels whereas a reduction is observed when systemic inflammation is present.
      However, future research is needed in order to be widely used in clinical practice as a
      biomarker for several pathological conditions involving inflammation. Therefore, the aim of
      this study is to present information about butyrylcholinesterase, its function, and its role
      in the human body, highlighting its association with inflammation analyzing past studies
      about this subject. The Investigators prospectively evaluate patients undergoing elective
      procedures for colorectal diseases. Blood samples are collected preoperatively (at day 0),
      post-operatively in the recovery room (day 1), and on the subsequent four days (days 2, 3, 4,
      and 5) for assessment of BChE, C-reactive protein, and white blood cell concentrations. The
      same surgical team operates all patients and is blinded to the study. Patients are monitored
      for post-operative infection by using standard laboratory and clinical methods. If surgical
      site infection (SSI) is suspected the wound is swabbed and empirical antibiotics are started.
      The aim of the current trial is to study whether BChE is a reliable marker for the presence
      of SSI in patients undergoing colorectal surgery.
    
  