
    
      Rationale : Low vitamin D levels hinders the ability of the macrophage to produce activated
      1-25Dihydroxyvitamin at sites of inflammation. 1-25Dihydroxyvitamin D has important
      immunoregulatory functions including down-regulation of antigen-presenting cells such as
      dendritic cells. Under the influence of 1-25Dihydroxyvitamin D, these dendritic cells become
      tolerogenic - as opposed to immunogenic - and abrogate an immune response at early stages.
      Immunogenic dendritic cells play a key role in the development of autoimmune diseases such as
      Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) by "presenting" self-antigens to the immune system. Vitamin D
      levels are frequently low in patients with RA. Restoring vitamin D availability to normal
      levels in patients with RA may induce improvement of disease manifestations through expansion
      of the tolerogenic dendritic cell subset.

      Key Objectives:

        -  Conduct a double-blind randomized clinical trial, to test the hypothesis that vitamin D
           administered to patients with active RA has beneficial effects on this disease.

        -  Determine if vitamin D administered to patients with RA. induces expansion of the
           tolerogenic dendritic cell subset by analyzing patterns of cell surface marker
           expression on dendritic cells at different time points during the clinical trial
           (translational studies).

      Study Population: We will recruit early RA patients (not more that 12 month duration of
      disease)with active joint inflammation cared for at this institution.Participants must be
      subjects with active RA at the time of inclusion, who are 18 years of age or older and have
      no history of other autoimmune disorders or other disorders such as cancer or osteoporosis
      which are also linked to vitamin D deficiency. The eligible patients with active RA should be
      on treatment for RA with Methotrexate at the time of inclusion. Patients taking anti-cytokine
      treatments (considered not standard) would be excluded. Other exclusions include
      hypercalcemia, and a history of renal failure or renal stones.

      20-25 participants will be allocated to the Vitamin D Group, Arm A. 20-25 participants will
      be allocated to Placebo Group Arm B Allocation will be conducted in a randomized,
      double-blind fashion.

      Summary of Procedures : After signing a written consent, all potential candidates will
      undergo a screening interview with the PI and screening blood tests (a blood sample of 20 ml
      is required).

      RA subjects who qualify to receive the study treatment will be randomized to receive oral
      vitamin D 2,000 units or placebo daily for 6 months. Patients will be examined on a monthly
      basis and will be drawn a 20 ml blood sample every 2 months for monitoring purposes for a
      period of 12 month. The participants within the clinical trial who also participate in the
      translational studies on dendritic cells, will be drawn an additional blood sample of 40 ml
      on the first month and at the end of the study to isolate their blood dendritic cells. We
      will study the expression of different activation markers on dendritic cells from consenting
      participants using various immunologic techniques. This will allow us to identify and
      quantify the tolerogenic dendritic cells..
    
  