
    
      Purpose of Research:

      Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a fungal infection which left untreated, can cause dangerous
      complications and death. Transplant patients who have weakened immune systems are at higher
      risk of getting IA. Voriconazole is a medication that is prescribed for IA. In order for
      voriconazole to work, it is important to maintain the right amount of drug in the blood. The
      investigators check for the right amount of voriconazole in the blood by collecting blood
      samples. This process is called therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) and usually done for
      transplant patients with weakened immune systems. However, maintaining the right amount of
      drug in the blood is still difficult since voriconazole is absorbed and excreted by the body
      differently for each person, depending on their genetic make-up. This study will try to
      understand if genetic testing early on in addition with TDM will be able to provide us with
      doses tailored to each individual.

      Study Design:

      Patients who consent to participate in this study and who are receiving voriconazole therapy
      for IA will be randomly split into one of two groups. The control group will receive
      voriconazole dosages and then TDM according to the usual treatment for the patient's
      condition. A treatment group will receive altered dosages that are specific to their genetic
      make-up for the first four days of treatment and will then receive routine TDM. This altered
      dosing for the treatment group is experimental and is not routinely used in patients' care.
      TDM will take place at approximately the fourth day after starting voriconazole for all
      patients, and from this point on the usual treatment will resume for all patients.

      Participation in the study will be for the entire amount of time the patient is taking
      voriconazole. The study staff will meet with the patient once, provided they meet the study
      criteria. This will be the only visit from the study staff. This visit will take place
      immediately after being prescribed voriconazole and is estimated to take 1-2 hours.

      Should the patient decide to participate in the study, basic demographic information will be
      collected at this time and the patient's medical records will be accessible to the study
      staff. One saliva sample will be collected from the patient at this time for the genetic
      testing portion of the study. The genetic testing used in this study will be specific to
      looking at the way the patient's body handles voriconazole and will not inform us of any
      other potential condition. No incidental findings will be discovered. This procedure will be
      done by Spartan Bioscience, a third party company. The patient's saliva sample will be sent
      with a code and will not show the patient's name or address, or any information that directly
      identifies them. The patient's saliva sample will be immediately destroyed after the genetic
      testing component has been completed. The patient's genetic information will remain
      confidential as no research data will be shared with Spartan Bioscience or anyone outside the
      study staff. No additional procedures outside of routine care will be done. As part of
      routine care, the patient's treatment will be regularly be assessed by a physician.
    
  