
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Pegylated interferon and interferon are designed to stop the growth of viruses. Pegylated
      interferon has a molecule that makes it last longer in the body. Standard interferon does not
      have this molecule that makes it last longer.

      TIV is designed to prevent the flu.

      Screening Test:

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have a "screening test" to help the
      doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will
      be drawn for routine tests. If you have had a routine blood test in the last 4 weeks, this
      blood will not need to be drawn. Women who are able to have children must have a negative
      blood (about 1 teaspoon) blood test within 2 weeks of study entry.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the roll of dice) to 1 of 3 groups.

      If you are assigned to Group 1, you will receive TIV alone. If you are assigned to Group 2,
      you will receive pegylated interferon with TIV. If you are assigned to Group 3, you will
      receive interferon with TIV.

      You will have an equal chance of being assigned to any of the 3 groups. Your doctor, the
      study doctor, study staff, and you will know which group you are in.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive TIV through a needle into a muscle in your arm (the arm you do not write
      with) on Days 1 and 28.

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will only receive TIV

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will receive pegylated interferon right before you receive
           TIV. It will be given through a needle under the skin. It will be given near the TIV
           injection site.

        -  If you are in Group 3, you will receive interferon right before you receive TIV. It will
           be given through a needle under the skin. It will be given near the TIV injection site.

      After you are given the injection(s), you will be watched for 15 minutes in the clinic before
      you are allowed to go home.

      You will keep a diary for 1 week (7 days) after the injection(s). In it, you will record any
      symptoms you may be experiencing, and you will also record your body temperature.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1, blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn to check your immune system's response to
      the flu virus.

      On Day 8, you will be asked to return to the clinic and your symptom/temperature diary will
      be reviewed. If you cannot come to the clinic, a member of the research staff will call you
      to review this information. This phone call will take 15-30 minutes.

      On Day 28, blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn to check your immune system response to
      the flu virus.

      On Day 56, blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn to check you immune system response to the
      flu virus. If you live out of town and cannot return to M. D. Anderson for this visit, you
      may have your blood drawn at a local clinic. You will then mail the blood to the study doctor
      in a pre-paid envelope.

      On Month 6, you will be called and asked about any side effects you may have experienced.
      This phone call will take 15-30 minutes.

      Length of Study:

      You will be considered off study after the Month 6 phone call. You will be taken off-study
      early if intolerable side effects or an allergic reaction occurs.

      This is an investigational study. TIV, pegylated interferon, and interferon are FDA approved
      and commercially available. At this time, the use of pegylated interferon and standard
      interferon with TIV is only being used for research.

      Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  