
    
      Herpes viruses such as Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and cytomegalovirus (CMV) cause considerable
      morbidity and mortality post-kidney transplant. Even subclinical CMV and/or EBV viremia have
      been associated with deterioration in kidney transplant function. Currently, valganciclovir
      (valG) is the primary prophylactic agent against CMV in kidney transplant recipients but CMV
      viremia has been noted in 22% of pediatric post-kidney transplant recipients, and the
      incidence at the University of Minnesota (UMMC) in all kidney transplant recipients is as
      high as 17% despite valG prophylaxis. CMV disease post-kidney transplant can manifest as
      fever, leucopenia, or mild to severe organ involvement. While an effective anti-CMV drug,
      valG has a number of adverse effects including leucopenia, also a side effect of
      mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), one of the cornerstones of current anti-rejection regimens.
      Combined therapy with MMF and valG frequently results in leucopenia associated infection or
      leucopenia necessitating reduction in MMF doses, increasing the risk of rejection. In
      addition, valG is prohibitively expensive forcing many centers adopt a pre-emptive
      therapeutic approach whereby post-Ktx patients are screened for CMV, and at new onset
      viremia, valG is initiated. This approach has been associated with increased CMV infections
      and resistant viral strains. Therefore, there is need for an alternate, more cost-effective
      drug with a more benign side effect profile and equal effectiveness against CMV.

      To date, the anti-EBV effect of valG is poorly defined and prevention of EBV infection is by
      close monitoring and immunosuppression reduction at the discovery of EBV viremia. EBV can
      present post-kidney transplants as infectious mononucleosis syndrome, hepatitis and, most
      importantly, can initiate potentially fatal lymphoproliferative disorders (PTLD). Between
      October 2003 and December 2009, EBV viremia occurred in 20% of adults and 50% of pediatric
      kidney transplant recipients (60/120) at UMMC, and, PTLD occurred in 6% (7/120) of pediatric
      recipients. Effective anti-EBV prophylaxis could substantially improve kidney transplant
      outcomes.

      UMMC conducts surveillance biopsies at transplant and 3 and 12 months post-kidney transplant
      on all adult transplant recipients, providing an ideal opportunity to assess kidney tissue
      for EBV and CMV via molecular and immunological assays. Isolating the virus from infected
      recipient would be a pivotal step in our understanding of the mechanisms of CMV and EBV
      infection post-kidney transplant.

      In summary, if valacyclovir and valganciclovir have equivalent efficacy in CMV prophylaxis,
      and valacyclovir has the anticipated effect on EBV prevention, the use of valacyclovir will
      result in a reduced risk of leucopenia-associated infection, and a lower incidence of
      rejection by allowing the use of standard MMF doses. Since valacyclovir is cheaper, it is
      plausible that universal prophylaxis will be a plausible and affordable option for all
      transplant recipients.
    
  