
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS) of patients with resected stage III and IV melanoma
      treated with physician/patient choice of either high dose interferon recombinant interferon
      alfa-2b (alfa-2b) or ipilimumab versus MK-3475 (pembrolizumab).

      II. Among patients who are PD-L1 positive, to compare OS of patients with resected stage III
      and IV melanoma treated with physician/patient choice of either high dose interferon alfa-2b
      or ipilimumab versus MK-3475 (pembrolizumab).

      III. To compare relapse-free survival (RFS) of patients with resected stage III and IV
      melanoma treated with physician/patient choice of either high dose interferon alfa-2b or
      ipilimumab to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate OS and RFS for patients who are PD-L1 negative or PD-L1 indeterminate in this
      population.

      II. To compare OS and RFS of patients between the two arms within PD-L1 positive and negative
      subgroups and to look at the interaction between PD-L1 (positive versus negative) and
      treatment arm.

      III. To assess the safety and tolerability of the regimens.

      ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To bank tissue and whole blood in anticipation of future correlative studies in this
      patient population.

      II. To evaluate PD-L1 expression through immunohistochemistry assay. III. To evaluate the
      effect of treatment-related side effects that may have an impact on the health-related
      domains of quality of life (QOL) using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy
      (FACT)-Biological Response Modifiers (BRM), European Quality of Life Five Dimension Three
      Level Scale (EQ-5D-3L), and Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy Diarrhea
      (FACIT-D) between patients treated with physician/patient choice of either high-dose
      interferon alfa-2b or ipilimumab and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab).

      IV. Pharmacokinetic (PK) and anti-drug antibody (ADA) testing will be performed on all
      patients receiving MK-3475 (pembrolizumab).

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES RELATED TO T-CELL RECEPTOR BETA CHAIN SEQUENCING:

      I. To evaluate the association between TCR beta variable gene (TRBV) haplotype and grade 3-4
      immune-related adverse events (irAEs) among stage III melanoma patients treated with adjuvant
      ipilimumab or pembrolizumab.

      II. To describe the TRBV haplotype distribution among this cohort of patients studied.

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINAL OBJECTIVE RELATED TO ASSOCIATION OF CIRCULATING TUMOR DNA (ctDNA)
      WITH RELAPSE-FREE SURVIVAL IN HIGH-RISK, RESECTED MELANOMA PATIENTS.

      I. To evaluate associations between pretreatment ctDNA (present versus absent) and relapse
      within 2 years of randomization in a case-control analysis across treatment arms.

      II. To evaluate associations between pretreatment ctDNA (present versus absent) and relapse
      within 2 years of randomization in a case-control analysis across treatment arms.

      III. To evaluate associations between pretreatment ctDNA and relapse within 2 years of
      randomization in a case-control analysis within each treatment arm (after treatment arm data
      are unblinded to investigators).

      IV. To evaluate associations between "early-on treatment" ctDNA levels and relapse within 2
      years of randomization.

      V. To describe ctDNA levels at end of therapy and time of relapse.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I:

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive high-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2B intravenously
      (IV) over 20 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment repeats weekly for 4 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Or patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for a total of 4 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive high-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2B subcutaneously
      (SC) on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 48 weeks in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Or patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 12 weeks for 3 years in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3
      weeks for up to 52 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 6 and 12 weeks,
      every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then every 12 months for 5 years.
    
  