
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Globalisation has led to an influx of women from surrounding Asian countries with high
      prevalence of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) to work in entertainment establishments
      (EEs) in Singapore. Men frequenting EEs reported high levels of unprotected sex with
      commercial and casual partners.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The aim is to assess the efficacy of a multi-component intervention on STI prevention and
      condom use in female entertainment workers and men frequenting EEs in Singapore, using a
      quasi-experimental design. The hypothesis is that a comprehensive sexual health promotion
      program which incorporates behavioural (STI/HIV education, condom use and condom negotiation
      skills), biomedical (STI screening and treatment services) and structural components (free
      access to condoms) to female entertainment workers as well as behavioural (sexual well-being
      and safe sex edutainment) and structural (free access to condoms) interventions to men
      patronising EEs in Singapore will achieve an increase in condom use (for both target groups)
      and a reduction in incident STIs (only for female EE workers).

      METHODS:

      Female EE workers:

      Joo Chiat and Golden Mile Complex will be selected purposively as control cluster sites with
      220 entertainment workers being recruited and followed up at 6 weeks. The same sites will be
      used as intervention sites with recruitment of a separate sample of 220 participants after a
      3-months' 'wash out' period to ensure comparability. Self-reported condom use, vaginal swab
      samples for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for cervical gonorrhoea and chlamydia infections,
      and throat swabs for culture for pharyngeal gonorrhoea will be assessed. The short follow-up
      period is because almost all of these women come to Singapore to work illegally on 1 to 2
      months social visit passes.

      Heterosexual men:

      The investigators are unable to recruit heterosexual men from the same study sites of the
      female EE workers due to feasibility and safety considerations. Instead, Clark Quay will be
      selected purposively as the intervention site for the heterosexual men. Tanjong Pagar will be
      the equivalent control site. Using time location sampling, cross-sectional samples of men
      patronising these establishments will be assessed on self-reported condom use at baseline
      (n=600) and 6 months after the intervention (n=400) in both intervention and control groups.

      MAIN OUTCOMES:

      The primary outcomes for female EE workers are consistent condom use for vaginal sex with
      paid and casual partner respectively in the past 1 month and the secondary outcome is STI
      incidence. The primary outcomes for heterosexual men are condom use at last vaginal and oral
      sex respectively with casual partner in the past 6 months.

      POSSIBLE APPLICATIONS:

      The study will provide pertinent data for planning STI/HIV prevention programs for female
      entertainment workers and men patronising EEs in Singapore and the region.
    
  