
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory immune mediated arthritis which leads to
      pain, swelling and destruction of joints. RA affects more than 500,000 subjects in the United
      Kingdom (UK) and incurs significant health and economic cost. Most patients require potent
      immune suppressing drugs such as methotrexate, which help reduce pain and stiffness, and
      protect the joints against damage. However, many patients do not respond or are unable to
      tolerate methotrexate. In these patients, biologic drugs such as abatacept are used to try to
      control the arthritis.

      Abatacept is designed to target and inhibit a specific molecule involved in "costimulation"
      of the inflammatory signal that is thought to be important in RA. While abatacept has been
      shown to be effective in trials and clinical practice, the exact mechanism of action of
      abatacept in RA has not been fully elucidated. Understanding these actions is likely to
      inform both the use of abatacept in RA and lead to increased understanding of inflammation in
      humans with implications for further therapies. This six month prospective open label study,
      therefore, aims to investigate the effects of inhibiting costimulation on a variety of
      important inflammatory cell types and processes in humans with RA.

      25 participants with RA who have bad prognostic genetic markers (Anti-citrullinated protein
      antibodies (ACPA) and human leukocyte antigen (HLADR4) and who were scheduled to receive
      subcutaneous abatacept as part of their standard clinical treatment will be recruited.
      Consenting participants will followed for a total of 24 weeks during which time they will
      have additional venous blood and urine samples taken to investigate the effects of abatacept
      on their immune cells and system. The primary endpoint of the study is the characterisation
      of the immune response following costimulatory modulation in RA patients at 12 weeks.
      Secondary endpoints include change in immunological response and its association with
      clinical outcome measures up to 24 weeks.
    
  