
    
      Approach Basic study design The study design is a matched-pair case-control cohort,
      longitudinal.

      Study population and assembly of patients Premature infants from 32 to 36 6/7 weeks of
      postmenstrual age, with feeding tolerance at least of 50ml/kg/day, inpatients at the Brigham
      and Women's NICU.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Premature infants from 32 to 36 6/7 weeks of postmenstrual age, with feeding tolerance
           at least of 50ml/kg/day which have been diagnosed with food intolerance.

        -  Control group will be composed with patients from the same population age range
           tolerating at least 50 ml/Kg/day (Half of the minimum full feeds daily requirement) of
           Human milk of enteral Formula delivered in bolus, 6 to 8 times per day.

        -  Written informed consent from parent(s) or guardian.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Premature infants with know conditions that could affect the attachment of the sensors
           in the body areas as Gastroschisis, Omphalocele, Post surgical intestine resection, on
           peritoneal dialysis, with lacerations in the abdomen and frontal area of the head.

        -  Infants who have been diagnosed with Necrotizing enterocolitis.

        -  Infants with current diagnosis of Sepsis and/or Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome
           (SIRS).

        -  Infants with severe Intra-Ventricular Hemorrhage (Intra-cranial Hemorrhage).

        -  Infants with Hereditary Spherocytosis, total or partial (hypoplasia) congenital asplenia
           hypoplasia.

      Exposures and their measurement The investigators will use two NIRS devices, the INVOS™ 5100c
      Cerebral/Somatic Oximeter is a 2 wavelength, diffuse reflectance spectroscopy system
      employing near infrared light to estimate the percentage of hemoglobin saturated with oxygen
      in tissue underneath the sensor. An adhesive sensor containing a light source and 2
      photodiodes is applied to the skin over the tissue of interest and the returning light is
      analyzed for oxyhemoglobin and deoxyhemoglobin light absorption. Absorption signals from the
      photodiode closer to the light source are subtracted from those from the farther photodiode
      where the returning photons penetrate more deeply in the tissue. This suppresses absorption
      events originating in the outer layers of tissue that are common to both photodiodes,
      including the effects of skin pigmentation and subcutaneous tissues. This method of "spatial
      resolution" also allows estimation of scattering to improve measurement accuracy.

      This is a non-invasive device Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved (FDA 510k
      #K082327), with an intended use for infants with a weight greater than 2.5 Kg. Given that the
      target population of this study has weights under the description to use, and being used in
      cerebral oxygen monitoring, in order to be approved by the Institutional Board Review (IRB)
      committee. The investigators will catalogue it as non-significant risk device under the
      Investigational Device Exemption (IDE), 21 CFR 812.

      The device has four channels where the light sensors will retrieve the lectures from the
      splanchnic (left flank), mesenteric (infra-umbilical), muscular (either right or left thigh)
      and cerebral (forehead) areas. The NIRS sensors Cerebral (IS-C) and Somatic (IS-S)
      Infant/Neonatal Somatic OxyAlert® will be attached directly to the infant skin in order to
      obtain the area lecture.

      The cases will be diagnosed as feeding intolerant for the attending physician staff and those
      patients that have been at least with 50ml/Kg/day in their enteral feedings will be
      approached.

      Once the case is attached with the NIRS device, the selection of the matching control will
      take place, a feeds tolerating infant (at least 50 mL/Kg/day) sharing gestational range age
      and gender if possible. for The study coordinators will obtain the consent from the
      parent(s); those families will have the opportunity to speak with the Physician investigator
      (PI). All the staff members are certified in the CITI program (Collaborative IRB Training
      Initiative) to ensure and discuss the protocol with the infant's parent(s) or guardian. After
      the sensors have been attached the data will be recorded the display of the monitor will be
      turned off, the data will be extracted and analyzed.

      Confounders and their measurement The study design will allow to minimize the confounders
      with restriction (inclusion and exclusion criteria), same at risk population, and matching
      the cases.

      Low perfusion status need to be assessed monitoring vital signs (HR,RR,BP) and pulse-oximetry
      (SpO2).

      Outcomes and their measurement Clinical outcome data will be correlated with tissue oxygen
      saturation (TOI) from the NIRS device, other outcomes variables include: length of NICU stay,
      morbidity, mortality, feeding tolerance, advance in the feedings and abdominal sign of
      intolerance, abdominal distension, gastric residues greater than 50% of the intermittent
      bolus. Other variables will be recorded, infant perinatal history, level of oxygen
      requirements, ventilatory support status, morbidities associated, laboratory studies, vital
      signs and parenteral nutrition status. oxygen saturation by standard pulse oximetry, formula
      and/or human milk feeding status, and follow them until their discharge from the Hospital,
      looking for length of stay, development of Necrotizing enterocolitis, and/or
      Broncho-pulmonary dysplasia. The data will be extracted from their clinical records (EPIC
      System).
    
  