
    
      Patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) have severely reduced exercise capacity
      and reduced quality of life. At diagnosis, most PAH patients are New York Heart Association
      (NYHA) functional class III with symptoms of fatigue and shortness of breath with less than
      ordinary activity. Physical activity confers multiple benefits relevant to PAH
      pathophysiology including improvements in endothelial function, energy metabolism, and right
      ventricular (RV) function. Increasing physical activity is highly efficacious in PAH,
      resulting in six-minute walk distance (6MWD) improvement that exceeds the effect of
      medications.

      The goal of this proposal is to adapt and test the feasibility of our mHealth intervention to
      increase physical activity in a geographically diverse PAH population. In secondary aims, we
      will assess conventional PAH trial outcomes (6MWD, quality of life) and physiologic
      mechanisms by which increasing activity may improve exercise capacity.

      The investigator hypothesizes that an mHealth intervention is feasible and will increase
      physical activity in subjects with PAH. This study proposes a randomized trial of unblinded
      step tracking with smart texts tracking for 12 weeks. Participants will wear a display-free
      triaxial accelerometer, which will continuously transmit data to a compatible smartphone
      (owned by 75% of our PAH population). Efficacy endpoints have been selected to mirror FDA
      criteria for drug approval in PAH. The following aims will be tested:

      Aim 1: To test the feasibility of an mHealth intervention to increase step counts in patients
      with PAH. Fifty PAH patients will be randomized to the mHealth intervention or usual activity
      for 12 weeks. The primary endpoint will be daily step count during Week 12. Secondary
      endpoints will assess step target achievement, daily activity time, and aerobic time. The
      fidelity of data collection and text transmission will also be assessed.

      Aim 2: To examine the effect of an mHealth intervention on exercise capacity and quality of
      life. Participants will complete a six minute walk test and the emPHasis-10 questionnaire at
      baseline and 12 weeks. The primary endpoint will be six minute walk distance. Secondary
      endpoints will be emPHasis-10 quality of life scale score, Borg dyspnea score, and resting
      heart rate.

      Aim 3: To examine the effect of an mHealth intervention on mechanisms of improved exercise
      capacity. Subjects will undergo echocardiography, blood draw, and body composition
      assessment. The primary endpoint will be RV longitudinal strain. Secondary endpoints will be
      the homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance, lean muscle and fat mass, and B-type
      natriuretic peptide.
    
  