
    
      SAGE will be delivered over a four month period using a cluster randomized controlled trial
      adapted crossover design, along with testing a sustainability action plan (SAP) at the
      organizational level. In this study, the investigators will determine the efficacy of the
      SAGE intervention on health in 3-4 year-old children. This study will pair match and
      randomize 20 ECEC from neighborhoods with high proportions of Hispanic or Latino residents.
      ECEC will receive either the SAGE intervention or the safety attention comparison. Then, ECEC
      will cross over and receive the treatment that they did not receive to ensure that all ECEC
      receive both curricula. The investigators will determine improvement in accelerometry
      measured PA and sedentary behaviors, fruit and vegetable consumption and explore eating in
      the absence of hunger compared to those in a child safety attention comparison. The
      investigators will explore secondary impacts on parenting practices that promote PA and fruit
      and vegetable consumption, home fruit and vegetable availability and improved household food
      security. This study will explore the process of delivery of the SAGE intervention on
      dimensions of reach, adoption, and implementation. This study will also develop, implement,
      and evaluate a SAP in the SAGE arm to determine replicability and institutionalization
      (sustainability) of the SAGE intervention and explore the relationship between of
      sustainability to child outcomes at follow-up. The development and success of the community
      Partnership and SAGE Community Advisory Board will also be evaluated using indicators of
      participation, representativeness, and collaboration. This study will rely on CBPR strategies
      and an established theoretical model to implement an engaging and translational multilevel
      intervention linking policy and practice. This work will test strategies for implementing IOM
      guidelines at the ECE level and will guide future efforts aimed at scaling up efficacious
      interventions for broad dissemination in vulnerable populations to reduce health disparities.
    
  