
    
      Weight gain is common among people with TBI. Weight gain greatly increases the risk of
      chronic diseases such as diabetes, metabolic syndrome, pulmonary and heart disease.
      Approaches to weight-loss are lacking, yet necessary, due to the unique physiological and
      cognitive needs of persons with TBI. There is evidence that interventions that improve
      physical activity and healthy eating behaviors concurrently offer greatest potential for
      weight-loss. The Group Lifestyle Balance™ (GLB) intervention is a 12-month, evidence-based
      weight-loss program that has been used extensively with the general population, but not with
      people with TBI. The investigators modified the program to meet the needs of people with a
      TBI (GLB-TBI) and a pilot study with 20 individuals with TBI demonstrated that participation
      resulted in 5% weight-loss (10.2±13lbs) warranting a rigorous RCT. In addition, the
      investigators propose to integrate a mobile app into the GLB-TBI as 94% of pilot participants
      indicated that text messaging to support weight-loss would have been "very helpful" to boost
      motivation.

      The proposed study consists of four specific aims.

      Specific Aim 1: To examine the efficacy of the GLB-TBI compared to an attention control at 3,
      6, 12, and 18 months from baseline using a randomized controlled trial.

      Specific Aim 2: To examine participant compliance to GLB-TBI intervention components and its
      association with their outcomes:

      Aim 2.1: To determine participant compliance with specific components of the GLB-TBI,
      including: (1) session attendance (2) self-monitoring of dietary and activity behaviors and
      (3) activity tracking of step count through accelerometer data.

      Aim 2.2: To determine if compliance with the GLB-TBI is associated with improvement in
      primary (weight) and secondary outcomes (step count; waist circumference; blood pressure;
      HbA1c and lipid panel; functional measures; and quality of life).

      Specific Aim 3: To assess feasibility (compliance, usability) of adding a smartphone
      application at week 12 of the GLB-TBI program and attention control condition to enhance
      participant engagement.

      Specific Aim 4: Ascertain maintenance of primary (weight) and additional secondary outcomes
      (step count; waist circumference; blood pressure; HbA1c and lipid panel; risk of diabetes;
      and quality of life), compliance with and effect of the GLB-TBI and Attention Control App at
      18 months.

      Aim 4.1: To evaluate and integrate deep phenotype profiling (e.g. proteomics, metabolomics)
      and correlate findings with rehabilitation therapy and outcomes in patients with TBI.
    
  