
    
      The research proposed here will establish the dosage of components needed to impact GWG and
      develop an efficient (optimized) intervention to effectively manage GWG in OW/OBPW before a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) can be implemented. The aims of the proposed research are:
      to establish feasibility of delivering an individually-tailored behavioral intervention for
      managing GWG in OW/OBPW. Two studies will be conducted to establish feasibility. Study 1 will
      examine viability of delivering dosages/sequencing of components (education, goal-setting,
      self-monitoring, HE/PA), GWG/HE/PA self-monitoring using e-health technology mechanisms, and
      data collection by delivering varied dosages to OW/OBPW over a brief, 4-week period followed
      by focus groups to evaluate user acceptability. The investigators will then make necessary
      revisions to the intervention. Study 2 will pilot test intervention delivery with decision
      rules for when/how to adapt dosages for an individual and randomization/retention/data
      collection procedures with treatment and control groups in a new cohort of OW/OBPW. Also, the
      investigators aim to use feasibility data collected from Aim 1 and control systems
      engineering to build a model that characterizes the effects of energy balance and
      planned/self-regulatory behaviors on GWG over time and use this model to develop an optimized
      intervention. The investigators will identify a dynamical model from feasibility data
      collected in Aim 1 that considers how changes in GWG responds to changes in energy intake,
      PA, and planned/self-regulatory behaviors. Model predictive control (a decision-making method
      from control systems engineering) will inform how the dosage adaptations are decided. The
      investigators will then identify a customized intervention plan for each woman based on her
      levels of energy intake, PA, planned/self-regulatory behaviors and the extent to which she is
      meeting GWG goals over pregnancy. This will lead to final program modifications and result in
      an individually-tailored, optimized intervention. The investigators will test the efficacy of
      this optimized intervention for managing GWG in OW/OBPW in a future RCT. This innovative
      research will develop an individually-tailored, optimized intervention that effectively and
      efficiently manages GWG in OW/OBPW and that will eventually be available to all pregnant
      women (via e-health technology) to improve the health of mothers and infants and impact the
      etiology of obesity and cardiovascular disease at a critical time in the life cycle.
    
  