
    
      Peek and Bre.flex are both new material that introduced to the market recently with great
      benefits like aesthetics and bio-compatibility but which material has less candida growth ?
      Bre.flex is a nylon-based thermoplastic material, composed of nylon polyamide 12
      (polyamide).Nylon exhibits high physical strength, heat resistance and chemical resistance.
      It can be easily modified to increase stiffness and wear resistance. Nylon resin can be
      semi-translucent and provides excellent esthetics but it is a little more difficult to adjust
      and polish.

      Despite of its highly esthetics features, Nylon still suffers from surface roughness that
      increase the colonization for candida but less than heat cured acrylic Recently, PEEK is
      introduced as a removable prosthesis material due to its high mechanical and biological
      properties but further clinical studies or systematic reviews focusing on the use of PEEK
      dentures are needed.

      The patient will be treated in visits designated as follows:

      Visit 1: Preoperative records, clinical, radiographic examination (panoramic and periapical
      x-rays for evaluation the crown-root ratio, the apical condition of the abutment and their
      alveolar bone support of abutment) and primary impression will be performed with irreversible
      hydro-colloid impression material (alginate), The impressions will be poured with type IV
      dental stone to obtain diagnostic casts.

      Visit 2: Maxillary Face-bow will be recorded. The diagnostic casts will be mounted on semi
      adjustable articulator in centric occluding relation to evaluate the inter arch distance and
      occlusal plane.

      Visit 3: primary surveying is performed. Special trays will be constructed and Mouth
      preparation will be performed by preparing guiding planes and rests seats on the abutments.
      Final impression will be taken by elastomeric impression material. The impression will be
      poured into type IV dental stone in order to obtain master cast. The master cast will be
      surveyed. The proposed design will be as follows: framework for edentulous areas on both
      sides connected with palatal strap. Aker's clasp on all abutments with buccal retention.

      Visit 4: the metal framework is tried into the patient's mouth. Jaw relation is recorded.

      Visit 5: The framework will be tried in with acrylic teeth in patient's mouth. Visit 6: the
      denture base of the partial denture will be processed incorporation with the metal framework
      into the two different materials to be evaluated. The first group will receive the partial
      denture in which the metal framework incorporated with the denture base fabricated from PEEK
      material. The second group will receive the partial denture in which the metal framework
      incorporated with the denture base material fabricated from BRE-FLEX.

      Visit7, 8, 9: clinical measurement will be performed for one month in three visits.
    
  