
    
      Pancreatic cancer is one of the most lethal malignant tumors, probably attributable to local
      recurrence deemed as a predominant factor influencing patients' prognosis and quality of
      life. Only 15%-20% patients are suitable for surgeries among those first diagnosed with
      pancreatic cancer and the 5-year survival rate of those patients with R0 resection is still
      less than 20%. Therefore, radiotherapy is becoming a promising method to improve survival.
      However, due to adjacent organs at risk, conventional external beam radiotherapy, besides
      long courses, sometimes results in severe radiation-induced toxicity, delaying the initial of
      thereafter treatment, such as chemotherapy, which reduces clinical benefits.

      A single-fraction dose in the gross tumor volume could be increased stereotactic body
      radiotherapy (SBRT). Furthermore, doses of organs at risk could also be reduced, thus
      effectively improving local control rates and reducing radiation related toxicity. Compared
      with conventional external beam radiotherapy, SBRT is proved to provide longer progression
      free survival and safe with combination of chemotherapy. Moreover, owing to short courses and
      low toxicity of SBRT, quality of life is largely improved.

      However, it was reported that progression usually occurred 2 years after the initial
      treatment. The most common failure pattern was local recurrence. Chemotherapy and supportive
      treatment were commonly used in relapsed pancreatic cancer but with unfavored outcomes.
      Palliative surgeries are performed in patients with recurrent pancreatic cancer in some
      studies. Nevertheless, because of bad medical conditions and high complication rates, many
      patients could not endure surgeries. Therefore, whether patients previously treated with SBRT
      could be re-irradiated is another challenge in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.

      Some studies have confirmed that improved quality of life and longer survival could be
      available with re-irradiation via SBRT in patients with relapsed pancreatic cancer. Real-time
      guiding and synchronous tracing of SBRT increase the doses of tumor volumes but decrease
      doses of organs at risk and toxicity, rendering SBRT as an alternative treatment for relapsed
      pancreatic cancer. Chris et al. demonstrated that 1-year local control rate was 70% after
      re-irradiation with SBRT in 14 patients and the toxicity was mild. Nergiz Dagoglu et al.
      showed that the median overall survival was 14 months and no grade 3, 4 and 5 toxicities
      occurred.

      From 2013-2015, we retrospectively reviewed medical records of 14 patients with relapsed
      pancreatic cancer re-irradiated with SBRT. All of their tumor markers and pain scores
      decreased and quality of life improved 3 months after re-irradiation. Hence, based on our
      experience, we attempt to prospectively evaluate the safety and efficacy of re-irradiation
      with SBRT for relapsed pancreatic cancer.
    
  