
    
      Metastatic lung cancer remains incurable despite numerous studies and treatments tried,
      including chemotherapy and, more recently, targeted therapies.

      Cancer can escape immune surveillance through different mechanisms: low levels of tumor
      associated antigens (TAA), regulatory T cells, and immunosuppressive cytokines. Non-cytolytic
      doses of radiation have been shown to reverse some of these pathways in experimental models.
      It up-regulated the density of the MHC molecules presenting TAA and increased the T cell
      infiltration of the tumor (1). Patients with lymphoma, liver or prostate cancer were treated
      with radiotherapy combined with immunotherapy, in the form of a TLR9 agonist, autologous
      dendritic cells or a prostate-specific antigen vaccine (2, 3, 4). These trials have shown an
      induction of T cell reactivity against TAA. Another form of immunotherapy, used for patients
      with refractory hematologic malignancies is allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT) (5). Its success has relied on cell infusions from a donor,
      demonstrating the immunologic control sustained by allogeneic cells (6).

      The approach investigated in this study uses the immune cells from a donor to induce a tumor
      destruction reaction. This will be amplified by the immunological effects of radiotherapy.
      Many oncogenes are present in lung cancers and low-dose radiation increases their expression
      on the surface of the tumor cell. In addition, radiation has the property to stimulate the
      production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in the irradiated site. Finally, the
      donor's immune cells shall respond physiologically by migrating to the site of inflammation.
      This will trigger an immune reaction directed against the abnormal cancer cells.

      A total of 24 patients are expected to be recruited over the study period, estimated to be 3
      years. The allogeneic cells will be obtained from one of two possible donor types. For
      patients having a living donor, the immune cells will be harvested through a collection
      procedure called apheresis. The living donor should be a sibling with 3/6 or less HLA
      compatibility with the patient, at the A, B and DRB1 loci. For patients who do not have such
      a living donor, allogeneic cells from a cryopreserved umbilical cord blood (UCB) unit will be
      used.

      The treatment course will be the following: low-dose radiotherapy will be delivered to a
      single tumor site, which could be either the primary tumor or one of its metastases. Low-dose
      cyclophosphamide will be given to decrease regulatory T cell activity and increase anti-tumor
      responses. Allogeneic immune cells will be administered thereafter, according to the
      treatment arm the patient has been assigned.
    
  