
    
      Chronic insomnia is a common sleep disorder (prevalence = 10%) and a risk identified on the
      physical and mental health. Currently, the treatment involves the prescription of drug
      treatments by general practitioners, which may be unsuitable for the medium term. It is
      better to turn to Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies for Insomnia (BCT-I) in the case of
      primary chronic insomnia. The objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a
      computer program guidance BCT-I in patients with chronic primary insomnia. This biomedical
      research psychotherapeutic assessment will be randomized, controlled versus psychoeducation
      and conducted in 46 patients with chronic primary insomnia (defined according to Diagnostic
      and Statistical Manual-5) for which a supported by BCT-I is indicated.

      The 46 patients will be randomized into two groups. The subjects in Group 1 will be supported
      by BCT-I online. And the subjects in group 2 will receive psychoeducation. All patients will
      be followed by the research team for three months, during which 3 visits (V0 = pre-selection;
      V1 = visit of randomization and start of the program; V2 = 3 months follow-up visit and end
      of the study) will be performed in the University Hospital Sleep Disorder Unit of
      Montpellier. Patients in Group 1 will conduct BCT-I online at home therapy. Patients in group
      2 will receive a structured 45-minute session information insomnia (psychoeducation = work
      performed daily by clinicians in charge of insomnia problems) to the visit 1. All patients in
      the study will be equipped 2 sensors for the registration of sleep data.

      The primary endpoint will be based on the severity of insomnia measured by the ISI after the
      last online psychotherapy session (3 months) between the 2 groups of patients (BCT-I online
      and without treatment - psychoeducation ). The analyse efficacity to be conducted by
      intention to treat.
    
  