
    
      The aim of this study is to assess the alveolar ridge contour after soft tissue augmentation
      using sub-epithelial connective tissue graft buccal to fresh extraction sockets in patient
      with thin buccal bone, versus atraumatic extraction with no soft tissue augmentation.

      Group A: Patients receiving atraumatic extraction with soft tissue augmentation by
      sub-epithelial connective tissue graft buccal to extraction sockets.

      Group B: Patients receiving normal atraumatic extraction with no soft tissue augmentation

      Clinical examination:

        -  Evaluation of the patient's general condition of the oral cavity, to make sure it
           complies with the criteria required to be enrolled in the study in terms of oral hygiene
           and pathological conditions.

        -  Evaluation of the buccal bone thickness using CBCT as diagnostic aid. (After CBCT if the
           patient was excluded because of thick buccal bone, he/she will be referred for implant
           placement)

        -  Evaluation of gingival phenotype before extraction using visual technique via
           periodontal probe.

        -  After patient enrollment, full mouth scaling to be done first and home oral hygiene
           measures to be done by patient. At the day of the surgery, immediately before
           extraction, an impression will be taken using alginate material and wax molded stock
           tray for recording the original ridge contour as the baseline data. casts will be made
           with dental extra hard stone.

      Surgical procedure:

      After administration of local anesthesia, the tooth will be extracted without raising flaps,
      as atraumatic as possible without disturbing the papillary tissues. After the extraction of
      the tooth, the socket will be carefully cleaned to excavate the granulation tissue in the
      marginal and apical regions.

      Group A will receive atraumatic extraction and soft tissue augmentation using SCTG harvested
      from palatal tissue by single line incision technique blade will be oriented perpendicular to
      the palatal tissue surface. A single incision will be made down to the bone in a horizontal
      direction approximately 2 to 3 mm apical to the gingival margin of the maxillary teeth. A
      partial thickness dissection will then be made within the single incision, leaving an
      adequate thickness of the palatal flap intact to minimize the chance of sloughing of the
      overlying tissue. Careful manipulation of the graft with tissue forceps will be required and
      care must be taken to prevent compression or tearing of the graft.

      The fatty tissue (yellow in color) will be eliminated and some contouring of the graft will
      be done to fit the prepared envelope. The harvested SCTG will be placed at the extraction
      sites in a supra-periosteal partial dissection (pouch II technique) prepared at the buccal
      aspect without using vertical incisions and without flap elevation. Sutures will be used to
      stabilize the graft in its desired place.

      Pouch II technique:

      A SCTG with a minimum thickness of 1.5 mm will be harvested from the palate. Following
      extraction, a full-thickness envelope flap will be created between the facial bone plate and
      the overlying gingiva. The SCTG will be inserted into the prepared envelope and secured with
      resorbable suture material. The apico-coronal dimension of the SCTG will be standardized
      throughout all the cases.

      Group B will receive atraumatic extraction with no soft tissue augmentation.

      (All patients assigned to the study will be referred to receive Prosthesis after treatment.)
    
  