
    
      Peripheral vascular disease manifested by narrowing of the peripheral arteries is one of the
      more common manifestations of atherosclerotic vascular disease. Complications such as
      claudication, rest pain, and impaired wound healing are frequent and may result in gangrene
      and amputation. Restoration of circulation to the lower extremities may be undertaken using a
      variety of techniques including angioplasty, stenting, and bypass grafting.

      Approximately 99,000 infra-inguinal bypass procedures were performed in the U.S. in 1998. It
      is estimated that approximately 22% of all infra-inguinal bypass grafts will fail by 12
      months. Graft failure rates have been estimated to increase to 40% at 12 months for patients
      receiving composite, cephalic or lesser saphenous (high-risk) vein grafts (Vascular Surgery
      Registry, Brigham and Women's Hospital). These primary graft failures are typically due to
      stenoses that result from neointimal hyperplasia, a pathological adaptation process that
      occurs in veins exposed to the arterial circulation. The consequences of graft failure are as
      significant as those of primary atherosclerotic disease and include ischemia and poor wound
      healing that may result in amputation. Since the long-term patency of venous grafts can be
      improved with treatment prior to frank occlusion, considerable efforts have been focused on
      the methods for the detection of grafts at high-risk for failure. Duplex ultrasonography has
      been determined to be a sensitive screening test for the early detection of failing grafts.
      Peak systolic velocity (PSV), as measured by duplex ultrasound, has been shown to be a
      sensitive marker for low flow, and wave form analysis has permitted the identification of
      areas of stenosis in the vein under study. Management of patients who have undergone
      infra-inguinal bypass therefore includes routine surveillance with duplex ultrasound and the
      immediate correction of significant (more than or equal to 70%) graft stenoses.
    
  