
    
      Silicone gel-filled breast implants were introduced in the early sixties and were in
      wide-scale distribution by the time the Medical Device Amendments to the Food Drug and
      Cosmetic Act was passed in 1976. In 1983, gel-filled breast implants were designated as Class
      III devices requiring premarket approval. In May 1990, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      published a proposed request (515(b)) for Pre-market Approval Applications (PMA) and in April
      1991 published the final request. This final publication put manufacturers of gel-filled
      breast implants on notice that for continued marketing of gel-filled breast implants, a PMA
      was due to FDA in 90 days from the final publication date.

      A pre-market approval (PMA) for the Mentor gel-filled breast implants was filed with the FDA
      in July 1991. At the FDA General and Plastic Surgery Advisory Committee meeting in November
      1991, the committee recommended the submission of additional information to establish the
      safety and effectiveness of gel-filled breast implants.

      In January 1992, the FDA Commissioner announced a voluntary moratorium of the sale of
      gel-filled breast implants to allow the advisory panel time to assess additional information.
      In April 1992, the moratorium was lifted but only for reconstruction and revision subjects.
      Every subject implanted had to be part of an adjunct study, in addition to being offered
      participation in a registry of gel-filled breast implant subjects. In order to be implanted
      with gel-filled implants for augmentation, women had to be enrolled in an IDE clinical trial.

      A PMA for Mentor's MemoryGel™ Silicone Gel-Filled breast implants (which did not include the
      Becker Expander/Breast Implants) was subsequently filed with FDA in December 2003, and
      approved in November 2006 (P030053). As a condition of approval of P030053, new enrollment in
      Mentor's Adjunct Study has ceased, and women no longer have access to the Becker
      Expander/Breast Implants.

      The Mentor Becker Expander/Breast Implant was used throughout the United States during this
      time (since 1992) under the Mentor Adjunct Study to allow continued access to the device and
      to collect some safety information, however was not evaluated in the MemoryGel Core Study.
      The gel fill used in the MemoryGel implants is the same gel fill that is used for the Becker
      device.

      This protocol describes the study design procedures and population for a Continued Access
      (CA) Study for the Mentor Becker 25 and 50 Expander/Breast implants. While Core Becker
      patient follow-up is being completed, this CA Study is designed to enroll patients at a
      limited rate per month to allow for continued physician experience with the device. The
      safety data obtained may be used to provide supplemental information to the PMA. It will be
      requested that this study be initiated and renewed every six months until a final decision is
      reached regarding the Becker PMA.
    
  