
    
      In an abstract " A Bowel Care Survey to Assess Quality of Life in Persons With Spinal Cord
      Injury" in Journal of Spinal Cord Medicine in 2006, JP Lirio, et al surveyed 20 subjects (10
      controls, 5 para, 5 tetra). The survey consisted of 42 items relating to GI function, bowel
      program/routine and quality of life. Survey items were weighted across a range of outcomes
      (e.g., complete continence=0 to frequent incontinence of solid evacuate=5). Total survey
      scores were compared among the groups by ANOVA with a Scheffe post hoc test. In those with
      SCI, level of injury (LOI) was converted to a numeric value and the relationship between LOI
      and total score was determined by simple regression.

      The range of scores across the groups was 2 to 111 points. The controls scored significantly
      lower than those in the Para group who were significantly lower than those in the Tetra group
      (6 5 vs. 46 38 vs. 92 24, P<0.01, respectively). Within SCI, 43% of the variance of the total
      score was explained by level of injury. (r2=42.5, P<0.05), which is suggestive for the
      potential of good content validity of this tool. The authors concluded that the preliminary
      results of this survey show that persons with greater degrees of neurological impairment also
      manifest a greater negative impact from bowel care on their QoL. These results are
      encouraging for being able to develop a sensitive tool that will capture changes in bowel
      care status after therapeutic intervention that would be expected to influence QoL.

      Innovative and potentially efficacious treatments for bowel care are being developed. There
      is a clinical/investigative need for a valid survey that is sensitive to quality of life
      (QoL) changes relating to interventions for bowel care in those with spinal cord injury
      (SCI). This is an ongoing project to develop a self-reported gastrointestinal (GI) survey
      that measures the impact of bowel function on QoL in individuals with SCI. This research
      seeks to develop a quality of life questionnaire that can be used to assess bowel function in
      able bodied individuals as well as spinal cord patients. This tool is essential for measuring
      change in bowel function due to an intervention or aging, rehabilitation, medications, etc.
    
  