
    
      This study will be an assessment of the ACT OUT! Social Issue Theater program as a universal
      social and emotional learning (SEL) intervention targeting social-emotional competence (SEC)
      and bullying in elementary, middle, and high school students. ACT OUT! is an existing program
      that has been performed in various forms by professionally-trained members of an acting
      ensemble since 1995. The present iteration consists of three distinct scenarios per grade
      range (elementary, middle, and high) that present age-appropriate improvisational drama
      illustrating issues related to SEL and bullying, including facilitated discussion with the
      actors, who remain in character. The program lasts approximately one hour (scenario
      descriptions and a fidelity checklist for SEL/bullying elements will be made available as
      supplemental files).

      SEL curricula typically consist of manualized and/or structured classroom or multicomponent
      programs taking place over time; the median number of sessions within an SEL program in a
      meta-analysis of 213 SEL studies was 24. At one hour in duration, ACT OUT! is substantially
      shorter and is performed by professional actors - meeting the goal of reduced school resource
      costs for SEL programming, but potentially raising concerns about whether such a dose could
      reasonably be expected to produce an effect. Underlying this study is a supposition that
      unique properties of a dramatic performance specifically may trigger SEL responses. In
      Aristotle's Poetics, which is the first known work on dramatic theory, it is written that a
      dramatic tragedy (in the Aristotelian sense) is designed to arouse certain feelings,
      "wherewith to accomplish catharsis of… emotions." This precise mechanism underlies the
      development of psychodrama as a psychotherapeutic intervention, as combined action and
      verbalization can present a situation "freed from the restricting stereotyped residues of
      past experience." Recent studies and meta-analyses have examined psychodrama as a means of
      prevention and/or behavior change with generally positive findings. Researchers have also
      found that youth report that they enjoy psychodramatic elements as part of a larger
      prevention curriculum. However, no studies have measured any outcomes of a psychodramatic SEL
      experience.

      This will be the first study to examine whether a short dose of interactive psychodrama can
      affect SEC metrics and bullying experiences in schoolchildren. In responding to recent
      criticism of SEL studies, the investigators have chosen to utilize the SPIRIT 2013 clinical
      trial guidelines in developing this protocol to promote rigor, reproducibility, and
      transparency.
    
  