
    
      Objectives: to investigate the effectiveness of a peer-led self-management intervention
      (PLSMI) for recent-onset psychosis on patient outcomes over 18-months follow-up, compared
      with a conventional psycho-education group and routine care only group.

      Hypotheses: When compared with those in a psycho-education group and routine care, the PLSMI
      participants will indicate significantly greater:

        1. Improvement in patients' level of recovery at 1-2 weeks post-intervention (Primary
           hypothesis and outcome);

        2. Reduction of their re-hospitalization rates and symptom severity, and/or improvement in
           functioning, satisfaction with service, problem-solving, and insight into illness at 1-2
           weeks post-intervention; and/or

        3. Improvements in the above outcomes (hypotheses 1) at 6-, 12- and/or 18-month follow-ups.

      Primary outcome is patients' level of recovery. Qualitative interviews with purposely
      selected PLSMI participants and all peer support workers (agreed for interview) will enhance
      understanding about their perceived benefits, service satisfaction, strengths, and
      limitations of the intervention undertaken from peer-workers' and participants' perspectives.

      Study Design: A multi-center randomized controlled trial with repeated-measures, three-group
      design on a community-based PLSMI will be conducted with both outcome and process evaluation.

      Subjects: 180 people with recent-onset psychosis (not more than 3 years onset) randomly
      selected from 6 Integrated Community Centers for Mental Wellness and randomly assigned into 3
      arms.

      Instruments/Measures: Level of self-reported recovery (QPS, primary outcome); occurrence and
      frequency of and time to psychiatric hospitalization over past 6 or 18 months; symptom
      severity (PANSS); problem solving ability (C-SPSI-R:S); illness insight (ITAQ); functioning
      (SLOF), and service satisfaction (CSQ-8).

      Focus group interviews will be conducted to collect views on benefits and weaknesses of
      PLSMI.

      Data analyses: Comparing the mean value changes of outcomes between-groups across time on
      intention-to-treat basis, using MANOVA/Mixed Modeling/Generalized Estimation Equations test
      and comparing the occurrence of and time to hospitalization between groups using survival
      analysis and Cox regression test; content analysis of qualitative data from focus-group
      interviews and intervention sessions.

      Expected results: The findings provide evidence of the effectiveness of peer-support
      self-management program for early-stage psychosis in community mental health healthcare on
      improving patients' recovery and other important patient outcomes, as well as service
      satisfaction.
    
  