
    
      Research has shown that some forms of dementia associated to ageing can often be linked to
      low levels of sugar in the brain. Which may cause damage to the brain nerve cells. The main
      source of fuel for the brain comes from sugar in the form of glucose. Providing an additional
      source of fuel to brain cells may reduce the damage, potentially preventing further decline
      of dementia in individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI).

      This study explores the possibility of using vegetable oils (coconut and sunflower oils) as
      an additional source of energy to individuals diagnosed with Mild Cognitive Impairment. The
      researchers will use different tests to evaluate if the study could be done. Participants
      will be divided into two groups and will either receive 30 ml of coconut or sunflower oil to
      be consumed daily for six months. The researchers will visit participants in their houses
      over three times during the study to collect the data.

      During each visit, the researcher will conduct blood test in which blood will be collected by
      pricking the finger of participants to check their blood ketone levels. Paper pencil and/or
      computer tasks will be completed to measure the cognitive abilities (e.g. attention,
      orientation and learning) of participants. Participants will also be asked to complete a food
      diary in which they will provide details of their diet and eating habits. Moreover, they will
      be asked to provide feedback on the study by answering a set of questions either during an
      interview or by completing a feedback form. The information collected during these visits
      will be used to evaluate the study.

      Results from this study would help determine whether such an intervention can be undertaken
      in adults with MCI. The study will provide information related to the practicality of using
      vegetable oils on adults with MCI. This would provide the evidence to develop a larger study
      that would allow us to systematically evaluate the effect of vegetable oils on MCI. Which
      would further enable us to develop an intervention that might possibly improve the brain
      functions of adults with MCI and maintain their quality of life for longer by delaying the
      development of dementia and reducing the progression from MCI to AD (Alzheimer's disease) in
      adults.
    
  