
    
      Local anesthesia is an essential procedure in the comprehensive treatment of pediatric
      patients. In the treatment of subjects with dental disease and infection, local anesthesia is
      commonly required when performing operative procedures. The use of local anesthesia serves
      two main purposes: (i) enables the patient to remain free of discomfort during the sometimes
      painful procedure and (ii) permits the practitioner to complete the procedure without fear of
      hurting the patient which might otherwise impede the practitioner's ability to provide
      comprehensive care. However, patients are often fearful of local anesthesia because
      traditional preparations of local anesthesia are acidic and can be painful. Thus, an
      important advance in the areas of subject management and pain control during operative
      procedures would be a preparation of local anesthesia that significantly reduced the pain
      upon injection. A 2010 Cochrane Review found that adjusting the pH of lidocaine with sodium
      bicarbonate reduced the pain of injection for both adults and children. In this study, we
      will compare two local anesthetic preparations, a buffered anesthetic and the conventionally
      available anesthetic, for pain upon injection.

      The study will test a local anesthetic buffering system, the Onset system, an FDA Class 1
      compounding device manufactured by Onpharma Inc. It is a simple and portable local anesthesia
      buffering system that compounds anesthetic solution and 8.4% sodium bicarbonate neutralizing
      additive solution in a precise manner that brings the anesthetic solution up to human
      physiologic pH. Commercially available local anesthetics have a low pH to allow for prolonged
      shelf life, and to keep the anesthetic molecules in solution. The combination of a buffering
      sodium bicarbonate agent and local anesthetic has been reported to result in pain-free
      injections for both adults and children. The neutralizing additive solution is a sterile,
      nonpyrogenic, solution of sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3) in water. pH is adjusted with carbon
      dioxide. Sodium Bicarbonate Inj., 8.4% USP Neutralizing Additive Solution (NDC Code
      509-100-03) and Lidocaine w/ Epinephrine are compatible. Sodium bicarbonate is used in
      medicine and dentistry as regularly as saline, and pre-dates the FDA. It is commercially
      available and currently being used by health professionals in the U.S.A.

      The local anesthetic used in the study will be 2% lidocaine with 1:100,000 ppm epinephrine,
      part of the amide family of local anesthetics. It has been widely used in dentistry and
      medicine and has long-standing proven records of safety.
    
  