
    
      FGM is a harmful practice on girls and women which causes irreparable sexual, reproductive
      and psychological harm. It is an act of violence, extreme discrimination and fundamental
      human rights violation against women and girls. This practice leaves victims feeling scared,
      psychologically scarred and distressed. FGM sustains deep rooted inequality between the
      sexes, constitutes a barrier to female civic participation and social inclusion and
      therefore, leads to inequitable socio- economic growth and prosperity. The WHO estimates that
      an alarming 200 million girls alive today have undergone FGM, while an estimated 3 million
      girls are at risk annually. A common factor influencing the continuation of FGM is the need
      to conform to social norms. Social norms among other roles, influence behaviors that shape
      people's ability to protect their health and achieve their life potential.

      Methods: The investigators have designed a quasi-experimental comparison group pre-post test
      study involving members of Oduma community in Ebonyi state. This research study will run for
      a period of 12 months. The investigators expect that the outcome of this study will lead to
      policy changes placing emphasis on using participatory action research in addressing FGM in
      Nigeria

      Rationale There is a considerable lack of information on the efficacy of interventions to
      reduce the prevalence of FGM in Nigeria. In addition, this research study is needed to
      provide critical updated information on the efficacy of participatory action research in
      improving communities knowledge and attitude towards SHRH and how this affects the prevalence
      of FGM.

      Objectives:

      To determine the efficacy of e- PAR in reducing the incidence of FGM in Nigeria.

      To determine the efficacy of e-PAR in improving Sexual Reproductive Health and Rights(SRHR)
      knowledge.

      To determine the efficacy of e-PAR in improving Sexual Reproductive Health and Rights (SRHR)
      attitudes.
    
  