
    
      Background of the study

      The majority of renal cell carcinomas (RCC) is characterized by profound angiogenesis because
      of inactivation of the Von Hippel Lindau gene. Angiogenesis inhibitors are established first
      line treatment options in the metastatic setting. Patients with progressive disease during or
      after treatment with angiogenesis inhibitors can benefit from treatment with everolimus, an
      oral mTOR inhibitor that resulted in doubling of progression free survival in a phase III
      study. Currently it is not possible to predict which patient will benefit from treatment with
      mTOR inhibitors. A predictive biomarker for efficacy of mTOR inhibitors is urgently needed as
      it may spare the patients unnecessary side effects, safes costs for the society as mTOR
      inhibitors are very expensive agents, and may speed up research on new drugs, drug
      combinations and drug dosing. One of the actions of mTOR inhibitors is blockage of production
      of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and this is thought to be the primary mechanism
      that is responsible for antitumor activity in RCC. The investigators hypothesize that
      non-invasive measurement of VEGF in the tumour and its surroundings by 89Zr-bevacizumab PET
      imaging before and shortly after start of everolimus is a good readout of efficacy of
      everolimus in patients with RCC.

      Objective of the study

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the feasibility of 89Zr-bevacizumab PET
      imaging as a biomarker before and during treatment with everolimus in patients with
      metastatic RCC. 89Zr-bevacizumab PET imaging will be regarded a promising biomarker if uptake
      changes after institution of treatment.

      Study design

      This is a pilot study for evaluation of 89Zr-bevacizumab PET imaging as a biomarker during
      treatment with everolimus in patients with mRCC.

      89Zr-bevacizumab PET imaging will be performed before start of treatment and after 2 and 6
      weeks of treatment.

      Study population

      14 patients who will start treatment with everolimus for metastatic RCC will be included in
      this study.

      Primary study parameters

      The primary endpoint is change in 89Zr-bevacizumab uptake in tumor lesions between the
      baseline scan and the scan during treatment.

      Secondary study parameters The secondary endpoint is progressive disease according to
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, after 3 months of treatment.
      Progression is defined as the appearance of new disease or an increase of 20% in the sum of
      the longest diameters of the target lesions.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness

      Patients will be intravenously injected at 3 time points with 37MBq resulting in a cumulative
      radiation dose of 54 mSv. According to ICRP 62 this radiation dose falls in category III
      (moderate risk).

      Life expectancy of the patients is limited because of their incurable renal cell carcinoma,
      making the risk of development of a secondary malignancy clinically likely not relevant.

      Patients have to pay 3 extra visits to the hospital for tracer injection. PET scans will be
      performed on regular visit days. Blood samples for biomarkers will be drawn during routine
      blood investigations.

      There is no direct benefit for the patients in this study. If 89Zr-bevacizumab PET imaging
      however is a predictive biomarker for angiogenesis inhibitors, many patients can be spared
      unnecessary side effects and society can be spared costs of futile treatment in the future.
    
  