
    
      This is a Phase 2 randomized, placebo- and active-controlled, two-part study in which healthy
      adult volunteers with low or undetectable pre-existing antibodies against
      A/California/7/2009(H1N1) pdm09-like virus will be challenged with an influenza A/H1N1 human
      challenge strain approximately 90 days after vaccination with a single dose of H1N1 HA
      Adenoviral-vector based seasonal influenza vaccine and dsRNA adjuvant (VXA-A1.1), an
      injectable QIV vaccine, and/or placebo.

      An independent SMC will oversee the safety of the study.

      To accommodate the limited size of the isolation unit that will be utilized for the challenge
      and post-challenge sequestration period, subjects will move through the study (enrollment,
      vaccination and challenge) sequentially in a total of 6 cohorts. Each cohort will randomize
      30 subjects to obtain approximately 25 subjects per cohort for the challenge phase. Subjects
      will be randomized in a ratio of 2:2:1 (VXA-A1.1: QIV: Placebo).

      The study will be conducted in two parts.

      Part A: Subjects will be randomized in a double-blinded manner to receive a single
      administration of one of three treatment arms:

        -  Arm 1: VXA-A1.1 oral vaccine + placebo IM

        -  Arm 2: QIV IM injection + oral placebo

        -  Arm 3: Placebo IM injection + oral placebo

      Subjects will return to the site for ~8 visits and be contacted remotely at defined time
      points to be followed for immunogenicity and safety during study Part A.

      Part B: Subjects will be challenged with a wild-type influenza A H1 virus strain ~90 days
      following vaccination. Blood samples will be collected to evaluate immunogenicity. Subjects
      will remain in the isolation unit for 6 to 9 days post-challenge.

      Following challenge, influenza symptoms and signs will be assessed during the sequestration
      period. Blood samples and nasopharyngeal swab samples will be collected. Vital signs will be
      measured every 4 hours during waking hours.

      After release from the isolation unit subjects will return to the site 30 days
      post-challenge. Part B will continue for purposes of collecting long term safety follow-up
      (SAEs and AESIs/NOCIs) via phone contacts through 1 year post-vaccination (Day 365).
    
  