
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy of umbilical cord blood transplantation, as measured by durable
           neutrophil engraftment, in patients with malignant or nonmalignant hematological
           disease.

        -  Determine the disease-free survival and long-term survival in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of neutrophil engraftment, primary and secondary graft failure,
           platelet engraftment, and RBC engraftment in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease,
           complications (infection, veno-occlusive disease, interstitial pneumonitis), relapse,
           other malignancies, lymphoproliferative disorders, and posttransplantation
           myelodysplasia in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the immune reconstitution in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease group
      (malignant vs nonmalignant). Patients with malignant disease are further stratified according
      to quality of HLA match (1 or 2/6 vs 3/6 vs 4/6 vs 5/6 or 6/6), cell dose, and age.

      Patients are assigned to one of three conditioning regimens, depending on disease.

        -  Group A (malignant disease ): Patients undergo total body irradiation (TBI) once on day
           -8 and twice daily on days -7 to -4. Male patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL)
           undergo radiotherapy boost to testes. Patients receive cyclophosphamide (CTX) IV on days
           -3 and -2 and methylprednisolone (MePRDL) IV and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) IV on
           days -3 to -1.

        -  Group B (inborn errors of metabolism/storage disease): Patients receive oral busulfan
           (BU) every 6 hours on days -6 and -5, CTX IV on days -4 and -3, and MePRDL IV and ATG IV
           every 12 hours on days -2 and -1.

        -  Group C (other nonmalignant diseases): Patients receive oral BU every 6 hours on days -9
           to -6, CTX IV on days -5 to -2, and MePRDL IV and ATG IV on days -3 to -1.

      Patients in all groups receive cord blood IV over a maximum of 30 minutes on day 0. Patients
      also receive MePRDL IV with the first half of the infusion administered immediately before
      the cord blood infusion and filgrastim (G-CSF) IV beginning 4 hours after transplantation and
      continuing until blood counts recover.

      Patients are followed at 30, 60, and 90 days; at 6 months; and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 390 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.
    
  