
    
      Though a significant decrease in its incidence over the last 70 years, gastric cancer remains
      a significant health problem worldwide. Despite the R0 resection and adjuvant chemotherapy,
      the prognosis for patients with locally advanced GC remains poor, with 5-year survival rate
      below 60%. Therefore, active strategy to improve survival outcome is ongoing in gastric
      cancer. Due to the nature of gastric surgery, postsurgical recovery can be avoided by the
      administration of systemic therapy and/or radiation prior to the surgical procedure.
      Furthermore, preoperative therapy has the theoretical advantage of treating an untouched
      tumor (lack of treatment-induced resistance), with intact vascularization and without
      fibrotic remodeling of the tumor bed due to surgical trauma. These considerations addressed
      clinical trials incorporating neoadjuvant treatment for gastric cancer.

      Preoperative chemotherapy proved superiority to surgery alone in esophagogastric junction
      cancer Regarding the pattern of failure, locoregional recurrence after surgical resection has
      been reported 20-50% of cases. To improve local control and survival outcome,
      chemoradiotherapy in the neoadjuvant or preoperative setting has been widely applied. In
      recently published meta-analysis, preoperative chemoradiotherapy combined with surgery
      significantly reduced the 5-year death rate compared to surgery alone (OR 0.57, P=0.001).
      Ajani et al reported phase II preoperative chemoradiotherapy (5-fluorouracil/cisplatin and 45
      Gy radiotherapy) for localized gastric cancer. Among the 34 stage II/III gastric cancer
      patients, 30% had pathologic complete response and 24% had pathologic partial response (<10%
      residual carcinoma). Lowy et al also demonstrated 11% and 63% of complete, partial pathologic
      responses and preoperative chemoradiotherapy was safe and well tolerated. Based on those
      rationale, 28 clinical trials with neoadjuvant chemotherapy is ongoing for gastric cancer
      (clinicaltrial.gov) and the investigators' center is also conducting neoadjuvant
      chemoradiotherapy trial for localized gastric cancer (NCT01269255).Currently, for further
      improved survival outcome, new cytotoxic compounds such as irinotecan and docetaxel have been
      combined with 5-FU/cisplatin. However, triplet regimen often burdened with higher toxicity
      and serious neutropenic infection. Therefore, future trials in neoadjuvant and adjuvant
      settings need to incorporate new molecular agents which improve efficacy, but less toxicity.
    
  