
    
      Liver resection is the only potentially curative treatment in malignant or benign
      hepatobiliary lesions. Biliary leakage is a postoperative complication (5-10%) which may have
      considerable consequences. Surgical techniques and devices to facilitate the control of bile
      leakage have been developed in the last decades and have minimized operative risks of liver
      resection. Nevertheless, hepatic parenchymal transection can be associated with bile leakage
      due to the division of small ducts. In order to achieve control over parenchyma from the
      section surface and to prevent intraperitoneal complications attributed to bile
      leakage/bleeding various locally applicable agents are in use. This control of bile leakage
      include fibrin sealant and synthetic glues. Evidence from randomized controlled trials
      regarding the use of fibrin sealants on their own or combined with a collagenfleece has shown
      Little efficacy.

      A new collagen and polyethylene glycol hemostatic/sealant patch (Hemopatch) [Baxter, Vienna,
      Austria] is indicated for local hemostasis of capillary bleeding and bleeding of parenchymal
      organs. The felt structure being rich in surface gives a framework for the adhesion of blood
      platelets, thus providing an additional impetus as a sealant agent.

      The investigators aim to demonstrate the sealing capability of hemopatch and to prove its
      non-inferiority to the standard of care (may include other sealant / hemostatic devices as
      patches or liquid/gels). There will be 2 groups to compare. The study group where Hemopatch
      is applied at the end of surgery. And the control group, where standard of care measures will
      be applied at the end of surgery. The end-point is the assessment of control of bile leakage
      at 1, 2, 3, and 4 day, during the hospital stay and or at 30 days for both treatment group.
      The secondary end-points are bleeding complications (re-bleeding, hematoma formation), volume
      of fluid drained on day 1 to day 4 after surgery, hemoglobin variation from pre-operative
      until discharge and post-operatory complications until 30th day pos-op.
    
  