
    
      Like obesity, NAFLD and NASH are closely linked to nutrition and the "Western diet" which is
      rich in saturated fats and refined sugars. Although fat consumption has remained relatively
      stable, the marked increase in dietary fructose consumption (more than doubling in the past
      30 years alone) supports the role of fructose in NAFLD and the metabolic syndrome. Although
      the mechanism(s) for fructose-related liver injury is not yet well defined, fructose-related
      hepatic adenosine triphosphate (ATP) depletion may contribute to liver injury. Observations
      in animals suggest that fructose induces metabolic syndrome and NAFLD independent of energy
      intake. One key difference in fructose metabolism (as opposed to glucose) relates to ATP
      depletion and the necessity of adenosine monophosphate (AMP) kinase to replenish ATP stores.
      As opposed to glucose, initial fructose metabolism involves phosphorylation of fructose to
      fructose-1-phosphate by fructokinase (ketohexokinase, KHK) using the substrate ATP. Unlike
      glucokinase, the phosphorylation of fructose by KHK is specific for fructose and not rate
      limited. Replenishment of ATP stores requires phosphorylation of AMP back to ATP via AMP
      kinase (which is inhibited in insulin resistance (common in patients with NAFLD) or
      conversion to uric acid via xanthine dehydrogenase resulting in hyperuricemia. The high
      activity of KHK in phosphorylating fructose to fructose-1-phosphate in the liver, could
      result in hepatic ATP depletion with habitual fructose consumption.

      Published animal and human studies support our hypothesis that fructose is a risk factor for
      NAFLD and NAFLD-related liver disease progression. In animal models, diets high in fructose
      induce features of the metabolic syndrome including weight gain, insulin resistance,
      hypertriglyceridemia, and hypertension. Similar effects are not observed with the
      administration of other simple sugars such as glucose. Fructose (or sucrose) administration
      to humans also causes features of metabolic syndrome which are quite typical of patients with
      NAFLD. Fructose is lipogenic, stimulates triglyceride synthesis and causes hepatic steatosis.
      As previously reported in animals, our group reported that increased fructose consumption
      (assessed as fructose-containing beverages only) is a risk factor of metabolic syndrome and
      biopsy-proven NAFLD and that patients with NAFLD consume 3-4 times more fructose than age,
      gender, and mass index (BMI) matched controls without liver disease.

      In addition to increased fructose consumption being a risk factor for NAFLD, fructose has
      been implicated in NAFLD disease progression. The administration of a diet with 25% of total
      energy as sucrose (which contains 50% fructose) resulted in a rise in liver aminotransferase
      levels within 18 days. This study, performed nearly 25 years ago, is all the more alarming as
      current sugar intake of Americans is in this same range. In our study of 427 patients with
      biopsy-proven NAFLD, increased consumption of fructose-containing beverages was univariately
      associated with decreased age (P < 0.0001), male sex (P < 0.0001), hypertriglyceridemia (P <
      0.04), low high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (<0.0001), decreased serum glucose (P <
      0.001), increased calorie intake (P < 0.0001), and hyperuricemia (P < 0.0001). After
      controlling for age, sex, BMI, and total calorie intake, daily fructose consumption was
      associated with lower steatosis grade and higher fibrosis stage (P < 0.05 for each). Being
      that triglyceride synthesis requires ATP, we hypothesize that lower hepatic steatosis may
      reflect deceased ATP availability. Additionally, in older adults (age ≥ 48 years), daily
      fructose consumption was associated with increased hepatic inflammation (P < 0.05), and
      hepatocyte ballooning (P< 0.05). However, the mechanism(s) by which fructose causes liver
      injury remains unknown.

      In support of our hypothesis that ATP depletion underlies liver injury in patients with
      NAFLD, our group has demonstrated that patients with biopsy-proven NAFLD have increased
      hepatic mRNA expression of KHK compared to matched controls. Indeed, in human pilot studies,
      intravenous (IV) fructose administration is associated with hepatic ATP depletion which can
      be assessed by 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). Reduced hepatic ATP stores are more
      prevalent in overweight and obese subjects than in lean subjects. Furthermore, recovery from
      fructose-induced ATP depletion was found to be delayed in patients with NAFLD (n=8). However,
      a limitation to this existing work is the small sample size and the inability to assess a
      cause-effect relationship(s) between BMI, NAFLD, energy homeostasis, and histologic features
      of liver injury. In liver cells, ATP depletion could perpetuate chronic liver injury by
      making fatty hepatocytes less proliferative. Hepatic ATP depletion also encourages the
      expansion of liver progenitor populations, causes arrest in protein synthesis, induces
      inflammatory and prooxidative changes, increases endoplasmic reticulum stress, promotes
      activation of stress-related kinases, induces mitochondrial dysfunction, and increases
      apoptotic activity. This supporting data suggests that fructose may be associated with NAFLD,
      NASH, and progressive fibrosis. Further, a study by Loguercio et al. demonstrated that
      increased uric acid levels above the basal level after IV fructose infusion was significantly
      higher (p < 0.01) in patients with cirrhosis (3 mg/dl) and NASH (1.9 mg/dl) than in healthy
      controls (1.2 mg/dl). This effect was completely reversed by fructose 1,6-diphosphate which
      could replenish the ability to resynthesize ATP from ADP. Therefore, an IV fructose challenge
      could effectively differentiate healthy subjects, from chronic hepatitis, from cirrhosis.

      NAFLD lacks accurate and robust non-invasive biomarkers to grade and stage histologic disease
      activity. This is a critical barrier to understanding the influence of this important
      environmental risk factor (increased/habitual fructose consumption) on the pathogenesis and
      progression of NAFLD. Currently, reliable assessment NAFLD requires liver biopsy and
      interpretation of histology. Serum aminotransferase levels and conventional imaging methods
      can detect liver fat but cannot grade or stage NAFLD. Furthermore, current developments in
      biomarker are cross-sectional in nature and do not characterize the dynamic changes which
      underlie liver injury in patients with NAFLD. In vivo 31P MRS permits the evaluation of
      dynamic changes of individual phosphorus-containing metabolites in the liver parenchyma, such
      as phosphomonoester (PME), ATP, and inorganic phosphate (Pi). Intravenous fructose load
      alters phosphorus metabolites and allows assessment of liver function by 31P MRS. Other
      investigators have demonstrated that fructose loading could be used effectively as a tool to
      investigate change in metabolic steps of hepatic metabolism in humans with alcohol-related
      liver disease. Further, IV fructose loading causes significantly higher ATP degradation and
      uric acid production in cirrhotic patients than in healthy controls. The associations between
      fructose, increased uric acid, and hepatic ATP depletion has been previously described.
      Increased uric acid is an independent risk factor for NAFLD and in keeping with our
      hypothesis, hyperuricemia may be a surrogate marker of impaired hepatic energy homeostasis in
      patients with NAFLD. The proposed mechanism for fructose-related hepatic ATP depletion,
      NAFLD, NASH and the associated hyperuricemia is depicted in Figure 1 is novel, innovative,
      scientifically rigorous and address an important public health concern-the impact of fructose
      on the rising epidemic of NAFLD.
    
  