
    
      Recruitment. Cities. 326 GBM living in or 40-miles within 10 cities (i.e., București, Brașov,
      Timișoara, Cluj-Napoca, Iași, Constanța, Suceava, Craiova, Galați, Satu Mare) will be
      recruited and screened for the trial. In selecting these cities, the investigators sought to
      cover all regions of the country and capture areas of increasing HIV risk.

      Numbers. The investigators set the study total sample at 326 based on power calculations (136
      participants will finish per arm accounting for a conservative 20% attrition).

      Venues. The investigators will post study ads on local collaborators' websites, subscriber
      lists, and key virtual venues (e.g., Grindr, Facebook), as in the pilot successful pilot,
      where 45% of participants were recruited on Grindr and 41% on Facebook. The investigators
      will also recruit using word-of-mouth. Trained recruitment staff will approach men in
      GBM-prevalent venues (bars; known public cruising areas, such as central train stations)
      across 10 cities. Recruitment staff will conduct quarterly recruitment trips to 9 cities (as
      they reside in Bucharest) following a rotating schedule. Furthermore, pilot participants who
      agreed to be contacted for the very purpose of recruiting within their GBM networks will
      advertise the study within these networks. Finally, enrolled participants will be encouraged
      to spread the word.

      Screening. Potential participants will complete an eligibility screener on Qualtrics.com, a
      research-designated secure online software. Eligible GBM will have the option to provide
      contact information at the end of the screener, in a separate survey, in order for research
      staff to later contact them for consent.

      Consent. Eligible participants will be contacted within days of screening for consent by
      affiliated project staff with whom the investigators collaborated on the pilot. Participants
      will be assigned a numeric identification and undergo the phone consent process used in the
      pilot. Research staff and participants will read through the entire electronic consent
      document (10 min). Points of confusion will be clarified and those still interested in
      participating will submit an electronic consent.

      Baseline assessment. After consent, participants will be sent their unique study ID and an
      electronic link to their Qualtrics-based baseline (BL) assessment (45 min).

      Randomization. After BL, participants will be block randomized to the Comunică (n=163) or EAC
      (n=163) condition. Qualtrics will stratify participants into randomly chosen blocks of 4 and
      6 according to: baseline # CAS acts and # past-3-mo alcohol abuse days. After HIV/STI testing
      (below), Comunică participants will be randomly assigned to counselors so that all counselors
      always have an equal case load. Counselors will contact their assigned participants via
      preferred contact method to schedule the first session, when they will both log onto the
      mHealth platform. Comunică sessions and EAC modules span 3 months. Participants can use any
      mobile device (smartphone, tablet, laptop).

      Comunică Intervention. The intervention aims to support GBM in reducing their CAS and alcohol
      abuse and improving their mental health. Comunică is delivered over eight 60-min live chat
      sessions on an mHealth study platform compatible with any mobile device (laptops,
      smartphones). Comunică is based on the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills (IMB) model
      of health behavior change, which postulates that individuals must possess the requisite
      information for enacting sexual health, motivation to change their HIV risk and alcohol use,
      and behavioral skills necessary for reducing their risk. Therefore, Comunică includes MI to
      provide accurate information about HIV transmission, alcohol abuse, and local GBM-affirmative
      health resources (e.g., HIV-testing sites) and build motivation to improve behavioral skills
      (via CBST). MI is an evidence-based form of person-centered therapeutic communication that
      privileges client values and preferences for change to help individuals resolve ambivalence
      and move toward their valued goals. Skills-building is often a natural outcome of MI,
      especially for individuals who attain a high degree of motivation for change. CBST is a
      therapeutic approach used in the treatment of various behavioral problems, such as alcohol
      abuse and depression and more recently HIV risk. CBST can help modify cognitions driving
      unhealthy behaviors, promote awareness of contextual triggers and unhealthy behavioral
      patterns, and teach coping skills to improve health. Comunică also draws upon minority stress
      theory recognizing that stigmatizing societal contexts compromise health behavior. GBM in
      highly stigmatizing contexts such as Romania experience a lack of structural protections
      (e.g., national policies), institutional support (e.g., GBM-affirmative healthcare), and
      coping resources (e.g., social support). Thus, the CBST skills in Comunică are presented in a
      manner that acknowledges the barriers that social stigma poses to GBM's health, while
      empowering them to circumvent these barriers by building self-efficacy, effective
      communication, and planful problem-solving. All participants will receive referrals to
      GBM-affirmative psychologists trained by the investigators. DMDN Safety. Protocols include
      instructions for protecting participants' identities, data, and safety. Comunică is unable to
      address pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). PrEP is not available in Romania and it would be
      unhelpful and likely unethical to discuss this inaccessible prevention tool. However, the
      investigators' long-term agenda includes working with NGOs to promote PrEP in Romania.

      The EAC Condition. The EAC condition consists of eight modularized topics (Appendix 1),
      content-matched with the Comunică sessions, which the investigators have generated based on
      HIV-prevention education with GBM in the US and Romania. Topics include 1) GBM identity, 2)
      "HIV 101," 3) HIV/STI testing, 4) alcohol and the body, 5) the role of alcohol in HIV risk,
      6) HIV-status disclosure and sexual health communication, 7) IPV and finding social supports,
      and 8) summary. The content is preliminary and will be refined with the CAB. To maintain
      uniformity of information exposure across participants and maximize learning, each screen
      will be timed at a comfortable speed and participants will be unable to advance to the next
      screen prior to the set time limit. EAC participants will receive five quiz questions after
      each module, with correct answers in a following screen.

      Retention. The investigators will utilize retention strategies that yielded a 93% retention
      rate from BL to 26-month follow-up in the pilot. The investigators will: 1) build strong
      rapport, 2) update contact information often, 3) use all means of communication permitted by
      participants, and 4) send frequent reminders.

      HIV/STI Testing, Counseling, and Linkage to Services. All study participants will be tested
      for HIV, gonorrhea, and chlamydia at BL and 12-month follow-up, and, if positive, will be
      linked to care. The investigators have developed the HIV/STI protocol with ARAS (translated
      as the Romanian Association against AIDS), which contributes a 25-year experience in HIV/STI
      testing and care and demonstrates unusually high GBM-sensitive testing expertise for Romania.
      The investigators will convene with ARAS testing counselors to review protocols and set up
      all communication systems (i.e., with participants, IDPs) and results reporting. Procedures.
      After consent, the Project Coordinator will provide ARAS with the participant's information.
      An assigned ARAS testing counselor will contact the participant to provide two options: 1)
      mail an HIV/STI test kit to their home or 2) have the participant pick up the test at the
      study's infectious disease physician's (IDP) office in the region where the participant
      lives. The investigators provide these options based on the feedback they received from
      Romanian GBM, some of whom prefer not to receive such a package at home due to privacy
      concerns. Testing. Participants will receive a self-testing kit containing an HIV and
      syphilis test by drawing one drop of blood from their finger, and swabs and urine collection
      container for pharyngeal, rectal and urethral testing of chlamydia and gonorrhea (Cobas®
      Taqman® CT/NG PCR, Roche Molecular Diagnostics) to be performed by SH24, a UK-based partner
      for HIV/STI testing service. The kits will contain instructions in Romanian, and the ARAS
      testing counselors will conduct phone-based VCT and walk participants through testing steps.
      After self-testing, participants will mail the specimens in a prepaid discrete envelope to
      ARAS, who will then mail those to SH24 for analysis. SH24 will report results to ARAS within
      3-5 days, at which time ARAS counselors will call participants to discuss results.
      Confidentiality of results will be stressed during consent and contact with ARAS staff, and
      on the kit instructions. Counseling. The investigators base their testing protocols on the
      CDC's voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) guidelines and WHO guidelines for self-testing.
      VCT will consist of one 45-min phone session. By phone, ARAS HIV-test counselors will conduct
      pre-test counseling for all participants and post-testing counseling for positive or
      inconclusive results, with linkage to care to local study-affiliated IDPs. Home testing has
      proven to be highly acceptable globally Only participants who receive an HIV-negative test
      result are eligible to participate in the study. Test result reporting. SH24 will report STI
      results to participants and ARAS. Negative results. Participants will be encouraged by the
      ARAS counselor to re-test every three months with the IDP in their area. IDP information will
      be provided on the online study platforms of all participants. Positive or inconclusive
      results. Instructions about steps to follow for reactive tests will be included in the
      testing kit and will be repeated by the ARAS counselor on the phone. The participant will
      receive the name and contact information of the study-affiliated IDP in their area.

      Baseline (BL), 4-, 8-, and 12-month assessments. The project coordinator will send a link to
      the BL survey to all HIV-negative participants, and tell them that they will be contacted by
      their counselor after submitting the survey. The quarterly self-administered mobile
      assessments are identical, take 45 min. to complete, have been validated by the Romanian
      pilot gay and bisexual men participants, and assess: 1) sexual behavior (e.g., # condomless
      anal sex acts; number and types of partners; sex under the influence) and 2) past-3-mo
      alcohol use; 3) depressive symptoms; 4) HIV/STI testing and other healthcare access (e.g.,
      annual exams; mental health) patterns; 5) hypothesized mediators of intervention efficacy,
      including IMB model components (e.g., HIV-risk-related information, motivation, behavioral
      skills) and minority stress or (e.g., outness, internalized homonegativity, collective
      self-worth); 6) demographics and psychosocial risk contexts. During the follow-up phase (mos
      8-55), the investigators will assess at 4, 8, and 12-mos post-baseline, in the same mobile
      fashion as the baseline, the primary outcome of condomless anal sex (CAS) with male partners,
      and secondary outcomes of alcohol abuse, depression, biologic HIV/STI infection, HIV/STI
      testing, and psychosocial mechanisms rooted in the Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills
      (IMB) model (e.g., HIV/STI knowledge, condom use self-efficacy) and minority stress theory
      (e.g., identity concealment, stigma consciousness).
    
  