
    
      A. Evaluation Tasks

      Language Tasks:

      Participants will be administered baseline language and cognitive tasks, including 1 or more
      of the following, depending on participants' residual language and cognitive skills:

      a) writing to dictation b) oral spelling c) oral and written naming of pictures d)
      word-picture matching f) written and oral picture description g) digit span h) spatial span
      i) verbal learning j) grammatical sentence production k) oral word repetition l) sentence
      comprehension

      Quality of Life questionnaires:

      Participants will be administered standardized and non-standardized quality-of-life
      questionnaires before, after, and at follow-up intervals of each experimental period. The
      purpose of these questionnaires is to assess whether the proposed interventions have affected
      participants' well-being and the general quality of participants' life.

      B. AOS Intervention

      Intervention involves oral word repetition of increasingly complex words. The goal is to
      improve volitional control of participants' articulators in order to produce co-articulated,
      intelligible speech, as well as improve prosody, voice quality, and speech fluency.

      C. Assessment of Language Therapy Tasks:

      Follow-up assessments will probe all sets of increasingly complex words targeted in
      intervention and as well as word sets not targeted in intervention to assess near-transfer
      generalization. Other language and cognitive tasks will be assessed for far-transfer
      generalization. Differences in baseline measures in pre- and post-intervention accuracy for
      word production for each patient will be evaluated using the following: percentages of total
      number of words correct, arithmetic differences between percentage scores, and permutation
      tests (Pearson's chi-square test; Fisher's exact test).

      C. tDCS Methods:

      Participants will take part in 10-15 consecutive training sessions (3-5 per week), separated
      by 2 months. Anodal tDCS has typically been shown to up-regulate neuronal excitability and
      produce enhancement of behavioral performance. A Soterix-CT device will be delivering current
      at an intensity of 1-2 mA (estimated current density 0.04 mA/cm^2; estimated total charge
      0.048 C/cm^2) for a maximum of 20 minutes in the tDCS groups and for a maximum of 30 seconds
      in the Sham group. For both interventions (tDCS and Sham) the electrical current will be
      increased in a ramp-like fashion at the onset of the stimulation eliciting a transient
      tingling sensation on the scalp that usually disappears over seconds.

      D. Imaging Methods:

      Imaging will be performed at the beginning of enrollment, before and after each 12-to-15-day
      tDCS treatment, and at follow-up intervals for up to 8 time points per individual on a 3T
      Philips system, and will consist of resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI), MPRAGE, and diffusion tensor
      imaging (DTI). Each scanning session will last approximately 1 hour.

      E. Statistical Analyses:

      In the within-subject crossover protocol, each participant will be administered two
      experimental conditions: IFG tDCS+language (tDCS intervention) and IFG sham+language (sham
      treatment). All analyses, behavioral and imaging, will be under the oversight of the study
      statisticians.

      F. Study duration and number of study visits required of research participants.

      Before any intervention, participants will be randomly assigned to either sham or tDCS
      experimental conditions. After 1-3 weeks of tDCS application (3-5 sessions in a week, 10-15
      sessions per stimulation site) there will be an interval of approximately 2 months and then
      the investigators will implement the other two tDCS conditions in a within-subject cross-over
      design. Participants will be followed-up at 2-week and 2-month follow-up intervals.

      G. Blinding, including justification for blinding or not blinding the trial, if applicable.

      Participants will be blinded to the application of anodal or sham tDCS. To achieve blinding,
      all participants will be fitted with the tDCS electrodes placed over the left inferior
      frontal gyrus (IFG). The Soterix-CT device will be used for double-blinding purposes.

      H. Justification of why participants will not receive routine care or will have current
      therapy stopped

      Participation in this study will not disrupt any current care or therapy.

      I. Justification for inclusion of a placebo or non-treatment group

      All participants will undergo active and sham conditions, thus serving as participants' own
      control.

      J. Definition of treatment failure or participant removal criteria

      Participants will be removed from the study if participants are unable to comply with task
      instructions or tolerate the tDCS procedure.

      K. Description of what happens to participants receiving therapy when study ends or if a
      participant's participation in the study ends prematurely

      When the study ends participants will continue to receive management with participants'
      neurologist as usual. If a patient's participation in the study ends prematurely s/he will
      still receive care as before. In sum, termination of the study or termination of
      participation in it will not affect regular therapy he or she may be receiving.

      L. Qualification of investigators:

      The principal investigator (PI) and co-investigators have extensive research and clinical
      experience with all study tasks: behavioral language therapy (including AOS intervention).
      The investigators have already published tDCS studies showing positive results in spelling.
    
  