
    
      This study is designed as a non-randomized, interventional 36 week trial. The dietary
      intervention is executed in free living conditions with participants engaging in their
      regular daily work and social activities.

      The dietary intervention was executed in free-living conditions with participants engaging in
      their regular daily work and social activities. The plant-based dietary plan included 2
      plant-based meal replacement and 3 conventional meals based on starch nutrients (potatoes,
      sweet potatoes, rice, oatmeal, whole-grain pasta, beans, peas, lentils, and similar ones),
      fruits (seasonal fruits and various berries), and nonstarch vegetables (color and leafy
      vegetables). Spices and tomato sauce (without oil) and one regular-sized spoon of flaxseed
      were recommended as well. The participants were recommended to consume no more than 5-6 grams
      of salt per day. All milk and dairy products, vegetable oils, and fats were excluded from the
      diet. Meat was allowed (but not recommended) once weekly to relieve social pressures on
      participants which they often encountered from their circle of influence (i.e., family,
      friends, and coworkers) when changing the diet to plant-based sources. The total
      macronutrient composition of the intervention diet was approximated to 15% protein, 70%
      carbohydrates, and 15% fat. No soybean was included in first 10 weeks of intervention.
      Dietary fiber content was approximated to 40-45 g per day. Both meal replacements and
      conventional meals were allowed to be consumed ad libitum (to full satiety). No calorie count
      or limits were instituted. Additionally, two herbal drinks daily containing black, green and
      hibiscus tea extracts were added to the intervention.

      After 10 weeks, we have added to the interventional diet EPA and DHA omega 3 fatty acids
      (once per day 3 tbl or 567 mg per 1 tbl), vitamin B12 - methylcobalamin (1000 mcg twice a
      week) and additional intake of dietary fiber supplement powder (three times a day of 5 g) on
      supplement side and a larger selection of moderate amount of high fat whole plant-based foods
      (e.g. avocado, soybean tofu, sesame seeds, almonds) at the conventional side.

      No calorie count or limits are instituted to test the hypothesis that ad libitum intake of
      interventional diet allows significant body fat reduction and improvement variety of risk
      factors for chronic non-communicable diseases.

      All participants will be followed at weekly intervals for body composition indices and at 10
      and 36 weeks for serum biochemical end-points.

      Evaluation of dietary diaries and meal photographs will be used to correct and adjust
      deviations from the targeted dietary plan and to help participants prepare the meals
      according to the dietary plan.
    
  