
    
      Over 3.1 million women are currently living with a diagnosis of breast cancer in the United
      States (US), representing 41% of all female cancer survivors in the US. The increased breast
      cancer survival rate has necessitated a shift in cancer care toward developing interventions
      to empower patients to improve their quality-of-life, and perhaps prognosis, during and after
      treatment. Among women diagnosed with early-stage (I or II) breast cancer, around 40% will
      receive chemotherapy. Among women diagnosed with late-stage (III or IV), around 75% will
      receive chemotherapy. Adjuvant chemotherapy is associated with many side effects, including
      fatigue, nausea, disturbed sleep, decreased activity, and weight gain. Women receiving
      chemotherapy gain an average of 2.5 to 6.2 kg during therapy. Weight gain increases the risk
      of breast cancer recurrence and mortality, as well as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and
      second primary cancers. Physical activity alleviates or reduces both short and long term
      treatment side effects of chemotherapy, including weight gain, and restores physical
      functioning in breast cancer patients. Additionally, randomized controlled trials in breast
      cancer patients have shown that adding exercise to chemotherapy programs can improve breast
      cancer outcomes.

      Although there are many benefits of engaging in physical activity during cancer treatments,
      activity levels typically decline throughout treatment. Existing research has relied on
      self-reported activity levels, which is a poor measure of low-intensity activities and can
      only capture a periodic snap shot of activity levels. This study will provide objective
      physical activity data across the entirety of the patient's chemotherapy treatments. This in
      depth data will provide a new perspective on the patterns of activity levels and help to
      identify if there are critical times in which to intervene to prevent physical activity
      declines.
    
  