
    
      Introduction

      Postpartum depression (PPD) is a form of major depressive disorder (MDD) and affects about
      15% of mothers following birth (1). This condition is a serious medical matter, not only
      because of the suffering it causes the women, but because it can negatively affect the infant
      emotionally, socially, and even cognitively, sometimes far beyond the time of the depression
      (2). Many physicians now routinely screen for PPD at the traditional 4-6 week postpartum
      visit, and such screening has been the policy at OSU clinics for the past decade. However,
      Kim et al (2008) recently reported that testing pregnant women at 24-28 weeks gestation for
      depression resulted in a risk status that was identical with risk status after delivery for
      90% of patients studied (3). The author concluded that prenatal screening for possible later
      PPD seemed clinically useful.

      Various studies have investigated a possible relationship between PPD and failure to
      breastfeed, with mixed results. Misri et al (1997) reported that 83% of their subjects with
      PPD experienced onset after discontinuing breastfeeding (4). Henderson et al (2003) reported
      that a study of 1,745 Australian women revealed that subjects with PPD were more likely to
      stop breastfeeding than non-depressed ones (5). In addition, they found that the women tended
      to wean after onset of PPD (5). However, McKee et al (2004) found no association between PPD
      and beginning or duration of breastfeeding (6). Further, Hatton et al (2005) found that
      although women with more depressive symptoms were less likely to breastfeed at 6 weeks
      postpartum than their counterparts without symptoms, this difference could not be found at 12
      weeks postpartum (7).

      Here at OSU, Dr. Sarah McCoy published two studies on breastfeeding and PPD in 2006 and 2008,
      both of which were retrospective reviews of records (8, 9). The first one was a more
      selective and smaller sample than the second, because at the time the data were collected,
      PPD screening had not quite become universal. In that first study of 209 subjects, a
      significant relationship was found between breastfeeding and scores above 12 on the Edinburgh
      Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS), which indicated PPD (8). However, the second
      similarly-designed study of 588 subjects, which was a more representative sample of the
      clinic population, failed to confirm those results (9).

      To date, little if any studies have been published that deal directly with the topic of
      prenatal depression and its relationship to whether a woman chooses to breastfeed after
      giving birth. However, McCarter-Spaulding and Horowitz (2007) recently recommended prenatal
      screening for PPD in anticipation of potential roadblocks to breastfeeding (10). If it could
      be shown that women with prenatal depressive symptoms are less likely to choose
      breastfeeding, perhaps early intervention could increase the number of infants that are
      breastfed, which is an important public-health goal (11).

      Purpose The purpose of this prospective cohort study is to search for a relationship between
      maternal depression in the third trimester, as indicated by a score of > 12 on the EPDS, and
      a choice not to breastfeed at all, defined as no breastfeeding after dismissal from the
      hospital.

      Methods The investigators plan to collect data from women that are receiving prenatal care at
      the OSU Houston Parke clinic. Upon obtaining informed consent at a prenatal appointment
      between 34 weeks + 0 days gestation and 37 weeks + 6 days, (should consent be deemed
      necessary), the investigators will ask the subjects to fill out the same EPDS screen that OSU
      obstetrics patients already typically fill out at the four-week postpartum appointment.
      Filling out that scale at a prenatal appointment is the only activity that the test subjects
      will be asked to do that is not already a standard part of their obstetrics' treatment. In
      addition, the investigators will note these women's EPDS score at the four-week postpartum
      visit and whether or not they choose to breastfeed, as well as the other information listed
      under "Data Collection", most of which are already routinely recorded in the chart.

      Early Termination Criteria Patient will also be terminated if they do not follow up at their
      postpartum visit.

      Drugs and Dosages No drugs are used in this project. Devices The only device used in this
      study is the EPDS. Surgical Procedures This study does not include any surgical procedures.
      Data Collection

      Information recorded for the study will include:

        1. Gestational age at prenatal EPDS screen

        2. Prenatal EPDS score

        3. Use of any antidepressants at the time of the prenatal screening

        4. Use of any antidepressants after the prenatal screening

        5. Age of patient

        6. Whether infant was stillborn yes/no

        7. Whether infant had birth defects yes/no

        8. Whether infant had illness that prevented breastfeeding

        9. Whether infant breastfed at all after leaving the hospital

       10. Whether infant was still breastfeeding at the four-week postnatal appointment

      Confidentiality Data will be de-identified after the four-week postpartum visit by conversion
      to numbers. It will be recorded on an Excel spreadsheet.
    
  