
    
      Organic nitrates are widely prescribed for the treatment of angina pectoris in patients with
      coronary artery disease (CAD). In China, many patients with CAD are prescribed nitrates as a
      long-term treatment. The most commonly prescribed nitrates for long-time treatment is
      isosorbide mononitrate (ISMN). The reason for their use is that the majority of physicians
      believe chronic therapy with organic nitrates is associated with an improvement in symptoms
      and has neutral or potentially beneficial effects on long-term patient outcome, although this
      assumption remains unproven.

      Recently, multiple lines of evidence documented that sustained use of nitrates was associated
      with adverse effects on vascular function which appeared to be mediated by an increase in
      nitrate-induced oxidative stress. The accumulation of oxygen free radicals during chronic
      nitrate therapy was associated with endothelial dysfunction, increased arterial sensitivity
      to vasoconstrictors and the development of abnormalities in a number of important enzymes
      involved in the regulation of vascular homeostasis, including the superoxide dismutase,
      protein kinase C, matrix metalloproteinases, and prostaglandin synthase. This may lead to
      development of nitrate tolerance, endothelial dysfunction. Furthermore, endothelial
      dysfunction is a risk factor for worse prognosis of patients with CAD.

      Up to date, some clinical research focus on how to prevent tolerance and clinical outcome of
      nitrate therapy were involved short follow-up periods of only a few weeks. It is too short to
      assess the true clinical impact of nitrate-induced endothelial dysfunction, and the safety of
      long-term nitrate therapy requires systematic review. So prospective, randomized study with
      longer treatment period is needed to observe the chronic impact of nitrate therapy on
      endothelial function.

      Therefore, the investigators prospectively investigated whether long-term ISMN therapy had
      any influence on endothelial function evaluated by brachial artery ultrasound imaging during
      reactive hyperemia in patients with catheterization confirmed CAD, and whether this was
      associated with increased oxidization or inflammation burden.
    
  