
    
      Subjects will be cancer patients attending one of three outpatient clinics at Memorial
      Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Subjects will be recruited from the Melanoma/Sarcoma, GI and
      Genitourinary Oncology services. The patients of six oncologists across the three services
      will be approached. All patients of these six oncologists who are invited to participate in a
      Phase I clinical trial will be approached to participate in the study. Patients who consent
      to participate in this study will be included in the sample regardless of their trial
      decision.

      Design and Analysis:

      To gather information about the communication strategies used by oncologists to discuss
      trials, a qualitative analysis of audio recordings of consultations containing discussions of
      Phase I trials will be conducted. These consultations will be audio recorded and transcribed
      in full; analysis will proceed using the constant comparative method. Initially (and as is
      consistent with the qualitative method employed for this study), a small sample of 15
      patients will be recruited. Once an exhaustive analysis of this original data set is complete
      a further set of 15 patients will be recruited and transcripts of these consultations
      analyzed. In order to identify any new themes, the themes that emerged from the new data set
      will be compared with those identified in the original data set. We anticipate that the study
      will be completed within one year of commencement.

      Significance: Oncologists report that one of their most significant communication challenges
      is communicating effectively and ethically with their patients about joining a clinical
      trial. Communication skills training has demonstrated efficacy in assisting doctors in this
      difficult task, however, there is a paucity of research in this area and studies have been
      limited to the Phase II and III trial setting. There is some research evidence that suggests
      that different communication issues and challenges emerge in the Phase I versus the Phase II
      and III trial setting. The pilot research proposed in this protocol will: a) explore the
      types of communication currently used by oncologists when recruiting patients to clinical
      trials and b) develop a set of communication strategies that can be used to address gaps in
      doctor- patient communication in this difficult area.
    
  