
    
      Background: Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), encompassing Crohn's Disease (CD) and
      Ulcerative Colitis (UC), is a chronic disabling condition of the intestine. Most patients
      experience sequences of exacerbation in which quality of life is often impaired. Also society
      endures heavily, as IBD healthcare costs are estimated at 4.6-5.6 billion euros per year and
      high rates of unemployment and work disability are reported. The current incidence estimate
      is 256.000 Europeans per year, and yet increases.

      IBD arises from complex interactions between a genetically altered intestinal immune
      response, environmental factors and intestinal microbiota. Disease phenotypes are
      heterogeneous and predicting individual disease course or therapy response is still merely
      possible; treatment of choice for instance remains a trial-and-error based succession of
      regimens. Further exploration of the underlying biologic mechanisms, and the identification
      and validation of non-invasive markers to predict disease course and therapy response are the
      foremost challenges in IBD field at this moment.

      Deeply phenotyped IBD cohorts with a biobank are ideal tools for this type of research, and
      are warranted. Most IBD biobanks reflect hospital based populations thereby over representing
      severe and therapy refractory patients. However, many hypotheses require designs with a full
      IBD spectrum. Secondly, phenotypes are mostly ascertained retrospectively, which makes
      results prone for bias. As no prospective population based biobank excists, we started the
      population based IBD South Limburg (IBDSL) biobank project.

      IBDSL: The IBDSL project was first established in 1991, when gastroenterologists started
      prospectively registering all IBD patients residing in South Limburg, the Netherlands. As
      from 2011, this cohort is being scaled up into a biobank and focus expanded from epidemiology
      towards exploring underlying biologic mechanisms and identifying markers to predict disease
      course or therapy response.

      Population: Every adult IBD patient, diagnosed in South Limburg after 1991 and permanently
      residing in South Limburg (the Netherlands), is eligible to participate. The population based
      nature was reached via a multi-faceted approach; incident cases were prospectively identified
      through the participating hospitals, and missed patients were retrospectively identified
      using the nationwide histopathology registry. In 2011, over 3500 patients were included,
      representing >93% of the IBD population in South Limburg. Adults and partners of included
      patients serve as controls.

      Datacollection: All eligible IBD patients will be contacted and asked to participate.
      Patients will be visited at home or in hospital by a research nurse. After informed consent,
      DNA, serum, plasma, exhaled air and stool are collected. All data will be added into a
      custommade web-based data management system (MACRO). All biomaterials are stored in the
      central biobank facility of the MUMC.

      Additional information: IBDSL is a Dutch consortium comprising the gastroenterology
      departments of Maastricht University Medical Centre+ and the general district hospitals Orbis
      MC Sittard-Geleen and Atrium MC Heerlen. IBDSL is investigator initiated and has been funded
      by the consortium members. IBDSL has been approved by the Ethics Committee of the Maastricht
      University Medical Centre (METC 10-2-071, NL31636.068.10), and meets the ethical standards of
      the declaration of Helsinki. We welcome new collaborations. Applications for collaboration
      are first to be approved by our IBD-SL committee.
    
  