
    
      Background:

      Women with GDM have an increased risk of macrosomia, cesarean section, birth defects and long
      term complications such as an increased risk, in both mother and child, to develop type 2
      diabetes.

      According to Invitro and invivo studies of type 1 and 2 diabetes, great variations in blood
      glucose levels caused more complications than constantly elevated glucose levels. This study,
      therefore, intends to use Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) for day-to-day monitoring of
      glycemic variability, including frequency, duration, and magnitude of hyperglycaemic
      fluctuations.

      Carbohydrate is the macronutrient that has the greatest impact on postprandial blood glucose
      response. Despite this, there is a current lack of evidence of how the carbohydrate intake
      should be distributed throughout a day.

      This study aims to investigate whether high-morning carbohydrate intake (HMK) compared to
      low-morning carbohydrate intake (LMK) affects glycemic variability in GDM patients.

      Design:

      Randomized crossover intervention study comparing two intervention diets; high-morning
      carbohydrate intake (HMK) versus low-morning carbohydrate intake (LMK) each of 3 days
      duration with four-day washout.

      Diet intervention: Both intervention diets have the same calorie content and contain the same
      amounts of protein, carbohydrate and fat for the individual patient, but the distribution of
      carbohydrate and energy differs throughout the day.

      Dietary intake will be estimated through 24-hour recall interview by trained dietitians.
      Estimation of actual intake is validated by photos of every main meal.

      All data will be collected and stored in RedCap to secure data checks.

      Statistics Analysis and sample size:

      Power calculation on primary outcome MAGE- estimates 15 patients for inclusion with a power
      of 80%, SD 0,6mmol/l, a significance level of 0,05 and a MIREDIF of 0,5 mmol/l. 15 persons
      include an expected dropout rate at 20%.

      Non-parametric tests will be used for the secondary and primary outcome.

      Perspective:

      A future perspective of this study is to improve the current treatment in regards to
      nutritional recommendations. Thus, the study could potentially contribute with the knowledge
      that would clarify the carbohydrate recommendations and improve the glycemic control of
      patients with GDM and therefore be beneficial to patients' future treatment and prevent
      complications and development of type 2 diabetes in the child.
    
  