
    
      The study is a parallel-group, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled study followed by
      an open label extension.

      An interim Analysis will be performed when all subjects finalized the re-evaluation for
      retreatment visit at week 16 of the first treatment cycle or completed the double blind phase
      (whichever occurs earlier).

      The first treatment cycle of the study will comprise two treatment groups as follows:

        -  Group A (active): BoNT/A-DP (20 units, 0.5 mL)

        -  Group B (placebo control): sterile, 0.9% sodium chloride, (0.5 mL). Eligible subjects
           will be randomized at baseline (day 0) to Group A or B to receive the first treatment in
           a 3:1 randomization scheme, respectively. Investigators and subjects will be blinded to
           the treatment administered and will evaluate the severity of glabellar lines
           independently. The subject should perform their assessment independently and ideally
           before the investigator, to ensure they are not biased by the investigator. The same
           investigator should assess the subject at baseline and at the visits at weeks 1, 2 and 4
           in the first treatment cycle.

      After a screening period of up to14 calendar days, subjects will receive the first treatment
      (BoNT/A-DP or placebo) and attend for visits at 1, 2 and 4 weeks after treatment and at 4
      weekly intervals thereafter for evaluation of efficacy and safety (primary and key secondary
      efficacy endpoints are evaluated in the first treatment cycle in comparison with placebo).

      The first treatment cycle will last at least 12 weeks and will end when the subjects qualify
      for re-treatment (in accordance with the "eligibility for re-treatment criteria"). After the
      first treatment cycle is completed, all subjects may enter the open label extension phase and
      will be dosed with BoNT/A-DP (20 U) for subsequent re-treatments.

      Evaluation for re-treatment takes place at the earliest at 12 weeks after the first/previous
      treatment. Subjects who do not qualify for re-treatment at week 12 will have the option
      (pending eligibility) of re-treatment at a later visit (at 4 weekly intervals thereafter)
      until they are eligible for re-treatment or until a total of 48 weeks has elapsed since study
      start. Subjects will attend for visits at 1 and 4 weeks after any re-treatment and at 4
      weekly intervals thereafter. At week 2 and week 8 of each open label cycle a telephone call
      visist will take place. According to the study schedule (Section 2.1 and Section 2.2), a
      maximum of 4 treatments per subject (4 treatment cycles) is permitted during the study time
      frame, with treatments separated by a minimum of 12 weeks.

      The number of treatments administered per subject will depend on the subject's qualification
      for re-treatment; however, the last opportunity for re-treatment is at week 48.
    
  