
    
      Radiation therapy for prostate cancer leads to inappropriate radiation dose to the rectum
      wall leading rectum adverse effects in long term for some patients. A resorbable spaces
      between prostate and rectum could decrease the incidence of these side effect. In this trial,
      men with prostate cancer with intention to curative treatment by low-dose brachytherapy will
      be recruited. The subjects will be randomized to receive either diluted or non-diluted
      DuraSeal product as a spacer between prostate and rectum. Diluted or non-diluted DuraSeal
      will be applied between rectum and prostate at the end of the brachytherapy seed implantation
      procedure. After the implantation of the brachytherapy seeds, a needle is placed between
      rectum and prostate through perineal skin under transrectal ultrasound guidance. The proper
      position of the needle is confirmed by the injection of 10-15 ml sterile saline solution.
      After that, DuraSeal components are diluted in 1:1 with sterile saline and 6-10 ml of this
      diluted product will be injected using DuraSeal applicator. If the subject is randomized to
      receive non-diluted DuraSeal, the procedure will be identical with the exception the DuraSeal
      components will not be diluted. The resolution of the spacer will be followed by repeated
      plain computer tomography (CT) of pelvis performed a day before operation, a day after the
      operation, and 4, 8 and 12 weeks after the operation. In addition, magnetic resonance imaging
      of pelvis performed 12 weeks after the operation. The space created between prostate and
      rectum will be documented by plain CT and magnetic resonance imaging. Rectum radiation dose
      will be calculated based on these scans. Time to DuraSeal resolution will be evaluated from
      the scans. Possible side effects will be collected by subject interviews during follow-up
      visits at 4, 8 and 12 weeks after the operation.
    
  