
    
      DEFUSE 3 is a prospective randomized Phase III multicenter controlled trial of patients with
      acute ischemic anterior circulation strokes due to large artery occlusion treated between
      6-16 hours of stroke onset with endovascular thrombectomy therapy vs. control.

      The primary endpoint, the modified Rankin Score, will be assessed at 3 months. The patients'
      participation in the study concludes at that time (3 months from stroke onset). The study
      will randomize up to 476 patients over 4 years. The purpose of DEFUSE 3 is to assess the
      safety and efficacy of thrombectomy in carefully selected patients in an extended time
      window. Only the devices listed in this protocol will be used. Selection of the specific
      device (or devices) is determined by the individual endovascular therapist.

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will undergo either CT Perfusion/CT Angiogram or MR
      DWI/PWI/MRA studies prior to randomization. Patients who have evidence of an ICA or MCA M1
      occlusion and a Target Mismatch Profile will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to treatment with
      one or more DEFUSE 3 approved thrombectomy devices (only the devices listed in this protocol
      are approved for use in DEFUSE 3) plus standard medical therapy versus standard medical
      therapy alone. Patients who are enrolled, but not randomized, will receive standard therapy
      according to local guidelines. Baseline data, and information about early stroke therapies,
      will be captured for this group of patients.

      Randomization of a maximum of 476 patients is planned. A novel adaptive design will identify,
      at interim analyses, the group with the best prospect for showing benefit from endovascular
      treatment, based on baseline core lesion volumes and the times since stroke onset. Interim
      analyses will be conducted at 200 and 340 patients, at which time the study may stop for
      efficacy/futility, or the inclusion criteria may be adjusted in the case of futility.
    
  