
    
      Summary of Study Design The study will be a double blind randomised controlled trial with
      patients undergoing laparoscopic right hemicolectomy or laparoscopic high anterior resection
      randomly allocated into two groups, with the study group receiving bilateral TAP blocks
      followed by a morphine PCA and the control group receiving local anaesthetic infiltration of
      the laparoscopic port sites and specimen extraction site and a morphine PCA.

      A double blind design was chosen to eliminate patient and observer bias in reporting of pain
      scores.

      The presence of the control arm will ensure that any difference observed will be due to the
      effect of sensory nerve block due to the TAP block than due to the systemic effect of the
      injected local anaesthetic.

      The null hypothesis will be that there is no difference between the groups in the amount of
      morphine consumed by the patients during 48 hours after the operation. We chose this
      measurement as an objective but indirect measurement of efficacy of TAP block and pain relief
      thus received. Measurement of pain with various scoring methods are reliable only when
      concurrent reduction in consumption of pain killers are demonstrated.

      Recruitment and randomisation:

      All patients meeting the inclusion criteria will receive a patient information leaflet and an
      invitation letter to participate in the study during the pre-assessment visit. We aim to
      recruit 72 patients (36 patients per group).

      Informed consent will be taken by one of the investigators on the morning of the surgery, if
      the exclusion criteria are not applicable. Patients will be allotted consecutive participant
      numbers starting from one. Patients will be randomly allocated into either the study group
      and a control group. Randomisation will occur by using computer generated random numbers.
      Group allocation will be kept in a consecutively numbered, opaque, sealed envelope in the
      controlled drugs cupboard in theatre-6 anaesthetic room of Churchill hospital.Once patient
      has consented, the anaesthetist will open the corresponding numbered envelope and perform
      bilateral TAP blocks after induction of general anaesthesia, if the patient is in the study
      group the surgeons will infiltrate the port sites with local anaesthetic at the end of the
      procedure if the patient is in the control group.

      Blinding:

      The study group will receive bilateral TAP blocks with 20mls 0.25% bupivacaine on each side
      and the skin punctures on either sides will be covered with a small plaster. Patients in the
      control group will receive subcutaneous infiltration of the laparoscopic port sites and
      specimen extraction site with equivalent amount bupivacaine at the end of the procedure and
      small plasters will be stuck on either flanks approximately where the skin punctures for TAP
      block will be made.

      The assessor of pain scores and morphine doses (Recovery nurse & Colo-rectal house officer)
      and the patient will be blinded to group allocation.

      Patient: Plasters will be stuck on flanks of all the patients both study and control group so
      that patient will not know if they have received TAP block.

      Recovery nurse: During handover to recovery the anaesthetist and scrub nurse will not mention
      about group allocation.

      Colo-rectal house officer: The house officers( Junior Doctors) who will be following up in
      the ward will not present in the operating theatre, so they will be blinded

      The study duration will be from induction of anaesthesia until the patients are medically fit
      for discharge from hospital. No extra visits other than routinely required for the surgical
      procedure is expected.
    
  