
    
      Study Design: A single centre, two-arm, parallel group with standard of care controlled
      superiority trial with a balanced (1:1) block randomization will be conducted at the Toronto
      Rehabilitation institute, Toronto Canada. A total of 38 women (19 participants per study arm)
      with BC-CT presenting at Cardiology Clinics in Toronto Canada will be enrolled. After
      baseline assessments, eligible participants will be randomized to one of two arms including
      the exercise rehabilitation program or the control group (no exercise training intervention).

      Patient Population: Women with BC-CT (defined as a decrease in the left ventricular ejection
      fraction of >10 percentage points, to a value <53% by 2D-echocardiography or a diagnosis of
      heart failure) who are undergoing therapy with anthracyclines and/or trastuzumab.

      Procedures: The following measurements will be collected at the beginning and following the
      12 week intervention. Participants will also be expected to attend one weekly exercise
      session at the Toronto Rehabilitation institute each week, and will be expected to complete
      additional exercise training sessions at home or in the community each week.

      Day 1: All participants will then undergo baseline assessments at the Toronto Rehabilitation
      Institute including a cardiopulmonary exercise test to assess VO2peak. Resting and exercise
      haemodynamic outcomes, VO2peak achieved, symptoms, and reason for test termination will also
      be collected. Standard measures conducted during the intake process including height, weight,
      body fat percent, and waist circumference will also be collected. The participants will be
      provided with a blood requisition form that will be returned during the first week of class.
      The questionnaires for physical activity patterns (Godin Leisure Physical Activity
      Questionnaire), quality of life, a health history questionnaire, as well as the activity
      tracking devices will also be administered by the research coordinator upon their initial
      visit.

      Day 2: All cardiac assessments will be conducted on a separate day of testing at Toronto
      General Hospital by a skilled clinical cardiac sonographer.

      Day3: The vascular assessment will be completed at the University of Toronto.Trained research
      staff familiar with echocardiography analysis will complete all offline analyses for the
      vascular assessments.

      Throughout the program: Information regarding adherence to the exercise program will also be
      collected by the research coordinator each week via the exercise training diaries and
      activity tracking devices from each participant. Reasons for missed sessions will also be
      assessed. Lastly, completion rates of the program will be collected via the patient chart
      upon completion of their final cardiopulmonary exercise test.

      Intervention: The exercise rehabilitation program will consist of one weekly supervised
      90-minute session consisting of aerobic and resistance exercise in addition to
      education/counselling for a total of 12 weeks. Each participant will be asked to complete
      four additional aerobic training sessions and one to two resistance training sessions at home
      or in the community each week. Case managers including nurses, physiotherapists and
      registered kinesiologists will be responsible for supervising each class. The participants
      initial aerobic exercise prescription will be based on outcomes from the baseline
      cardiopulmonary exercise test. The first week of class will include an initial exercise trial
      to determine if the exercise prescription based on the cardiopulmonary exercise test is
      appropriate for the individual (i.e., similar heart rate response to exercise, the
      participant can complete the exercise prescription and any potential symptoms that might be
      reported). Participants will engage in over-ground walking, treadmill walking or stationary
      biking depending on the limitations of the individual, participant preference and
      availability of equipment to complete the exercise at home. The goal is to progress patients
      to 60 minutes of aerobic exercise, five times per week, at intensity equivalent to 60% to 80%
      of VO2peak, which is equivalent to an intensity that is just below the ventilatory threshold.
      Exercise duration will be increased every one to two weeks (equivalent to 10% of the current
      exercise prescription duration), with a maximum intensity of 80% of VO2peak. The exercise
      prescription will be progressed based on feedback from the patient, exercise heart rate and
      rating of perceived exertion. Participants will be able to monitor the exercise prescription
      using the heart rate achieved on the cardiopulmonary exercise test that corresponds to 60% to
      80% of VO2peak and a rating of perceived exertion that corresponds to 11 to 15 on the Borg
      scale. Patients will be required to keep a detailed record of each exercise session, noting
      distance walked/biked, duration, resting and peak heart rate, and rating of perceived
      exertion for each aerobic training session.

      Resistance training will be introduced during the 4th week of the program. The resistance
      exercise program will consist of ten exercises targeting all major muscle groups.
      Participants will begin with 10 repetitions at a weight that is equivalent to 60 to 70% of
      the individuals 1 repetition maximum. The weight required to achieve this exercise intensity
      will be determined in the 4th week of class using a modified 1 repetition maximum assessment.
      The resistance training will then be progressed every 1 to 2 weeks increasing the number of
      repetitions to 12 and 15 respectively. Once the participant can complete 15 repetitions, they
      will be instructed to reduce the repetitions back to 10 and add an additional set. The same
      progression will be used until the participants can complete 3 sets of 15 repetitions.
      Resistance training records will include the amount of weight lifted, the number of
      repetitions completed, sets performed and rating of perceived exertion during each exercise.

      Education Component: Each week participants will attend a 30-minute education session
      following completion of their exercise training. The education component of the program will
      consist of topics that are designed to help participants achieve optimal self-management of
      their conditions and foster lifestyle behavior change. The education sessions delivered will
      be consistent with the current education program at the Toronto Rehabilitation Institute.
      Topics that will be addressed in the educational sessions will include, but are not limited
      to, the benefits of physical activity, goal setting, healthy eating, dealing with stress and
      coping, and management of the toxic effects of treatments for breast cancer. Qualified staff
      including kinesiologists, physiotherapists, dietitians and psychologists will deliver the
      education sessions.

      Control Group (No Exercise Intervention): Participants who are randomized the control group
      will undergo baseline and follow up assessments at 12 weeks. They will not have any other
      contact with the study staff over the duration of the study period. They will also be asked
      to continue with their regular physical activity routine and will be medically managed as per
      standard of care by their Cardiologist and Oncologists. All participants will also complete
      the Godin Leisure Time Physical Activity Questionnaire to determine if there are potential
      increases in physical activity in the exercise and control group, which may account for
      changes in all outcome measures. All participants in each group will also be asked to wear an
      activity-tracking device, including a step counter (PiezoRx®) for one week before and
      following the intervention (12 weeks) to objectively quantify their daily physical activity.
      After program completion the control group participants will be provided with the opportunity
      to enroll in the exercise-rehabilitation program in order to have the opportunity to benefit
      from the program.

      Timeline of Trial: The target of this trial is to demonstrate superiority. The trial will
      last a total of 12 weeks. All outcomes (primary and secondary) will be measured at baseline
      and following the intervention.

      Randomization: Randomization will occur at the central site, the Toronto Rehabilitation
      Institute, using a computer generated randomization schedule with an allocation ratio of 1:1.

      Blinding: The participants will not be blinded to their intervention arm. Assessors of
      outcome data and analysis will be blinded to the intervention arm.

      Analytical Plan: The principal analysis of the primary outcome will employ an
      intention-to-treat analysis and will include all randomized participants in their randomly
      assigned group. The primary and secondary analyses will include continuous variables with
      baseline differences between the two groups to be analyzed using a one way-analysis of
      variance. Continuous variable outcomes with values over the two time periods will be analyzed
      using a repeated measures analysis of covariance, with the baseline values treated as
      covariates. A multiple regression model will also be used to compare study arms relative to
      the change in physiological mediators (e.g. cardiac function and vascular endothelial
      function) of the aerobic training to the change in VO2peak relationship. These analyses will
      be conducted to determine whether physiological variables mediate the effect of exercise
      training on VO2peak. Finally, two separate regression models will used to address how changes
      in VO2peak will affect changes in quality of life using the two separate measures (model A
      and model B) following completion of the program.

      Significance: Outcomes of this investigation will provide insight for potential therapeutic
      interventions to improve adverse events associated with treatments for breast cancer.
    
  