
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the manifestations of metabolic syndrome (MS) in children and adolescents who
           are survivors of childhood cancer (CCS).

        -  Compare the prevalence of MS in CCS to that of matched healthy siblings of similar age
           and gender.

        -  Evaluate insulin resistance (as measured by the euglycemic insulin clamp) in CCS and
           compare to that of healthy siblings of similar age and gender.

        -  Assess the extent to which prevalent obesity and insulin resistance are correlated with
           other factors that have been identified in the causal pathway associated with the
           development of the MS that may be altered in the CCS ( e.g., growth-hormone secretion,
           adipokines [adiponectin, leptin], inflammatory mediators [e.g., interleukin-6], tumor
           necrosis factor-α, and C-reactive protein).

        -  Obtain dietary and physical activity assessments of CCS and healthy siblings.

      Secondary

        -  Explore demographic (age at treatment, sex-specific differences) and treatment-related
           factors (exposures and dose-related associations with chemotherapeutic agents,
           radiation, steroids) as potential correlates with insulin resistance, vascular function,
           and MS in CCS.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo a comprehensive medical examination including current and past
      medical history, family history, review of prescription medications, a physical examination
      including a body and visceral-fat assessment, and anthropometric (DEXA and bone-age x-ray)
      and blood pressure measurement. Blood samples are collected to measure growth hormone,
      adipokines (adiponectin, leptin), cytokines (IL-6 and CRP), fasting insulin, fasting glucose,
      lipids, oxidized LDL, hypothalami-pituitary-gonadal function (estrogen, FSH, LH,
      testosterone), and thyroid function (free T4 and TSH). Patients also complete questionnaires
      on dietary intake and physical activity.

      Healthy siblings undergo a complete medical examination as patients do, including blood
      samples collection and questionnaire administration.
    
  