
    
      Psoriasis is a common skin disorder affecting up to an estimated 3% of the world's
      population. The most prevalent form of psoriasis, called psoriasis vulgaris or plaque
      psoriasis, is characterized by the presence of sharply demarcated erythematous plaques
      covered with white scales. These lesions can occur all over the body, but are most often seen
      on the extensor surface of the joints, nether regions and on the scalp. Patients can
      experience excessive itch, pain and sometimes bleeding of the lesions. Moreover, the visual
      appearance of psoriatic lesions can severely impact the patients psychological state and
      quality of life. An abundancy of different factors contributes to the pathogenesis of
      psoriasis. However, aberrant inflammatory reactions in the skin are thought to be the
      underlying cause. Excessive infiltration of immune cells in the skin and their interactions
      with cutaneous resident cells results in the hyper proliferation of keratinocytes and
      subsequent thickening of the epidermis. Indeed, more and more immunosuppressive biologicals
      targeting specific components of the immune system, like tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα),
      interleukin (IL-)17 and IL-23, have shown excellent efficacy in treating psoriasis Plaque
      psoriasis may be an ideal model disease to explore potential therapeutic effects of
      immunosuppressive agents, given the easy accessibility of inflammatory lesions and the good
      willingness of patients to participate in clinical studies. In this study, the applicability
      of a systems dermatology approach is investigated in order to better assess the efficacy of
      psoriasis treatments at an early clinical stage. Up to this point, the clinical manifestation
      and regression of psoriasis is not yet sufficiently characterized with a multimodal
      state-of-the-art evaluation tool. The in-house developed 'DermaToolbox' enables the
      determination and subsequent integration of different disease-related biomarkers, including
      clinical, biophysical, molecular, cellular, and imaging markers as well as patient-reported
      outcomes
    
  