
    
      Background: Back pain is a very common and costly disorder. The financial burden is one of
      the highest of all health issues. Current treatments are not adequately effective for a large
      proportion of patients who continue to experience recurrent pain and ongoing disability.
      Therefore, new treatment strategies should be investigated in an attempt to reduce the
      disability and high costs associated with back pain.

      Dry needling is a technique in which a fine needle is used to penetrate the skin,
      subcutaneous tissues, and muscle with the intent to mechanically disrupt tissue without the
      use of an anesthetic. Dry needling is emerging as a treatment modality that is widely used
      clinically to address a variety of musculoskeletal conditions. Recent studies of dry needling
      have shown decreased pain, increased pain pressure threshold, improved range of motion, and
      decreased disability in the short term. The majority of these studies examined dry needling
      using methods atypical to clinical practice (dry needling as a sole treatment, or fewer
      visits than is common practice). No studies have included long-term follow up. A clinical
      trial with realistic treatment time frames and methods consistent with clinical practice is
      needed to examine the effectiveness of dry needling on reducing pain and enhancing function
      in patients presenting with back pain. Both short and long term treatment outcomes need to be
      collected as there is emerging evidence that dry needling may be more effective in
      maintaining treatment effects in the long term. Therefore, the aim of this trial will be to
      examine the short and long term effectiveness of dry needling on pain, disability, and
      patient perceived improvements in patients with low back pain.

      Purpose: The aim of this trial will be to examine the short and long term effectiveness of
      dry needling on pain, disability, and patient perceived improvements in patients with back
      pain.

      Design: The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial in accordance with the
      CONSORT guidelines. All patients with back pain referred to physical therapy will be screened
      for eligibility criteria. Participants will be randomized to receive 1) dry needling, manual
      therapy, and exercise or 2) manual therapy and exercise. Participants will receive 8
      treatments over a maximum of 6 weeks.

      Methods: The primary outcome will be disability as measured by the Modified Oswestry
      Disability Index. Pain and patient perceived improvement will also be recorded. STarT Back
      clinical measurement tool will be used to monitor patient's risk dto develop chronic back
      pain. Outcome measures will be assessed at 6 weeks, 6 months, and 24-months by an assessor
      who is blind to the group allocation of the participants to determine the short and long-term
      treatment effects.

      Data Analysis: The investigators will examine the primary aim with 2-way repeated-measures
      analysis of variance (ANOVA) with treatment group (MTEX vs. MTEX-DN) as the between subjects
      independent variables and time (baseline, 6 weeks, 6 months, 24 months) as the
      within-subjects independent variable. The hypothesis of interest is the 2-way group * time
      interaction.

      Significance: The successful completion of this trial will provide evidence to demonstrate
      whether dry needling is effective for the management of back pain when used in a combined
      treatment approach as is commonly practiced clinically.
    
  