
    
      The development of initial resuscitation maneuvers, associated with a better knowledge of the
      physiopathology of critical illnesses and the technological development experienced by
      critical care medicine, allow us to give vital support to patients for long periods of time.
      In this scenario, a considerable proportion of critically ill patients may require
      translaryngeal intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation. Patients who require prolonged
      translaryngeal intubation have a high risk of developing swallowing dysfunction, a condition
      predisposing to secretions aspiration. Until now, there has been no demonstration of a causal
      association between the duration of translaryngeal intubation and development of swallowing
      dysfunction. However, all the studies about this topic have been performed on patients
      submitted to prolonged translaryngeal intubation. Clinical studies have documented the
      development of early laryngotracheal lesions after intubation, which might explain post
      extubation dysfunction of swallowing reflex, probably as consequence of alteration of
      mechanic and chemo-receptors of the pharyngeal and laryngeal mucosa. There are no studies
      evaluating the impact of an early percutaneous tracheostomy on the incidence of swallowing
      dysfunction in critical care patients. The investigators have documented a 38% of swallowing
      dysfunction in our critically ill patients submitted to prolonged mechanical ventilation. The
      hypothesis of the study is that performance of an early percutaneous tracheostomy, within the
      first 4 days of translaryngeal intubation, in critical care patients on mechanical
      ventilation, reduces the incidence of swallowing dysfunction. The diagnosis of swallowing
      dysfunction will be performed by fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing (FEES) by a
      trained otolaryngologist, 3 to 5 days after weaning of mechanical ventilation.
    
  