
    
      Spontaneous-continuous positive airway pressure support (SPN-CPAP/PS) is the routine
      ventilator mode used in critically ill patients submitted to an intensive care unit (ICU). It
      guarantees a positive end expiratory pressure, which prevents atelectasis and minimizes
      weaning time, by supporting the patient's respiratory drive.

      A few years ago, this very established ventilation technique was modified by simply altering
      the rhythm and volume of gas application: instead of administering same tidal volumes in
      equal time intervals a variation of applied volume as well as altering frequency in
      ventilation is introduced. This ventilation method is termed noisy pressure support
      ventilation (noisy PSV) or variable pressure support ventilation (variable PSV). The
      variation of pressure support will be within a range around a mean support-pressure (Psupp)
      and won't exceed a maximum pressure (Pmax), which are both adjusted before starting noisy
      PSV.

      Any variation of breathing is physiological and may occur during speaking, moving and many
      other factors. As novel concept, the investigator proposes that such variation of ventilation
      rhythm and volume may have an important impact on heart rate variability (HRV), which is
      known as to be an indicator of a healthy heart. Since it has been observed that HRV is an
      important predictor of mortality in coronary care units, investigation of HRV became more
      important. Recently it was found that low HRV is associated with an increasing mortality and
      proposed low HRV to be a marker for critical illness.

      The analysis and further investigation of HRV has therefore become an important issue in
      modern medicine. Mechanical ventilation plays a pivotal role in ICUs and should be further
      improved. Mechanical ventilation per se is stressful for the cardiovascular system.
      Cardiovascular homeostasis is of major importance and the investigator hypothesises that
      noisy PSV will decrease the stress applied to the human heart measured via heart rate
      variability.

      In this interventional clinical study, the investigator will apply, in a randomized fashion,
      conventional PSV and variable PSV each for a duration of one hour. During ventilation the
      investigator will record all data of the patients monitor, including the electrocardiogram
      (ECG), which is routinely monitored in patients, and respiratory data, to determine HRV
      parameters retrospectively. All other ventilatory, hemodynamic and pharmacological treatment
      will be part of the clinical routine. As two modes of ventilation will be compared, this
      study is an interventional clinical trial.
    
  