
    
      BACKGROUND:

      While VCE has become an important diagnostic tool for clinical practice, optimal preparation
      for VCE has yet to be determined.(13) The European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy
      recommends bowel preparation but does not provide further details.(2) The Canadian
      Association of Gastroenterology, American Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy, American
      College of Gastroenterology, and American Gastroenterological Association make no specific
      recommendation. Many studies have addressed this knowledge gap, testing various regimens of
      purgatives.(14-18) A meta-analysis found that polyethylene glycol provided adequate visual
      quality in 68% of patients compared to 48% with fasting alone, while diagnostic yield climbed
      from 36% to 46%.(4) In contrast, oral preparation for colonoscopy produces adequate
      visualization in greater than 90% of patients.(19)

      Intraluminal debris, bile, and air bubbles impair the visibility of small bowel mucosa during
      VCE. Simethicone, an anti-foaming agent, has been used with mixed success to improve image
      quality. Three studies investigated the addition of simethicone (30 mg, 600 mg, and 800 mg)
      to overnight fast, PEG, or mannitol demonstrated improvement in visualization with high
      preparation scores favouring the addition of simethicone.(7-9) In contrast, Wei and
      colleagues (10) compared simethicone (300 mg) + PEG with PEG alone and found that although
      simethicone improved visualization, adequate visualization was achieved in only 63% of
      patients. Similarly, Ge et al. (11) compared simethicone (300 mg) against fasting alone and
      found improvement in visualization with simethicone but this was limited to the proximal half
      of the small bowel and adequate visualization was limited to 55% of cases. Lastly, Rosa et
      al. (12) compared simethicone (100 mg) + PEG with PEG alone and did not find a difference in
      visualization score.

      A potential reason for inconsistent improvement in small bowel visualization may be due to an
      inadequate volume of simethicone being delivered into the small bowel, especially the distal
      portions. Prior volumes of simethicone were small (<200 ml) and may have pooled in the
      stomach and become diluted by gastric juices before being delivered into the duodenum. Our
      hypothesis is that high volume simethicone may overcome this problem and improve small bowel
      cleansing to facilitate improved visualization during VCE.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is a double blind randomized clinical trial evaluating high volume simethicone (750 ml
      at 1.5 mg/ml) versus standard volume simethicone (200 ml at 1.5 mg/ml) for CE. Randomization
      will be performed in blocks of varying sizes through a web based interface, Research
      Electronic Data Capture (REDCap), to ensure concealed allocation. Patients, physicians, and
      outcome assessors will be blinded to randomization allocation.

      INTERVENTION:

      All patients will take a standard small bowel preparation consisting of the following
      starting the day before the procedure: clear fluids starting at lunch, two liters of PEG at 8
      PM, and fasting starting at midnight. Patients arrive in the endoscopy unit at 6:45 AM the
      following morning. Randomization is performed via REDCap and simethicone given as follows:
      those randomized to high volume simethicone will drink a 750 ml solution (1125 mg simethicone
      diluted in 750 ml of water, 1.5 mg/ml) and those randomized to standard volume simethicone
      will drink a 200 ml solution (300 mg simethicone diluted in 200 ml of water, 1.5 mg/ml) in
      identical non-transparent lidded cups sealed with tamper tape prepared by the hospital's
      Clinical Trials Pharmacy and administered to the patient by the research nurse. Regardless of
      randomization results, the solution will be consumed over a 5 minute period and the patient
      instructed to resume fasting for 30 minutes before swallowing the capsule. Adherence will be
      assessed by collection of the cups after ingestion.

      After swallowing the capsule, the patient is discharged from the endoscopy unit, encouraged
      to remain active for the day, allowed to have clear fluids in 2 hours, a light meal in 4
      hours, and to return the CE recorder to the endoscopy unit at 5 PM. Once the CE recorder is
      returned, the patient is discharged from the endoscopy unit and has completed the study.
      Subjects will be called by the study nurse 7 days later to assess for adverse events.

      CE will be performed with the Given Imaging SB3 capsule and reviewed with the accompanying
      software, RAPID v8.3. Videos will be reviewed in a blinded fashion without knowledge of
      randomization results using the Park score.(41)
    
  