
    
      The diagnosis of splenomegaly is extremely important in managing patients with blood
      disorders and other medical conditions, such as cirrhosis. The ability to recognize an
      enlarged spleen in a timely manner can impact patient outcomes. Although the physical exam
      can be confidently used to diagnosis massive enlargement of the spleen, evaluating lesser
      degrees of splenomegaly at the bedside proves more difficult. In current practice, the gold
      standard for diagnosis of splenomegaly is the conventional abdominal ultrasound. The
      prevalence of splenomegaly in patients with blood conditions and other medical disorders is
      relatively high. Therefore, the demand for abdominal ultrasound is growing and similarly the
      cost of caring for patients with these conditions.

      In addition, examination of the spleen is one of the core competencies that the investigators
      expect the students and residents to learn as part of their training. This physical diagnosis
      maneuver is frequently used to examine residents at the Royal College level and determine
      their fitness to practice. Unfortunately, the sensitivity and specificity of examination of
      the spleen at the bedside is not very good.

      With the introduction of hand carried ultrasound (HCU) devices, rapid bedside assessment of a
      patient is now possible. The Visual scan (VScan) (GE Healthcare, USA) allows for 2D imaging
      on a 3.5 inch display and has shown to have comparable image quality to standard ultrasound
      for some applications. The VScan and other HCU have been used at point of care to evaluate a
      number of conditions and can greatly impact treatment decisions in medical patients at the
      bedside. The ability to recognize splenomegaly in a timely manner can impact patient
      outcomes. In addition, the use of this technology could significantly impact training
      standards for students and residents.

      It remains unclear whether bedside evaluation with the VScan is able to accurately measure
      spleen size. The investigators conducted an extensive literature review and the investigators
      were unable to find any studies attempting to accurately assess spleen size with HCU. The
      investigators recently demonstrated that trained ultrasonographers can reliably assess spleen
      size at the bedside using a VScan. The current study aims to determine the diagnostic
      accuracy of the VScan when used by medical residents who have been trained in its use, in
      patients with varying degrees of splenomegaly, including normal spleen size. If the
      investigators can show that medical residents can accurately characterize spleen size at the
      bedside with a hand carried device, the next stage of the study will be to determine how the
      investigators can integrate HCU with physical examination at the bedside to assess spleen
      size.

      Design, Specification of Endpoints, and Procedures:

      The investigators propose a validation study in 50 patients who have medical conditions that
      may result in varying degrees of splenomegaly (including normal spleen size) and who are
      looked after in the hematology clinics at Vancouver General Hospital (VGH). Patients will be
      recruited based on information provided in the charts in the private offices of hematologists
      at VGH.

      The investigators will also enroll 20 first year medical residents. First year residents will
      be sent a letter by email describing the study.

      Each medical resident will undergo a one hour training sessions by an ultrasonographer
      regarding the use of HCU to assess spleen size. At the end of the session, they will be
      evaluated by the sonographer to make sure they know how to use the HCU to acquire images of
      the spleen. If they are not proficient they will undergo a subsequent one hour training
      session. On a separate day, a trained ultrasonographer will perform a conventional ultrasound
      on each patient to accurately measure their spleen size. This information will be provided to
      the patients hematologist. Subsequently residents will attempt to measure the size of the
      patient's spleen using the VScan. Each patient will be scanned 5 times by 5 different
      residents. Each resident will be blinded as to the patient's underlying medical conditions
      and the results of previous scans. Variables of interest include: adequacy of the study,
      findings on 2D imaging, overall diagnosis of presence of splenomegaly, confidence level in
      diagnosis and time to complete test.

      The goal is to determine if medical residents can use a hand carried ultrasound device to
      accurately assess spleen size.
    
  