
    
      Written approval of the study has been obtained from the University Malaya Medical Centre
      (UMMC) Ethics Committee before commencement of this study

      Patients will be screened for inclusion and exclusion criteria of the study and consent will
      be obtained from the patients or their legal representative in view of most critically ill
      patients are unconscious. Patients or their legal representative will be briefed regarding
      the objectives and the design of the study.

      Critically ill patients recruited for this study will be exclusively on EN as clinically
      indicated. The volume of formula prescribed is based on each patient's total energy
      expenditure, which will be calculated by clinical dietitians. Formula will be delivered
      through a Ryles tube according to dietitians' order.

      A faecal sample from the recruited patients will be collected for analysis at baseline, the
      first stool output after initiation of EN. Once baseline sample is collected, patients will
      be randomly assigned to receive enteral formula with or without prebiotics. Randomisation
      will be generated by using the website Randomization.com (http://www.randomization.com).
      Patients will be monitored for at least 14 days from passage of the first faecal sample after
      initiation of EN.

      A faecal sample will be collected for analysis on days 0, 7, and 14. If there is absence of
      habitual or meal cues to stool output, samples will be collected and analyzed from each
      patient during 3 days periods at Day 6-8 for second faecal sample and Day 12-14 for the third
      faecal sample.

      To guarantee accurate measurement of microbiota and shirt chain fatty acids (SCFA), only
      fresh faecal samples will be analyzed.Faecal samples will be collected within 1 hour of
      voiding and will immediately be transported to the laboratory for analysis of microbiota. The
      faecal sample will be homogenized using a sterile stainless steel Waring blender and aliquots
      of each specimen and will be frozen at -80°C until DNA is extracted.

      Although the study is an open-label study, the researcher will be blinded for the analysis of
      the faecal sample for the quantification of faecal microbiota and short SCFA. An external
      Predominant component of the faecal microbiota; Bacteroides, Bifidobacteria, Clostridia and
      Lactobacilli will be quantified using Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR). Faecal SCFA
      will be analyzed using gas-liquid chromatography, and C.difficile-enterotoxins A and B will
      be measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit.

      Faecal output will be recorded by nursing staff using a stool chart validated for use in this
      patient group. The chart will aid in the characterization of faecal frequency, consistency,
      and weight, which are then summarized into a daily stool score. A score of 15 or more is used
      to indicate diarrhoea (Whelan, Judd, Preedy, & Taylor, 2008). Patients will be visited once,
      daily during weekdays and contacted by telephone during weekends to monitor data recording by
      the nursing staff.

      Details of EN regimen; formula used, amount, frequency, route and mode of delivery will be
      recorded progressively. Demographic data such as age sex, race and clinical details such as
      antibiotic, medications prescription and patients' progression will be extracted from the
      patients' medical notes daily.
    
  