
    
      Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (auto-HSCT) are considered the standard of
      care for many malignancies, such as lymphoma, myeloma and some leukemias, and so on. Graft
      failure after auto-HSCT is a formidable complication. It occurs in 2-9.5% of patients and is
      associated with considerable morbidity and mortality related to infections and hemorrhagic
      complications. There are various options for the management of graft failure. The most common
      treatment of graft failure is growth factors such as granulocyte colony-stimulating factor
      (G-CSF)and recombinant erythropoietin,but it usually effective in the short term and no
      effect on platelet counts.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are a form of multipotent adult stem cells that can be isolated
      from bone marrow (BM), adipose tissue, and cord blood. Clinical applications of human MSCs
      are evolving rapidly with goals of improving hematopoietic engraftment, preventing and
      treating graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation and so on.As an important source of hematopoietic stem cell, cord blood has
      been widely used in clinical practice. It is reported that cord blood combined with MSCs can
      increase engraftment after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. However, to
      our knowledge, the report about efficacy of treatment of graft that develops after auto-HSCT
      using expanded BM-derived MSCs from a third-party donor combined with cord blood is absent.If
      such treatment could be shown to be effective and safe, BM-derived MSCs could potentially be
      used as an universal donor material. This would have a major impact because the generation of
      donor-specific MSCs is time-consuming, costly, and often impractical if the clinical status
      of a patient is urgent.

      In the present study, the investigators will prospectively evaluate the efficacy and safety
      of ex-vivo-expanded BM-derived MSCs from third-party donors or MSCs combined with cord blood
      in treating patients with graft failure after auto-HSCT.
    
  