
    
      Anti-NMDA-Receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis, the most frequent autoimmune encephalitis after
      Acute Demyelinating encephalomyelitis (ADEM), affects children with predominant movement
      disorders, decline of consciousness, psychiatric symptoms, language dysfunction, seizures,
      dysautonomic symptoms. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is most often abnormal with lymphocytic
      pleocytosis, CSF-specific oligoclonal bands with intrathecal synthesis of anti-NMDAR
      antibodies. Antibody titres in CSF and serum seem correlated with clinical outcome. Early
      start of immunotherapy has been reported to improve clinical outcome and associated with less
      relapses. In a recent large series (211 children/577), 77% of the patients were admitted to
      Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at the beginning. Within the group of children, first-line
      immunotherapy (95%) consisted of corticosteroids (89%), and/or intravenous immunoglobulins
      (IgIV) (83%), and/or plasma exchange (28%) with failure in 46%. The second-line immunotherapy
      consisting in rituximab (24%) and/or cyclophosphamide (16%) was proposed in 32%, and tended
      to be associated with good outcome (OR=3.35, CI: 0.86-12.98, p=0.081 for 53 children;
      statistical significance was achieved for the entire population including adults (OR: 2.69,
      CI: 1.24-5.80, p = 0.012) and less relapses.

      In investigators' experience, the clinical benefit of rituximab is delayed over one month,
      while children go on worsening (50% admitted in ICU) thus claiming for faster removal of the
      antibodies. Plasma exchange is proposed in most of the series as alternative or combined
      treatment in the acute stage (first-line immunotherapy); recently, another plasmatherapy,
      immunoadsorption therapy (IA), has been reported as an efficient therapeutic approach in
      11/13 patients. In this retrospective study, patients received a median of 6 IA sessions
      within a median period of 8 days with relevant clinical improvement. However these
      encouraging results and investigators' experience in few children need further prospective
      and standardized evaluation.

      In IANMDAR study, each patient will receive 10 IA sessions during 28 days maximum. Rituximab
      will be given each week for 4 weeks (one injection by week +/- 3 days):

        -  at least 1 day before each IA session

        -  the last injection will occur after the last session IA (minimum one day after) To
           assess the efficacy of IA-therapy at short term, the neurological status of patients
           will be evaluated before and after the 10 IA sessions using the Pediatric Cerebral
           Performance Category Scale (PCPCS) and the modified Rankin Scale (mRS).

      To assess the efficacy of IA-therapy at long term, patients will have a standardized
      follow-up during two years including neuropsychological evaluation at 1 year and at 2 years
      (see below for further details).
    
  