
    
      Background:

      We identify healing in the context of chronic or life-threatening illness as a
      patient-reported outcome consisting of growth or benefit in psychological, social and/or
      spiritual dimensions representing improvement well above the patient s pre-morbidity
      baseline. This positive outcome often occurs despite substantial suffering during the
      illness, even in terminal cases. Current literature reflects numerous studies suggesting that
      psychological, social, and/or spiritual dimensions influence positive patient health outcomes
      and affects overall quality of life. This trend parallels a movement to understand how a
      difficult experience, such as a cancer diagnosis for example, may help facilitate positive
      growth, also referred to as healing. Although attention to positive growth/healing in the
      treatment of life limiting illness is increasing, a psychometrically sound instrument that
      assesses psycho-social-spiritual (PSS) growth as a means to healing does not exist. The
      ability to assess healing will allow improvements in programs aimed at helping individuals
      make positive personal changes in their health-related behavior (our larger program on
      healing). Content analysis of this contributes to construct validity of the assessment and
      brings us closer to creating a psychometrically sound measure of psycho- social spiritual
      healing.

      This swill use cognitive interviewing to examine item performance of the NIH HEALS Assessment
      (healing experience during all life stressors) tool.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective

        -  To continue with instrument development of a tool to assess an individual s progression
           toward psycho-social spiritual healing by evaluating the participant s understanding of
           questionnaire items through a cognitive interviewing technique.

        -  Examine differences in the understanding of questionnaire items between the three
           recruitment sites.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years old

        -  Understand and speak English

        -  Physician diagnosed with a life threatening illness

        -  91+ days post diagnosis of life threatening illness

        -  Receiving inpatient or/ outpatient palliative care at NIH Clinical Center inpatient
           palliative Care at Suburban Hospital, and NIH outpatient palliative care provided at the
           Mobile Medical Care Clinic

      Design:

        -  Exploratory descriptive study using mix-methods

        -  Cognitive interviews using retrospective probing in a purposive sample with three rounds
           of 10 for a total maximum sample of 30 participants, with the completion of content
           analysis after each round of 10 to inform content and clarity of question items.
    
  