
    
      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the analgesic superiority of Fentanyl given
      as 'continuous infusion + boluses' versus 'boluses alone' by comparing pain scores obtained
      by the application of validated algometric scales for chronic pain (EDIN - Echelle Douleur
      Inconfort Nouveau-Nè) and acute pain (PIPP- Premature Infant Pain Profile).

      The secondary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety equivalence of the above 2
      therapeutic regimens by recording:

        -  Rate of mechanically ventilated newborns at one week of age

        -  Age at which neonates will reach total enteral feeding

        -  Age (hours) of first meconium passage

        -  Incidence of intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH), periventricular leucomalacia (PVL) or
           death within 28 days of life

        -  Incidence of bladder globe during the first week of life

        -  Incidence of hypotension during the first week of life

      5.2.1 Pain measurement: during the study phase acute pain will be measured once a day during
      a heel prick by a validated algometric scale for acute pain (PIPP); chronic pain will be
      measured 3 times a day by a validated algometric scale for chronic pain (EDIN). Inter-rater
      reliability has been shown acceptable for both scales (26,27). Moreover, in October 2006 the
      Coordinating Center organized a theoretical and practical course on the correct application
      of the PIPP and EDIN scales (26,27) for all the participating centers in order to reduce the
      inter-Center variability in pain measurement.

      The EDIN scores will be recorded in a specific CRF (CRF N°1, p. 15). The PIPP scores will be
      reported in a specific CRF (CRF N° 1, pp. 8-14).

      5.2.2 Painful procedures: the following painful procedures, as well as the action taken to
      reduce pain, will be recorded in the same CRF (CRF N° 1, pp. 8-14):

        -  heel pricks

        -  endotracheal aspirations

        -  venous blood samplings

        -  pneumothorax drainage

        -  peripherally inserted central catheter positioning

        -  others (specify) 5.2.3 Fentanyl open label boluses administration: all the boluses of
           open label fentanyl administered according to the criteria reported in paragraph 6.1.1
           have to be recorded in a special CRF (CRF N° 1, p. 7).

      5.2.4 Instrumental examinations: a heart ultrasound has to be obtained in all newborns in the
      first week of life in order to diagnose patent ductus arteriosus. Brain ultrasound has to be
      repeated at 4, 7 days of age and then twice a month or when clinically indicated.
    
  