
    
      Research Plan:

      Sample. Veteran care receivers(CR s) or carepartners (CP) over the age of 60 who require
      assistance from a spousal or cohabitating caregiver (CG) and Veteran caregivers providing
      care for a cohabitating carepartner were recruited. Dyads underwent comprehensive baseline
      assessments consisting of in-person home-based interviews and iPad training (T1) followed by
      a week-long data collection of contemporaneous actigraphic sleep parameters and twice daily
      (morning and evening) indices of subjective sleep, activity, mood, behavior and sleep hygiene
      completed on the Tonic for Health Platform. Dyads were randomly assigned to an immediate
      intervention or wait-list control group. The immediate group received the intervention
      described below followed by post-intervention assessments (T2) identical to baseline.
      Wait-list participants then received the intervention followed by a final post-intervention
      assessment for the wait-list group only (T3).

      Intervention.

      Daily Videos: Video modules were delivered daily to the dyads' iPads during the 6-week
      intervention. All participants received core programming of sleep hygiene education, and
      guided instruction for daily physical activity enhancement "Move-Out!" and
      meditation/relaxation/self-care "Stand Down!" sessions individualized to functional ability
      levels. The baseline data allowed for subsequent compilation and programming of
      individualized, algorithmically derived, adaptive prescriptions for relevant video modules,
      sleep hygiene recommendations and cognitive behavioral strategies based upon the three
      independent streams of objective and subjective data for each dyad member. During the
      intervention dyads completed brief morning and evening diaries to assess compliance with the
      intervention and capture daily mood and sleep/sleep hygiene data.

      Tele-Video-Conferences: Each dyad participated in two tele-video conferences with the PI. The
      first was to discuss evaluation results, obtain buy-in for the prescribed intervention and
      address dysfunctional beliefs and attitudes about sleep. The second call was a check-in,
      encouragement, reinforcement and coaching call. Dyads were re-assessed following the 6-week
      intervention.

      Evaluations:

      Standardized quantitative evaluations regarding the utility of the program were completed
      following the post-intervention assessments on the iPads. A sub-sample of dyads also
      participated in qualitative interviews.
    
  