
    
      Free tissue flap reconstruction has become a reliable technique. Nevertheless, pedicle
      thrombosis is dreaded, and the earlier the diagnosis of such complications is made, the
      higher the surgical salvage rate is.

      Clinical monitoring remains the most useful and used monitoring method, but makes late and
      unreliable diagnosis. Numerous studies are searching for ideal monitoring technics with
      regard to free flaps. Nowadays, the most efficient ones often deal with expensive and
      invasive technics. In this study, capillary lactataemia and glycaemia measurements are
      evaluated for pedicle impairments diagnosis.

      Measurements of these 2 biological parameters seem to be a powerful screening test of pedicle
      impairments in microdialysis. But these parameters are measured in this case in interstitial
      tissues. Capillary measurements will probably provide different results, and needs to be
      evaluated.

      For that purpose, surgical reconstructions with free tissue flap will be clinically monitored
      during five days, every hours for the first 24 hours, and every 4 hours for the next 4 days.
      Simultaneously, blind measurements of capillary lactataemia and glycaemia will be performed.
      Biological and clinical data will be systematically written in the corresponding table of the
      individual register together with the time the examination is done.

      In this register, all complications and evolutions of the flaps will be recorded.

      A posteriori, parallel between clinical and biological events will be studied. This
      multicenter prospective study will show first if capillary measurements of glucose and
      lactate permit to screen pedicle complications of free flaps. In case of efficacy of this
      technique, thresholds of glucose and lactate permitting such diagnoses will be calculated in
      order to define a sensitive screening test. Moreover, temporal differences between clinical
      and biological diagnoses of pedicle impairments will be studied.
    
  