
    
      Study Groups:

      If the patient found to be eligible to take part in this study, the patient will be assigned
      to a study group based on the size of the lesion(s) and the discretion of the responsible
      physician. Up to 71 patients will be enrolled in the study.

      If the patient is treated with standard radiotherapy, the patient will receive 25 fractions
      of 2 Gy to the metastases, the treatment duration will be 5 weeks.

      If the patient is treated with image-guided hypofractionated radiotherapy, the patient will
      receive 3 fractions of 10 Gy to the metastases, the treatment duration will be 1 week.

      Radiation Planning and Treatment:

      During all radiation treatments, the images that are taken during the treatment will be
      closely analyzed after treatment is over. The patient will have 3 to 25 radiation treatments
      per metastasis depending on the discretion of the responsible physician.

      The rest of the radiation treatment planning and treatment delivery appointments will be
      unchanged. The dose given to the tumor and number of treatments the patient will receive,
      will be determined by the discretion of the responsible physician, and is not affected by
      taking part in this study.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      After the radiation treatment schedule ends, the patient will return for follow-up visits at
      the following time points:

        -  At 3 months

        -  Then, every 3 months for 1 year, and then

        -  1 time a year after that, for as long as possible Additional follow up visits may be
           scheduled, if the responsible physician thinks they are needed.

      At these visits, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Any updates to the medical history of the patient will be recorded and the patient will
           be asked about any side effects the patient may be having.

        -  The patient's performance status will be recorded.

        -  The patient's complete symptom questionnaires will be reviewed.

        -  The patient will have a clinical examination

        -  The patient will have follow-up imaging (such as an MRI) to check the status of the
           disease.

      This is an observational study. Radiation therapy is delivered using CE-certified and
      commercially available methods.
    
  