
    
      This is a single center open label feasibility pilot project based at the University of
      Rochester. This study is proposed based on our work showing that the diabetes drug
      Pioglitazone strongly inhibits growth of tissue cultured squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the
      skin. This occurs at concentrations readily achievable by oral administration of this drug
      using doses currently approved for the treatment of diabetes. In our study, we propose to
      enroll 40 non-diabetic adult subjects (18-80 yrs of age inclusive) with a documented clinical
      history of frequent occurrence of skin squamous cell cancer to receive Pioglitazone
      (Actos®,Takeda Pharmaceuticals). Patients followed in the University of Rochester Dermatology
      Clinic who have had greater than 3 or more SCCs treated in the past year, without
      contraindication for the use of pioglitazone, and are on a stable drug treatment regimen will
      be offered participation .The study has a cross-over design, so patients will be enrolled and
      randomized to one arm of two treatment protocols: 1) six months of usual care while
      documenting and characterizing any new tumors that occur followed by 6 months of pioglitazone
      treatment plus usual care for the next 6 months or 2) six months of pioglitazone treatment
      followed by 6 months off treatment receiving usual care. The second group will offer the
      opportunity to assess whether there is any persistent beneficial effect after pioglitazone
      treatment ends, while tumors from the first group that occur during the initial 6 months of
      usual care will be characterized by study parameters for comparison to tumors arising while
      on treatment. At the end of the one year treatment period, the number of biopsy-proven new
      tumors that patients develop while taking pioglitazone will be counted and compared with the
      number that patients developed during the 6 month period they were not receiving treatment as
      well as the numbers that occurred during the 6 months after treatment (washout effect). This
      information will be used as the basis for a larger multicenter study. We will also examine
      the histologic grade of the removed tumors and study whether Pioglitazone treatment can
      decrease the number of aggressive versus well differentiated tumors in study patients. This
      pilot study is designed to detect a statistically significant change in SCC tumor numbers but
      is not sponsored by the drug manufacturer. The data obtained will not be used to effect a
      change in the product label.

      This study will also assess secondary endpoints. First, we will examine whether the ratio of
      well-differentiated to poorly differentiated SCC is influenced while subjects are on
      treatment. This endpoint is included because it is unknown whether there may be more
      signaling mediated by PPARγ in one tumor morphology vs. another. Second, we will determine
      whether patients on treatment might have different numbers of "borderline" lesions biopsied;
      precancerous lesions are often suspicious enough to biopsy. It may be that there will be
      fewer lesions in this category, as well as fewer squamous cell cancers. Basal cell cancers
      and other forms of skin cancer will also be documented. Third, we will test tumors that are
      excised after they are processed for routine diagnostic pathology to see if markers of
      proliferation or apoptosis that are influenced by PPARγ activity or the presence of AKR1C3
      are altered. These endpoints would support the idea that any changes produced in tumor
      incidence while patients are on study drug are related to the mechanistic effect on PPARγ
      that is proposed.

      Subjects will be excluded from study if they have NYHA class I - IV cardiac status because of
      concerns that thiazolidinediones, such as Pioglitazone, may exacerbate congestive heart
      failure.
    
  