
    
      Background:

      Medication management is a complex clinical task. It requires substantial collaboration and
      coordination between physicians, nurses and pharmacists. Addressing ineffective communication
      has been identified by the Institute of Medicine as a high priority. Ineffective
      communication regarding medication management coordination can result in increased medication
      errors, rates of adverse drug events (ADEs), delays in treating adverse drug events and less
      effective treatment. ADEs are frequent in hospitalized patients, ranging from less than 3% to
      over 32%. The purpose of this study was to evaluate communication patterns associated with
      medication management between providers, physicians and pharmacists in the inpatient setting.

      Objectives:

      Specific Aim 1. Assess clinicians' beliefs and concerns regarding the role of communication
      in preventing, detecting and managing ADEs in elderly inpatients (focus groups).

      Specific Aim 2. Evaluate and characterize communication events between VA nurses, physicians
      and pharmacists in an inpatient medicine setting (ethnographic observation).

      Methods:

      Phase 1: Focus Groups Design: The design of this study was qualitative and used focus group
      methodology.

      Settings: Three VA sites that differed in size, location and academic affiliation were
      selected.

      Participants: Three focus groups were conducted at each site (one each of pharmacists, nurses
      and physicians). A total of 19 nurses, 16 pharmacists and 13 doctors participated.

      Phase 2: Observation Design: The design of this study was quantitative and descriptive.
      Settings: Two inpatient units at the VA Salt Lake City Health Care System (medicine and
      telemetry).

      Participants: Twelve residents were selected randomly from each of the 4 medical teams, 19
      nurses were selected randomly from the two in-patient medicine wards, and 8 clinical
      pharmacists (the total number of clinical pharmacists available) agreed to participate.

      Status:

      All data have been collected and initial analyses has been completed.
    
  