
    
      The Roux-en-Y gastric bypass operation combines restrictive and malabsorptive principles. It
      is the most commonly performed bariatric procedure worldwide (~ 50 %). Vertical (sleeve)
      gastrectomy on the other hand, is a purely restrictive procedure and has gained popularity
      and is now accepted as a valid procedure accounting for approximately five percent of the
      bariatric procedures performed worldwide.

      The remission rate of type 2 diabetes one to two years after bariatric surgery is
      approximately 70%. Some studies have indicate that the remission rate of type 2 diabetes is
      higher after gastric bypass than after sleeve gastrectomy. Other studies indicate a similar
      effect on the reduction in HbA1c.

      Weight reduction is comparable between gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy although some
      evidence suggets a larger weight loss following gastric bypass surgery. Larger weight loss
      can clearly contribute to somewhat greater improvement in glucose homeostasis after gastric
      bypass than after sleeve gastrectomy. Still, one might speculate that changes in gut hormones
      may contribute to higher remission rates of type 2 diabetes after gastric bypass than after
      sleeve gastrectomy.

      Improved β-cell function observed after gastric bypass surgery may be linked to higher
      postprandial levels of Glucagonlike peptide 1 as seen after gastric bypass surgery. Beta cell
      function has, to our knowledge, only been addressed in one previous study after sleeve
      gastrectomy, with the authors reporting an increased first-phase insulin secretion three days
      after the procedure. Although several studies have addressed changes in gastrointestinal
      hormones the incretin effect on insulin secretion after gastric bypass has been estimated in
      only a few studies. To the best of our knowledge the incretin effect on insulin secretion
      after sleeve gastrectomy remains unexplored.We are aware of four ongoing randomised
      controlled trials comparing the effect of gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy on several
      endpoints including weight and comorbidities (ClinicalTrial.gov identifiers: NCT00722995,
      NCT00356213, NCT00793143, and NCT00667706). However, these studies include both subjects with
      and with-out type 2 diabetes and are therefore not powered to detect between-group
      differences in HbA1c and beta-cell function in the diabetic patients.

      In conclusion, the effect of gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy on glycaemia is not fully
      elucidated. Moreover, the impact of altered beta-cell function post surgery needs to be
      explored. We hypothesise that greater improvement in beta-cell function after gastric bypass
      than after sleeve gastrectomy translates into better glycaemic control in subjects with type
      2 diabetes one year after surgery.
    
  