
    
      Background Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer burden worldwide and the
      third most commonly diagnosed cancer in France (with 44,000 new cases in France each year).
      Systematic uptake of CRC screening can improve survival rates. However, people with limited
      health literacy (HL) and lower socioeconomic position rarely participate. The overall goal is
      to assess the impact of a HL intervention combining HL and CRC screening training for general
      practitioners with a short brochure and video targeting eligible patients to increase CRC
      screening and other secondary outcomes in four underserved geographic areas in France.

      Methods The investigators will use a two-arm randomized controlled cluster trial at 8
      clusters (2 per area) primarily serving underserved populations across 4 geographic areas in
      France with 32 primary care physicians and 1024 patients recruited. Primary care physicians
      practicing in underserved areas (identified using the European Deprivation Index and French
      Deprivation index) will be block-randomized to: 1) a combined intervention (HL and colorectal
      cancer training + brochure and video for eligible patients) or 2) usual care. The
      investigators will include all people between 50 and 74 years old who are eligible for CRC
      screening. The project will follow a community-based participatory research approach. The
      primary outcome is CRC screening uptake. The project will also include a qualitative needs
      assessment (focus groups and interviews) prior to finalizing the intervention and to test the
      acceptability of the combined intervention before the trial. After completing recruitment,
      semi-structured interviews will be conducted with up to 8 health professionals in each region
      (up to 24) and 6 to 12 patients per region (up to 48) based on data saturation. The
      investigators will explore strategies that promote the intervention's sustained use and rapid
      implementation using the Normalization Process Theory. A regression framework and mediation
      analyses will be used.

      Discussion Limited HL and its impact on the general population is a growing public health and
      policy challenge worldwide. It has received limited attention in France. A combined HL
      intervention could reduce disparities in CRC screening, increase screening rates among most
      vulnerable populations, and increase knowledge and activation (beneficial in the context of
      repeat screening).
    
  