
    
      Even as cancer research has led to more advanced, targeted cancer treatments than ever
      before, not all patients are able to reap the benefits of these efforts, as demonstrated by
      their persistently worse survival outcomes, lack of accrual onto clinical trials, and lower
      rates of genetic testing. According to the American Cancer Society, black patients have the
      highest death rates and shortest duration of survival of any racial or ethnic group in the
      U.S. for most cancers. Black individuals with cancer are 25% more likely to die of their
      disease than white patients. Although persisting across tumor types, this disparity is
      particularly evident among black women, whose population-based breast cancer mortality rate
      is higher than white women. Compared with white women, black women have a 42% higher breast
      cancer mortality rate and twofold higher incidence of biologically aggressive triple-negative
      disease. Additionally, the American Cancer Society reported that black women are
      significantly more likely to die of breast cancer than white women, a disparity that has
      increased over time.

      For decades, researchers attributed higher mortality rates to socioeconomic factors such as
      inadequate health insurance, fewer years of education and lower income. However, research now
      supports the hypothesis that tumor biologic differences among black women could have a
      greater impact on response to treatment and outcomes. Some disparities are a function of
      environmental stressors influenced by race that affect biology. Body mass index (BMI),
      obesity, and rates of diabetes are higher for African Americans. Obesity is associated with a
      35% to 40% increased risk of breast cancer recurrence and death and therefore poorer survival
      outcomes. This association is most clearly established for estrogen receptor-positive breast
      cancer, with the relationship in triple-negative and human epidermal growth factor receptor
      2-overexpressing subtypes less well established. A range of biologic mechanisms that may
      underlie this association has been identified. In an early meta-analysis evaluating BMI and
      breast cancer risk, the authors found that every 5 kg/m2 increase of BMI was associated with
      12% increased risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women. The inflammatory and endocrine
      effects of obesity, a major risk factor for type 2 diabetes (T2DM), have been proposed as
      central mechanisms explaining associations between diabetes and cancer.

      Approximately ~ 10% of all cancers in women are attributable at least in part to obesity,
      with certain tumor types exhibiting an even stronger relationship between excess weight and
      cancer risk. Among these are breast and colon cancer, in which obesity promotes tumor
      appearance, progression, and metastasis in rodent models and in human patients. Obesity is
      associated with elevated insulin levels and increased insulin resistance. Insulin, a member
      of a family of growth factors that includes insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I and IGF-II,
      exerts mitogenic effects on normal and malignant breast epithelial cells, acting via insulin
      and IGF-I receptors. Insulin resistance could lead to compensatory hyperinsulinemia, which
      enhances the cross-binding of insulin to the insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) receptors
      expressed on breast epithelial cells. Moreover, hyperinsulinemia may also accelerate the
      pathogenesis of breast cancer by stimulation of hepatic IGF-1 synthesis and inhibition the
      hepatic expression of IGF-1 receptors, leading to an increased circulating IGF-1 level.
      Interfering with insulin signaling may slow tumor growth while activation of the insulin
      receptor may promote tumor progression.

      Hyperinsulinemia, which occurs as a consequence of lipid-induced insulin resistance and may
      also hasten its progression, is one of many putative links that may explain the association
      between obesity and cancer. Insulin promotes tumor cell division in vitro and plasma insulin
      concentrations are independently correlated with an increased risk and accelerated
      progression of both breast and colon cancer. High levels of fasting insulin identify women
      with poor outcomes in whom more effective treatment strategies should be explored. Black
      women are twice as likely to have prediabetes and type 2 diabetes as white women; improved
      monitoring of blood sugar and insulin levels to identify women with prediabetes could provide
      opportunities for reduction of the incidence of ER-negative breast cancer. A 12-week to
      18-week course of chemotherapy appears to statistically significantly increase metabolic
      syndrome (MetS) and related anthropometrics, biomarkers of glucose metabolism, and
      inflammation in patients with early-stage breast cancer with no preexisting MetS. Lifestyle
      interventions such as diet and exercise may be preventive approaches for use during
      chemotherapy to reduce the onset of MetS in patients with breast cancer.

      Breast cancer (BC) is one of the most common malignancies occurring in females. Weight loss
      and lifestyle interventions, as well as metformin and other obesity-targeted therapies, are
      promising avenues that require further study in women with breast cancer. The oral
      insulin-sensitizing drug metformin is a first line therapeutic in the management of T2DM.
      Metformin is a biguanide agent that reduces hepatic glucose production, increases hepatic
      fatty acid oxidation, reduces inflammation, and improves peripheral insulin sensitivity These
      activities reduce circulating glucose and insulin levels, although the exact mechanisms by
      which metformin achieves these effects are not well understood. In prior clinical studies
      elevated insulin levels were associated with poorer outcomes in patients with breast cancer;
      the use of metformin in women with early-stage breast cancer has been shown to reduce insulin
      levels. Metformin may affect breast cancer proliferation depending on a woman's insulin
      resistance, with decreased proliferation occurring in women with an increased homeostasis
      model assessment index (more insulin resistant). The rate of pathologic complete response was
      three time higher in women receiving neoadjuvant treatment for early-stage breast cancer plus
      metformin than in those women receiving neoadjuvant therapy without metformin.. Metformin has
      also been shown to have antiproliferative activity in vitro against multiple cancer cells
      lines. An early meta-analysis performed on T2DM patients taking metformin with cancer
      reported a 31% reduction in the incidence of new cancers including pancreas, colorectal,
      breast, and lung. Recent meta-analyses confirm that individuals with T2DM who also have lung,
      colorectal, and liver cancer derive significant survival benefits regarding clinical outcomes
      if also on metformin. Patients with breast cancer benefited from metformin treatment in terms
      of all cause survival (overall survival or chance of remaining alive after diagnosis). Data
      from previously conducted studies has shown metformin decreased the incidence of cancer and
      cancer-related deaths in patients with diabetes. Cellular glucose metabolism is linked
      tightly with the proliferation and development of breast cancer. Several studies suggested
      that metformin reduces the incidence of breast cancer in T2DM patients. Cancer cells show
      enhanced glucose uptake and metabolism and prefer glycolysis over OXPHOS, which is called the
      "Warburg effect." The noted specialty of metformin is to decrease glucose levels, thereby
      limiting the availability of energy for cancer cells. Metformin was also shown to decrease
      FAS expression, an essential component of the fatty acid synthesis pathway, thus affecting
      the survival of cancer cells. Metformin affects AMP-activated protein kinase, which effects
      mitochondrial energy generation and may deprive malignant, inefficient cells of energy and
      therefore reduce their potential growth rate. Although some of the observations [with
      metformin] imply not just [preventing] a progression of cancer but an incidence of cancer,
      which might suggest broader effects than merely energy deprivation. In parallel with that
      data, there are experimental findings that support a direct effect of metformin on specific
      pathways that mediate or promote cancer. It's been shown in both animal models and cell lines
      that metformin can inhibit some of the key steps that are important for tumors to grow, such
      as promotion of cell growth, motility, invasion, and migration. These findings provide us
      with new insight in the use of metformin combined with other drugs to treat tumors.

      Epidemiologic studies suggest that metformin use may be associated with both reduced cancer
      incidence and mortality. In a study, Tesneg and colleagues analyzed data from 493,704 men and
      502,139 women without colon cancer covered by national health insurance from 2003 to 2005,
      assessing whether metformin use had a protective effect. Although patients with diabetes had
      a higher risk for developing colon cancer, patients assigned metformin had a 27% reduced
      risk, according to researchers. Comparing patients with diabetes for less than 1 year,
      between 1 and 2 years, and at least 3 years with patients without diabetes, adjusted RRs were
      1.308 (95% CI, 1.02-1.679), 1.087 (95% CI, 0.9-1.313) and 1.185 (95% CI, 1.055-1.33),
      respectively. The duration of metformin use showed an inverse trend, according to
      researchers, with an RR of 0.643 (95% CI, 0.49-0.845) in users for at least 3 years vs.
      nonusers. A few mechanisms have been hypothesized to explain what may be happening. The most
      prominent theory is the idea that metformin activates a specific protein kinase, which down
      regulates the mTOR signaling pathway, which is important for tumor cell metabolism. More
      broadly, there is some evidence that insulin itself - and insulin-related pathways - may
      promote cancers. There is the thought that metformin does modulate insulin and sensitizes
      cells to insulin, and that may also have something to do with its effects. Our objective is
      to elucidate whether or not metformin is efficacious in improving insulin resistance in black
      and white women with breast cancer and if racial disparities in breast cancer prognosis can
      be partially explained by differences in pre-diagnosis insulin resistance which are improved
      with metformin therapy.
    
  