
    
      This will be a prospective, single institution, parallel-group, single-blinded,
      randomized-controlled, two-arm, effectiveness study comparing autologous arteriovenous
      fistula versus hemodialysis access grafts in the elderly. The target sample size will include
      enrollment of 270 patients over a period of 5 years. The creation of an autologous
      arteriovenous fistula or placement of a hemodialysis access graft constitutes the two arms of
      the study.

      Following the access creation the patients will be followed-up as per the standard and study
      protocol for a period of 2 years from the time of access creation.

      The investigators will use block randomization to achieve a patient allocation ratio of 1:1,
      using varying blocks of sizes 4 and 6 in a random order as per a web-based/computer generated
      system maintained as a block randomization sequence/list concealed from the blinded clinical
      and trial research team until the end of trial. Patients will be randomly allocated based on
      this permuted sequence to either of the two intervention groups.

      Masking will be performed and shall involve blinding of the patients participating in the
      trial. The research assistants involved with consenting, enrolling, data collection and
      follow-up, and the statistician analyzing the outcome measures will be blinded to the group
      assignment. The operating surgeon shall be blinded to the allocation process until the time
      of access creation following which the knowledge regarding the type of access creation by the
      surgeon is inevitable. All patients will be consented and their study related details
      including history, physical evaluations, diagnostic tests, etc., will be entered on a case
      report form and maintained on a web-based database. The patients will be followed-up for a
      period of 2 years from the time of initial access creation until the access is abandoned or
      rendered nonfunctional until the end of the study period.
    
  