
    
      Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the leading cause of cancer related mortality
      worldwide. Immune checkpoint blockade has emerged as a promising treatment modality in NSCLC.
      More recently, Programmed Cell Death 1 (PD-1) inhibitor was approved by FDA as ≥ second line
      treatment, which are major paradigm shift in NSCLC treatment.

      Subsequently two randomized phase III trials, comparing the overall survival (OS) of
      nivolumab with that of docetaxel as second line therapy, were completed. CheckMate-017
      included squamous cell lung cancer patients and CheckMate-057 did non-squamous cell lung
      cancer patients. In both trials, nivolumab showed improvement of OS in all-comers regardless
      of PD-L1 expression. As a result of retrospective analysis, PD-L1 positivity was not
      predictive factor for the efficacy in squamous cell histology, but predictive factor for
      non-squamous histology. Finally, nivolumab was approved the all-comer NSCLC patients
      regardless of PD-L1 expression after failure to platinum based chemotherapy.

      Although tumor PD-L1 expression is currently the best predictive biomarker for PD-1
      blockades, the prediction accuracy is not high enough to solidify the drug efficacy.
      Actually, PD-L1 negative patients can still respond to PD-1 blockades and some of PD-L1
      positive patients do not respond to these therapy. Interestingly, the responders among PD-L1
      negative patients showed comparable duration of response in those with PD-L1 positive in
      Checkmate 057 trial.

      Therefore, we need to select patients who are most likely to benefit from anti-PD-1 therapy
      and identify the better biomarker to predict the response to PD-1 blockades in NSCLC patients
      earlier than tumor assessment by imaging scan. To maximize the benefit of nivolumab in NSCLC
      patients, nivolumab should apply to all-comers, but we need to early decide to go or stop
      depending on predictive biomarker after 1st or 2nd cycle.

      It is well known that various immune suppressive mechanisms including an accumulation and
      activation of myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC) and regulatory T cells (Tregs) exist in
      tumor microenvironment of cancer patients. MDSC are one of the major components of the tumor
      microenvironment, demonstrating their potentials, such as tumor progression by promoting
      tumor cell survival, angiogenesis, invasion of healthy tissue by tumor cells, and metastases.
      Recent studies show that MDSC as a heterogenous group of myeloid progenitors with immuno
      suppressive function could be used as one of the promising biomarker candidate for cancer
      immunotherapies. Ipilimumab could affect the immune cells in peripheral blood from melanoma
      patients. This study demonstrated that responder to ipilimumab showed early increase of
      eosinophil counts, whereas non-responders presented that elevated monocytic MDSC increased
      serum levels of S100A8/A9 and HMGB1 that attract and activate MDSCs. This result suggests
      that measurement of MDSCs could be a predictive immune related biomarker to ipilimumab
      treatment. On the other hand, we do not know how PD-1 blockade affects the immune suppressive
      cells such as MDSC or Tregs and makes difference between responder and non-responder.

      Recently, we conducted pilot trial to compare the T lymphocytes and MDSC population in
      peripheral blood between responder and non-responder to nivolumab. Interestingly, our
      preliminary data demonstrated that after 1st cycle of the therapy CD11b+CD33+MDSC/CD45+ or
      CD14- ratio has significantly decreased in responder compared to non-responder. The cut-off
      value of peripheral MDSC ratio could be reliable biomarker for accurate prediction of
      nivolumab therapy in NSCLC patients. To validate our finding, we need to expand this study in
      NSCLC patients who will be treated with nivolumab.
    
  