
    
      This is a pilot clinical trial examining the feasibility and efficacy of gemfibrozil
      treatment for smoking cessation. Adults with a desire to quit nicotine cigarette smoking will
      be recruited. Eligible participants will be randomly divided into two groups: those who
      receive gemfibrozil and waitlist controls. Screening will be conducted with a brief phone
      screen followed by a longer screening visit for those who qualify. During the screening
      visit, all study participants will provide demographic information and will be interviewed
      regarding smoking history. Procedures performed during the screening visit include a blood
      draw, urine pregnancy test, physical exam, clinical psychiatric interview, and measurement of
      exhaled carbon monoxide (CO). At baseline, participants will complete the Heavy Smoking Index
      (HSI) and the Brief Questionnaire of Smoking Urges (QSU-Brief). Participants will also
      complete the Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptoms-Self Rated (QIDS-SR) to assess symptoms
      of depression and changes in mood associated with smoking cessation will be assessed with the
      Concise Associated Symptoms Tracking (CAST) scale . Participants will work with the research
      clinician to set a target quit date within one week of the baseline session, and all
      participants will be provided written materials with guidance for smoking cessation as part
      of a smoking cessation counseling session. All participants will attend visits at the
      research clinic at 3 days and 4 weeks from target quit date to assess safety, adherence, and
      smoking status; participants will also receive additional smoking cessation counseling.
      Smoking status will be determined with exhaled breath CO and a single item questionnaire
      regarding the number of cigarettes smoked since target quit date and symptoms of depression
      and mood changes will again be measured. Medication side effects will be quantified using the
      Frequency, Intensity, and Burden of Side Effects Rating (FIBSER) scale. The final study visit
      will occur at 8 weeks after target quit date for completion of the HSI, QIDS-SR, CAST,
      FIBSER, exhaled breath CO, QSU-Brief, and smoking self-report.
    
  