
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the major cause of mortality in chronic kidney disease,
      including peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients. While survival has not been shown to differ
      between peritoneal and hemodialysis, because of glucose uptake from the dialysate PD patients
      are more prone to dyslipidemia, insulin resistance (IR) and obesity. These metabolic
      disorders are substantially linked to the development of CVD and mortality in this patient
      population.

      Hypertriglyceridemia, reported to be present in 70% of PD patients, is linked to both glucose
      uptake from the peritoneum and IRand promote vascular damage. Inflammation has been proposed
      to be a fundamental promoter of atherosclerosis and demonstrated a dose-response relationship
      between C-reactive protein (CRP) and mortality . Adipocytokines, such as adiponectin，leptin
      and resistin, also play important roles in the development of dyslipidemia, IR,
      atherosclerosis, inflammation and CVD in PD patients. Therefore, therapies targeted at
      metabolic disorder are an important component of treatment for PD patients. Fibrates,
      peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR)-α agonist, can lower serum TG, however,
      its use in PD patients is limited by its limited efficacy and often-appeared adverse effects
      such as rhabdomyolysis and hepatic impairment. Nowadays, PPAR-γ agonist, thiazolidinediones
      (TZDs), represented by pioglitazone and rosiglitazone, exert their hypoglycemic properties
      through reduction of insulin resistance. For more than ten years, they have been used to
      control blood glucose in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). In addition, TZDs have also been
      noted to have beneficial effects on lipid metabolism and inflammation apart from their
      effects on glycogenic control. However, the study about TZDs in the treatment of metabolic
      disorder in PD patients, especially in nondiabetic subjects is very scarce and limited.

      We, therefore set out to investigate the effect of TZDs, pioglitazone on hyperlipidemia,
      insulin resistance, inflammation and adipokine dysmetabolism of PD patients, especially in
      nondiabetic patients.
    
  