
    
      99mTc-SestaMIBI is a lipophylic cation as many cytotoxic chemotherapy drugs (i.e.
      anthracyclines, inhibitor of topoisomerase II, antimicrotubule, vinca alkaloids, inhibitors
      of DNA replication) accumulating in the mitochondria of tumour cells. MIBI tumour uptake is
      related to viability and proliferation due to increased perfusion and increased
      energy-dependent metabolism.

      99mTc-SestaMIBI is a substrate for the glycoprotein P (Pgp) pump encoded by the multidrug
      resistance gene -1 (MDR-1). MIBI tumour uptake with no significant wash-out over time (<45%
      at 3H) predicts a chemosensitivity with no Pgp/MDR-1 overexpression. MIBI efflux with no
      significant tumour uptake predicts efflux of chemotherapy drugs from the tumour cells related
      to Pgp/MDR-1 overexpression or to anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 overexpression. Early MIBI efflux (<
      1H) may also be related to pro-apoptotic Bax overexpression.

      SPECT/CT will be used for anatomic localisation and and attenuation correction. CT from
      SPECT/CT is a low-dose (< 2 mSv) multislice CT (4 slice). SPECT/CT will also be used for
      correction of image-degrading factors including collimator-detector-response compensation for
      resolution recovery, and scatter correction. SPECT/CT based absolute semi-quantification of
      MIBI uptake into primary tumour and lymph nodes (i.e. standardised uptake value or SUV) will
      also be performed.

      SPECT/CT optimised imaging will be compared to planar/SPECT conventional nuclear imaging for
      1) detection of MIBI-avid primary breast tumour and lymph node metastases, 2)
      semi-quantification of MIBI uptake (T/B, SUV, and %wash-out) into primary breast tumour and
      lymph node metastases, 3) prediction of chemosensitivity at baseline, 3) Evaluation of
      chemotherapy efficacy after the first course of chemotherapy (after 2 weeks) compared to
      clinical response and histo-pathological response.

      SPECT/CT mammoscintigraphy findings will be compared to clinical findings (palpation),
      radiological findings (mammography, US, MRI), and histo-pathological findings (Pgp/MDR-1
      expression) into tumours after surgery.
    
  