
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and effectiveness of MRI-guided focused
      ultrasound (MRgFUS) for treating Trigeminal Neuralgia. Trigeminal Neuralgia (pain) is a type
      of pain involving the face that can be disabling to those it affects.

      Usually, people with trigeminal pain receive medicines to control the pain. However, these
      medications may not give adequate pain relief. They may have unwanted side effects. In many
      patients with Trigeminal Neuralgia, a blood vessel compressing the nerve could be responsible
      for this condition. In such patients, surgery (also called micro-vascular decompression) is
      considered to be the best option if the medications do not control the pain. However, not all
      patients are good candidates for surgical correction and some patients may have recurrence of
      pain following surgical correction.

      When surgery is not possible or recommended, other procedures are also available to patients.
      Such procedures usually result in selective damage to the nerve pain fibers in the Trigeminal
      nerve. Examples of these treatments include injection of materials such as Glycerol into the
      nerve, compression of the nerve with a balloon or selective radiation treatment of the nerve
      (stereotactic Radiosurgery). These treatments may not always improve the patient's pain or
      may only relieve the pain for a short duration of time.

      These treatments may also result in damage to the nerve fibers that carry sensation from the
      face.

      Our study will assess a new device for treating patients who have disabling pain that has not
      responded to medications or medications along with surgery. The device we will assess is
      called the ExAblate Transcranial focused ultrasound system. In this study, we will use this
      device to send ultrasound waves through the skull to precisely target and treat a tiny area
      of the brain called central lateral nucleus.
    
  