
    
      Purpose: In recent years, despite the lack of consistent evidence, the use of intraarticular
      (into the joint)injections during ambulatory, orthopaedic surgery has become a popular
      strategy for reducing post-operative pain. In this randomized, single center, prospective
      study the investigators will evaluate the analgesic effectiveness of intraarticular
      injections of local anesthesia during the closed reduction and percutaneous pinning (CRPP) of
      supracondylar type elbow fractures (SCEFx) in children. In order to determine the efficacy of
      intraarticular injections, perceived post-operative pain will be compared among the three
      study groups receiving either a 0.25 % intraarticular injection of bupivacaine (Group 1 ), a
      0.20% intraarticular injection of ropivacaine (Group 2) or no intraarticular injection
      (Control). All groups will receive the same post-operative oral pain medication of oxycodone
      (0.1 to 0.15 mg/kg) with acetaminophen.

      Primary Aim(s) : Compare the primary and secondary pain outcomes variables in each of the
      three study groups.

        -  The primary pain outcome variables are defined as the following:

             -  Self-reported pain within 30-60 min. of arrival to the recovery room

             -  Self-reported pain at two hours post-operative

        -  The secondary pain outcome variables are defined as the following:

             -  Parent perception of post-operative pain (scores of modified version of Foster and
                Varni's Total Quality of Pain Management Survey (TQPM) given in the first two hours
                after surgery)

             -  Time t o first administration of oral pain medication

             -  Total dose and frequency of oral pain medication taken during first 72 hours
                post-operative

             -  Dose (per kg) of local anesthetic received intra-operatively

             -  Total dosage of all intra-operative analgesics (in morphine equivalents)

             -  Pre-operative The Faces Pain Scale-Revised (FSP-R) score

      Hypotheses for Primary Aims:

        -  There will not be a significant difference in any of the pain outcome variables amongst
           Groups 1 and 2.

        -  There will be a statistically significant difference in each of the pain outcome
           variables when comparing; Group 1 and Control as well as Group 2 and Control.

      Secondary Aim I: Evaluate the overall effect gender, ethnicity, age, American Society of
      Anesthesiologists (ASA) classification, fracture type and anesthesia time have on the pain
      outcome variables in this study population:

      Hypotheses for Secondary Aim I: The investigators expect that age, gender, ASA
      classification, fracture type and anesthesia time will have a significant effect of on the
      primary and secondary pain outcome variables in this study population as a whole.

        -  Participants aged 4-7 will be associated with more pain than participants aged 8-12
           (increased selfreported pain scores, increased parent TQPM scores, decreased time to
           first administration of oral pain medication, increased total dosage of oral pain
           medication taken during first 72 hours post-operative, increased frequency of oral pain
           medication taken during first 72 hours post-operative).

        -  Females will be associated with more pain than males (increased self-reported pain
           scores, increased parent TQPM scores, decreased time to first administration of oral
           pain medication, increased total dosage of oral pain medication taken during first 72
           hours post-operative, increased frequency of oral pain medication taken during first 72
           hours post-operative ) .

        -  An ASA classification of III will be associated with more pain than a classification of
           I or II (increased self-reported pain scores, increased parent TQPM scores, decreased
           time to first administration of oral pain medication, increased total dosage of oral
           pain medication taken during first 72 hours post-operative, increased frequency of oral
           pain medication taken during first 72 hours post-operative),

        -  A type III fracture type will be associated with more pain than a type I or II
           (increased selfreported pain scores, increased parent TQPM scores, decreased time to
           first administration of oral pain medication, increased total dosage of oral pain
           medication taken during first 72 hours post-operative, increased frequency of oral pain
           medication taken during first 72 hours post-operative).

        -  An increase in anesthesia time will be associated with more pain . (increased
           self-reported pain scores, increased parent TQPM scores, decreased time to first
           administration of oral pain medication, increased total dosage of oral pain medication
           taken during first 72 hours post-operative, increased frequency of oral pain medication
           taken during first 72 hours post-operative).

      Secondary Aim II: Evaluate the overall effect that gender, ethnicity, age, ASA classification
      (I, II or III),fracture type and anesthesia time have on the pain outcome variables in each
      of the study groups (Compare 1, 2 and Control to study population as a whole).

      Hypotheses for Secondary Aim II: The investigators anticipate that there will be no group
      difference in the effects that age, gender, ASA classification, fracture type or anesthesia
      time have on the primary and secondary pain outcome variables.

      Secondary Aim III: Compare Group 1 and Group 2 for a potential dose dependent relationship
      between reported pain outcome variables and total dose of intraarticular injection.

      Hypotheses for Secondary Aim III: In both groups, the investigators anticipate there will be
      a non-significant association between an increased dose of local anesthetic and decreased
      post-operative FSP-R scores. There will not be any difference in the significance of this
      dose dependent relationship between Group I and Group 2.
    
  