
    
      This supplement expands the parent research project to include three additional Aims and the
      recruitment of the 70 additional participants. The additional participants will undergo the
      same assessment and intervention procedures outlined in the parent project to permit
      leveraging the full cohort to evaluate the supplemental Aims.

      The overall objective is to examine the impact of opioid use on patient-centered and
      mechanistic outcomes related to SMT and explore the impact on SMT followed by various
      co-interventions. The goal of this research is to better tailor SMT protocols to optimize
      outcomes for patients with LBP who are opioid users and facilitate efforts to reduce reliance
      on opioid pain management among those with LBP. Accomplishing this goal will facilitate
      future research evaluating the efficacy of non-pharmacologic alternative pain management
      strategies for individuals with LBP.

      Specific Aims to be addressed through this supplement are:

        1. Compare baseline psychological, mechanistic and LBP-related characteristics between
           sub-groups of participants with LBP based on opioid use.

        2. Examine the association of opioid use with changes in mechanistic and patient-centered
           outcomes between a baseline assessment and subsequent assessment after 1-week and
           completion of a 2-session SMT intervention protocol.

        3. Explore the moderating effects of opioid use on mechanistic and patient-centered
           outcomes obtained 4 weeks following SMT intervention with varied co-intervention
           components.

      Examining these aims as a supplement to the parent project will allow evaluation of whether
      or not opioid use impacts short-term mechanistic and patient-centered outcomes of SMT (Aim
      2), and will explore if the longer-term effects of the three co-interventions differ between
      opioid users and non-users. (Aim 3). This research will also compare baseline characteristics
      between participants who are or are not opioid users (Aim 1).
    
  