
    
      This study utilizes a prospective, randomized controlled, factorial study design, which
      examines the effect of integrating different elements of cognitive aids for training
      pediatric resuscitation team members. Recruited participants will be asked to perform as
      members of a multi-professional pediatric resuscitation team. The study uses simulation-based
      training as the primary method to evaluate the effect of both knowledge- and team-based
      cognitive aids on team performance, as measured by adherence to PALS guidelines. Participants
      will be teams of multi-professional pediatric resuscitation healthcare providers (physician,
      registered nurse, registered respiratory therapist). All participants will undertake a
      pre-test scenario, without access to either cognitive aid, regardless of group allocation.
      Participants will then be randomized to one of the four study arms using a list generated by
      an independent statistician. Randomization will be stratified by institution so that there
      are equal numbers of teams in each study arm in each participating institution of the
      multi-center study.

      In study arm 1 (control), resuscitation teams will participate in a simulated pediatric
      cardiac arrest scenario, and provide standard CPR without being provided cognitive aids.
      Participants in this group will be allowed to use any cognitive aid that they happen to keep
      with them and would normally use in their practice, for example, flash cards or smart phone
      apps. In study arm 2 (knowledge-aid), resuscitation teams will participate in the same
      scenario without using the CARD system but will be trained in the use of a knowledge-based
      cognitive aid, which will be used by a dedicated team member (the cognitive aid "reader"). In
      study arm 3 (CARD), participants will be trained to use the cognitive aids with roles defined
      (CARD) system but will not be given knowledge-based cognitive aids and there will be no
      dedicated cognitive aid reader in the team. In study arm 4 (integrated cognitive aid),
      participants will be trained to use the CARD system and also in the use of a protocol-based
      cognitive aid, which will be used by a dedicated cognitive aid reader.

      All groups will then undertake a 20-minute e-learning module. E-learning modules will be
      developed to illustrate the principles of crisis resource management using text, images and
      short videos (of simulated scenarios) illustrating high- and low- performance in leadership,
      teamwork and task management. For the control group, the content will focus on team training
      principles and the PALS algorithm. For the knowledge-aid group, the content will also focus
      on team training principles and the PALS algorithm adding an introduction of the principle of
      using the knowledge-based cognitive aids provided with a cognitive aid "reader" designated by
      the team leader who will use a "do-verify" approach to the cognitive aid. For the CARD group,
      the content will also focus on team training principles and the PALS algorithm adding an
      introduction of the principles of the CARD system. For the integrated cognitive aid group,
      the content will focus on team training principles and the PALS algorithm adding an
      introduction of the principles of the CARD system and the principle of using the
      knowledge-based cognitive aids provided with a cognitive aid "reader" designated by the team
      leader who will use a "do-verify" approach to the cognitive aid.

      All participants will then undergo a post-test scenario, with cognitive aids provided as per
      group allocation. A debriefing will follow in order to delineate the additional effect of
      simulation-based learning on the e-module. All study arms will then undertake a
      second-post-test scenario, with cognitive aids related to their group allocation followed by
      a second debriefing. Participants will be asked to complete a demographic questionnaire and a
      questionnaire on the use of cognitive aids.

      In order to standardize scenarios between sites, the investigators will script the content of
      each scenario, including set transitions from one clinical state to another, programmed
      responses to expected interventions, and a pre-set duration. The scenarios will be piloted at
      the main study site and videos circulated to all other sites before piloting at those
      locations.

      Scenario for assessment (pre-test, post-test 1 and post-test 2)

      One 12-minute pediatric cardiac arrest resuscitation scenario will be developed to address
      PALS-based cognitive and clinical performance, as well as compliance with American Heart
      Association guidelines. This scenario has two phases: the first being a non-shockable rhythm
      arrest (six minutes) and the second being a shockable rhythm arrest (six minutes). The case
      history before the arrest and the exact rhythms will be different in each phase to prevent
      over familiarity with the scenarios but the expected management of the arrest is the same in
      each to minimize variations in difficulty of scenario from pre-test to post-test:

        1. Pre-test: bronchiolitis; pulseless electrical activity/ventricular fibrillation

        2. Post-test 1: sepsis, pulseless electrical activity/ventricular tachycardia

        3. Post-test 2: myocarditis; pulseless activity/ventricular tachycardia

      The scenario is designed to test clinical performance during both cardiac arrest algorithms.
      To ensure consistency in delivery of the scenario between recruitment sites, each site will
      be provided with a pre-programmed scenario and a script for the simulation facilitator,
      outlining specifically how to run the scenario, how to introduce the patient, and how/when to
      provide verbal cues to the resuscitation team. During a pre-study run-in phase, each
      recruitment center will have to conduct and transmit 2 successful case scenarios using this
      format to the research coordinating center. This will allow the investigators to confirm
      adequate quality of audiovisual content and sound before the site is allowed to conduct and
      submit data from their site. Videos and data collected during the run-in phase will not be
      analyzed for inclusion in the main study. Participants recruited during this phase will not
      be eligible for inclusion in the study.

      All recruitment sites will utilize the same make/brand of pediatric simulator for this study.
      The Laerdal SimBaby is widely used across Canada and the Unites States and is capable of
      reproducing physiological responses to medical interventions. This simulator is connected to
      a monitor where vital signs (heart rhythm, respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, blood
      pressure, temperature) are displayed. Through a computer interface, an operator can run
      pre-programmed scenarios where vital signs on the monitor and physical findings on the
      simulator change in real time. The mannequin is capable of producing heart sounds, breath
      sounds and palpable pulses. The simulator can be bag-mask ventilated, the trachea intubated
      and the heart defibrillated. Our cardiac arrest scenario will be pre-programmed into the
      simulator to ensure consistency between recruitment sites and study groups. The investigators
      will ensure as much standardization as possible between centers in the physical environment
      for the scenario, including the same availability and location of equipment, including a
      similar sized room.

      Video rating will be by multiple independent raters with expertise in both simulation and
      pediatric resuscitation, who will be blinded to the research question. Raters will be trained
      in the use of the assessment tools by the primary investigator and co-investigators using
      video conferencing technology. The rater training process will consist of (i) a short
      tutorial on how to use the rating tools, (ii) each rater independently rating similar
      scenarios to those used in the study (which will not be used in the analysis), (iii) a group
      discussion of the ratings led by the principle investigator in order to resolve differences
      and obtain consensus. Approximately 10% of the videos will be rated in duplicate in order to
      establish inter-rater reliability.
    
  