
    
      Pilot Study:

      30 subjects will be recruited for this pilot study. An oral exam will be performed to check
      for gingiva and tooth conditions as well as fulfilling inclusion and exclusion criteria as
      described below. Subjects will be randomly assigned to an active treatment or a control
      group. OstiSense biosensor feed back tool (night guards) will be delivered to the
      participant. First patient impressions about wearing comfort will be evaluated, chair side.
      Then the investigators will test the efficiency of the OstiSense biosensor feedback tool in
      reduction of numbers of bruxism episodes and reduction of the duration of bruxism episodes
      (primary outcome). These data will be collected also in order to achieve information for a
      sample size calculation for a larger subsequent clinical trial. The investigators will
      collect information about self-reported (or reported by sleeping partners in SB) reduced
      frequency of bruxism episodes. In addition, self-reported reduction in pain (facial pain,
      myofascial headache) (secondary outcome) is of interest. Visual pain scales and pain
      questionnaires will be used as validated instruments for subjective pain assessment.

      Active Treatment Group:

      Participants will be instructed to wear the biofeedback tool during the night/sleep. They
      will wear the biofeedback tool for 1 week with biofeedback turned off to record baseline
      activity. At the 1-week recall, the investigators will check for any comfort issues and will
      confirm accurate data recording. For 3 more weeks the biofeedback will stay turned off to
      collect further baseline data.

      At the next recall (4-week recall) participants will be interviewed about any wear issues and
      will be asked to fill out the same questionnaire as used in phase 1 of the pilot study. The
      biofeedback mechanism will then be turned on (battery insertion). During this meeting
      subjects will be instructed to test the vibration mechanism by increasing their bite force
      until vibration occurs, and then to relax their muscles so that vibration stops. Subjects
      will be asked to repeat this procedure several times to get familiar with the active device
      and also to learn to relax their muscles when the feedback occurs during night bruxism..

      Participants will wear the tool with biofeedback turned on during the night/sleep for 8 more
      weeks. They will be asked to return for a check after the first week (5-week recall) of the 8
      weeks to identify any wear issues while the tool is turned on, and for checking the data
      recording function. At the end of 8 weeks, participants will be invited for a final recall
      visit 12-week recall). The same questionnaire will be provided, and feedback questions will
      be asked. All data about bruxism episodes will be collected from the smart device.

      Control Group:

      Participants in the control group will be treated, asked for feedback and receive
      questionnaires identical to the subjects in the active treatment group. The only difference
      will be that the biofeedback mechanism in the biofeedback night guard tool will always stay
      turned off. At the 1-week recall the investigators will check for any comfort issues and will
      confirm accurate data recording. After three weeks the investigators will again check on the
      participant, will identify any wear issues, ask for feedback and will check the data
      recording function (4-week recall). At the end of additional 8 weeks participants will be
      invited for a final recall visit (12-week recall). The questionnaire will be provided, and
      feedback questions will be asked. Data from the smart device about bruxism episodes will be
      collected.
    
  