
    
      Cesarean delivery is a very frequent surgical procedure. In France 20,4% of all births occur
      by cesarean section. Regional anesthesia (Spinal or epidural anesthesia) is the most common
      type of anesthesia for emergent or elective cesarean section.

      HAS guidelines on Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) include cesarean section. ERAS is a
      "multimodal perioperative care pathway designed to achieve early recovery for patients
      undergoing surgery". The aim is to avoid factors which delay recovery: nausea and vomiting,
      pain, postoperative ileus…

      Postoperative analgesia is a key factor in ERAS because pain may prolong recovery and has a
      negative impact on rehabilitation. Among the multimodal analgesia we can use neuraxial
      morphine: epidural or intrathecal. Neuraxial morphine is effective for post-cesarean
      analgesia. Previous studies have attempted to determine the optimum intrathecal and epidural
      morphine doses. The aim is to provide the better analgesia with fewer side effects (pruritus,
      nausea and vomiting, ileus) Another way to provide analgesia is locoregional anesthesia:
      continuous wound infiltration and Transversus Abdominis Plane Block (TAP) block.

      The aim of REHACESAR is to study the impact of an association of a low dose of neuraxial
      morphine and a locoregional anesthesia (TAP block or catheter for continuous wound
      infiltration) on quality of recovery after cesarean delivery under regional anesthesia.

      To assess the quality of recovery, women complete the self-questionnaire Quality Of Recovery
      (QOR)15 on D-1 (the day before cesarean, if elective), D+1, +2 and +3 after surgery.

      The QOR-15 is a 15 items questionnaire which provides a valid and efficient evaluation of the
      postoperative quality of recovery.

      REHACESAR is a prospective observational study. It takes place in the maternity of the CHR
      Metz-Thionville hospital.
    
  