
    
      OA is a common chronic musculoskeletal disease in middle-aged and elderly people, which is
      characterized by loss of articular cartilage and other structural damage of joints.
      Currently, there is no effective treatment to reduce disease severity and progression of knee
      OA, particularly in mid to late-stages. Analgesics and anti-inflammatory drugs can only have
      effects in a short time, with obvious side effects, and are not effective for all patients.
      In the late stage, most patients are performed with arthroplasty. However, arthroplasty is
      expensive and has high technical requirements for surgeons. Therefore, it is urgent to find
      effective drugs or means to control the symptoms and disease progression of knee OA.

      Due to different etiologies, OA may have different clinical phenotypes, one of which is
      mainly manifested by synovitis and is common in patients with advanced OA. Pathological
      studies have shown that OA synovitis is significantly related to adjacent cartilage lesions,
      and its pathological changes were similar to rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but the degree of the
      latter is relatively mild. MTX can alleviate joint inflammation and delay joint structural
      damage. In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, MTX can reduce suprapatellar bursa synovitis
      by 35%, inhibit the inflammatory response of synovial tissue, including reducing the number
      of macrophage, inhibiting the expression of intercellular adhesion molecule -1, interleukin
      (IL)-1, tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α and C-reactive protein (CRP), and even reduce bone
      marrow lesions (BMLs) and synovitis in very early stages. In patients with early-stage
      undifferentiated arthritis, MTX treatment for two months can significantly reduce synovitis
      and exudation, alleviate BMLs and reduce serum CRP level. Chronic calcium pyrophosphate
      deposition disease is a non-autoimmunity inflammatory arthritis which can be followed by more
      severe OA. After 6-81 months of treatment with MTX (5-20 mg/week), the pain intensity,
      swelling and the number of involved joints were significantly decreased. Based on all the
      evidence as discussed above, MTX may have beneficial effects on OA via a variety of
      mechanisms, including reduction of synovitis and effusion, and decreases in inflammatory
      cytokines.

      The investigators design a multicentre randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial over 12
      months. The aim is to determine if MTX can relieve symptom and reduce effusion-synovitis in
      patients with advanced knee OA. The investigators will recruit 200 participants who are in
      the advanced stage of symptomatic knee OA with effusion-synovitis grade of ≥ 2 (assessed by
      MRI). Participants will be randomly allocated to MTX group (start from 5 mg per week for the
      first two weeks and increase to 10 mg per week for the second two weeks and 15 mg per week
      for the remaining period if tolerated) or placebo group. Intention to treat and per protocol
      analyses of primary and secondary outcomes will be performed.
    
  