
    
      Methodology: This is an interventional mixed methods (qualitative &amp; quantitative) study,
      with pre-post design for research participants in one session. All participants will be
      measured at two time points: surveys will be collected between 3-weeks to the day of
      intervention for baseline, 1-month post intervention.

      In addition, Qualitative interviews will be conducted on a rolling basis between 3-60 days
      post intervention. The qualitative portion is a semi-structured interview will be conducted
      with the purpose of understanding how participants recalibrated their mindset and impacting
      their resilience behaviors.

      Study Advertisement combined with the Resilience Program Advertisement will be posted by the
      Lake Nona Institute. Potential Research Participants will be self-selected, and will contact
      the Lake Nona Study Coordinator for additional information. The self-selected individuals
      will receive HPI materials via mail, in addition to Study and Resilience Program eligibility
      information.

      Potential Research Participants will undergo Screening and Consenting procedures at the Lake
      Nona Institute. The Research Participant will be required to sign and date a paper based
      Informed Consent Document, and provide additional contact information, such as individual
      email address, phone number etc.

      Enrolled Research Participants will be scheduled to attend the CAR Training Session.

      On the day of the CAR Training, the Research Participants will receive a set of
      questionnaires as part of the Corporate Athlete® Resilience Program ("HPI Questionnaire"), in
      addition to a set of Study Specific Questionnaires ("Study Questionnaire"). A description
      study activities ("Study Guide") and a description of session activities ("Agenda") consists
      of the introduction to stress and resilience session, will be distributed to all Research
      Participants.

      30 days following the CAR Training, the Research Participants will receive a follow-up HPI
      questionnaires and a Study questionnaires which will be utilized in the Resilience Research
      Study Analysis.

      3-60 days upon completion of the CAR Training, the Research Participants will be asked to
      complete a Research Study Qualitative Telephone, Video or Face-to-Face Interview ("Study
      Interview").
    
  