
    
      Subjects considered for enrollment in this study will be identified and approached by either
      the Principal Investigator or trained study coordinator (SC). Candidates for enrollment will
      be individuals presenting with signs and/or symptoms of Acute Coronary Syndrome at the Henry
      Ford Hospital Emergency Department (ED).

      This specimen collection study is a prospective serial draw plasma collection study designed
      to collect specimens for use in existing or future clinical studies. Specimen collection is
      expected to take approximately 30-36 months. Specimens will be collected from subjects that
      are being evaluated for Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS).

      Other than sample collection, no special procedures or medications are required by the study.

      The study aims to enroll approximately 250-500 individuals evaluated for possible ACS in the
      ED.

      Specimens will be obtained from the subject at the following time points:

      t0 =Baseline ECG (ECG time + 60 minutes) t1= within 30 (+/- 10 minutes) minutes after t0 t2 =
      1 (+/- 15 minutes) hours after t0 t3 = 3 (+/-15 minutes) hours after t0

      Each sample will consist of approximately 6-8.5 ml of blood in each of two anticoagulant tube
      types: SST and K2EDTA plasma. Four serial specimens will be collected within 3 hours of
      presentation to the ED for observation of ACS.

        -  The Investigator or designee will obtain the subject's written informed consent prior to
           collecting the specimen.

        -  Each subject will be given a unique study number. An enrollment log will be used to
           document the enrollment of individuals by study number. This study number will be used
           to identify the individual throughout the study.

        -  Each subject will have a medical history reviewed and documented, as well as significant
           cardiac medical history documented in the subject's case report form in addition to
           demographic information including age, gender, race, ethnicity, and medication history.

        -  Each subject will have a baseline ECG obtained in the ED, vital signs and routine
           laboratory results. These will be documented in the subject's case report form.

        -  Approximately 6-8.5 ml of blood will be collected in each of two anticoagulant tube
           types: SST and K2EDTA plasma. The first blood collection in the ED is designated as t0
           ED ECG time (+ 60 minutes). Additional blood draws of approximately 6-8.5 mL/tube type
           will occur at t1 = 30 (+/- 10 minutes) after t0, t2=1 (+/-15 minutes) hour after t0, t4
           = 3 (+/- 15 minutes) hours after t0 (if the patient is still in the ED/hospital).

        -  For each draw, a minimum volume (after processing) of approximately 2 mL of plasma
           should be obtained. The specimens will be processed, aliquoted, and retained in a -70
           secured freezer.

      Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Patient greater than 21 years of age

        -  Experiencing symptoms of possible ACS

        -  Willing and able to comply with all aspect of the protocol

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Acute distress and/or requires immediate life-saving intervention

        -  CPR, external defibrillation or cardioversion within 24 hours of presentation

        -  Unable to provide or understand the informed consent

        -  STEMI leading to immediate reperfusion

        -  Transferred from another facility

        -  Trauma related injuries

        -  Pregnancy or breast feeding
    
  