
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the positive and negative predictive values of early positron emission
           tomography (PET) scanning using fludeoxyglucose F 18 in terms of the probability of
           patients with newly diagnosed intermediate- or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who
           achieve or do not achieve complete remission, after treatment with 1 course of rituximab
           and combination chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and
           prednisone.

        -  Determine event free and overall survival of patients with an early positive and
           negative PET scan treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the predictive value of early PET scan response ratio as a continuous variable
           in terms of response to therapy (assessed at the end of therapy), disease-free survival,
           and overall survival, in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate International Prognostic Index score at presentation with early PET scan
           results and overall outcome in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate the degree of neutropenia 7 to 10 days after the first course of treatment
           with rituximab and combination chemotherapy with PET scan response and pre-treatment
           blood CD34-positive cell concentration in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive fludeoxyglucose F 18 (^18FDG) IV. Beginning 1 hour later, patients undergo
      whole-body positron emission tomography (PET) scanning. Patients also undergo conventional
      radiographic staging of their disease.

      Patients then receive standard R-CHOP (or an alternative regimen) comprising rituximab IV
      over 3-6 hours, cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes, doxorubicin IV over 5 minutes, and
      vincristine IV over 5 minutes on day 1 and oral prednisone once daily on days 1-5. Treatment
      repeats every 14-21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo repeat ^18FDG-PET scanning between days 7-10 of course 1, between courses 3
      and 4, and then at the completion of R-CHOP. Patients also undergo radiographic restaging of
      their disease between courses 3 and 4 and at the completion of R-CHOP.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3-4 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  