
    
      Obesity is a major public health concern in older adults, who are also one of the fastest
      growing populations in the United States. The health consequences associated with obesity in
      older adulthood are severe and include increased risk for chronic diseases, poor physical
      functioning and early mortality. Concurrently engaging in healthy behaviors such as physical
      activity, a healthy diet, and adequate sleep have each shown to be influential in reducing
      obesity. Despite evidence suggesting that these healthy behaviors reduce the risk for
      obesity, older adults have difficulty achieving such healthy lifestyles due to barriers such
      as geographical isolation from lack of transportation, motivation and education. The internet
      is an effective mode for relaying health information to a wide-ranging audience, including
      those that live in rural communities or are home bound. Further, internet usage among older
      adults continues to increase. Therefore, the internet could be an effective tool for
      administering a wellness intervention for older adults and incorporating community-based
      participatory research principles such as inviting stakeholders (i.e., older adults) in all
      phases of the research will magnify the impact of the research for the population in which it
      is intended to help. Our long-term goal is to help older adults achieve healthy lifestyles
      that promote successful aging. The overall objective of the proposed research, which is the
      next step in pursuit of that goal, is to improve healthy lifestyles in older adults by
      utilizing the internet for delivering a wellness intervention that is designed by both
      investigators and stakeholders. To propel toward accomplishing our overall objective, the
      following three specific aims will be pursued: 1) collaborate with stakeholders in all phases
      of the internet-based wellness intervention to gain knowledge on the perspectives of the
      older adult population, 2) assess the feasibility of an internet-based wellness intervention
      for obese older adults, and 3) determine if completing an internet based wellness
      intervention improves healthy behaviors among obese older adults. We will recruit 20 eligible
      older adults to participate in an internet-based wellness intervention. A prospective,
      within-participant design with multiple assessments across the 10-week study period and
      1-month follow-up will allow us to optimize power with a smaller sample size and assess
      within-person change over time.
    
  