
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study, a subproject within a SCOR in Thrombosis, should help to improve the long-term
      clinical outcome of patients with proximal deep-vein thrombosis (popliteal, femoral or iliac
      vein thrombosis) by improving their survival and reducing morbidity from recurrent
      thromboembolic events, and should help to determine if one or more specific biochemical
      measures, including antiphospholipid antibodies and activated factor VII, will define a
      subset of patients at increased risk of recurrent venous thromboembolism.

      The study is part of a SCOR in Hemostatic and Thrombotic Diseases, the RFA for which was
      released by the NHLBI in April 1994.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Warfarin Trial

      A multicenter, randomized clinical trial was conducted from March 1996 through January 2001
      comparing warfarin therapy for three years to warfarin therapy for three months. The study
      was performed at thirteen participating hospitals in Oklahoma. The 600 hundred patients were
      recruited, randomized to either warfarin therapy for three years or warfarin therapy for
      three months and followed for at least three years. The primary outcome measure was total
      mortality. Secondary outcome measures included vascular death, objectively documented
      recurrent venous thromboembolism, and bleeding complications (major and minor). Additional
      specific aims included: determining the prevalence of antiphospholipid antibodies,
      antithrombomodulin antibodies, and activated protein C resistance in consecutive patients
      with proximal-vein thrombosis; determining if these measures, and/or the level of activated
      factor VII were associated with an increased risk of recurrent venous thromboembolic events,
      and if so, whether these events were reduced by continuing long term warfarin treatment.
      These latter specific aims were achieved by performing the laboratory parameters concurrently
      in patients entered into the clinical trial, and relating these measures to the clinical
      outcomes on long-term follow-up.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  