
    
      This trial is an open-label, randomized, controlled trial evaluating the safety and efficacy
      of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) for the treatment of the recurrence of Clostridium
      difficile infection (CDI) as compared to standard antibiotic therapy. Clostridium difficile
      infection (CDI) has increased in incidence and severity over the last decade and is
      associated with poor outcomes including increased morbidity, mortality, and healthcare costs
      (1-8). Relapse occurs in 15-35% of patients after the first episode of CDI and 45-65% of
      patients who have one relapse will experience a subsequent relapse (9, 10). Dysbiosis -
      decreased diversity of the fecal microbiome - is thought to contribute to the high rate of
      relapse (11). FMT quickly and successfully restores normal intestinal microorganisms of the
      diseased patient via infusion of a liquid stool preparation from a healthy donor. FMT
      resulted in disease resolution in ~90% of cases reported in a systematic review and
      meta-analyses without any significant adverse events noted (12, 13).

      All hospitalized patients in the NorthShore system >18 years of age who are diagnosed with
      active CDI, defined as >3 diarrheal stools per day and a positive C. difficile polymerase
      chain reaction (PCR) assay, will be evaluated for inclusion in the study. Hospitalized
      patients presenting with their first or greater relapse of CDI occurring between 15 and 90
      days after an index episode of CDI will be eligible for enrollment. Exclusion criteria will
      include pregnancy, neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/μl), contraindication for
      retention enema, or food allergy not controlled for in the donor diet. Eligible patients will
      undergo written informed consent followed by randomization into intervention and control
      groups.

      Patients who are randomized to the intervention group will have antimicrobials targeting C.
      difficile discontinued at least 6 hours prior to undergoing an FMT via retention enema. A
      second FMT via retention enema will be administered at 24 hours if diarrhea persists.
      Patients randomized to the control group will be treated with antimicrobials targeting C.
      difficile according to the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America Clinical Practice
      Guidelines for CDI (18). FMT will be offered to the control group after 90 days if they
      experience relapsing CDI.

      Two healthy "universal" donors who have previously donated fecal material for FMT have
      expressed willingness to participate in the study. Donors will complete the American
      Association of Blood Banks donor questionnaire for exposure to infectious agents as well as
      undergo serologic and stool testing for communicable diseases or pathogenic bacteria/viruses
      as previously described (17).
    
  