
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine tumor regression in patients with metastatic melanoma treated with
           nonmyeloablative lymphodepleting chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide and
           fludarabine followed by autologous CD25-positive-T-regulatory-cell-depleted lymphocyte
           reinfusion and high-dose interleukin-2.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the rate of repopulation of CD25-positive T-regulatory cells in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Apheresis and CD25-positive T-regulatory cell depletion: Patients undergo 1-2 aphereses
           to collect peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). CD25-positive T-regulatory cells
           are depleted from the collected PBMC in vitro.

        -  Nonmyeloablative lymphodepleting chemotherapy: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over
           1 hour on days -8 and -7 and fludarabine IV over 15-30 minutes on days -6 to -2.

        -  Autologous CD25-positive-T-regulatory-cell-depleted lymphocyte reinfusion: Patients
           receive autologous lymphocytes IV over 20-30 minutes on day 0.

        -  Filgrastim (G-CSF) and high-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2) therapy: Patients receive G-CSF
           subcutaneously (SC) daily beginning on day 0 and continuing until blood counts recover.
           Patients also receive high-dose IL-2 IV over 15 minutes 3 times daily on days 0-4 and
           14-18. Patients are reevaluated 4-6 weeks after completion of high-dose IL-2 therapy.
           Patients achieving stable disease or a partial response may receive additional high-dose
           IL-2 as above for up to 2 retreatment courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Retreatment begins at least 6 weeks after autologous lymphocyte
           reinfusion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4-6 weeks and then every 1-2
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 16-29 patients will be accrued for this study within 1-1.5
      years.
    
  