
    
      Individuals who are newly diagnosed with HIV often experience a variety of social and
      psychological problems, which can leave them depressed and unable to cope with their disease.
      The complex financial, legal, and psychiatric issues that many HIV-infected individuals must
      face can be stressful and can negatively affect their health; they may miss doctors'
      appointments or fail to adhere to a strict HIV medication regimen. The combination of stress
      and inconsistent medical care can affect the immune system and potentially worsen HIV
      symptoms.

      Because of the multitude of stressors associated with HIV, HIV-infected individuals often
      rely on a network of family and friends for support; these caregivers, however, are often
      overwhelmed by their caregiver roles. They may experience helplessness, fear, and depression
      as a result of their added responsibilities. Family Intervention: Telephone Tracking (FITT)
      is a telephone-based intervention program that assists in identifying problems and resolving
      them through referrals to medical and community organizations that provide HIV-related
      support and services. It is also an educational resource that provides information on the
      many medical and psychological aspects of HIV infection. The main goal of FITT is to
      alleviate stress in both the HIV-infected individual and their support network by providing
      information and resources to help cope with HIV. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of FITT in improving family functioning, enhancing coping skills, and reducing
      depression in HIV-infected individuals and their caregivers.

      This 12-month study will enroll recently diagnosed HIV-infected individuals and one family
      member or friend who is identified as their primary caregiver. Each pair will be randomly
      assigned to either the FITT intervention group or to an assessment-only group that will not
      receive FITT. Individuals who are assigned to receive FITT will utilize the service for
      Months 1 through 6. HIV-infected participants in both groups will also receive regular
      medical care throughout the study. Outcome measurements will include self-assessments of
      depression, coping, and family functioning. In addition, participants receiving FITT will be
      asked to evaluate the effectiveness of the telephone intervention. All measurements will be
      assessed at baseline, and Months 3, 6, and 12.
    
  