
    
      The techniques of mesh fixation in open incisional hernia repair is an active area of
      discussion and debate. When first described, the posterior component separation with the
      transversus abdominis muscle release involved placing the mesh in the retromuscular space,
      and fixating it circumferentially with transfascial sutures. These sutures penetrate the
      entire length of the abdominal wall and can be a significant source of pain. This study aims
      to evaluate the effect of using no fixation on recurrence rates, compared to the standard of
      care of using transfacial sutures. The investigators hypothesize that recurrences rates for
      patients who receive no fixation will be non-inferior to those receiving transfascial
      sutures.

      This will be a single blinded, registry based, non-inferiority, randomized control trial
      comparing transfacial sutures for mesh fixation to no mesh fixation in open retromuscular
      repairs. This will be a two-arm trial with intervention 1: intervention 2 and control
      allocation ratio of 1:1. The Americas Hernia Society Quality Collaborative (AHSQC) will serve
      as the platform for data collection. The AHSQC is a multicenter, nationwide quality
      improvement effort with the mission of improving the quality of hernia care. Data points not
      recorded in the AHSQC will be collected by a trained research coordination or research fellow
      and uploaded into a Research Electronic Data Capture (RedCAP®) database hosted at the
      Cleveland Clinic

      Study population will include all adult patients (≥ 18 years) undergoing elective open
      ventral hernia repair, where the midline fascia can be approximated and mesh will be placed
      in the retromuscular position. Only a midline approach to hernia repair and hernia widths
      equal to or less than 20cm measured intraoperatively will be included. Exclusion criteria
      include patients unable to give consent, vulnerable populations, parastomal hernias, hernia
      width measuring more than 20cm intraoperatively, patients planned for minimally invasive
      approaches or open repairs with mesh placed in a position other than retromuscular, or those
      who were not able to undergo successful retromuscular mesh placement. Finally, open repairs
      performed through a different incision than the standard midline approach will also be
      considered exclusion criteria, as well as the inability to close the midline fascia.

      Study Interventions:

        -  Intervention 1 (Control): Mesh will be placed in the retromuscular space, with wide
           overlap on all sides. Full thickness transfascial sutures will be placed
           circumferentially to secure the mesh using slowly absorbable no. 1 sutures. A total of
           six transfascial sutures will be placed universally for all patients with additional
           sutures allowed according to each surgeon's discretion. Additional bone or ligament
           sutures for mesh fixation will be allowed according to each surgeon's discretion.

        -  Intervention 2: Mesh will be placed in the retromuscular space, with wide overlap on all
           sides. No fixation method will be used. Bone or ligament sutures for mesh fixation will
           not be allowed.

      Specific Aims:

        -  Aim 1: To investigate the non-inferiority of recurrence rates in patients receiving no
           fixation for a mesh placed in retromuscular position compared to those receiving
           circumferential transfascial suture fixation. Either physical examination, CT scan, or
           the Ventral Hernia Recurrence Inventory (VHRI) will be used to measure recurrence at
           one-year follow up.

        -  Aim 2: To determine if no mesh fixation results in less pain in the immediate
           postoperative period, measured by the Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NRS-11).

        -  Aim 3: To determine if no mesh fixation results in less pain on 30 day follow up,
           measured by using the Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS)
           Pain Intensity 3a survey

        -  Aim 4: To determine if in-hospital intravenous and oral opioid consumption will differ
           between those who received transfascial sutures and those who did not receive any
           fixation.

        -  Aim 5: To determine if length of stay will differ between those who received
           transfascial sutures and those who did not receive any fixation.
    
  