
    
      This is a non-randomized, natural history, non-treatment, longitudinal cohort study.
      Participants will be receiving standard of care treatment for depression and other
      comorbidities from their treating clinician and will be allowed to continue such treatments
      in this study. There are no experimental study procedures, other than methods used for data
      capture (questionnaires, blood collection, EEG and MRI). Participants will be expected to
      visit study site (s) for repeated collection of data (assessments, biospecimens, and imaging
      procedures), up to 4 times a year for 10 years. A reduced battery of tests is allowable if
      subject is not able or willing to complete the full battery after the baseline visit.

      2000 research participants will be enrolled and followed over an eight-year period (each
      participant will be followed for 10-years) with collection of clinical and depression
      measurement assessments, measurement of vital signs, collection of biospecimens for
      biochemical and genetic analyses, electroencephalogram (EEG) with behavioral assessments, and
      neuroimaging using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Skin punch biopsy will be performed in a
      sub-set of the research cohort, defined as demonstrating a heritable phenotype of depression.
      Stool sample will be performed in a sub-set of the research cohort, defined as demonstrating
      a heritable phenotype of depression.

      Participants will complete PHQ-9 (Patient Health Questionnaire-9), a brief self-administered
      measure of depression severity, and PS (Psychosis Screening) questionnaire, as part of
      inclusion and exclusion criteria, respectively. Participants will then complete all required
      computer-assisted self-rating and clinician-administered instruments. The self-rating
      instruments are expected to take approximately 2.5 hours using an iPad or laptop computer,
      and will collect detailed socio-demographic, life habits, family and medical history, and
      depression severity and treatment history. After completing the questionnaires, the research
      personnel will measure the subject's blood pressure, height, waist and hip circumference and
      weight. The subject will then provide blood, saliva and urine samples (morning blood draw
      appointments will be offered whenever participants agree to fast before blood draws but
      non-fasting blood will also be collected, when not possible to obtain fasting blood).

      For study assessments, specimen collection; and EEG and behavioral phenotyping, Dallas 2K
      study participants will require a 6-hour study visit to UT Southwestern. Participants will be
      given the option to split their visit into two if that is more convenient, and visit 2 will
      be used to perform EEG and behavioral assessments. Participants choosing the initial visit at
      an MDN clinician's office will complete screening, assessments and biospecimen collection at
      the MDN office but may require a 3-hour visit to UT Southwestern clinics for EEG and
      behavioral assessments. The MRI may be performed during a separate 2-hour visit to UT
      Southwestern MRI facility.

      Schedule of study visits, procedures and duration:

      Study A - Assessments and Questionnaires, 3 hours; Study B - EEG and Behavioral Phenotyping,
      3 hours; Study C - Neuroimaging (MRI), 2 hours; Study D - Sub-Study only: Skin punch biopsy,
      30 minutes; Study E - Sub-Study only: Stool Sample, 15 minutes; Study F - Sub-Study only:
      mHealth, Continuous monitoring via a wristband (i.e. fitbit) and/or mhealth application
      downloaded on a Android operating smartphone.

      Studies A and B can be combined into a single 6-hour visit when occurring at UT Southwestern.

      EEG and behavioral phenotyping and Neuroimaging will be performed at 3-month intervals.

      For participants in the optional sub-study, skin punch biopsy, Study D will be performed
      during any one of the other visits, depending on participants' convenience.

      For participants in the optional sub-study stool sample, study E will be performed up to 4
      visits per year for 10-years.

      For participants in the optional sub-study mhealth study, Study F will be a continuous
      monitoring of your physical activity, sleep patterns etc. via a wristband (i.e. Fitbit)
      and/or mHealth application downloaded onto an Android operating Smartphone.

      In addition, monthly remote assessments are completed between onsite visits starting from the
      baseline visit.

      Study A will then be repeated at 3-month intervals for up to 4 times a year, during follow-up
      study visits.

      Phlebotomy Procedures Blood samples will be collected from participants by trained
      phlebotomists, who will draw the sample using standard venipuncture procedures, through a
      single venipuncture using a small gauge needle. Universal precautions will be observed by the
      phlebotomists during all draws. The sample collection tubes, priority and volume collected
      are indicated in the protocol. Each tube will be labeled and packaged for processing and
      storage.

      Electrophysiology (EEG) Procedures: Participants will undergo electrophysiology measures at
      baseline and at 3-month intervals. Procedures for each of these measures are outlined below.
      Detailed EEG procedures will be described in the EEG and Behavioral Tasks Procedures Manual,
      respectively. The EEG markers in this study can be divided into three groups. Participants
      will first undergo resting EEG. Resting EEG is measured during four, 2 minute periods, half
      the time with the participants' eyes open, and the other half with the participants' eyes
      closed. The second EEG measure will specifically localize theta activity using a technique
      called Low Resolution Electromagnetic Tomography (LORETA). Finally, participants will have
      head-phones placed, and will be presented with 1000 Hz tones at 5 different intensity levels.
      The loudness dependency of auditory evoked potential (LDAEP) will be measured during this
      time. The total time estimate for completion of the EEG collection at each visit is
      approximately 2 hours. The EEG workgroup will ensure that adequate training, standardization
      of measures, and validation of equipment is maintained for data consistencies and quality
      control purposes.

      Behavioral Phenotyping: The investigators will administer five distinct tasks to
      participants, to assess four domains: 1) psychomotor slowing, 2) cognitive control, 3)
      working memory, and 4) reward responsiveness. To assess these domains, the investigators plan
      to administer the following tasks: psychomotor slowing, Choice RT task (~5 min) and word
      fluency task (~5 min); cognitive control, the Flanker task (~10 min); working memory, the A
      not B task (~10 min); and reward responsiveness, the Probabilistic Reward task (~10 min).
      This task measures the subject's ability to modify behavior in response to rewards. On each
      trial, the subject sees a cartoon face with a short or long mouth. The task is to indicate
      whether a short or long mouth was presented by pressing one of two buttons. Critically, the
      size difference between the short and long mouths is very small, and correct responses of one
      type (e.g., short mouth) are followed by monetary rewards three times more frequently than
      correct responses of the other type (e.g., long mouth). The primary dependent measure is
      response bias: the degree to which the subject preferentially chooses the response that is
      more frequently rewarded (in this example, short mouth vs. long mouth). Other dependent
      measures include RT and a measure of the subject's ability to discriminate between the mouth
      sizes (28). All tasks will be presented using Eprime software, under standardized procedures
      across sites. The Behavioral Phenotyping workgroup will ensure that quality control is
      maintained and that adequate training and standardization of measures is obtained prior to
      study related activities commencing. The total time the investigators estimate for completion
      of behavioral tasks at each study visit is about 1 hour.

      Neuroimaging: Eligible participants will undergo neuroimaging at baseline and at 3-month
      intervals. Neuroimaging includes both functional MRI and structural acquisitions. A brief
      description of procedures for each of these is outlined below; detailed descriptions will be
      in the Neuroimaging Procedures Manual. In total, the investigators estimate that
      approximately 90 minutes will be spent in the scanner per visit. In addition, research
      personnel will spend about 30 minutes preparing participants. Neuroimaging will be performed
      at baseline (study entry) and at 3-month intervals, for a total of 10 total neuroimaging
      sessions for the study duration.

      The collection of socio-demographics, lifestyle, clinical and other health-related
      information obtained through self-report questionnaires and clinician interviews will
      complement the physical, biological, neuroimaging (including EEG) measurements collected at
      study visits. The information obtained will form a database that allows a wide range of
      research questions, both anticipated and unforeseen, to be addressed in the future.

      Some questionnaires will be given to participant parents as required for minors. Additional
      assessments completed with minors will be done with study staff to assist with any questions
      or difficulty with the assessments.
    
  