
    
      The study will determine the association between plasma concentrations of 17-OHPC
      (hydroxyprogesterone caproate) and the rate of preterm birth and will evaluate the impact of
      several potential covariates on plasma concentrations of 17-OHPC and its efficacy. 17-OHPC
      (hydroxyprogesterone caproate) administration has proven effective in reducing preterm births
      in high risk groups but the current dose of 250mg administered IM is thought to be an
      inadequate for a substantial portion of women receiving the therapy. The potential benefit of
      identifying a therapeutic concentration range and of optimizing the dosage of 17-OHPC are
      substantial.

      Pregnant subjects with a history of a prior spontaneous preterm birth with be randomized to
      either the 250mg or 500mg weekly intramuscular injections. All subjects will have trough
      blood samples collected immediately prior to their second injection of the 17-OHPC, at 26-30
      weeks (but only after a minimum of 7 injections have been administered) , 6-9 weeks later and
      at the time of delivery. Another tube of maternal blood will be collected during one of the
      scheduled blood samples for genotyping. A cord blood specimen will also be collected and with
      consent, a cord blood specimen will be collected for genetic studies of the infant.
      Investigators will also collect a small sample of the placenta after delivery.

      In order to enhance sample size for this trial, investigators will also enroll a separate
      group of subjects (ancillary cohort) who are not in the randomized clinical trial (RCT)
      described above. Women already receiving 250 mg 17-OHPC weekly from their healthcare provider
      as part of their standard of care will be approached prior to 26 weeks gestation. This will
      be an observational cohort and subjects enrolled in the ancillary cohort will not be
      randomized, as they are already receiving the 250 mg dose. Research staff will not administer
      the study drug to subjects enrolled in the ancillary cohort. These subjects will be asked to
      provide two blood samples: one at 26-30 weeks and one 6-9 weeks later, which will be utilized
      to address the primary objective of the study.

      In response to the addition of the ancillary cohort, randomization for subjects in the RCT
      will be 2:1 for the 500 mg vs the 250 mg dose. The ancillary study will be implemented
      initially at the UPITT site only but may be expanded to other sites, as required.
    
  