
    
      Approximately 1-13% of trigeminal neuralgia cases are secondary to intracranial tumors, and
      this condition is referred to as tumor-related trigeminal neuralgia (TRTN). TRTN can result
      from a lesion affecting any location along the pathway of the trigeminal nerve, such as
      Meckel's Cave, the posterior fossa, and the cerebellopontine angle. The posterior fossa is
      the most common location of TRTN, whereas meningioma and epidermoid cysts are the most common
      pathologies. The goals of TRTN treatment include controlling tumors and relieving pain. Tumor
      resection is regarded as the most effective treatment, and complete tumor removal is often
      followed by complete pain remission. However, for patients who cannot undergo the risk of a
      craniotomy and those with end-stage of malignant tumors or slow-growing benign tumors,
      surgery may not be the best choice. Conservatively, medication is considered the first-line
      therapy for relieving pain. However, pharmacology cannot provide satisfactory relief for all
      patients, and some patients may experience intolerable side effects. For these patients,
      minimally invasive interventional techniques are preferred. Radiosurgery has been commonly
      performed for the treatment of TRTN with promising efficacy. However, this intervention is
      associated with delayed latency of response. Percutaneous radiofrequency thermocoagulation
      (PRFT) is a low-risk, minimally invasive technique with an acute success rate of 97.6-99%.
      PRFT remains the most common percutaneous treatment for TN. In addition, this popular
      procedure may also safely and effectively be repeated if pain recurs. The PRFT procedure
      involves positioning the radiofrequency (RF) needle at the Gasserian ganglion via the foremen
      ovale. Suboptimal piercing may lead to unpleasant complications, including cerebrospinal
      fluid leakage, cranial nerve (VI) palsy and intracranial hemorrhage. Recently, computed
      tomography (CT) has been demonstrated to be a useful method to identify the optimal position
      and predict the intraoperative difficulties of the intervention.
    
  