
    
      A randomized, single surgeon study in which two groups will be compared with each other:

      Group 1: 50 patients in whom no treatment of the cartilage lesions is performed: these
      patients have no cartilage lesion or a grade I cartilage lesion at the MTP I joint that has
      been found to be operative. The grade of the cartilage lesions will be determined on the
      basis of the ICRS scale and an MS Hololens.

      Group 2: 50 patients with a cartilage lesion> grade 1 found during surgery. Whether or not to
      treat the cartilage injury will be randomly determined. 50 envelopes will be made with 25
      treat, 25 not to treat. Just before surgery, Dr. T. Lootens an envelope will be drawn which
      will determine the further policy of the operation:

      Group 2A: 25 patients who are not treated for the cartilage injury. Group 2B: 25 patients who
      are treated for the cartilage injury by means of debridement of the lesion and microfracture.

      The patients who will undergo surgery for hallux valgus will be seen pre-operatively at the
      outpatient clinic by the investigators. During this consultation, an explanation will be
      given about the research and the participant will have to sign an informed consent before
      participating in the study. Here, the participant will also receive an envelope with
      questionnaires (AOFAS score / SF 36 score / VAS pain and satisfaction), which they will fill
      out on the day of surgery.

      Follow up The participants will be seen again at the orthopedics outpatient clinic for
      clinical follow-up and filling out questionnaires at 10 days, 5 weeks, 4 months and 1 year
      postoperatively. This follow up will be done by the co-investigator, who is blinded during
      the study.

      Scientific foundation Corrective hallux valgus surgery currently exists in two ways: open and
      closed (percutaneous) technique. To date, there is no consensus on the treatment of visible
      cartilage lesions at the MTP I joint during the open technique. It is not known whether or
      not treating these injuries has an impact on the patient's clinical outcome. The Principle
      investigator already treats the serious cartilage lesions (> GR1 lesions) by means of
      debridement of the lesion, followed by microfracture. As there is no literature available on
      this topic yet, this research could certainly add value for the therapeutic approach of
      cartilage lesions at MTP I in the future.

      Moreover, if microfracture gives a significantly better clinical outcome, this means that the
      closed (percutaneous) technique is contraindicated as a corrective technique in patients with
      hallux valgus. If this is not the case, no cartilage lesions at the level of the MTP I joint
      need to be taken into account during open technique.
    
  