
    
      Aim: The primary aims of the project are:

        1. By use of advanced magnetic resonance imaging to characterize the prevalence of
           atherosclerosis in the carotid arteries in patients with newly diagnosed type 2
           diabetes.

        2. To investigate if individual differences in the innate immune system contributes to the
           prevalence and development of cardiovascular disease in patients with type 2 diabetes.

        3. To prospectively observe the cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in a cohort of
           patients with type 2 diabetes seen in the light of the obtained baseline
           characteristics.

      Background: Type 2 diabetes is a very common disease in the western world. Patients with type
      2 diabetes are at risk of a number of complications, including macroangiopathy which involves
      an accelerated atherosclerosis, that causes most of the increased mortality and morbidity in
      type 2 diabetics. Mounting evidence suggests that development of vascular complications is
      associated to a chronic low grad inflammation in type 2 diabetes. Individual differences in
      the innate immune system might contribute to this chronic low grade inflammation as it has
      become apparent that in some situations - as after tissue ischemia or in diabetes - a change
      in the body's own cell glycosylations occurs, which leads to increased affinity of PRM's.
      This study will focus primarily on two families of PRM's: Collectins and Toll-like receptors.

      Methods: The study consists of a prospective observational cohort study of 100 newly
      diagnosed type 2 diabetic patients with continuous 2-year clinical follow-up and a
      register-based follow-up of morbidity and mortality study after 5 and 10 years. Furthermore
      100 healthy control subjects will be included. Baseline data will represent a independent
      cross-sectional study of the relationship between the innate immune system, glycemic control
      and the presence of atherosclerosis in the carotid arteries in newly diagnosed type 2
      diabetic patients.
    
  