
    
      Smoking has harmful effects on nearly every organ of the body and causes seven million deaths
      worldwide every year.1,2 Although the prevalence of daily cigarette smoking in Hong Kong has
      decreased from 23.3% in 1982 to 10.5 % in 2015, there are still 641,300 daily smokers3 and
      400,000 hospitalisations per year that are attributable to smoking.4 Having a disease and
      requiring medical attention present an excellent 'teachable moment' and opportunity for
      initiating smoking cessation in patients, because they will be more likely to be motivated to
      alter their habits and improve their health. However, cigarette smoking is addictive and
      quitting is very difficult, with a high rate of relapse, particularly among patients with
      chronic diseases.5

      During the past decade, we have conducted several trials on promoting smoking cessation to
      smokers with chronic diseases, including cardiac,6 type 2 diabetes mellitus,5 and cancer.7 We
      found that many smokers with chronic diseases had a long smoking history, high nicotine
      dependency, no quit attempt, and no intention to quit. Results of these studies indicated
      that about 68% smokers with cardiac diseases, 70% with diabetes mellitus and 73% with cancer
      recruited in Special Out-Patient Clinics (SOPC) were still in the pre-contemplation stage. We
      revealed that most Hong Kong smokers with chronic diseases perceived more barriers in
      quitting than benefits of quitting.7 Nevertheless, our previous smoking cessation
      interventions mostly focused on using brief interventions including stage-matched smoking
      cessation advices. Such interventions could be too brief and inadequate to make a great
      impact on such smokers. Moreover, we found that using strong warnings to communicate the risk
      of continued smoking might not be accepted by some of them. Hence, we need to develop and
      evaluate a more innovative intervention to enhance the effectiveness in promoting smoking
      cessation for smokers with chronic diseases. Most importantly, the new strategy should have
      good potential implementation in many clinical settings.

      Smoking has been found to be associated with physical inactivity,8 unhealthy diet,9 and
      drinking.10 The interrelationship of health behaviours suggests that there could be a higher
      level of attribute that determines such behaviours together. Our previous studies11,12 showed
      that people with a general intention to promote their health are more likely to engage in
      desirable health-related lifestyle practices. In addition, research results showed that
      people once engaged in any desirable health-related lifestyle practices would progressively
      move to later stages of change for other health behaviours. Based on this concept, a general
      health promotion approach will be used to motivate smokers with intention to promote health
      to first engage in any desirable health-related lifestyle practices that are chosen by
      individual smokers, such as regular physical activity and healthy diet. It is anticipated
      that once they are engaged in any desirable health-related lifestyle practice they will
      eventually be more motivated to quit smoking.

      Setting:

      The study setting will be a SOPC of an acute public hospital (Tuen Mun Hospital). The Chief
      of Service of this unit agreed to offer support the application of this research project to
      be conducted in the hospital. This SOPC is chosen because of its previous participation in
      our RCTs on cardiac, diabetes, and cancer patients and has already been established a good
      collaborative relationship. In addition, Tuen Mun Hospital is one of the largest acute
      hospitals in Hong Kong and medical patients with chronic diseases who do not need
      hospitalization or are discharged will be followed up in its medical SOPC after discharging
      from the hospital. The capacity of this SPOC ensures the adequacy of eligible subjects to
      participate in this pilot study.
    
  