
    
      Study Overview

      The intervention program will be delivered as a randomized control study, with half of the 32
      participants Move, Play, Learn intervention immediately and the other half receiving the
      intervention in a waitlist control format. Participants will begin the study first with
      baseline surveys and 5 days of accelerometry to assess current physical activity practices
      within participating classrooms. Then, if participants are randomized to the intervention
      arm, participants will proceed with the intervention as described elsewhere. If randomized to
      the waitlist control, participants will be encouraged to continue with normal classroom
      activities. At the end of the intervention, teachers will complete the same surveys and
      accelerometry at baseline as well as a participant satisfaction survey. This will end the
      teachers' participation in the project.

      At baseline, parents will be asked to provide demographic information about participating
      children. Children will be asked to wear accelerometers on the same 5 days as the teacher
      during baseline and follow-up periods. This data collection will be done during a school week
      (Monday-Friday), when children are attending center-based case.

      Recruitment

      Recruitment efforts will be targeted toward licensed child care centers in Orange, Chatham,
      Durham, Alamance, Wake, and Guilford Counties. A list of such facilities is publicly
      available through an online database maintained by the North Carolina (NC) Division of Child
      Development and Early Education's (http://ncchildcaresearch.dhhs.state.nc.us/search.asp).
      Study staff will contact directors at these child care centers and ask for their assistance
      distributing study flyers to their staff. Flyers will instruct interested providers and
      parents to contact the study office.

      Randomization

      Centers will be randomized in two sets, once halfway through baseline data collection and the
      other half at the end of baseline data collection. At these randomization time points, the
      Principal Investigator (PI) will generate a randomization table using a permuted block
      approach with block sizes of 2 to ensure balance between study arms at any given enrollment
      time point. The randomization table will be in excel format and include sequential numbers
      and randomization assignment (intervention or control). The PI will apply the randomization
      table to the list of centers to determine study arm assignment. The PI will notify centers of
      their assignment into either the intervention or control arm. Centers in the intervention arm
      will have immediate access to Move, Play, Learn! Intervention while the control arm will have
      delayed access to the program; after follow-up measures are collected.

      Power Calculation

      Investigators will compare the changes in child physical activity using the baseline and
      post-intervention accelerometer measures among children in classrooms randomized to Move,
      Play, Learn! intervention compared to children in classrooms randomized to the waitlist
      control group. The sample size (n=26) is sufficient to measure modest increases in physical
      activity; although more is expected, by measuring activity levels of 7 children per center,
      investigators can detect even a 7% increase (approximately 12 minutes per day) in
      non-sedentary physical activity, to put the effect size in terms of a measurable outcome.

      Based on previous work and other similar studies, investigators estimate a 0.55 effect size
      in the Move, Play, Learn! intervention. Because children are clustered within ECE classrooms,
      this needs to be accounted in the power calculation. Based on previous studies, the ECE
      center intra-class coefficient (ICC) estimate is 0.12 for nonsedentary time. This ICC is
      appropriate to use for the power calculation since only 1 classroom per center will be
      recruited; thus the center and classroom are interchangeable here. It is anticipated that an
      average of 7 children per classroom will be recruited. Using a two-sided test of significance
      at α=0.05, an ICC=0.12, and cluster size=7 children per classroom, a sample size of 13
      centers per arm (91 children per arm) will provide at least 80% power to detect the
      anticipated change in physical activity (effect size=0.55. Accounting for 15% attrition of
      classroom teachers, investigators will recruit and randomize 32 ECE classrooms (16 per arm)
      with a minimum of 7 children per classroom for a total of 224 children.

      Statistical Analysis

      The primary analysis will test the hypothesis under the intent-to-treat principle (ITT) using
      longitudinal, mixed effects models that will account for the correlation of child physical
      activity by ECE center. As shown below, each model will include a random intercept (b0) and
      fixed effects for the intervention (B2) and baseline (B1) to test if the mean change in
      physical activity is different between the two arms.

      Child PA10 wk = β0 + β1Child PAbaseline + β2Intervention + β3Center + b0 + e

      Additional analyses will 1) adjust for baseline covariates considered to be relevant to
      change in physical activity; 2) adjust for baseline variables distributed differently between
      study arms; 3) test interaction terms between treatment group and other covariates; and 4)
      examine completers only.

      Missing data

      The study team will make every effort to minimize missing data; however, some missing data
      are expected to occur. Investigators will examine the potential for bias from non-ignorable,
      non-response using two methods. First, investigators will compare respondents and
      non-respondents to see if there are systematic differences in non-missing variables. Next,
      investigators will assess the type of missingness, whether missing completely at random
      (MCAR) or missing at random (MAR) or missing not at random (MNAR). If data are either MAR or
      MNAR investigators will employ multiple imputation to impute missing PA values. Sensitivity
      analyses will be conducted to determine the effect of these missing data on intervention
      effect estimates and robustness of results using different estimation methods.
    
  