
    
      Nocturnal disturbances, such as getting out of bed repeatedly, having hallucinations, talking
      or singing in bed, and waking up confused are common among patients with AD. Such nocturnal
      disturbances are associated with increased physical and psychological morbidity in both AD
      patients and their caregivers and are a major risk factor for patient institutionalization.
      Nonpharmacologic treatments for these disturbances are needed. This study will assign AD
      patients to one of four different treatments to determine which is most effective in reducing
      nocturnal disturbances.

      This study will last 6 months. Participants will be randomly assigned to a walking program, a
      light exposure program, a "NITE-AD" program, combining the walking and light exposure
      programs, or routine AD care with nocturnal disturbance education. Walking program
      participants will have three 1-hour visits with a therapist over an 8-week period. The
      therapist and the participant will set an initial daily walking goal and develop a plan for
      gradually increasing the participants' walking to 30 minutes/day, to be increased at a
      participant-selected pace. Pedometers will be given to participants to monitor daily
      activity. The therapist will also discuss exercise safety and will review ways to prevent
      muscle soreness. Light program participants will also have three 1-hour visits with a
      therapist over 8 weeks. The therapist will develop a daily, caregiver-supervised light
      exposure plan requiring participants to sit in front of a light box for 1 hour every day.
      NITE-AD program participants will have six 1-hour visits with a therapist over 8 weeks; their
      visits will include setting up both walking and the light exposure routines. Participants
      assigned to education will receive information about about sleep in aging and dementia, but
      no assistance setting up walking or light exposure plans.

      Participants will be assessed at study entry and at Months 2 (post-test) and 6. The sleep
      patterns of both the patients and the caregivers will be measured. Caregiver reports of
      patients' night-time behavioral disturbances and readings from an actigraph, a small
      electronic device worn by participants that records and reports their levels of activity at
      night, will be used to estimate sleep. The study will also collect data on patient and
      caregiver mood, stress, and behavior. A follow-up visit will occur 6 months after study
      completion; at the follow-up visit, the same outcome measures will be collected as at
      baseline and post-test. Participants will receive 3 biannual phone follow-ups (12, 18, and 24
      months) to assess patient residential status and caregiver reports of patient and caregiver
      sleep.
    
  