
    
      Hip fractures have devastating consequences: the 30-day mortality rate for men is 9% and for
      women is 5%, and the risk of disability is substantial. Even among patients who are
      community-dwelling prior to their hip fracture, 11% are bed-ridden and 16% are in a long-term
      care facility after one year.

      The trauma associated with a hip fracture results in pain, bleeding, and immobility. These
      factors initiate inflammatory, hypercoaguable, stress, and catabolic states that can cause
      medical complications, including death. Proposed mechanisms for increased mortality and
      morbidity associated with delayed surgery include 1) complications related to a protracted
      immobilization (e.g. venous thromboembolism, atelectasis and pneumonia, urinary tract
      infections, pressure ulcers, and muscle mass loss) and 2) increased cardiovascular events.

      Delay in surgery may result in protracted immobility and the associated complications, as
      well as prolonged exposure to the hypercoagulable-inflammatory-sympathetic state which may
      increase cardiovascular events. Observational data suggests that these mechanisms are indeed
      important: delayed surgical repair is associated with increased mortality and morbidity after
      a hip fracture.

      A systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies addressed the impact of timing
      of surgery on the outcome after hip fracture. Five studies reported adjusted measures for
      mortality. The pooled estimate, based on 721 deaths in 4,208 patients, suggested that early
      surgical treatment (i.e. within the cut-off of the individual studies) of hip fractures was
      associated with a significant reduction in mortality (adjusted risk ratio [RR] 0.81, 95%
      confidence interval [CI] 0.68-0.96).

      It is possible that these observational data substantially underestimates the real potential
      of early surgery. The reason is that the "early surgery" in these studies occurred within 24,
      48 or 72 hours. If surgery could be uniformly undertaken within 6 hours, given the potential
      benefits of earlier mobilization and minimization of the period of the inflammatory
      hypercoagulable state, the benefits might be substantially greater. The substantial impact of
      treatment of acute myocardial infarction (MI) or stroke within hours adds credence to this
      possibility.

      Despite the evidence, and the possibility that a larger effect might result from even earlier
      surgery, current data supports only weak inferences. The evidence relies on observational
      data and is therefore susceptible to residual confounding. The strength of inference from
      current evidence does not lay a sufficient solid base to justify the substantial system
      modification required to facilitate accelerated surgical access for all hip fracture
      patients.

      The main factors that cause surgical delay after a hip fracture are: 1) the patient presents
      with comorbidities and surgery is deferred for preoperative diagnostics, risk stratification,
      and medical optimization ("medical clearance") and 2) surgical operating room and staff
      resources are not available because hip fractures have low priority in urgent surgery lists
      ("queuing"). Both medical clearance and queuing are modifiable issues - addressing these
      obstacles has the potential to substantially reduce surgical wait times.

      Our ultimate goal is to undertake a large multicentre randomized controlled trial (RCT) of
      accelerated surgical care (i.e., goal of surgery within 6 hours of diagnosis) versus usual
      timing of surgery among elderly adults diagnosed with a hip fracture. This protocol is for a
      pilot RCT that will inform the feasibility of undertaking a large RCT.
    
  