
    
      Cirrhotic patients have a high risk of bacterial infection. These infections induce systemic
      inflammation that can lead to acute liver failure or even acute liver failure associated with
      multi-visceral failure (Acute-to-Chronic Liver Failure, ACLF) associated with an increased
      risk of short-term mortality in this population.

      Cirrhotic patients have a higher risk of infection than the general population because
      cirrhosis is associated with various changes in the innate and acquired immune response.
      These changes alter the response to external pathogens, leading to some immunodeficiency (3).
      Infection is one of the most common risk factors for ACLF and the prevalence of bacterial
      infections is approximately 25% -46% in hospitalized patients with acute liver
      decompensation.

      The most common infections are spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and urinary tract
      infections, followed by pneumonia, skin and soft tissue infections and spontaneous
      bacteremia.

      These infections can have various etiologies. The site of infection and the mode of
      acquisition may affect the risk of infection with resistant bacteria. The increasing
      diffusion of multidrug-resistant bacteria has made the management of cirrhotic patients and
      bacterial infections more complex.

      Early administration of effective antibiotic therapy is crucial for determining the patient's
      prognosis. This empirical treatment should be initiated at the earliest after diagnosis of
      the bacterial infection to avoid an increased mortality risk due to possible septic shock or
      associated multi-visceral failure (ACLF). The antibiotic treatment administered takes into
      account the type of infection, the risk of resistant bacterial infection but also the
      severity of the infection. However, this antibiotic administration can also select
      multi-resistant bacteria and increase the risk of mortality of the cirrhotic patient.

      In order to cope with the growing risk of resistant bacterial infections, recommendations
      from the European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL) were issued in 2014 and are
      followed by physicians treating cirrhotic patients. These recommendations advocate taking
      into account different parameters regarding the best therapeutic strategy to adopt. The site
      of the infection, the mode of acquisition or the presence or absence of prophylaxis may
      modify this therapeutic approach to infections of cirrhotic patients to a greater or lesser
      extent. However, the ecology of a center varies over time, according to the practices of the
      hospital center and to the different patients in care. It is recommended to update the
      antibiotic resistance data in order to propose the best therapeutic strategy for these
      patients.

      The study of bacterial resistance in a given care center makes it possible to adapt the
      recommendations published by EASL in 2014 to the local ecology and to set up protocols of
      probabilistic antibiotic therapy adapted for a better efficiency.

      This descriptive cohort study will determine the local ecology of the center. This will
      enable the center to assess if the recommended antibacterial strategies correspond to the
      center bacterial ecology.
    
  