
    
      There are a series of pathophysiological changes in patients undergoing open-heart surgeries
      with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) that causes liver hypoperfusion, centrilobular sinusoid
      ischemia, and subsequent reperfusion injuries, hemolysis, or systemic inflammatory response.
      These events may eventually lead to various forms of hepatic dysfunction in patients during
      the postoperative period after open-heart surgeries. An increased incidence of liver function
      test abnormalities were reported, and the rates vary between 10 % and 40%. The occurrence of
      postoperative hyperbilirubinemia is crucial in increased morbidity and mortality after
      open-heart surgery with CPB. There are several reports of the possible risk factors that are
      associated with hepatic dysfunction. In previous studies, the incidence of postoperative
      hyperbilirubinemia was between the range of 20% up to 51% in open-heart surgeries with CPB.
      The causes of this higher incidence were related to the presence of various possible risk
      factors, and these include; valvular heart disease and related low cardiac output states, and
      low ejection fraction. Other important risk factors for postoperative hepatic dysfunction
      after open-heart surgery with CPB were longer operative time and a larger volume of blood
      transfusion. However, CPB itself is not a significant constituent in the postoperative
      development of hyperbilirubinemia. Splanchnic ischemia before or during operation and in the
      postoperative period appears to be an essential cause. Other risk factors that were
      identified as possible risk factors for postoperative hepatic dysfunction. We can list these
      factors as; poor preoperative heart function, hemodynamic instability, emergency surgery, and
      preoperative liver dysfunction. Our goal was to determine the possible risk factors
      associated with hepatic dysfunction in patients undergoing open-heart surgery with CPB.
    
  