
    
      The study aims to evaluate the possible effects of an exercise program, nutritional and
      psychological, postural orientation and guidance of oral health on body composition, physical
      activity levels and lifestyle, health-related physical fitness and motor performance in
      factors risk of cardiovascular disease, eating habits, cognition levels, psychological
      profile and body posture of adolescents with overweight and obesity. In addition, identify
      the effects of orientation for oral health on the quality of life and healthy oral habits. A
      quasi-experimental research will consist of a sample of approximately fifty adolescents with
      overweight and obesity, ages 10 to 17, of both sexes, selected voluntarily in two schools in
      Santa Cruz do Sul. The sessions will last two hours (one hour of physical exercise and the
      second time divided into nutritional counseling, postural, psychological and oral
      orientation) with a frequency of three times a week. The exercise session will consist of 10
      minutes of warm-ups, 40 minutes of aerobic exercise, recreational and sports activities
      (moderate to severe) and 10 minutes back to calm, and the intensity of the activities will be
      monitored through a frequency (target heart rate: 60 to 70% of maximum heart rate of each
      subject). Nutritional, psychological, postural and oral guidance will be given by a
      nutritionist, psychologist, physiotherapist/physical education professional and odontologist
      respectively, which present lectures and educational games. The following parameters will be
      evaluated: anthropometric (BMI, waist circumference and skinfold thickness); hematologic and
      biochemical analysis (HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglycerides,
      glucose, insulin, adiponectin, leptin, resistin, C reative protein, ALT, AST, glycated
      hemoglobin, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-α, cortisol, irisina, F2 isoprostane and uric acid);
      polymorphism related to obesity (FTO rs9939609); related-health physical fitness
      (flexibility; sit and reach test; abdominal strength and cardiorespiratory fitness); postural
      deviations evaluated by the photogrammetry method - SAPO program. The nutritional habits and
      lifestyle will be assessed by self-report a validated and adapted questionnaire for Brazilian
      children and adolescents as well as a recall and diet calculation for nutrients through
      Virtual Nutri 1.0. Oral health will be evaluated according to the criteria of the SB Brazil
      Project 2010. The psychological and cognitive assessment will be done through instruments
      that determine self-esteem, body awareness, stress and possible mental health problems of
      adolescent. The results will be presented by means of statistical tests performed using SPSS
      23.0. The comparison of the average values of variables between pre- and post-intervention
      will be carried out through the Anova test for repeated measures (generalized linear models),
      with subsequent calculation of the effect size; the two-way ANOVA is used to analyze the
      differences among the changes in the control group and the experimental group. Expected
      results: It is expected that after the completion of this research project, there are
      increases in the levels of cardiorespiratory fitness, flexibility and abdominal strength,
      changes in postural deviations and dietary habits, increased cognitive function and
      psychological aspects and improved hygiene and perception of oral health of adolescents with
      overweight and obesity and consequent reduction in rates of overweight and obesity and the
      risk factors of cardiovascular disease. The aim is to collaborate with public health policies
      in the prevention and treatment of overweight and obesity and consequences in schools.
    
  