
    
      Children with disabilities have complex healthcare needs requiring multiple providers in
      multiple locations. The lack of coordinated care for this vulnerable population leads to
      poorer outcomes, higher costs, and increased stress and time demands for patients and their
      caregivers. Traditionally, under arrangements known as fee-for-service, there have been no
      financial incentives for providers to coordinate care; however, the Affordable Care Act is
      changing that. Accountable care organizations (ACOs) are groups of healthcare providers that
      organize in new ways to take responsibility for the care of a defined population. ACOs share
      in any savings associated with improved quality and efficiency of the care they provide.
      Although most ACOs currently do not cover children with disabilities, many are considering
      adding these to the populations they serve. Yet little is known about effectiveness of the
      care coordination strategies they employ on children with disabilities.

      The goal of this research is to assess care coordination for and patient-centered outcomes of
      children with disabilities (who qualify for Medicaid under the Aged, Blind, Disabled category
      (ABD) under an ACO as compared with traditional fee-for-service plans. The investigators will
      use a recent policy change in Ohio that mandates children with disabilities move from
      traditional fee-for-service Medicaid plans into managed care arrangements such as ACOs. This
      mandate resulted in 8,000 disabled children automatically becoming part of the nation's
      largest pediatric ACO.

      The investigators will use multiple methods, including focus groups, interviews, a survey,
      medical record data, and Medicaid claims, to compare patient experiences and care under the
      ACO with experiences and care under the previous fee-for-service model. What impact will this
      research have? Our research will inform ACOs about the relative benefits and challenges of
      coordinating care and improving the health outcomes of children with disabilities and will
      help those organizations determine whether or not they can adequately serve the needs of this
      population. In addition, the findings will provide patients and caregivers with valuable
      information that can help them make decisions when faced with an increasingly common
      scenario, for example: "The parents of a child with cerebral palsy receive a letter from
      their state Medicaid program that children are being enrolled in an 'accountable care
      organization.' How certain can they be that their child's care will be improved? What are the
      problems that might occur?" The investigators will engage patients, their caregivers, and
      health system stakeholders throughout the research process. Patient advocates have been
      involved in the design of our study. A patient advisory panel comprised of caregivers and
      advocates of disabled children will guide our project by providing advice at quarterly
      meetings. In addition, the investigators plan to collect data from more than 2,800 patient
      voices through direct study participation.
    
  