
    
      Materials and methods This is a prospective, randomized, multicenter study comparing the
      slow-pull technique with the standard suction technique during Ultrasound-guided fine-needle
      biopsy in patients with pancreatic solid lesions. The study involved three referral centers
      for pancreatico-biliary diseases: the Gastroenterology and Endoscopy Unit. ARNAS Civico-Di
      Cristina-Benfratelli Hospital, Palermo, Italy; the Gastroenterology and Endoscopy Unit.
      Marche Polytechnic University, Ospedale A. Murri, Fermo, Italy; the Gastroenterology Unit.
      AUSL Bologna, Bellaria-Maggiore, Bologna, Italy. The protocol was approved by the
      institutional medical ethical committee at each participating institution and written
      informed consent was obtained from all patients for participation in the study. All
      consecutive patients with a newly diagnosed pancreatic solid lesions suitable for endoscopic
      ultrasound-guided tissue acquisition were considered for enrollment. Written informed consent
      was obtained from all patients before the procedure. All the endoscopic ultrasound procedures
      were carried out by a skilled endosonographer with the patients under conscious sedation or
      deep sedation according to the anesthesiological guidelines approved in each participating
      center. All Ultrasound-guided fine-needle biopsy were done using a 20 Gauge needle (EchoTip
      ProCore 20G with ReCoil Stylet™, Cook Medical, Bloomington, IN, USA). The ReCoil Stylet´s has
      an automatic recoiling capability designed to help users to manage more easily the stylet,
      thus minimising the risk of contamination. Before puncturing, color doppler examination was
      performed to exclude the presence of interposing vessels. The needle tip was sharpened by
      withdrawing the stylet of approximately 2 mm, and then it was advanced into the lesion under
      real-time endoscopic ultrasound guidance. In patients randomized to the stylet slow-pull
      techniques, 15 to-and-fro movements within the lesion were performed while gently pulling the
      needle stylet slowly and continuously upwards. In patients randomized to the standard suction
      technique, 15 to-and-fro movements within the lesion were performed using a 10-mL suction
      syringe. In both sampling procedures the fanning technique was used to maximized sample
      acquisition. Tissue samples were expelled onto slides by reinserting the stylet and the
      visible core was physically lifted off the slides placing it into a formalin vial for
      histological evaluation. For the macroscopic adequacy, the endosonographer evaluated for the
      presence of a visible core defined as a worm-like material whitish/yellowish or red, not
      including fluid-like specimens in the formalin vial, which was judged to be adequate to
      perform a pathological analysis. The pathologists were "blinded" on which group the vials
      received were belonging to.

      Randomization was performed using random sequences generated by a computer and then closed in
      consecutive numbered envelopes.

      The degree of blood contamination of the specimen was based on the pathologist evaluation of
      the formalin fixed and paraffin embedded tissue samples and defined as significant when a
      large amount of blood cells made pathological diagnosis difficult to be made. On the other
      hand, blood contamination of the specimen was defined as not significant when no or only few
      blood cells were present without any influence on the pathological diagnosis.

      Sensitivity was defined as the true positive rate whereby the test was the final cytologic
      diagnosis, Specificity as the true negative rate (proportion of actual negatives that are
      correctly identified as such), positive predictive value was defined as the number of true
      positive divided the number of positive calls (true positive and false positive), negative
      predictive value was defined as the number of true negative divided the number of negative
      calls (true negative and false negative). Diagnostic accuracy was defined as the ratio
      between the sum of true positive and true negative values divided by the total number of
      masses.

      Technical success was defined as the capability of sampling the target lesion associated with
      the presence of a visible core, according to endosonographer's judgment, potentially useful
      for the final pathological analysis.

      Adverse events were defined based on the criteria expressed by Cotton et al. [Cotton PB.
      Gastrointest Endosc 2010;71:446-54] Samples positive for malignancy were considered
      diagnostic for malignancy, while in patients with negative Ultrasound-guided fine-needle
      biopsy, surgical specimen evaluation, results of other diagnostic investigations and/or a
      clinical follow-up of at least 6 months were used to establish the definitive diagnosis.

      Statistical Analysis The sample size was calculated based on the results of a previous study
      [Nakai Y H. Dig Dis Sci. 2014;59:1578-85] that showed that blood contamination of the
      specimen was lower with the stylet slow-pull technique as compared with the standard suction
      technique (25% vs 70%), with a consequent increase in the diagnostic accuracy. Based on these
      data we calculated for a difference of 25%, at a power of 80% and an alpha of 0.05 (two-sided
      test), a final sample size of 110 patients (55 patients in each group). Continuous variables
      will be reported as mean +/- standard deviation (SD) or as median with interquartile range.
      Categorical variables will be presented as numbers and percentage and will be compared either
      using the chi-square test (with Yates' correction when appropriate) or Fisher exact test.

      Statistical was conducted using the Fisher's exact test for categorical variables and the
      Mann-Whitney U-test for continuous variables. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive
      value, negative predictive value, and overall diagnostic accuracy for each arm were
      investigated by comparing the results with the definitive diagnosis. Statistical tests were
      considered significant at a corresponding p value of <0.05. Data handling and analyses were
      done with SPSS 14.
    
  