
    
      Disuse following injury or during acute hospitalization is associated with a host of negative
      outcomes including functional deficiencies, hospital readmission, disability, and increased
      mortality. Older adults are a particularly vulnerable population as functional (vascular and
      skeletal muscle dysfunction) and structural deficits (loss in muscle mass leading to a
      reduction in strength) are present as a consequence of the aging process. Any additional and
      accelerated insult caused by disuse poses a serious health threat to these older individuals
      by depleting their already diminished physiological and functional reserve and hastening the
      onset of disability. Current strategies aimed at preserving function during disuse have
      focused on preserving skeletal muscle mass and strength while the critical role of the
      vasculature has been largely ignored. Moreover, the underlying cause of dysfunction has not
      been adequately addressed in humans. This disintegrated and myopic approach likely
      contributes to the fact that interventions capable of preserving health during disuse do not
      exist. The vascular and skeletal muscle systems are inextricably linked to optimal mobility
      through oxygen and nutrient delivery, thus, vascular dysfunction likely contributes to and
      exacerbates skeletal muscle deficiencies that occur during disuse. To fully understand the
      impact of disuse on health and mobility and develop effective countermeasures it is our
      contention that both the vascular and musculoskeletal systems must be examined and the root
      cause of the problem must be addressed. While the underlying factors leading to these
      accelerated losses during disuse are unknown, they appear to be mechanistically linked to
      oxidative stress.

      The long term goal is to minimize losses in vascular and skeletal muscle function that occur
      during disuse in order to maintain functional reserve and avoid serious adverse events. The
      objective here, which is the next step in pursuit of this goal, is to determine how oxidative
      stress contributes to disuse-induced vascular and skeletal muscle dysfunction. It is our
      central hypothesis that oxidative stress triggers the accelerated declines in vascular and
      skeletal muscle function during disuse. To test this hypothesis and provide compelling
      evidence that oxidative stress is the trigger of dysfunction the investigators will utilize
      two novel and fundamentally distinct strategies to improve redox balance during disuse. In
      Aim 1, the mitochondrial targeted antioxidant (MITO-AO) mitoquinone will be administered
      during disuse to improve free radical scavenging at the level of the mitochondria. In Aim 2,
      activation of Nuclear Factor Erythroid-2-like 2 (Nrf2) the "master regulator of antioxidant
      enzymes" will be accomplished with PB125 (a novel naturally occurring Nrf2 activator) to
      augment endogenous antioxidant defense systems. The impact of these interventions on measures
      of isolated and integrated vascular and skeletal muscle function before and after disuse will
      be examined. The central hypothesis is supported by preliminary data reporting substantial
      losses in vascular and skeletal muscle function and concomitant increases in oxidative stress
      following 5 days of bed rest. Importantly, MITO-AO prevents disuse-induced losses in muscle
      mass and restores age-related deficits in vascular function in aged animals and humans
      (preliminary data). Additionally, PB125 activates the Nrf2 pathway at multiple control points
      resulting in prolonged and amplified activation and subsequent gene expression of key
      antioxidant enzymes leading to a decrease in oxidative stress in humans (preliminary data).
    
  