
    
      Invasive fungal infections are a major cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised
      patients. Among them, patients with hematological malignancies, neutropenic patients, human
      immunodeficiency virus infected patients, diabetics, solid organ transplanted patients and
      patients admitted in an intensive care unit are particularly at high risk.

      The survival of these patients depends on early diagnosis and prompt appropriate antifungal
      treatment. The early diagnosis of these infections is difficult because of the lack of
      sensitive test methods, notably blood cultures. Its sensitivity is poor or close-zero for
      aspergillosis. In addition, the response time is several days. For these reasons, we decided
      to develop a real-time PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) assay on blood samples. It should
      allow rapid response to establish a positive or negative diagnosis of invasive fungal
      infection, it could contribute strongly to the decision of treating using antifungals, and it
      should monitor the effectiveness and the optimization of antifungal prescriptions.

      Methods:

      Our project is a multicentre prospective inter-regional collaborative work between Nice,
      Rennes and Toulouse Mycological and parasitological laboratories. Our objectives are: First,
      to validate an extraction method from blood infected by fungi species. The three laboratories
      will work together to determine the best extraction method, since there is no consensus
      method for the extraction of nucleic acids of fungal origin in the context of human
      infections. The numerous extraction techniques already used lead to differences in the PCR
      results. As a consequence, inter-laboratory comparisons are not easy. Secondly, we aim to
      develop three real-time PCR assays: A panfungal real-time PCR assay able to detect most
      fungal species responsible for human diseases; a real-time PCR assay targetting Candida
      albicans and one targeting Aspergillus fumigatus which are two clinically important
      pathogens. Then patient blood samples (classified according to EORTC consensus) will be
      collected during the study in order to evaluate and validate our method on clinical samples.
      Results will allow us to determine the sensitivity, specificity and reproducibility, negative
      and predictive values.

      Objectives Overall, our work aims to evaluate the clinical impact of real-time PCR in the
      early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections and on the initiation or stopping of antifungal
      therapy. The economic impact resulting from the use of this method will be evaluated. Indeed,
      an excellent predictive negative value of a panfungal real-time PCR assay could warrant a
      decrease in the use of empirical antifungal therapy
    
  