
    
      Nowadays children are getting more inactive and participate less in sports or daily physical
      activity. Previous studies have shown that a good physical fitness is associated with
      improved cognitive functions. While being physical active, physiological changes take places
      in the brain. Brain-derived neurotropic factor is one of the neurotropins that plays a
      crucial role in this process. Executive functions are cognitive processes that are
      responsible for organizing and controlling goal-directed actions. These functions are
      developing during childhood and play an important role in daily- and school functioning.

      This doctoral thesis has the aim to identify the role of Brain-derived neurotropic factor in
      the relationship between physical fitness/activity and executive functions in children.

      In a first trail the effect of physical fitness and physical training on executive
      functioning and levels of Brain-derived neurotropic factor will be studied.

      In a second trail the research question is expanded by investigating the same relations in
      children with Autism Spectrum Disorder, Development Coordination Disorder , Attention
      Hyperactive Disorder.

      Protocol trail 1: The included (typically developing) children will be randomized and
      stratified for level of physical fitness into 2 groups: the intervention group and the
      control group. The intervention group will receive physical activity training 2 times a week
      during 8 weeks. The control group will receive no additional training. At the beginning and
      the end of the training period both the intervention and control group will be tested for
      physical fitness and level of executive functioning.

      Protocol trail 2: Identical protocol to trail 1 except the participants will be children with
      Autism Spectrum Disorder, Development Coordination Disorder , Attention Hyperactive Disorder
      in stead of typically developing children.
    
  