
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the effect of flexible vs. fixed administration of G-CSF (filgrastim) on the
      parameters of hematological recovery including duration of absolute neutrophil count (ANC) <
      500/uL; time to ANC recovery >= 1,000/uL and time to platelet recovery >= 75,000/uL in
      children receiving myelotoxic chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the effect of flexible vs. fixed administration of G-CSF on the incidence of
      febrile neutropenia and number of hospital days on antibiotics following myelotoxic
      chemotherapy.

      II. To evaluate the number of days of platelet transfusion events after chemotherapy cycles
      with flexible vs. fixed administration of G-CSF.

      III. To evaluate on the incidence and duration of G-CSF-related side effects including
      extremities/back pain and headaches after chemotherapy courses followed by flexible vs. fixed
      administration of G-CSF.

      IV. To evaluate the peripheral blood progenitor responses and subsets of progenitor cells
      (cluster of differentiation [CD]34/41/61/117/10/19/11b/33) to chemotherapy followed by
      flexible vs. fixed administration of G-CSF.

      OUTLINE:

      CHEMOTHERAPY: Depending on their diagnosis patients are assigned to 1 of 3 chemotherapy
      regimens.

      ICE: Patients receive etoposide intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-3, ifosfamide IV
      over 3 hours on days 1-3, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 4. Patients with recurrent
      Hodgkin lymphoma receive etoposide and ifosfamide on days 1-3 and carboplatin on day 3.

      ICT: Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-3, and ifosfamide
      and carboplatin as in ICE.

      OPEC: Patients receive vincristine sulfate on days 1, 8, and 15; etoposide IV over 1 hour on
      days 1-3; cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-2; and cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day
      4.

      For all chemotherapy regimens, treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses. Patients are
      then randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (fixed filgrastim): Patients receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD)
      started at 24 hours after completion of chemotherapy and stopped when ANC reaches at least
      1,000/uL post nadir.

      ARM II (flexible filgrastim): Patients receive filgrastim SC QD started on the first day
      after chemotherapy when ANC falls below 1,000/uL and stopped when ANC reaches at least
      1,000/uL post nadir.

      After completion of the first filgrastim treatment, patients cross-over to the other
      filgrastim arm and repeat the same course of chemotherapy as before. After completion of the
      second filgrastim treatment, chemotherapy treatment may continue for up to 5 (OPEC) or 6
      (ICE, ICT) courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  