
    
      The investigators will collect clinical and instrumental data regarding prenatal history as
      well as the medical and surgical postnatal course. In particular, the investigators will
      record data from a prenatal ultrasound performed between 25+0 and 30+6 weeks of gestation
      (before "Fetoscopic Endotracheal Occlusion" (FETO) procedure, in case of prenatal treatment):
      estimated fetal weight (EFW), amniotic fluid, Doppler velocimetry of umbilical artery, defect
      side, herniated organs, observed/expected lung-to-head ratio tracing (O/E LHR%), grading of
      hernia severity, Doppler velocimetry of contralateral pulmonary artery. Gestational age at
      diagnosis, details about FETO procedure, and the course of pregnancy will be also recorded.

      On fetal MRI, the investigators will calculate: observed/expected total fetal lung volume
      (O/E TFLV%), percentage of liver herniation (%LH), signal intensity of lung and liver on T2
      sequences, mediastinal shift angle, apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) on
      diffusion-weighted sequences (DWI).

      The radiographic pulmonary area will be calculated on digital chest x-ray performed within 24
      hours after birth, by tracing the perimeter of the lung outlined by the rib cage and the
      diaphragm, excluding the mediastinal structures and the herniated organs.

      Regarding the neonatal course, the investigators will focus on pulmonary hypertensive status,
      need for ECMO, and deaths. In particular, pulmonary hypertension will be evaluated based on
      clinical parameters (such as systemic pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation, and oxygen
      supplementation, inotropic drugs, vasopressors, pulmonary vasodilators) as well as
      echocardiographic parameters (systolic pulmonary artery pressure (PAPs) from tricuspid valve
      regurgitation, mean pulmonary artery pressure from pulmonary valve regurgitation, pulmonary
      artery flow, characteristics of the interventricular sept, shunts, cardiac anomalies).
      Echocardiograms in our NICU are performed bedside throughout the hospital stay. The
      investigators will consider one exam per day from birth to 48 hours after surgery, one exam
      per week in the following 4 weeks, one exam per months until discharge. Other relevant data,
      like neurologic complications, metabolic disorders or infections, will be recorded as well.

      Finally, the investigators will record data regarding the surgical course: day of
      intervention, type of surgical repair, use of patch, intra- or post-operative complications.
    
  