
    
      Seizures are a common medical problem. Although they can be frightening to watch, most
      seizures are brief and stop by themselves. Seizures that don't stop in seconds or minutes are
      a dangerous life-threatening medical emergency. Paramedics often have medications that can
      stop seizures, but the best way to give the medicines is not known. Paramedics often give
      medicine directly into a vein, which is called intravenous (IV) administration. This works
      well, but can be hard to do in a person who is seizing. It can also take some time and delay
      treatment. Another way to give the medicine is as a shot given into a muscle, which is called
      intramuscular (IM) administration. Giving the medicine this way is faster, but it may not
      stop the seizure as quickly.

      This clinical trial, the Rapid Anti-convulsant Medication Prior to ARrival Trial (RAMPART),
      is designed to figure out whether giving anti-seizure medicine works similarly well and more
      quickly when given through an IV or when given as a shot in the muscle. Two similar medicines
      will be used. Both are already used by paramedics in the field and by doctors in the hospital
      to stop seizures. One is commonly given by IV, and the other is commonly given as a shot in
      the muscle. In this study, the shot will be given using a device similar to an EpiPen-which
      is an autoinjector used by people with severe allergies.

      Approximately 1,024 persons whose seizures are continuing after emergency medical service
      (EMS) arrival and who meet all eligibility criteria will be enrolled in the trial. Every
      participant will be treated with anti-seizure medicine by the paramedics. At random, half the
      participants will be in one group and half in another. Half the participants will receive the
      study medicine through an IV and will be given a shot in the muscle without medicine
      (placebo). The other half will receive the medicine as a shot in the muscle plus an IV
      without medicine (placebo).

      In September 2010, more rapid than expected enrollment made it feasible to increase the
      sample size of the study from 800 to 1,024 with the already available funding. The goals of
      the expansion were to enroll more pediatric subjects (since the trial was enrolling slightly
      fewer than anticipated) and to improve the power of the study to 90%, which was initially
      desired. It is important to understand that the extended enrollment was not a sample size
      re-estimation in any way. The opportunity to extend the trial is pragmatic, based solely on
      the early enrollment success of the trial. It is not informed by the planned interim analyses
      that have been performed, the results of which remain sequestered, and there have been no
      unscheduled interim analyses. The firewall that prevents the blinded leadership from any
      knowledge of the outcome data has been diligently maintained throughout the process of
      proposing and implementing this extension.
    
  