
    
      People with spinal cord injuries (SCI) are at a greater risk for major health conditions and
      poorer health outcomes than the population without disabilities. For people with SCI,
      physical activity is critical for both physiological and psychological well-being. Currently
      a gap exists; prior research indicates that exercise programs conducted in a controlled
      clinical setting have positive effects on the physical and psychosocial fitness of people
      with SCI, but rarely are these programs available in accessible community-based exercise
      facilities. With this study, the investigators aim to evaluate the improvements of the
      exercise group - EG (formally-directed) in both psychological and physiological well-being as
      compared to the control group - CG (self-directed). The investigators also aim to identify
      the perspectives of the participants on the recruitment and enrollment process, the
      assessment methods, and the intervention protocol. The long-term goal of this research is to
      improve outcomes of people with SCI once they leave rehabilitation by identifying strategies
      to promote health and support exercise in the community. This study will implement rigorous
      research procedures to examine a transitional exercise intervention in the community for
      people with SCI. This study will serve as the initial step toward that goal by pilot testing
      an exercise intervention to help with the transition from supported exercise programs
      experienced during rehabilitation to the community. The investigators will recruit 40 adults
      with SCI to participate in this study; the EG will participate in a transitional 12-week
      exercise intervention at Paraquad Health and Wellness Center (PQHWC). The CG will participate
      in a one-hour education session, learning about the National Council on Health, Physical
      Activity and Disability (NCHPAD), and then they will maintain their typical physical activity
      on their own for a 12-week period. This project will measure the potential psychosocial and
      physiological health benefits of participating in a transitional community-based exercise
      intervention. The investigators will then use the findings to define how exercise in the
      community can support health outcomes and improve therapeutic interventions to promote health
      of people with SCI.
    
  