
    
      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is an important manifestation of systemic atherosclerosis
      and is characterized by obstruction of the arteries of the lower limbs. PAD is usually
      associated with vascular complications that occur not only in peripheral circulation but also
      in cerebral and coronary trees (PubMed ID: 9892517). Intermittent claudication, the typical
      clinical manifestation of the disease that affects about a third of PAD patients, is
      identified by an alteration in blood flow to the lower extremities during exercise, worsens
      in 25% of patients and about 5% suffers an amputation (PubMed ID: 2647761). Arteries,
      arterioles, and capillaries that serve the skeletal muscle tissue distal to the site of the
      stenosis play a key role in the onset of claudication. Endothelial dysfunction, reduced
      glucose oxidation, accumulation of toxic metabolites, alteration in nitric oxide (NO)
      generation and oxidative stress seem to play a role among the factors that contribute to
      reducing blood flow in PAD patients (PubMed ID: 17298965). Nitric oxide (NO) is synthesized
      by L-arginine, is constitutively released by endothelial cells and serves to regulate
      vascular tone and to inhibit platelet function. NO is a potent anti-atherosclerotic molecule,
      as shown by an experimental study that shows that the integration of L-arginine reduces the
      progression of atherosclerosis. The generation of NO is reduced in patients with PAD and
      among the different mechanisms involved in the reduced generation of NO, the increase in
      oxidative stress could play a key role leading to accelerated degradation of NO or inhibition
      of NO synthase.

      Increased serum levels of isoprostanes and autoantibodies against low-density oxidized
      lipoproteins confirm the increase in oxidative stress in these patients. Furthermore, the
      role of oxidative stress is confirmed by an intervention study in which PAD patients treated
      with propionyl-L-carnitine (6 g / day) for 7 days significantly increased the maximum
      distance traveled (MWD), an increase in bioavailability of NO and a reduction in oxidative
      stress.

      PAD patients have a risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular mortality increased two to
      three times compared to healthy subjects. The alteration of platelet function is implicated
      in the development and progression of atherosclerosis, as well as in the pathogenesis of
      acute cardiac ischemic events. Platelet activation is increased in patients with lower limb
      ischemia compared to healthy controls since it suggests a pro-thrombotic state.

      Polyphenols are a class of natural, synthetic and semisynthetic molecules characterized by
      the presence of phenolic units. In recent decades, prospective and epidemiological studies
      that show potentially beneficial effects of these molecules on human health (for example on
      the cardiovascular and nervous system). In particular, the polyphenols exert their beneficial
      effect through the inhibition of NADPH oxidase (Nox2), which is crucial for the formation of
      reactive oxygen species (ROS). There are several flavonoids that can exert antiplatelet
      effects for example by attenuating the process of platelet activation. Moreover, polyphenols
      can also exert beneficial effects through the activation of autophagy.

      Autophagy is an intracellular cytoprotective process that mediates protein degradation,
      organelle turnover, recycling of cytoplasmic components in conditions of nutrient deprivation
      and cellular stress (PubMed ID: 15068787). Furthermore, autophagy plays an important role in
      the removal of excess cellular ROS by maintaining a redox balance (PubMed ID: 27200146). The
      degraded materials in the autophagosome are then used for anabolic reactions, to sustain
      energy levels and provide simple molecules deriving from the degradation process that can be
      reused by cells for other functions. Autophagy, therefore, helps cells adapt to energy and
      stress changes by supporting cellular metabolism, homeostasis, and survival (PubMed ID:
      18006683). The insufficient autophagic activity can contribute to cell death. Several studies
      have shown that inhibition of autophagic flow can contribute to the pathogenesis of
      cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, inflammatory disorders, cancer and physical stress (PubMed
      ID: 18191218).

      Trehalose is a natural disaccharide composed of two glucose molecules linked by an
      α1-1-glycosidic bond, which is synthesized by lower organisms such as yeasts, insect
      bacteria, and plants but not by mammals. Trehalose performs multiple functions that
      distinguish it from other common disaccharides, including a protective action against various
      stressors, such as oxidative stress, temperature changes, accumulation of protein aggregates
      and dehydration (PubMed ID: 12626396). Furthermore, recent evidence has shown that trehalose
      could prevent inflammatory responses induced by endotoxic shock both in vivo and in vitro
      (PubMed ID: 17172986 and PubMed ID: 18555988). The oral administration of this disaccharide
      is able to drastically reduce the development and progression of neurodegenerative disorders,
      hepatic steatosis, renal damage, insulin resistance, atherosclerosis, post-ischemic cardiac
      remodeling and pancreatitis (PubMed ID: 22689910, PubMed ID: 21147367 and PubMed ID:
      29724354) mainly through the stimulation of autophagy. Indeed, it has been shown that
      trehalose is a strong inducer of autophagy (PubMed ID: 17182613 ). Furthermore, our
      preliminary in vitro data showed that trehalose in combination with a mix of polyphenols
      (catechin and epicatechin) can reduce platelet activation, oxidative stress and improves
      autophagic flow. Finally, we observed in the endothelial cells that the mix could increase
      the production of NO, angiogenetic property and cell viability.
    
  