
    
      Vulnerability to HIV infection in Adolescent Girls and Young Women (AGYW) is mainly
      influenced by structural factors which mediate through sexual risk behaviour. Poverty and few
      alternative opportunities to generate income make AGYW prone to compensated and often
      inter-generational and unprotected sex.

      The Sauti program as implementing partner of the DREAMS initiative will provide unconditional
      cash transfer on quarterly basis to vulnerable AGYW in selected districts of Tanzania. The
      CARE study will evaluate the impact of this activity through a cluster randomised controlled
      trial that involves quantitative and qualitative research techniques.

      Cash transfer interacts with structural factors influencing sexual risk behavior in AGYW,
      providing alternative source to solve their social and economic needs and hence reducing the
      pressure to engage in compensated and unprotected sex which further reduces the risk of HSV-2
      and HIV acquisition at the population level.

      The proposed study (CARE study) is two parallel arms cluster-randomized controlled trial
      implemented in 3120 adolescent girls and young women (AGYW) aged 15-23 years followed up for
      18 months. Participants in randomized clusters will receive a quarterly cash transfer payment
      through mobile money on their cellular phones in Arm I (Unconditional Cash Transfer) while
      Arm II will not receive cash transfer payments (Control). The study will be conducted in
      Kahama Town Council, Ushetu and Msalala District Councils in Shinyanga region in mainland
      Tanzania.

      CARE study will enrol AGYW aged 15-23 years in 3 districts of Tanzania namely Msalala
      district, Ushetu district and Kahama town council in Shinyanga region. Villages in these
      areas will be eligible in the trial if they are:

      i) Sauti intervention villages receiving cash transfer or control villages ii) with at least
      70 AGYW according to the household survey

      AGYW found to be HIV and HSV-2 positive at baseline will not be excluded from the study
      because: 1) excluding them is likely to disclose their HIV or HSV-2 serostatus to the
      community and therefore expose them to stigma and other social harm; 2) Recruiting them is
      likely to increase their linkage to care and treatment and also likely to increase ART
      adherence; 3) They will participate in the interview and information collected will
      contribute to the study behavioural outcomes (reporting of compensated sex and
      inter-generational sex)

      Up to 3120 participants (1560 participants per arm) will be screened and up to 3060 enrolled.
      This sample size will achieve 80% power to detect a 35% reduction of HSV-2 incidence between
      intervention and the control arms and this sample size is also enough to detect a difference
      in HIV prevalence between the groups of 35% between the intervention and control arms.

      Control: No cash transfer.

      Intervention: unconditional cash transfer (UCT) in quarterly instalments of 70,000 TSH. The
      first instalment will take place after completion of 10 hours of BCC sessions and the AGYW
      has registered into CTP.
    
  