
    
      Endometriosis is a chronic disease defined as an ectopic endometrial tissue outside the
      uterus, mostly in the pelvis. It is related to major morbidity and infertility. It is also
      associated with chronic inflammatory state and increased risk of atherosclerosis.

      Endothelial dysfunction plays an important and elementary role in the development of
      atherosclerosis.

      There are number of non-invasive tests for evaluating the endothelial function. One of them
      is FMD - "Flow Mediated Dilatation". It refers to dilation (widening) of an artery when blood
      flow increases in that artery after An intentional block of the blood flow. Clinical studies
      proved the efficacy of this method in predicting cardio-vascular events in patients with
      established heart disease and also as an independent risk factor, better than the traditional
      ones.

      An alternative method, developed in recent years, is evaluation of peripheral blood vessels
      tone - "Peripheral Arterial Tonometry" - (PAT). It evaluates the pulsatile blood volume of
      the blood vessels in the fingertips during reactive hyperemia. The obtained value "reactive
      hyperemic index" (RHI) correlates well with FMD as well with coronary arteries endothelial
      dysfunction.

      The test is performed by attaching two sensors to the patient's fingertips. Using this method
      requires short training interval, completely user-independent and the accepted result is a
      quantitive index. Because it takes only 15 minute to complete the test it well suited as a
      clinical tool or as a test for a large-scale clinical study.

      Endothelial dysfunction has been demonstrated among woman with endometriosis. After surgical
      removal of endometrial implants there was a substantial improvement in the endothelial
      function, by imaging (using FMD) and by inflammatory markers, so no difference was shown
      between them and healthy women, 2 years thereafter.

      In a large meta-analysis, evaluating 5,547 patients, every 1% improvement in the FMD scale
      resulted in a 13% decrease in the rate of cardio-vascular events.

      In a meta-analysis evaluating 5,547 patients a 13% reduction in the risk to cardio-vascular
      events was demonstrated for every 1% improvement in the FMD score.

      In this study the investigators will follow the endothelial function among women undergoing
      endometrial implants surgical removal, before and after the surgery, using PAT technology
      (ENDOPAT system). Inflammatory markers and quality of life parameters will also be evaluated.

      The follow-up will include one meeting 6 weeks after the procedure the investigators expect
      an improvement in the endothelial function among women who had endometriosis implants
      removal.
    
  