
    
      The main purpose of the study is to examine the safety, efficacy, response predictors, and
      post-treatment trajectory of adolescents with TRD and high suicide risk following a highly
      conservative repeat dosing ketamine infusion paradigm (four infusions of 0.5mg/kg each over
      two weeks) compared to an active control, midazolam. Those who are randomized to midazolam
      and remain ill have the option to cross-over to ketamine in the open phase. All participants
      will be followed closely for four months post-treatment and treated with standard of care
      depression treatment (medication management and cognitive behavioral therapy). Brain-based
      predictors of anti-suicidal responses will be assessed via connectome predictive modeling
      (CPM), examining functional brain circuits via fMRI before and after treatment.

      Given the unregulated use of ketamine in the community at widely varying doses and
      frequencies, the safety data gathered from this highly conservative repeat dosing paradigm is
      critical to inform the field about potential risks. Efficacy data at rapid, short-term, and
      intermediate-term (4 month) timepoints will be critical to determining whether a larger study
      is warranted in this population. The assessment of brain-based predictors of response through
      the integration of functional neuroimaging adds an important measure of biological engagement
      that will inform subsequent studies and stands to contribute towards the goal of personalized
      medicine (i.e. determining not only if a treatment works, but in whom).

      Aim 1: To evaluate the safety of treating adolescents with TRD at high suicide risk with a
      conservative repeat-dosing ketamine paradigm followed by standard of care treatment over 4
      months. Hypothesis: We anticipate no untoward effects on medical outcomes (cardiovascular
      function and bladder health) or cognitive function (measured via Cogstate).

      Aim 2: To evaluate the 48-hour impact of ketamine on suicidal ideation compared to midazolam,
      and to identify connectome phenotypes predictive of ideation post-treatment. Hypothesis:
      Ketamine will reduce suicidal thinking (Columbia Suicide Rating Scale, recent ideation
      subscale) compared to midazolam. CPM will identify networks predictive of ideation, validated
      via k-fold or leave-one-out cross-validation within the sample. The network measures obtained
      at this fixed ketamine dose will inform the design of larger clinical trials.

      Aim 3 (exploratory): To describe the trajectory of suicidal thinking, depressive symptoms,
      and use of mental health resources in both ketamine responders and non-responders over 4
      months.
    
  