
    
      Twin studies have been critical in determining the contributions of genetic and environmental
      factors to normal brain structure and for understanding abnormalities of brain development
      that underlie neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders. In adults and older
      children, twin studies indicate that genes play a significant role in the variability of
      global brain volumes, including total brain, total gray and total white matter volumes. Other
      than this current study, there have been no studies of twin brain development in early
      childhood, the period of brain development implicated in the pathogenesis of many psychiatric
      disorders. In the first funding cycle of this grant, the investigators used prenatal
      ultrasound and neonatal MRI to study discordance of early brain development, and to determine
      genetic and environmental contributions to neonatal brain structure. The investigators have
      and have developed a unique and valuable cohort of twins, having recruited and scanned over
      100 twin pairs. The investigators found that discordance of prenatal brain size in MZ twins
      is similar to that in DZ twins, but that by 1 month after birth, discordance of overall brain
      volume in MZ twins is already less than in DZ twins. Contrary to our original hypothesis,
      statistical modeling of neonatal MRI brain volumes in our twin cohort indicates that global
      tissue volumes are highly heritable, similar to that observed in older children and adults.
      Therefore, it appears that genetic programs act very early in postnatal brain development to
      determine global tissue volumes. Interestingly, preliminary longitudinal mapping of
      correlations in gray matter density indicate correlations decrease in the first year of life,
      perhaps as the result of rapid brain growth in the first years of life. The investigators
      also found that while global white matter volumes are highly heritable, diffusion tensor
      properties of specific white matter tracts are not. In the next funding cycle, the
      investigators propose to continue enlarging this unique cohort and to follow them through age
      6 years with structural MRI, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), and developmental assessments to
      determine how genetic and environmental factors contribute to brain development in the first
      years of life.
    
  