
    
      Hazardous drinking (HD) is a major public health burden worldwide with significant morbidity
      and mortality. The prevention and treatment gap associated with this global burden requires
      that efficacious interventions be scaled-up, leveraging existing platforms and participation
      of policy makers ready to apply and sustain evidence-informed policies over time. To reduce
      HD, the WHO recommends using Screening, Brief Intervention, Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) and
      the mental health Gap Action Programme guidelines (mhGAP). As low- and middle-income
      countries (LMIC) embrace SBIRT and mhGAP for community based HD services (HDS), a main
      scale-up challenge is ensuring effectiveness, fidelity, and sustainability of services.
      Mobile health technology (mHealth), such as the mSBIRT app, is a promising tool for
      widespread cost-effective delivery of evidence-based HDS by community health workers (CHWs)
      because of its potential to increase fidelity, effectiveness, and sustainability. The
      proposed project, Community I-STAR (Implementation of SBIRT using Technology for Alcohol use
      Reduction) Mozambique, will leverage the following existing Mozambique Ministry of Health
      (MoH) programs: (1) a task-shifting strategy training psychiatric technicians (PsyTs) to use
      the mhGAP; (2) the WHO-funded epilepsy community program delivered by CHWs; and (3) an
      mHealth program for malaria, pneumonia, and diarrhea (inSCALE - Innovations at Scale for
      Community Access and Lasting Effects). These currently operating programs set the stage for
      the use of mSBIRT by CHWs to deliver community HDS in Mozambique and generate policy for
      scale-up of government-funded community HDS harnessing existing human resources. Community
      I-STAR Mozambique comprises three phases: 1) mSBIRT adaptation, 2) a cluster-randomized
      trial, and 3) scale-up of the most cost-effective intervention. A formative phase to adapt
      mSBIRT to Mozambique's context/culture, will be followed by a 2-year, cluster-randomized,
      hybrid effectiveness-implementation type 2 trial in 12 districts: 6 districts randomized to
      receive mSBIRT and 6 to an SBIRT Conventional Training and Supervision strategy (SBIRT-CTS),
      with both arms delivered by CHWs. The arm showing higher cost-effectiveness in the 2-year
      trial will be scaled up to the other 6 districts for 12 "cross-over" months. Throughout the
      trial and the "cross-over" scale-up, qualitative and process data will complement
      quantitative assessments to examine implementation, sustainability, and scale-up. This
      approach redefines work roles without requiring new human resources, and it comports with the
      MoH's commitment to implementing HDS. Evidence-based practices (SBIRT) will a) build capacity
      for complete task-shifting of sustainable community-HDS practices; and b) use implementation
      tools to examine implementation and effectiveness of two SBIRT delivery strategies followed
      by evaluation of scale-up of the most cost-effective strategy. Community I-STAR Mozambique
      will scale-up a cost effective, sustainable program and inform policy applicable to
      Mozambique and other LMICs.
    
  