
    
      Background: Artesunate-amodiaquine and artemether-lumfantrine are currently being used for
      the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum in Cameroon. Globally, many studies have
      reported high efficacy and safety of artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs) mostly
      under strict supervision of drug intake and limited to children less than 5 years of age.
      Patients over 5 years of age are usually not involved in such studies.

      Objective: To assess the genetic markers of antimalarial drug resistance and drug metabolism
      subsequent to the efficacy and safety of artesunate-amodiaquine and artemether-lumefantrine
      during a 28-day follow-up period in children with acute uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria
      in Yaounde, Cameroon.

      Study sites: District Hospital Cité Verte and District Medical Centre Minkoa Meyos in
      Yaounde, Cameroon. The two drugs, artesunate-amodiaquine and artemether-lumefantrine will be
      tested in each site.

      Study period: 9th May 2019 to 30th November 2020.

      Study design: This surveillance study is a two-arm, open-label, randomized controlled
      clinical trial.

      Patient population: Febrile patients aged 6 months to 10 years, with confirmed uncomplicated
      P. falciparum infection. Eligible children for whom parent/guardian informed consents are
      obtained will be randomized to receive either artesunate-amodiaquine (group A) or
      artemether-lumefantrine (group B) in the ratio 1:1.

      Sample size: A minimum sample of 76 patients will be required for the study. With a 20 %
      increase to allow loss to follow-up and withdrawals during the 28-day follow-up period, 92
      patients will be enrolled for each of the two study arms. The study will recruit a total of
      184 patients.

      Treatment (s) and follow-up: Drug intake will be partially supervised only for the first dose
      and subsequent doses administered unsupervised as pertains in routine practice in the field.
      Patients or their parents/guardians will be advised on the time and mode of administration
      for the 3 days (D0, D1 and D2) treatment unobserved at home. Follow-up visits will be
      performed on days 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28 to evaluate clinical and parasitological resolution of
      their malaria episode as well as adverse events. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) genotyping
      of merozoite surface proteins 1 and 2 (msp-1, msp-2) as well as glutamate rich protein
      (GLURP) will be used to differentiate between recrudescence and new infection.

      Classification of treatment outcomes Classification of treatment outcomes will be done based
      on the WHO 2009 guidelines: treatment failure (Early Treatment Failure-ETF, Late Clinical
      failure-LCF and Late Parasitological Failure-LPF) and treatment success (Adequate Clinical
      and Parasitological Response-ACPR).
    
  