
    
      Noncommunicable chronic diseases are pathologies that over time require skills in the patient
      and family caregiver; to ensure safe and continuous care once they are discharged from health
      institutions. The approach of them represents multiple challenges in need of greater
      communication and education; for this, the importance of generating strategies through
      different interventions must be taken into account.

      In this order of ideas, the program Plan of discharge or discharge consists of a coordinated
      intervention and executed by nursing staff that captures the patient dyad with chronic
      illness-family caregiver from his admission, stay and hospital discharge. The previous
      approach consists of a systematized guide that contemplates the following activities: 1)
      assessment of the family caregiver patient dyad to define the competence for care in the home
      (CARING), the level of risk and complexity of the care associated with the treatment in the
      home, according to defined risk: polypharmacy, parenteral medications, control medications
      and / or invasive devices; 2) education and instruction to the patient and the family
      caregiver during the hospital stay, anticipating the care needs at the time of discharge,
      with delivery of booklets, brochures and instructions, and 3) telephone follow-up for up to
      one month, by means of a 2-call call. week. (Melo Melo, Vargas Hernández, Carrrillo, &
      Alarcón Trujillo, 2017).

      In a study carried out by (Sanchez, Carrillo Gonzalez, & Barrera, 2014) they refer that there
      exists a great variety of literature on the plan of transition and hospital discharge, in
      which it is possible to evidence a heterogeneous level opposite to concrete guidelines, to
      advance these plans, although this management is recommended in benefit of the users since
      the evidence on the effectiveness of the development of plans of care, as fundamental part of
      the continuous, safe and integral care of the patients and their families is very limited.

      The support of professionals, institutions and the health system must respond to these
      demands to ensure the right to quality care for the sick person and the support required by
      his or her family caregiver, as well as other factors that influence access, security,
      continuity, social support with the use of appropriate information and communication
      technology and the strengthening of capacities for self-management and competence for care.
      (Carrillo Gonzalez , Sanchez Herrera, Gomez, Carreño, & Chaparro Diaz, 2017).

      It is important to highlight that in a study conducted by (Sara Gutiérrez 2014) its objective
      was to identify the way of educating both the patient and the family at the time of
      discharge, it was possible to identify that the nursing staff does not give education to
      patients of the instructions issued by the medical staff; patients and their caregivers do
      not understand the care received and therefore 86% do not comply with the latest indications
      as well as 50% of re-entries is given for not having understood or had education in front of
      the care and instructions given at the time of discharge of the patient. (Gutierrez Suarez &
      Freire, 2014).

      Regarding Effectiveness of the egress or transition plan for safe, comprehensive and
      continuous care, a trend is shown that would allow recommending the hospital transition and
      discharge plan, to support continuity, facilitate change, specify the guideline, avoid
      complications and decrease avoidable cost in patients with chronic, non-communicable disease.
      (Gutierrez Suarez & Freire, 2014)

      On the other hand (Ginarte Arias, 2001) comments that in the majority of cases the patient
      and / or caregiver is blamed in the adherence; However, 'it is suggested that public policies
      and the health system could be directly related to the cause of non-adherence to treatment.'
      (Ginarte Arias, 2001) In addition, the weaknesses of the Health System contribute to the
      problem.

      To assess adherence, different instruments have been designed, the most appropriate for this
      study being the Therapeutic Adherence Scale: it contains three factors, each with seven items
      distributed as follows: Control over the intake of medicines and foods, Medical follow-up
      behavioral and self-efficacy. Adherence is measured as a percentage, with 100 patients
      adhering. In this order of ideas, this instrument allows the evaluation of adherence in
      chronic diseases, without being directed to a specific disease. On the other hand, the
      authors have concluded that this scale identifies behavioral characteristics of patients,
      which favor or not their adherence to treatment (Soria Trujano, Vega Valero, & Navas Quiroz,
      2009).

      Program of Transition - Discharge Hospital, is based on strategies that can reduce adherence
      to treatment being predictive and key factors among which are: 'lack of knowledge of the
      disease, the therapeutic regimen and the consequences of non-compliance by the patient; lack
      of an adequate relationship between the patient and the doctor, complexity and long duration
      of treatment, asymptomatic disease, inadequate follow-up or lack of an elaborate plan on the
      abandonment of the medication; presence of adverse effects, cost of medication and / or
      copayment, failure to attend medical appointments, presence of psychological problems such as
      depression or anxiety, beliefs and perceptions of the patient. The transition and hospital
      discharge program starts from the patient's admission to hospital. the institution and the
      medication and presence of cognitive difficulties '. (Dilla, Valladares, Lizán, & Sacristán,
      2009)

      This research proposal is in the context and is articulated with the Comprehensive Health
      Care Policy (PAIS), where it addresses the different actors of the Health System to intervene
      in the social determinants that promote the health of people with chronic diseases. . It also
      shows the importance of intervening in public health with programs that in a short period
      contribute in a concrete way to the operative component in the Model of Integral Health Care
      (MIAS). (Ministry of Health and Social Protection, 2016)
    
  