
    
      Background Use of an upper limb prosthesis can improve function and quality of life, but
      these devices are frequently abandoned or used only intermittently. Two critical reasons for
      abandonment identified by prosthesis rejecters are insufficient prosthesis functionality and
      insufficient sensory feedback. Living with major limb loss is a complex experience involving
      multiple physical, psychological, and social factors. While many studies have investigated
      the needs and design priorities of prosthesis users, few have investigated how prosthesis
      features interact with other psychosocial aspects of the prosthesis use experience and
      overall attitude towards or acceptance of the device (outcome acceptance). To provide better
      prosthetic device options and improve rehabilitation outcomes, we must understand the
      relationships between prosthesis functional and sensory capabilities, the subjective
      experience of the prosthesis, and outcome acceptance following limb loss.

      Objective Our goal is to understand the critical factors associated with outcome acceptance
      following upper limb loss. We aim to develop a unified theoretical model that describes the
      psychosocial experience of upper limb prosthesis use and predicts outcome acceptance
      following upper limb loss. This conceptual framework will enable clinicians and researchers
      to evaluate and predict patient outcomes following limb loss, and to design interventions
      that improve outcomes.

      Specific Aims

        -  Specific Aim 1: Assess the impact of the experience of prosthesis dexterity and control
           on outcome acceptance.

        -  Specific Aim 2: Assess the impact of sensory feedback experience on outcome acceptance.

        -  Specific Aim 3: Refine the theoretical model derived from qualitative analyses by
           exploring the quantitative relationships between aspects of the model of outcome
           acceptance.

      Hypotheses Qualitative analyses will yield a theoretical model of outcome acceptance that
      includes psychosocial factors and prosthetic device factors related to dexterity, control,
      and sensory feedback. We hypothesize that experiences of prosthesis dexterity, control, and
      sensory feedback will both directly influence and modulate psychosocial factors of prosthesis
      use and user attitudes. We hypothesize that quantitative data collected through survey
      research will triangulate findings from the qualitative analyses, confirm the directionality
      of the conceptual relationships, and predict the relative weightings of relationships.

      Study Design The proposed study is a mixed methods (qualitative and quantitative) study using
      an observational design. The qualitative component of the study will involve data collection
      through telephone interviews with 18 participants and analyses using a grounded theory
      approach with constant comparison methods. The quantitative component involves administration
      and analyses of standardized measures quantifying constructs of the theoretical model in 120
      participants and use of these measures in a structural equation model of outcome acceptance.
      Participants will include persons with unilateral acquired upper limb loss at the trans
      radial or trans humeral level who use currently available prosthetic devices.
    
  