
    
      There is clear evidence that patients who have undergone ambulatory inguinal hernia (IHR)
      repair have significant pain following surgery. Inguinal hernia repair has been identified as
      one of the most painful ambulatory surgery procedures, with 98% of patients reporting pain 24
      hours following IHR surgery, and 54% of patients experiencing moderate to severe pain in the
      first 72 hours. Despite experiencing continued pain, patients do not always take the
      prescribed analgesics. Analgesics are helpful in managing post-operative pain but may have
      adverse effects, including nausea, vomiting or constipation, which are often not managed.
      Almost half of all patients who undergo ambulatory surgery experience these adverse effects
      with 45% experiencing constipation and 46% experiencing nausea and/or vomiting in the first
      48 hours after surgery.

      As well, patients may have concerns about addiction, or asking for help to manage their pain
      and may believe that moderate to severe pain is to be expected, contributes to healing and
      therefore is to be tolerated following surgery. Patients are expected to manage this pain and
      adverse effects of analgesics at home. Minimal research has been found regarding
      interventions to manage pain following ambulatory surgery, and none found specifically for
      patients undergoing inguinal hernia repair.

      The purpose of this trial is to investigate the impact of an individualized pre-operative
      pain education intervention that includes a booklet with telephone support pre-operatively
      and after discharge home versus usual care for patients having IHR surgery. The primary
      outcome will be worst pain on movement in the past 24 hours and the secondary outcomes will
      be pain related interference, pain quality, analgesic use and adverse effects, and patient
      satisfaction and concerns with pain management.
    
  