
    
      The velopharyngeal sphincter seals the oropharynx from the nasopharynx during swallowing and
      speech. This three-dimensional muscular valve closes through the synergistic behavior of the
      soft palate and the lateral and posterior walls of the pharynx. A soft palate defect
      surgically acquired in the context of oral cancer may impede complete closure and lead to a
      palatopharyngeal insufficiency. The resultant airflow escape results in hypernasality, poor
      speech intelligibility, and swallowing problems (such as leakage of foods and fluids into the
      nasal airways). The best way to rehabilitate and restore chewing and swallowing is one of the
      top ten research priorities in head and neck cancer. When the velopharyngeal function cannot
      be immediately restored with surgical reconstruction, patients can benefit from an obturator
      prosthesis. This obturator is a rigid extension of acrylic resin positioned at the level of
      the hard palate that provides surface contact for the remaining musculature. Often, the
      residual muscle stumps cannot move adequately around this stiff and inert obturator to
      properly restore the velopharyngeal valve function. The resulting blockage, or free space
      between the tissues and obturator, is a main cause of prosthetic failure. Subsequently, in
      many cases, oral functions remain impaired, with a negative impact on the patient's quality
      of life.

      The compensating treatment consists of a provisional removable partial denture (RPD) with a
      membrane obturator. The membrane consisted of a thick dental dam shaped with scissors to
      create a 10-mm overlap with the pharyngeal walls that was then perforated with four holes
      using punch pliers.

      The follow-up ends after the last visit. However, our team can provide cares of any patient
      seeking for dental care, prosthetic treatments and routine follow-up.
    
  