
    
      Background: Four out of ten older people having surgery live with frailty, leaving them
      vulnerable to adverse outcomes due to accumulation of age- and disease-related deficits. An
      increasing number of people with frailty require surgery. Frailty is associated with a
      >2-fold increase in complications and new patient-reported disability; absolute rates are
      >50% and 20% respectively; physical and physiologic deficits are particularly implicated.
      Mortality, costs and institutionalization after surgery are also significantly associated
      with frailty.

      Despite frailty's strong association with adverse outcomes, few perioperative trials include
      older people with frailty. Exercise therapy may improve function and decrease complications
      for other people with frailty by addressing physical and physiologic deficits. However,
      existing trials are small (median n=54) and single center. Most interventions have been
      resource-intensive, requiring attendance at hospital-based sessions, which may limit access
      to many who could benefit. Patient-reported outcomes are also lacking. Therefore, a
      multicenter trial of home-based exercise therapy before surgery for older people with
      frailty, powered to address patient-reported outcomes, is needed. Our trial will address
      these knowledge gaps by testing the effectiveness of home-based preoperative exercise
      (exercise prehabilitation) in decreasing patient-reported disability and postoperative
      complications in older people with frailty having major surgery.

      Research aims: Estimate the effectiveness of exercise prehabilitation on:

        -  Co-primary outcomes: patient-reported disability 30-days after surgery and in-hospital
           complications

        -  Secondary outcomes: patient-centered (discharge home, survival, 30, 90 and one-year
           disability scores, quality of life, function) and system-relevant (length of stay,
           admissions)

        -  Health economic outcomes: costs, cost-effectiveness

      Methods:

      Design, setting and participants: Parallel-arm multicenter randomized controlled trial at 14
      Canadian hospitals. People => 60 years old with frailty (Clinical Frailty Scale score of 4/9)
      having major elective non-cardiac surgery (vascular, intrathoracic, intraabdominal, pelvic,
      ENT) with expected length of stay of => 2 days will be included.

      Intervention: Home-based exercise program with demonstrated efficacy, feasibility and
      acceptability tailored for people with frailty.

      Outcomes and sample size: Co-primary outcomes are patient-reported disability 30 days after
      surgery (validated WHODAS tool) and prospectively collected in-hospital complications
      (validated POMS tool). 750 participants (375/arm) will provide 98% power for disability
      (control mean score 35 (SD 25; MID=8)) and 90% power for complications (55% complication rate
      (25% relative risk reduction)) (α=0.025; 2 pair-wise comparisons).

      Expertise: Our team features multidisciplinary clinical and methodological experts,
      nationally representative knowledge users and patient representatives.

      Expected outcomes: Older people with frailty are a growing and vulnerable segment of the
      surgical population and are under-represented in existing studies. Exercise prehabilitation
      is a high-priority research question which may be most relevant to people with frailty given
      their physical and physiologic vulnerabilities. This study, featuring patient-reported
      outcomes and an integrated knowledge translation approach will produce generalizable findings
      directly relevant to patients, families, caregivers, and knowledge users.
    
  