
    
      Patients scheduled to undergo routine upper endoscopy for foregut or esophageal symptoms will
      be enrolled. Patients undergoing surveillance for Barrett's esophagus with no dysplasia or
      low-grade dysplasia are candidates for participation, but patients with known high-grade
      dysplasia or adenocarcinoma or with a history of prior endoscopic resection or ablation for
      these conditions are not candidates for participation. Informed consent will be obtained from
      every patient prior to enrollment.

      Patients will be randomized prior to starting the procedure. Each patient will receive a
      randomization code at the time of randomization. It is important that the randomization code
      be included in the Case Report Form submitted with each patient, and will represent the
      unique deidentified code for each patient's data for inclusion in the study database.

      At endoscopy, all patients will be initially assessed for the presence of an endoscopic
      suspicious lesion using white light and if appropriate narrow band imaging or similar
      enhanced imaging techniques. All suspicious lesions undergo targeted biopsy first, and then
      either 4-Quadrant Random Forceps Biopsy or WATS biopsies of the GEJ and if present the
      columnar-lined esophagus based on the assigned randomization away from the area of targeted
      biopsies. A biopsy will be obtained from the antrum in each patient to assess for H. pylori
      infection and the presence of intestinal metaplasia.

      Targeted forceps biopsies of any endoscopic suspicious area will be placed in a separate
      pathology bottle from those obtained from 4-Quadrant Random Forceps Biopsy and analyzed
      separately as well.

      All the components needed to perform WATS biopsies are included in a kit with complete
      written instructions.

      WATS specimens will be analyzed by CDx Diagnostics. Investigator will ship the WATS specimens
      to CDx Diagnostics in accordance with CDx's instructions. Forceps biopsies will be analyzed
      by institution's pathology department and the pathology department of each additional site
      participating in the Study per standard protocol.

      The Investigator will determine appropriate follow-up of patients with and without IM or
      dysplasia detected by WATS or FB per standard individual and / or institution protocol.

      Investigator and all investigators at the additional sites will supply the study coordinator
      with de-identified data for each specimen, such de-identified data including patient
      demographics, endoscopic findings, and results of the FB of GEJ, antrum plus / minus
      esophagus. Study Data will be maintained on a secure database by the study coordinator during
      the Term and for six years thereafter.

      Biopsies with intestinal metaplasia or dysplasia may be reviewed by a central pathologist to
      confirm the original pathologic interpretation when there is a discrepancy between WATS and
      FB that is greater than 10%.
    
  