
    
      Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), is an immune-mediated acquired disease of adults and children
      characterized by transient or persistent decrease of the platelet count and, depending upon
      the degree of thrombocytopenia, increased risk of bleeding (Rodeghiero et al., 2009).
      International guidelines define thrombocytopenia as a peripheral blood platelet count less
      than 100 000/uL (Raj, 2017). Platelet count values between 100 000/uL and 150 000/uL are
      frequently found in apparently healthy people (Adibi et al., 2007) and this threshold reduces
      the concern over the mild "physiologic" thrombocytopenia associated with pregnancy (Neunert
      et al., 2011).

      Immune thrombocytopenia may be primary or secondary. Primary ITP is a diagnosis of exclusion.
      Secondary ITP occur due to an underlying diseases/conditions. Causes of secondary ITP include
      infection (CMV, Helicobacter pylori, HCV, HIV, Varicella zoster), Systemic lupus
      erythematosus, Antiphospholipid syndrome, Drug-induced, Lymphoproliferative disorders, Post
      bone marrow transplantation, and Post vaccination (Neunert et al., 2011).

      Primary ITP is an acquired autoimmune disease causing both increased platelet destruction and
      insufficient platelet production. More than one mechanism could contribute to this including
      autoreactive B lymphocytes, Th1/Tc1 polarization, T-cell-mediated platelet lysis and abnormal
      circulating Treg cells. Also, DNA methylation may participate in the pathophysiology of ITP
      (Semple et al., 2010, Wang et al., 2011).

      DNA methylation is a heritable, stable, and also reversible way of DNA modification; it can
      regulate gene expression without changing the nucleotide sequences (Huiyuan et al., 2013).
      DNA methylation is mediated by DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs). There are five members in DNMT
      group including DNMT3A and DNMT3B (Okano et al., 1999). DNMT3A and DNMT3B catalyze de novo
      methylation and it is important in the establishment of DNA methylation patterns within the
      embryo and during fetal development (Sawalha, 2008).

      DNA methylation status takes part in the regulation of immune response, the loss of
      methylation pattern in immune cells will result in autoimmune disease by inducing aberrant
      gene expression. ITP is an autoimmune disease with many immune deficiencies with abnormal DNA
      methylation involved in the disease etiology (Huiyuan et al., 2013). Chen et al., 2011,
      concluded that aberrant DNA methylation may take part in the pathogenesis of ITP by
      quantifying the methylcytosine concentration of genomic DNA. They found hypomethylation
      pattern in CD4 T cells of ITP patients.

      DNMT3A, and DNMT3B DNA methyltransferases are encoded by different genes on distinct
      chromosomes (Sawalha, 2008). There are many single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in DNMT3A
      gene which may affect catalytic activity of the DNMT3A enzyme, including -448G/A SNP (Zhao et
      al., 2012). Twenty-one polymorphisms have been identified in the DNMT3B gene including -149
      C/T SNP and -579 G/T SNP (Zhang et al., 2015).

      In a previous study in Assiut University Hospital (AbdelKader et al., 2018), the DNMT3A -448
      G/A SNP variant A allele was significantly associated with decreased risk of primary ITP,
      while, DNMT3B -149C/T SNP variant T-allele was significantly associated with nearly
      double-fold increase in risk of primary ITP. However, the underlying mechanism behind this
      association was not investigated. Authors recommended to study mRNA expression of DNMT genes,
      enzymatic activity of DNA methyltransferases, quantification of global methylated DNA, and/or
      methylation status of methylation-sensitive genes involved in primary ITP pathogenesis to
      understand this association.
    
  