
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD), the second most common progressive neurodegenerative disorder, is
      associated with loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta that leads
      to striatal dopamine deficiency. This dopaminergic loss results in motor deficits
      characterized by: akinesia, rigidity, resting tremor and postural instability as well as
      non-motor symptoms that might also involve other neurotransmitter systems. The non-motor
      symptoms may include: cognitive deficits (e.g., mild to severe memory impairment), emotional
      changes (e.g., depression, apathy and anxiety), sleep perturbations (e.g.,
      insomnia/hypersomnia), autonomic dysfunction (e.g., bladder disturbances, orthostatic
      hypotension, sweating), sensory symptoms (e.g., pain, visual and olfactory deficits) and
      gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., constipation, nausea).

      Parkinson's disease current treatment of choice is replacement of dopamine with its precursor
      Levodopa (L-Dopa), which unfortunately loses its effectiveness and can cause dyskinesia
      following prolonged usage. This fact motivates the search for new pharmacological strategies
      to better control the symptoms and/or progression of the disease.

      The inverse relationship between smoking and PD has been confirmed by a number of
      epidemiological studies. Moreover, numerous preclinical studies indicate neuroprotective
      effects of nicotine. Thus, nicotine may offer a novel intervention in PD. Although use of
      nicotine patch has been suggested in some neurodegenerative disorders, including PD, the
      investigators believe that the key for success with nicotinic intervention, particularly in
      PD, relies on mode of nicotine administration. In our opinion, an optimal nicotinic therapy
      in PD would consist of pulsatile nicotine delivery (e.g. via nasal spray) similar to
      pulsatile nicotine obtained via smoking. Pulsatile stimulation of the central nicotinic
      receptors (achievable via nasal spray) would affect the dynamic of the nicotinic receptors
      much more desirably than continuous nicotine administration via patch, which can result in
      continuous nicotinic receptor desensitization. The investigators also believe that nicotine
      delivered via nasal spray, in addition to its potential usefulness for improving motor
      dysfunctions, may also be helpful in non-motor symptoms (e.g. cognitive decline and
      depression) that are commonly associated with neurological disorders such as PD.

      Thus, this pilot clinical trial seeks to evaluate the efficacy of treatment during one month
      with nicotine nasal spray (Nicotrol NS®) in motor and non-motor aspects of PD.

      Hypothesis: Scores of the Movement Disorders Society Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale
      (MDS-UPDRS) for motor and non-motor symptomatology will decrease after 1 month of treatment
      with nicotine nasal spray (Nicotrol) in patients with PD (stages 2-3 of Hoehn & Yahr).

      Research question: Can controlled doses of nicotine administered via nasal spray decrease the
      severity of PD (stages 2-3 of Hoehn & Yahr) using MDS-UPDRS scores?
    
  