
    
      Despite the importance of code status discussions (CSD) and goals of care discussions (GOCD)
      before surgery, formal training for anesthesiology residents surrounding these patient
      interactions is lacking. Investigators propose to develop a novel CSD/GOCD skills training
      and testing program for anesthesiology residents. Resident participants will receive one of
      two educational interventions: a) online learning modules (Group A, Control group) or b)
      online learning modules followed by facilitated small group discussion and active learning
      exercises (Group B, Study group). All residents will undergo competency assessment of CSD and
      GOCD via an Objective Standardized Clinical Examination (OSCE). Accordingly, this study will
      test the central hypothesis that participants in the group with facilitated discussions and
      active learning will score more highly during the OSCE competency assessments immediately
      after training and at 3 and 6 months. Testing of this hypothesis will be accomplished through
      the following three Specific Aims:

        1. Creation of a standardized CSD/GOCD Training Program:

             1. Online modules: This component of the training program will consist of online
                materials that can be consumed by residents at their convenience over the 3 week
                training period. Both Groups A and B will be given access to this material.

             2. Self-Assessment and Small group exercises: This component of the training program
                will consist of facilitated discussions, role playing, and guided reflective
                writing in order to advance upon the material received in the online training. Only
                Group B will receive this training prior to OSCE competency assessments.

        2. Development and validation of a CSD/GOCD OSCE: Published best-practice principles for
           the development of OSCE competency assessments will be used to create separate
           experiences for CSD and GOCD. While keeping the core components of examinations the
           same, several clinical stems will be created for each OSCE to prevent recall bias.

        3. Validation of the existing CSD/GOCD assessment tools for the perioperative setting: A
           previously described modified Delphi technique will be used to further develop the
           itemized and global assessment tools. Then, an Anghoff standard setting method will be
           used to determine the minimum passing score (MPS) for the OSCE competency assessment.

      EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN and METHODS:

      Investigators will perform a prospective randomized controlled trial as detailed below. The
      overall hypothesis of this study is that anesthesiology residents who receive facilitated
      discussions and active learning will score more highly during the OSCE competency assessments
      immediately after training and at 3 and 6 months. This will be tested through the following
      Specific Aims:

        1. Creation of a standardized CSD/GOCD Training Program: Investigators will develop a novel
           curriculum consisting of online modules covering the skills needed to Prepare for the
           Discussion, address Values and Goals of Care, explain Informed Consent for Code Status
           Discussions, and Summarize the Discussion for the patient. It will consist of
           evidence-based, best practices content covering professional (i.e. ASA) guidelines,
           current literature, and effective communication strategies. The Program will be
           completed over 1 week. Group A will receive the Online Modules components and Group B
           will receive two papers on CSD/GOCD topics.

           Online Modules: This component of the training program will consist of online materials
           that can be consumed by residents at their convenience over the 3 week training period.
           A series of short videos with lectures by various experts in the field which will
           include a detailed review of key scientific and educational research literature as well
           as a practical 'how-to' guide for CSD and GOCD.

        2. Development and validation of a CSD OSCE and GOCD OSCE: Published best-practice
           principles for the development of OSCE competency assessments will be used to create
           separate experiences for CSD and GOCD. While keeping the core components of examinations
           the same, several clinical stems will be created for each OSCE to prevent recall bias.

        3. Investigators will develop and validate a standardized OSCE curriculum with an input
           from a multidisciplinary team, including representatives from surgery, anesthesiology,
           palliative medicine, nursing, and chaplaincy. CSD/GOCD skills will be assessed using a
           validated Code Status Discussion Checklist. The training program will be based on
           previous work developing similar programs and simulation scenarios for the Operating
           Room Emergency Checklists. This program resulted in an increase from 75% of key items
           completed to 94%.

        4. Case Development: Two case scenarios will be utilized, building on experience from our
           preliminary data. These were described in Preliminary Studies: both will be oncology
           patients with an active DNR/DNI order: One with cholecystitis presenting for a
           cholecystectomy, and the other with an impending pathological femur fracture presenting
           for an ORIF.

        5. Validation and further development of existing CSD and GOCD assessment tools: A
           previously described modified Delphi technique will be used to create the itemized and
           global assessment tools. Then, an Anghoff Standard Setting method will be used to
           determine the minimum passing score (MPS) for the OSCE competency assessment.

           a. Checklist Creation: i. Step 1: Engage a group of educational and content experts from
           at least 3 institutions to create the checklist items through a modified Delphi
           technique.

           ii. Step 2: Convene a face-to-face meeting of experts to perform an Angoff standard
           setting process to determine a minimum passing score (MPS).

           iii. Step 3: All OSCE performances will be videotaped and a group of raters will be
           engaged to grade all of the resident performances. Their ratings will be assessed for
           interrater and intra-rater reliability, which is one component of validity assessment.

           b. Training for Standardized Patients and Graders: Both the standardized patient and the
           graders will undergo training to familiarize them with the grading tools and the study
           scenarios.

           Assessment: Using validated tools, investigators will assess the impact of the study by
           analyzing the initial baseline survey, graded performance on Pre- and Post-Intervention
           OSCE, and the 3 and 6 month follow-up survey. Specific outcomes analyzed will include:

             -  The immediate effect of the training program intervention on improving CSD/GOCD
                skills

             -  Long-term effect and internalization of the CSD/GOCD training

             -  The authenticity of the OSCE interaction

             -  The feasibility and acceptability of the training program and OSCE
    
  