
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To document the safety and tolerability of sEphB4-HSA (recombinant ephB4-HSA fusion
      protein) intravenously (IV) weekly when administered in combination with: arm A) gemcitabine
      (gemcitabine hydrochloride) and nab-paclitaxel (paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
      formulation), arm B) docetaxel, arm C) gemcitabine and cisplatin.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the adverse event profile of sEphB4-HSA IV weekly when administered in
      combination with: arm A) gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, arm B) docetaxel, arm C) gemcitabine
      and cisplatin.

      II. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of sEphB4-HSA when combined with: arm A) gemcitabine
      and nab-paclitaxel, arm B) docetaxel, arm C) gemcitabine and cisplatin.

      III. To assess, in a preliminary fashion, the anti-tumor efficacy of sEphB4-HSA in
      combination with the various chemotherapy regimens in each of the 4 cohorts separately: Arm A
      cohort 1-patients with advanced pancreatic cancer; Arm B cohort 2-patients with head and neck
      cancer; Arm B cohort 3-patients with non-small cell lung cancer; Arm C cohort 3: patients
      with cholangiocarcinoma.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the expression of EPH receptor B4 (EphB4) and ephrinB2 in the archival tumor
      samples and explore potential associations with outcome.

      II. To bank specimens for future correlative biomarkers studies based on the results of
      ongoing biomarkers analyses in the phase I of sEphB4-HSA as a single agent.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose de-escalation study of recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein. Patients
      are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15,
      and 22 (beginning course 2), paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over
      30 minutes and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and
      15 (beginning course 2) and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and
      15 (beginning course 2), cisplatin IV over 120 minutes and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over
      30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In all arms, patients with chemotherapy related toxicity may continue treatment with
      recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein alone. Patients with toxicity related to recombinant
      EphB4-HSA fusion protein may continue treatment with chemotherapy at the discretion of the
      investigator.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  