
    
      By 2015 more than half of persons living with HIV (PLWH) in the U.S. will be older than 50
      years of age. Two factors contribute to the "graying" of the HIV epidemic. The overwhelming
      success of antiretroviral therapy (ART) has improved life expectancy and dramatically changed
      the trajectory of HIV; it is now a complex chronic condition, often associated with multiple
      comorbidities such as cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cognitive impairment (CI). Second,
      increasing numbers of middle-aged and older adults are becoming infected with HIV.
      Clinicians, patients, and society are currently ill-prepared to deal with the biomedical
      complexities and unique medical and psychosocial challenges associated with the growing aging
      HIV population.

      Aerobic exercise or exercise that speeds up the heart rate lowers CVD risk, and is known to
      improve physical and mental function with aging, but few well designed studies have reported
      use of aerobic exercise interventions in PLWH, and no studies have reported whether exercise
      improves cognitive function in this high risk for CI population. Regular aerobic exercise
      performed 5 times per week for 150 minutes has also been shown to improve aspects of
      cognitive function in community-dwelling older adults. Only one exercise study however, has
      examined the effect of exercise on cognition in PLWH and was limited by a self-reported,
      unreliable indicator of cognitive status; no studies have reported whether exercise improves
      cognition in this population using objective assessments, or examined the potential
      mechanisms involved.

      The home-based, 5 day per week moderate intensity walking intervention, the 'Let's Move
      Program,' has been tested and is effective for lowering CVD risk older caregivers and adults
      with advanced CVD. The proposed pre-post test pilot study will examine the feasibility of
      implementing the Lets Move Program among 40 PLWH over 6-months. Participants enrolled in the
      study will be ≥ 50 years of age, sedentary, have 2 CVD risk factors such as high blood
      pressure and obesity and demonstrate mild to moderate CI using standardized tests.
      Motivational Interviewing (MI) will be used to promote exercise confidence and optimize
      adherence to the intervention.
    
  