
    
      Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disorder diagnosed in about 1% of the population, or c.
      400,000 patients in Poland. Autoimmune refractory epilepsy is rare but most disabled epilepsy
      leading to developmental regression. The belief in a positive effect of ADRCs in
      drug-resistant epilepsy comes from test results showing the ability of mesenchymal cells to
      concentrate in damaged tissues, as well as their strong immunomodulating, especially
      anti-inflammatory, properties. Patients with drug resistant epilepsy show decreased numbers
      of neurons within the epilepsy zone, with most of these being hyperactive and malfunctioning.
      Additionally, an inflammatory active reaction in affected brain tissue is visible.
      ADRC-induced activation of endogenous neurogenesis may increase chances that the epilepsy
      zone will be reduced, and give a positive impact as regards the neuropsychiatric disorders
      commonly present in patients with epilepsy. Another common process accompanying recurring
      epilepsy attacks is active inflammation. Per the literature, ADRCs show strong
      neuroprotective, immunomodulating and antiapoptotic qualities and they may potentially reduce
      the frequency of epilepsy attacks. Thus, a clinical trial with ADRCs, addressed to
      drug-resistant epilepsy sufferers would be promising in controlling the epileptic seizures
      and coexisting behavioral / psychiatric symptoms. The goal is to improve the quality of life
      of the patients and their caregivers.

      In patients who were diagnosed with autoimmune drug-resistant epilepsy and have met the set
      criteria and qualified to take part in the examination, after a formal written consent of
      their parents at the Clinic of Child Neurology IMC neurological examination, routine
      laboratory tests, EEG and neuropsychological assessment will be performed. ADRC will be
      obtained after liposuction and isolation with Cytori system.

      Before intrathecal transplantation of ADRC suspension ( 5 ml), cerebrospinal fluid will be
      collected for evaluation of origin protein level, oligoclonal bands, the IgG index as well as
      GluR3, VGKC complex/LGI1, GM1, NT-3, GAD, and NMDAR antibodies. At the same time there will
      be an intake of 5ml of serum to evaluate levels of immunoglobulins IgA, IgM and IgG.

      Procedure will be repeated 3 times every 3 months in each patient. Neurological status, brain
      MRI, cognitive function and antiepileptic effect will be supervised during 24 months.
    
  