
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of an aerobic exercise intervention on
      CRCC in women diagnosed with breast cancer who undergo chemotherapy. The specific objectives
      are to:

        1. Test the effect of aerobic exercise during chemotherapy (EX) compared to a usual care
           wait-list control group (exercise after chemotherapy; UC) on CRCC as assessed by
           neuropsychological tests and self-report;

        2. Test the effect of EX compared to UC on:

             1. Global measures of brain structure and functioning including brain volume in
                regions associated with working memory and response inhibition, white matter
                integrity (i.e., fractional anisotropy, mean diffusivity), and neural functioning
                using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI);

             2. Overall global brain network organization and improved regional brain network
                organization and neural functioning in areas underlying attention and working
                memory (i.e., dorso-lateral prefrontal cortex, superior temporal region and
                posterior parietal cortex) using electroencephalography (EEG; Vancouver site only;
                see Methods).

        3. Assess if the timing of the exercise intervention (i.e., during chemotherapy versus
           after chemotherapy) moderates the effects on CRCC by examining the effects of the
           intervention at 1-year post start of chemotherapy.

      It is hypothesized that:

        1. At the end of chemotherapy, EX group will perform better than UC group on
           neuropsychological tests and will self-report better cognitive functioning;

        2. At the end of chemotherapy, EX group will have maintained measures of brain structure
           and functioning as assessed by MRI scans and EEG (Vancouver site only) compared to UC
           group who will have significant changes in both;

        3. At 1-year post the start of chemotherapy, EX group will have better outcomes compared to
           the UC group.

      This is a two-arm, two-centre RCT. The two arms are:

        1. Aerobic exercise intervention during chemotherapy (EX);

        2. Usual care during chemotherapy and aerobic exercise after chemotherapy (i.e., usual care
           wait-list control group; UC).

      Recruitment:

      84 women diagnosed with breast cancer will be recruited across the two sites. The primary
      method of recruitment will be through printed postings and oncologist referral at the two
      main clinical sites: British Columbia Cancer Agency-Vancouver (BCCA) and The Ottawa Hospital
      (TOH). We anticipate our target of 84 patients will be reached in 30 months (combined site
      rate of 2-3 participants per month).

      Outcomes will be assessed at:

        1. Pre-chemotherapy (baseline, week 0);

        2. Mid-chemotherapy (approximately 6-9 weeks post-baseline);

        3. End of chemotherapy (approximately 12-18 weeks post-baseline);

        4. Follow-up and post-usual care wait-list control group receiving the intervention
           (approximately 24-34 weeks post-baseline);

        5. 1-year follow-up (52 weeks post-baseline).

      Optional neuroimaging and EEG will be completed in a sub-set of participants at each site who
      are interested, eligible, and consent to additional assessments at these time points:

        1. Pre-chemotherapy (baseline, week 0);

        2. End of chemotherapy (approximately 12-18 weeks post-baseline);

        3. 1-year follow-up (52 weeks post-baseline).

      Intervention:

      After obtaining informed consent, each participant will be scheduled for a baseline
      assessment (week 0). After baseline assessments, participants will be randomized. For the EX
      group, the intervention will be delivered concurrent with participants' chemotherapy regimen
      (lasting approximately 12-18 weeks). The intervention will be progressive aerobic exercise.
      The intervention is based on prior protocols used by the study team among women during
      treatment or who have completed treatment. Participants will complete three supervised 20-40
      minute aerobic exercise sessions each week. Home-based exercise will be introduced in week 3.
      For the home-based sessions, participants will be asked to complete at least 1 session per
      week of 30 minutes of aerobic exercise (an activity of their choosing; e.g., walking).

      Data Analysis:

      Changes in objective and self-reported cognitive functioning will be analyzed based on
      repeated measures analysis of variance with fixed terms for treatment, time, and a treatment
      by time interaction. Clinically important baseline differences between the study arms will be
      included as covariates in all analyses. Correlation in repeated measures on the same
      individual over time will be accounted for by explicitly modeling the covariance matrix, with
      the best-fitting covariance structure decided using likelihood ratio tests and information
      criteria. The difference between the experimental and control arms at end of chemotherapy
      (primary comparison) will be calculated as adjusted least square mean difference in change
      from baseline, together with 95% confidence intervals. All tests will be evaluated at the
      two-sided 5% level of significance. SAS v.9.3 will be used for all analyses. Additional
      adjusted analyses will be carried out using potential covariates.

      To explore changes in brain structure and functioning, data will be analyzed with SPM12 (VBM
      and CONN toolboxes) and FSL (FMRIB Software Library v5.0). Following respective
      post-processing procedures, pre- and post- intervention measurement comparisons will be
      conducted using voxel-wise statistical repeated-measures analyses, appropriate to each MRI
      technique (for example, FA, MD for the DTI data, seed-to-voxel functional connectivity for
      the fMRI data, as well as both whole brain and region of interest analyses of each fMRI
      task). Statistical maps will be inspected at p < 0.05 levels, corrected for multiple
      comparisons. To test the effect of aerobic exercise during chemotherapy compared to
      post-chemotherapy on outcomes 1-year after enrolment, the models as described above will
      additionally include the response at 1-year follow-up and the contrast of interest will be
      the difference in change from baseline (week 0) to 1-year post start of chemotherapy (week
      52).

      The sustainability of the intervention will be examined in each arm by testing the change in
      response from immediately post-intervention to week 52, together with a 95% confidence
      interval.

      EEG signal processing will be completed using EEG time series from 27 locations to construct
      the brain connectivity networks. The network graphs will be computed for each subject using
      the false discovery rate controlled PC (PCFDR) algorithm, which is a statistical model that
      tests the conditional dependence/independence between any two regions based on all other
      brain regions. Partial correlation will be used to evaluate the conditional independence,
      which estimates the directed interactions between any two brain regions after removing the
      effects of all other brain areas. The FDR threshold will be set at a 5% level. Graph Theory
      Analysis will use the "Brain Connectivity Toolbox" running Matlab (Natick, MA) to carry out
      the graph theoretical based analysis. Traditional graph theoretical calculations will be used
      to characterize different features of the network of interest such as density, global
      efficiency, modularity and small-worldness.

      Justification:

      CRCC, or "chemo brain", is common among women diagnosed with breast cancer, significantly
      impacts everyday life, and diminishes quality of life. Women with breast cancer described
      their chemo brain symptoms as "frustrating", "upsetting" and for some "frightening". In
      addition, women with breast cancer may be unable to return to their previous occupational,
      family and social activities, or do so only with significant additional mental effort. As a
      result the high prevalence of chemo brain in women with breast cancer has a large economic
      burden due to demand of health care resources and lost work-force productivity. Women with
      breast cancer also report a general frustration in the response of the medical community,
      either due to lack of acknowledgement of their symptoms or the fact that intervention
      strategies are limited. Furthermore, there is limited information to guide health care
      professionals with regards to clinical guidelines for the management of chemo brain and
      health care professionals report that they do not consider themselves adequately
      knowledgeable to address chemo brain.

      This study will test if exercise during chemotherapy can mitigate chemo brain and its
      negative impact on quality of life among women diagnosed with breast cancer, which if shown
      to be effective, will have profound effects on the lives of those with chemo brain as well as
      their family members and clinicians who currently have a lack of treatment options available.
    
  