
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a severe, chronic, disabling autoimmune disease that
      significantly affects health status and quality of life. Since the disease occurs most often
      in young to middle-aged adults, SLE can also affect work and disability. However, there is
      currently little information on work-related disability from longitudinal, population-based
      studies of SLE.

      The Carolina Lupus Study is a large (265 cases, 355 controls) case-control study of SLE in
      eastern North Carolina and South Carolina. Patients were recently diagnosed (median time from
      diagnosis to enrollment was 13 months) and were referred from university and community
      rheumatologists (approximately 50% from each source). Controls were selected using a
      population-based sampling method (state driver's license registries). A standardized
      in-person interview was conducted that included demographic, reproductive, and occupational
      histories, and a blood sample was collected from 92% of cases and 85% of controls.
      Approximately 60% of the study patients (n=150) are African-Americans. The Carolina Lupus
      Study cohort provides an opportunity to examine disability and disease severity measures in a
      population-based sample of SLE patients diagnosed within a relatively short period
      (1995-1999).

      Participants were enrolled into the Carolina Lupus Study between February, 1997 and July,
      1999. We conducted two telephone contacts with patients and one telephone contact with
      controls in a follow-up study completed in 2001. Funding for the proposed follow-up is
      provided by The National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Diseases (NIAMS), NIH
      Multidisciplinary Clinical Research Center for Rheumatologic Diseases in African Americans
      (Project C - Genetic and environmental influences on the development and progression of lupus
      nephritis). Patient contact will follow an introductory letter that describes the proposed
      follow-up study interviews which are planned to begin in late 2003. This letter provides
      participants the opportunity (via a toll-free phone number) to decline further contact about
      this study. The 30-minute telephone interview will cover hospitalizations, current health
      status, work and disability issues, and changes in exposures since the 2001 follow-up
      interview.

      Controls will not be contacted for this year's follow-up but may be contacted during
      subsequent years. A total of 101 cases from the UNC Lupus Nephritis Study will also be
      included in this follow-up. Disease damage will be assessed using the Systemic Lupus
      International Collaborating Clinics (SLICC) American College of Rheumatology (ACR) Damage
      Index, a standardized and validated instrument that is completed by the patient's physician.
      Written consent will be obtained before any information is obtained from the patient's
      physician or medical record. We will seek death certificates for patients and controls who
      have died in order to obtain cause of death information.
    
  