
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Since 1960, surgical advances have led to correction of congenital heart defects in children
      who otherwise may not have achieved maturity. Consequently, it became increasingly important
      to understand the long-term morbidity, mortality and functional status of these patients.
      Because of the tremendous outlay of time, money and personnel devoted to prolonging the lives
      of children with congenital heart defects, it was vital to examine the accomplishment of
      long-term goals: achievement of a normal lifespan as a functioning, effective member of
      society.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Preoperative, operative, and postoperative data for each patient were entered into the
      registry data base at chart review. Follow-up for each patient was gathered by mail
      questionnaire, telephone survey, and the National Death Index. Questionnaires assessed
      morbidity, functional status, and reproduction. Pregnancy and major events were confirmed
      from physicians' records. Follow-up for tetralogy of Fallot, ventricular septal defect, and
      atrial septal defect was conducted in years 1, 3, and 5, and for transposition of the great
      arteries, aortic stenosis, pulmonic stenosis, patent ductus arteriosus, and coarctation of
      the aorta in years 2 and 4. Chart review was completed in year 2 and cases were then
      identified prospectively. Actuarial analysis and Cox proportional hazards models determined
      mortality, major morbidity, and their risk factors. Reproductive data were analyzed per years
      of fertility for the cohort, and compared to Oregon population statistics. During 1988-1989,
      chart review and data abstraction were completed for children having surgical corrections
      from 1958-1987 for the eight defects under study. Also, during 1988-1989, children undergoing
      cardiac surgery for the eight defects were added to the registry.

      The study was renewed in 1993 to sustain and expand the registry of all Oregon children 18
      years of age or younger undergoing surgical repair from 1958 to the present of 14 major
      congenital heart defects: tetralogy of Fallot (TOF), ventricular septal defect (VSD), atrial
      septal defect (ASD), coarctation of the aorta, pulmonic stenosis (PS), aortic stenosis (AS),
      transposition of the great arteries, patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), tricuspid atresia (TA),
      total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR), pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular
      septum (PA), PA with VSD, partial atrioventricular canal (AVC), and complete AVC. The first
      eight defects were included in the registry: TOF (n =438). VSD (n =402), ASD (n =496), COA (n
      =479), AS (n = 175), PS (n = 200), TGA (n = 169), and PDA (n = 533). All cases of surgical
      treatment of TA, TAPVR, PA, PA with VSD, and partial and complete AVC from 1958 to the
      present were added to the registry. Preoperative, operative, and postoperative data for each
      patient were entered into the database from chart review. Each hospital was visited twice
      yearly to ascertain new cases. Individuals were followed every two years for intercurrent
      events by mailed questionnaire or phone interview. Questionnaires and interviews assessed
      major morbidity, functional status, and reproduction. Pregnancy, major events, and recurrent
      CHD were confirmed by medical records. Actuarial analysis and the Cox proportional hazards
      model determined mortality, morbidity, and their risk factors, and compared observed survival
      with expected population survival. Reproductive data were analyzed per years of fertility for
      cohort, and compared to Oregon population statistics.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  