
    
      The study addresses the problem that postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes have a higher
      incidence of bone breaks despite their often normal bone mineral density (BMD).

      The investigators pursued two hypotheses, that:

        1. 40-minute bout of downhill exercise will increase the CICP/CTX osteogenic index to a
           greater extent than the same amount of uphill exercise; and

        2. Performing exercise one hour after the meals will be more osteogenic than exercise
           before the meals.

      Subjects were 15 postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes, age 57.7 years, BMI 27.2 kg/m2
      who were randomly assigned to two out of 5 trials:

      Uphill exercise before the meals (UBM), Uphill exercise after the meals (UAM), Downhill
      exercise before the meals (DBM), Downhill exercise after the meals (DAM), and Sedentary,
      no-exercise, trial (SED). All subjects signed an informed consent approved by the University
      of Michigan Medical School Institutional Review Board. Subjects had their BMD measured with
      DXA at the outset.

      Weight-maintenance meals contained 50% carbohydrate, 15% protein, and 25% fat and were
      provided at 10 h and 17 h. Exercise (40 minutes at 50% of maximal effort) on either uphill
      (+6o slope) or downhill treadmill (-6o slope) was performed either before the two meals, at 9
      h and 16 h, respectively, or after the meals. at 11 h and 18 h, respectively.

      Blood was drawn through an intravenous catheter from ante-cubital vein at hourly intervals
      between 8 and 20 h with two additional blood draws at 0 h and 6 h the next morning. Blood was
      treated with protease inhibitors, and plasma, frozen at -80o C, was used to measure bone
      markers, CICP, CTX, osteocalcin , and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase using Millipore
      chemoluminescen reagents, glucose by glucose oxidase, and hormones insulin, cortisol,
      parathyroid hormone (PTH) , and growth hormone (GH) by radio-immunoassays..

      Mixed-model ANOVA was used for analysis of outcome measures where the trial procedures served
      as fixed variable and individual subjects as intercept variables.
    
  