
    
      The study population will be allogeneic bone marrow transplant patients and those who have
      received CART therapy - immunocompromised patients who are vaccinated with COVID-19 in a
      commercial preparation, regardless of the study.

      The following procedures are routinely performed before receiving the vaccine in the bone
      marrow transplant unit -

        1. Blood count and lymphocyte subgroup counts before vaccination (up to 48 hours before
           vaccination).

        2. Evaluation of GVHD activity and accompanying toxicity.

        3. Receipt of a letter confirming the vaccination to the HMO.

        4. One-week follow-up after vaccination including blood count, complete chemistry, GVHD
           evaluation, and review of adverse reactions that may be vaccine-related.

        5. Referral for a second dose of the vaccine.

        6. One week follow-up after vaccination including blood count, complete chemistry, GVHD
           evaluation, review of side effects that may be vaccine related.

      The following procedures are performed only as part of the study -

        1. Serology test (IgG AntiS) two weeks after the second dose of the vaccine to test the
           effectiveness of the vaccine.

           Cell separation two weeks after the second vaccination and execution -

        2. ELISpot test to test for the release of interferon gamma in response to the stimulation
           of cells separated with the SARS-COV-2 virus peptides (stimulation with S peptides to
           evaluate vaccine response, and stimulation with M peptides as a control).

      All data collected in the study will be typed into Excel and analyzed using SPSS version
      25.0. Continuous data will be described using averages and standard deviations, and
      categorical data will be described using prevalence and percentages.

      The distribution of the continuous variables will be presented using an outline graph and
      will be examined using the Kolmogorov Smirnov test.

      An attempt will be made to perform subgroup analysis (depending on the frequency of the
      groups in the sample) for the patient group:

      Patients after bone marrow transplantation with acute GVHD Patients after bone marrow
      transplantation with chronic GVHD Patients after bone marrow transplantation without
      immunosuppressive therapy Patients after Cell Therapy (CART) Patients lack primary
      immunization
    
  