
    
      Schizophrenia is a mental illness with unknown cause and difficult treatment which the global
      lifetime prevalence rate of about 1%. The core symptoms of schizophrenia include positive
      symptoms, negative symptoms, and impairment of cognitive function. Positive symptoms in most
      patients after antipsychotic treatment can significantly alleviate after antipsychotic
      treatment, but negative symptoms and cognitive deficits persist. Unfortunately, the long-term
      prognosis and social function of patients mainly depend on the degree of the rehabilitation
      of negative symptoms and cognitive function. At present, clinical research domestic and
      overseas on the negative symptoms and cognitive function gradually increased, but end up with
      the poor consistency of research results. The reason is various, but in any case, improving
      the treatment strategy is still very important.

      Epidemiological data suggest that the age of onset of female schizophrenia is later than men,
      most of which are onset abruptly, and females have higher susceptibility to mental illness
      and relapse during the two important periods with hormonal changes. The first is in the
      postpartum, menopause is the second. It may be related to the lack of estrogen function.
      Therefore, we believe that the onset and symptoms of some female patients with schizophrenia
      are related to the dysfunction of estrogen. Many studies abroad have found that estrogen and
      selective estrogen receptor modulators have significant effects on female patients with
      schizophrenia, especially on negative symptoms and cognitive functions, but the clinical
      application is limited due to the potential side effects of estrogen.

      Raloxifene is the second generation of selective estrogen receptor modulator, for the
      prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women, which can significantly
      reduce the incidence of vertebral fractures. The common adverse drug reaction is slight
      increase in hot flash and leg cramps, and the most serious adverse drug reaction is venous
      thromboembolism. Past research has found that raloxifene can reduce the risk of decline in
      memory and attention, and taking raloxifene helps sleep. Current research suggests that as an
      adjuvant therapy, it can improve symptoms of menopausal women with schizophrenia (emotional
      symptoms, memory, information processing and storage), and will not negatively affect
      reproductive tissues or organs, such as breast, uterus and ovary.

      According to the domestic and overseas research results, and based on the theoretical
      background of schizophrenia in estrogen insufficiency, we proposed randomized double-blind
      placebo-controlled study, in order to understand the effect of raloxifene on negative
      symptoms and cognitive function in adjuvant treatment of menopausal female patients with
      schizophrenia, meanwhile assess the adverse reactions after the treatment, provide the basis
      for clinical treatment of schizophrenia patients with negative symptoms and cognitive
      impairment.
    
  