
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients with previously untreated stage I, II,
           or III multiple myeloma treated with dexamethasone with or without lenalidomide.

        -  Compare the overall response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the major response rate (indicated by greater than 75% decrease in M-protein) in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the overall survival and time to best response in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity profile of these regimens, including thrombotic complications, in
           these patients.

        -  Compare the effect of these regimens on gene expression and proteomic analysis in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, crossover, multicenter study. Patients are
      stratified according to disease stage by the International Staging System (I vs II vs III)
      and Zubrod performance status (0-1 vs 2-3). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive oral dexamethasone (DM) on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20
           and oral lenalidomide on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 35 days for up to 3 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive oral DM on days 1-4 and 15-18 and oral
           lenalidomide on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm II

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive DM as in arm I induction and oral placebo on days
           1-28. Treatment repeats as in arm I induction.

      Patients with responding or stable disease proceed to maintenance therapy. Patients with
      disease progression during induction therapy cross over and receive unblinded treatment with
      DM and lenalidomide as in arm I induction. Patients with responding or stable disease after
      unblinded induction therapy receive unblinded maintenance therapy with DM and lenalidomide as
      in arm I maintenance.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive oral DM as in arm I maintenance and oral placebo
           on days 1-21. Courses repeat as in arm I maintenance.

      Patients with disease progression during maintenance therapy cross over and receive unblinded
      treatment with DM and lenalidomide as in arm I induction. Patients with responding or stable
      disease after unblinded induction therapy proceed to unblinded maintenance therapy with DM
      and lenalidomide as in arm I maintenance.

      Patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 500 patients (250 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4 years.
    
  