
    
      Intertrochanteric hip fractures are one of the more common orthopaedic presentations, with an
      approximate incidence in Australia of 230 cases per 100,000 population. The importance of
      this pathology is well documented being the major fracture-related health care cost and cause
      of mortality in all sexes over 50 years of age.

      Contemporary fixation of the proximal femur is performed utilising a number of implants
      adopting different concepts and techniques. Cephalomedullary/Intermedullary femoral nails (IM
      nails) over the last 15 years have gained popularity. IM nails are implanted via a small
      incision and intermedullary insertion through the greater trochanter, secured by passing a
      screw or blade through the femoral neck into the femoral head. This nailing technique offers
      the theoretical benefits of a smaller incision with less tissue dissection and hence reduced
      blood loss, infection and operating time. As well as a proposed biomechanical advantage due
      to a shorter lever arm, sharing the load and minimising proximal collapse.

      Biomechanical studies of IM nails in the use of extracapsular fractures of the femoral neck
      have found benefit over existing sliding/compression hip screws (CHS). Advantages have been
      observed in combined bending and compression performance to failure. As well as postoperative
      rigidity in unstable subtrochanteric fractures, and load bearing capability. Significantly
      greater fatigue strength and fatigue life have additionally been shown in cyclic loading
      assessment and reduced incidence of cut out has been observed, showing benefit over the use
      of CHS.

      Early trials however found a higher rate of operative complications involving IM fixation,
      including fractures at the tip of the nail or related to distal locking. Following this
      several studies have compared the clinical outcomes of CHS vs IM nails with varying findings
      questioning the overall patient benefit, especially in stable fracture patterns. From a
      review of the past literature the common trend is a longer operative time and higher
      associated blood loss with CHS, but fewer intraoperative surgical related complications and
      less fluoroscopic time with the use of nails. IM nail use has shown to offer better
      post-operative ambulatory function and reduced limb shortening but it appears due to the
      early complications of this technique numerous variations in implant design have emerged.

      Purpose In recent years further development has occurred in nail design in an attempt to
      reduce the incidence of fixation failure. The aim of this study was to investigate the
      clinical effects of these design changes from the use of three different IM nail designs in
      the management of extracapsular hip fractures.
    
  