
    
      The restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a chronic sensori-motor disorder affecting an estimated
      7.2% to 11.5% of the adult population. It is characterised by a complaint of an irresistible
      urge to move the legs. This urge can often be accompanied by pain or other uncomfortable and
      unpleasant sensations, it either occurs or worsens with rest particularly at night, and
      improves with activity. RLS is diagnosed clinically by means of the four essential criteria
      established by the International Restless Legs Syndrome Study Group.

      There is still no comprehensive understanding of the underlying pathophysiological processes
      of RLS, but the evidence for a primary dopaminergic role in RLS is to be found in the
      excellent pharmacological response to low-dose dopaminergic medications. Another recent
      evidence suggests an enhanced sensitization of central pain processing in patients with RLS.
      This had led to consider the botulinum toxin type A (BNT) as an alternative treatment in
      patients refractory to current RLS medications or in those suffering from adverse events. The
      therapeutic benefit of BNT injection in patients with recalcitrant RLS has been anecdotally
      reported lately but not confirmed by other reports.

      The aim of our study is to evaluate the efficacy and tolerance of intradermal BNT injection
      in severely affected patients with idiopathic RLS.

      For this we designed a phase II non comparative, open study. Patients with severe RLS will
      receive a one-time intradermal administration of BNT into the most symptomatic areas of both
      legs. Injections will be distributed in a grid distribution pattern covering a total of 20
      equidistant sites per symptomatic area. Each symptomatic area will receive a maximum 250
      units of BNT (12.5 units per injection). The total BNT injected units should not exceed 1000
      units per patient.

      Outcome measures will be evaluated at baseline, then at 2, 6, 12, 18 and 24 weeks following
      BNT administration and assessed by mean of the International RLS Rating Scale and Clinical
      Global Impression Scale.
    
  