
    
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is the leading evidence-based psychotherapy for
      depression, which affects 18.5% of Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF), Operation Iraqi Freedom
      (OIF), and Operation New Dawn (OND) Veterans (hereafter referred to as OEF/OIF). Yet, OEF/OIF
      Veterans had only a 30% average reduction in mean depression scores from the initial to later
      phase of treatment. This was true despite the rigorous training and certification procedures
      for VA CBT-D. Improving the rate of depression recovery and remission is vital to enhance
      OEF/OIF Veteran's ability to improve work and home adjustment and overall quality of life.

      Broad access to all key ingredients of CBT, including skills practice (homework), is
      associated with improved and faster recovery from depression. OEF/OIF Veterans and patients
      with depression have reported many barriers (i.e., time, chaotic lifestyles, and low energy)
      to following through with their skills practice assignments. In the absence of targeted
      strategies/interventions to address the barriers that prevent CBT skills practice, OEF/OIF
      Veterans will remain unable to reap the full benefits/effects of CBT. With specific tailored
      interventions to address this gap in treatment, OEF/OIF Veterans will improve rates of
      recovery from depression, diminished home and work adjustment, and poor quality of life.

      Leveraging the technological savvy of this generation of Veterans to improve access to CBT
      skills practice is a logical tactic to address this gap in treatment. Smartphone apps have
      been identified as a useful widely-used tool to improve the effectiveness of psychological
      treatments. There is, however, a paucity of empirical studies on the use of mobile apps in
      the treatment of depressed OEF/OIF Veterans and in psychological treatment overall. The
      promising pilot results of a comprehensive tailored smartphone app for CBT skills practice
      for OEF/OIF Veterans ("CBT MobileWork-V"), provides initial evidence for a larger-scale
      randomized clinical trial (RCT) to measure the efficacy of CBT enhanced with CBTMobileWork-V
      (the experimental arm) for improving CBT understanding and skill acquisition and depressive
      symptoms, in OEF/OIF Veterans with depression compared to standard CBT-D. Specifically, over
      a 27-month period the study will randomize 268 eligible OEF/OIF Veterans with depressive
      symptoms, to either CBT augmented with the comprehensive CBT skill training smartphone app
      CBT MobileWork-V or standard CBT-D with traditional skills practice methods (i.e., paper and
      pencil). The Specific Aims of this study are:

      Primary Aim 1) To assess whether CBT-D augmented with CBT MobileWork-V (hereafter referred to
      as CBT-D+) promotes greater CBT understanding and skill acquisition compared to traditional
      CBT-D.

      Primary Aim 2a) To examine the short-term effect in depressive symptoms after 12 weeks of
      CBT-D+ versus standard CBT-D.

      Primary Aim 2b) To examine the long-term effect in depressive symptoms at 6 months post
      treatment of the CBT-D+ intervention versus traditional CBT-D.
    
  