
    
      Hepatitis B infection with a prevalence higher than 15% of positive Ag HBs subjects is a
      major public health issue in Senegal. A program of treatment of patients presenting with
      hepatic disease is currently ongoing through a network of specialists in GI tract and liver
      diseases. Hepatitis B is a real threat in the Senegalese population as showed in a pilot
      study (HEPADAK I) performed at the Dakar Hospital Principal (DHP) in Dakar among 100 blood
      donors and 50 patients with liver disease. This study allowed us to better characterize the
      strains at the molecular level. The aim of the project is to assess a pragmatic treatment
      strategy which can be applied to Senegal or other developing countries for patients requiring
      treatment. A recent Japanese study performed in Ag HBe positive patients reported the
      interest of the combination of Lamivudine (LAM) and a therapeutic vaccine with the
      negativation of viral load in 100% of patients after one year of treatment. It is important
      to show that such a treatment with 12 intra-muscular injections of the vaccine over a 6-month
      period is feasible in Africa and to assess the results of such a treatment in the Senegalese
      population, which is mainly AgHBe negative.

      The study HEPADAK 2 is a randomized open label study which will compare the efficacy of the
      treatment strategy combining Lamivudine and therapeutic vaccine (12 intra-muscular injections
      of Engerix B over a 6-month period) to a treatment with Lamivudine alone on the control of
      viral replication in patients with a replicative HBV infection and an increase in
      transaminases.

      Eligible patients have to be HIV, HDV and HCV negative and will have to i) give their written
      informed consent; ii) have a B hepatitis grade over or equal to F2 with the Metavir score,
      DNA HBV greater than 105 copies/mL (or 104 copies/mL if Ag Hbe -) , ALAT greater than 1.3
      times the upper limit of the normal; iii) accept to have a liver biopsy and to be followed
      for this protocol at the DHP. After a 3-month treatment with Lamivudine, patients whose viral
      load is negative or at least decreased by 4 Log will be randomized to the same treatment for
      a further 9-month period or to the same treatment combined with 12 injections of vaccine over
      6 months. The main endpoints are undetectability of HBV DNA blood level 12 months after
      treatment initiation and 6 months after the end of the treatment. Secondary endpoints will be
      HBV DNA blood levels at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after the end of the treatment, transaminases
      blood level, Lamivudine treatment compliance, the feasibility of the vaccine injections
      schedule, safety, AgHBe seroconversion (in positive patients) and negativation of AgHBs. Two
      hundred ten patients have to be included (70 in the Lamivudine group, and 140 in the
      Lamivudine + vaccine group) in order to show a difference of at least 20% in the percentage
      of patients with an undetectable viral load at 12 months (70% expected under Lamivudine
      monotherapy), with a power of 90%, an alpha risk equal to 5% and a bilateral test. Patients
      with a virological failure will be maintained or retreated with Lamivudine. For the patients
      with an YMDD mutation, a treatment with Adefovir Dipivoxil will be possible. Patients'
      inclusion is planned to start in January 2005 and end after 12 or 18 months. Patients will be
      treated during one year and followed one year without treatment in the study protocol, and
      then will be managed if necessary
    
  