
    
      The Study Drug:

      DNX-2401 (formerly known as Delta-24-RGD-4C) is a virus that works by killing brain tumor
      cells. It is made from a common cold virus, called adenovirus, type 5. This virus normally
      causes the common cold, and most people around the world have been exposed many times to this
      common, naturally-occurring virus during their lives. Two (2) changes have been made to the
      adenovirus to make DNX-2401. The first change was to make the virus only grow in cancer
      cells. The second change was made to allow DNX-2401 to enter cancer cells more easily. These
      changes make DNX-2401 more able to multiply and kill cancer cells and less likely to multiply
      in normal cells.

      Study Groups:

      Participants will eventually be divided into 2 groups (Groups A and B).

      At first, all participants will only be enrolled into Group A. Participants in Group A will
      receive the study drug but will not have the recurrent malignant glioma tumor removed by
      surgery.

      Enrollment into Group B will not start until the FDA has reviewed initial results on how the
      treatment for participants in Group A effected brain tumor cells and the body in general.
      Once approval for enrollment is given, all eligible participants will be assigned to Group B
      and will receive the study drug and have their tumors removed by surgery. If you are to
      receive surgery, you will be asked to sign a separate surgical consent form to help further
      explain the operation.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of DNX-2401 based on when you joined this study. Up 8 dose levels of DNX-2401 will be
      tested. Three (3) participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of
      participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose
      than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until
      the highest tolerable dose of DNX-2401 is found. You will be informed of which dose you will
      receive.

      Study Drug Administration:

      DNX-2401 is given by a surgical procedure where a neurosurgeon precisely injects DNX-2401
      through a catheter (small tube) that is inserted into your brain tumor. You will stay in the
      hospital and be watched closely afterward for up to 48 hours, but it may be longer if your
      doctors feel that you are not ready to go home.

      After receiving DNX-2401, all participants must wear a mask. You must also stay away from
      pregnant women, babies, children under three years of age, elderly people and large groups of
      people who may have weaker defenses to disease or those who can spread a disease. You must
      also stay away from other patients who may have immune system problems, such as people with
      AIDS, or people who are getting chemotherapy or radiation therapy. The study doctors will
      decide how long you will need to follow these precautions. You should not donate blood or
      sperm for at least 6 months after receiving DNX-2401.

      Group A:

      Before receiving DNX-2401, participants in Group A will have a sample (stereotactic biopsy)
      of brain tumor tissue collected to confirm that recurrent malignant glioma is present. On the
      morning of the biopsy, you will have an MRI (with dye). A metal frame will be placed on your
      head and an MRI of your brain will be done. Before the MRI, a dye will be injected to help
      give the doctors a better picture of your brain. The head frame allows the surgeon to use MRI
      to identify the precise location of the tumor within the brain. The frame will stay in place
      for several hours while the procedure is being performed.

      A portion of your head will be shaved for the biopsy. You will have a small incision (cut) in
      your head (about 2-3 inches). The protective covering of the brain (dura) will be opened and
      a piece of brain tumor will be removed. If, under a microscope, the biopsy shows that the
      tumor is still malignant glioma, you will then have an injection of DNX-2401. The
      anesthesiologists (doctor who gives the anesthesia) may give you medication to make you
      sedated (anesthesia). They will place a needle into your vein (intravenous line or "IV") to
      give you this medicine. The anesthesia is given so that you do not feel any pain or
      discomfort and do not move during the MRI or the surgery.

      A small catheter will be placed into the tumor and the metal frame will help guide the proper
      placement. Some anti-inflammatory medication (a steroid called dexamethasone) will be given
      in your vein. Then DNX-2401 will be slowly injected into the tumor over about 10 minutes.
      After the injection, the incision will be closed in a standard and cosmetically acceptable
      manner.

      Group B:

      Before receiving DNX-2401, participants in Group B will have a biopsy to confirm that the
      tumor is recurrent glioma. The procedure will be exactly the same as described for those in
      Group A. This is called "Stage 1." However, at the end of the biopsy and study drug injection
      procedure, the catheter will be clipped off next to your skull and a portion of the tube will
      remain inside the tumor and in place for the next 2 weeks. The scalp will be closed over the
      clipped catheter to prevent any possibility of infection. The next day, you will have a CT
      scan to check the tumor and placement of the catheter.

      Group A Follow-up Visits:

      You will come back to the study center for check-ups at 4, 7,14 and 28 days, then 2, 3, and 4
      months after the injections, and then every 2 months for 2 years. After that, you will be
      asked to return to the clinic every 4 months for the rest of your life. At each visit, the
      following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be asked to give information about any new medications and therapies, including
           vitamins, herbs, and supplements that you may be taking.

        -  You will be asked to describe any changes in your health or how you feel.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  Your weight will be measured on Day 28 and at 2, 3 and 4 months.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  You will be asked to provide a blood sample (about 1 teaspoon), a urine sample and a
           swab of your nose and throat will be taken.

        -  You will have blood tests (about 4 teaspoons) to evaluate your clinical status on Days
           4, 7, 28, and at 2, 3 and 4 months.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be collected to look for the presence of anti-AD5 and
           virus.

        -  Women who are able to become pregnant must have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) pregnancy
           test on 1 and 4 month visit and all follow-up visits after that.

        -  You will have an MRI at each visit except for Day 4.

        -  After the 4 month visit, you will have an evaluation to see how you have responded to
           treatment for the first 2 years and every 4 months after that.

      Group B Follow-up Visits:

      You will be seen in the study center for check-ups on Days 4, 7, and 13 after the injection
      but before your craniotomy. At each visit the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will be asked to give information about any new medications and therapies, including
           vitamins, herbs, and supplements that you may be taking.

        -  You will be asked to describe any changes in your health or how you feel.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  You will be asked to provide a blood sample (about 1 teaspoon), a urine sample and a
           swab of your nose and throat will be taken.

        -  You will have a blood test (about 4 teaspoons) to evaluate your clinical status.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be collected to look for the presence of anti-AD5 and
           virus.

        -  Women who are able to become pregnant must have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) pregnancy
           test on Day 13, 1 and 4 month visits and all follow-up visits after that.

        -  You will have an MRI on Days 7 and 13 only.

      If you are feeling well 14 days after the first injection of study drug, you will be brought
      back to the operating room for a second procedure to remove the tumor. You will undergo a
      craniotomy, in which the skull over the tumor is removed to get to the brain and tumor. The
      neurosurgeon will try to remove the tumor as completely as possible with the catheter tip
      from the first procedure in place. After the tumor has been removed, you will receive another
      dose of DNX-2401 that will be injected into the brain tissue that surrounded the tumor to try
      to kill any remaining tumor cells. This is called "Stage 2." The skull will then be replaced
      and the skin closed. Within 6 hours of the craniotomy on Day 14, you will have a neurological
      exam and your vital signs will be measured.

      On the day of resection, a sample of the removed brain tumor tissue will be collected and
      stored until the study is over. Analysis of the tissue will be performed to look for the
      presence and activity of the virus, as well as any additional tests that are necessary for
      protocol purposes.

      Group B Follow-up Visits after Craniotomy:

      After the surgery, you will be seen in the hospital or come back to the center on Days 15,
      18, 21, 28, and 42, at 2, 3 and 4 months, and then every 2 months for 2 years. After that,
      you will be asked to come back every 4 months for the rest of your life. At each visit, the
      following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be asked to give information about any new medications and therapies, including
           vitamins, herbs, and supplements that you may be taking.

        -  You will be asked to describe any changes in your health or how you feel.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  Your weight will be measured on Day 28, 42 and at 2, 3 and 4 months only.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  You will be asked to provide a blood sample (about 1 teaspoon), a urine sample, and a
           swab of your nose and throat.

        -  You will have a blood test (about 4 teaspoons) to evaluate your clinical status.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to look for the presence of anti-AD5 and virus.

        -  Women who can become pregnant must have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) pregnancy test at all
           visits except Day 15 and 18.

        -  You will have an MRI.

      For participants who are clinically unable to wait 14 days for surgery because of the tumor's
      size and/or location, or because they are experiencing serious neurological symptoms, the
      study chair may decide to skip the biopsy.

      Group B Follow-up Visits (Stage 2--Craniotomy Only):

      After the surgery, you will be seen in the hospital or come back to the center on Days 1, 4,
      7, 14, and 28; at 2, 3, and 4 months; and then every 2 months for 2 years. After that, you
      will be asked to come back every 4 months for the rest of your life. At each visit, the
      following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be asked to give information about any new medications and therapies, including
           vitamins, herbs, and supplements that you may be taking.

        -  You will be asked to describe any changes in your health or how you feel.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  Your weight will be measured on Day 28 and at 2, 3, and 4 months.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  You will be asked to provide a blood sample (about 1 teaspoon), a urine sample, and a
           swab of your nose and throat.

        -  You will have a blood test (about 4 teaspoons) to evaluate your clinical status.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to look for the presence of anti-AD5 and virus.

        -  Women who can become pregnant must have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) pregnancy test on 1-
           and 4-month visit and all follow-up visits after that.

        -  You will have an MRI.

      This is an investigational study. At this time, DNX-2401 is only being used in research. Up
      to 96 patients will take part in this study (up to 48 in Group A and 48 in Group B). All will
      be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  