
    
      Endometriosis is an enigmatic disease affecting 6-10% of women of reproductive age or 176
      millions of women worldwide (1). Endometriosis is defined as the presence of endometrial-like
      tissue outside the uterus and it induces a chronic inflammatory reaction (2). Deep
      infiltrating endometriosis (DIE) represents the most severe form of endometriosis (described
      by the invasion of anatomical structures and organs deeper than 5 mm beyond the peritoneum)
      and is present in 20-35% of all women suffering from the disease (3). Intestinal deep
      infiltrating endometriosis is known as lesions infiltrating at least the muscular layer of
      the bowel wall and most commonly affects the rectum, sigmoid colon and the rectovaginal
      septum. (4).

      Even if bowel endometriosis may be totally asymptomatic, in many patients intestinal wall DIE
      alters significantly quality of life by provoking constipation, diarrhea, hematochezia,
      intestinal cramping, abdominal bloating, intestinal stenosis or obstruction and pain of
      defecation (5, 6). Rectal fixation to adjacent structures results in angulation of the rectum
      and subsequent defecatory pain and constipation. Fibrosis of nodules can lead to rectal
      constriction and stenosis, cyclical inflammation of the rectal wall may lead to changes in
      bowel habit (usually diarrhoea) with or without rectal bleeding (7).

      Although the surgical laparoscopic management of endometriosis is widely accepted, the
      optimal type of resection, whether conservative approach (shaving, disc resection) or radical
      technique (involves limited resection of the bowel wall with preservation of all adjacent
      structures-autonomic pelvic plexus, rectal vascular supply- known as "nerve-vessel sparing
      limited segmental resection"), is under discussion for treatment of deep endometriosis
      infiltrating the rectum.

      In cases of colorectal DIE, adequate therapy depends on the precise location, extent of the
      nodule and depth of invasion, as well as the woman's quality of life (3). Removal of the
      specimen after segmental bowel resection can be performed by either mini-laparotomy
      (conventional method) or by the natural orifice specimen extraction (NOSE) technique. (8).

      The conventional method raises concerns because this could disrupt the integrity of the
      abdominal wall. Moreover, extraction site laparotomy is associated with higher postoperative
      pain scores. The occurrence of particular complications such as incisional hernias and wound
      infections is also higher than after conventional laparoscopic procedures (8).

      In order to avoid these complications, NOSE technique has been introduced. During NOSE
      colectomy the specimen is extracted through a natural orifice and an intracorporeal
      anastomosis is performed (8).

      Several studies have demonstrated a significant drop in pain scores and amelioration of
      impaired sexual functioning and improved pregnancy rates in women following surgical
      resection of colorectal endometriosis (9).

      The aim of this study is to report the short, medium and long-term bowel functional outcomes
      and improvement of infertility, quality of life in women undergoing conventional and NOSE
      segmental bowel resection for endometriosis at our institution using validated
      questionnaires.

      Functional and psychological outcomes will be assessed using different questionnaires at
      baseline and postoperative follow-up moments.

        -  Endometriosis Health Profile, EHP 30 (10)

        -  Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index, GIQLI (11)

        -  Low Anterior Resection Syndrome score, LARS (12)

        -  Assessment of endometriosis related pain: Visual Analog Scale (13)

        -  Psychological questionnaires: Pain catastrophizing Scale (14), Self-Efficacy for
           Managing Chronic Disease 6-item Scale (15).
    
  