
    
      The study group will include 80 patients undergoing flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy(FFB).

      Patients will be randomly assigned prior to the procedure to receive sedation by either
      propofol/alfentanil (PA group) or propofol/ketamine (PK group), using either the sealed
      envelope method or by computer randomization.

      All patients will receive local anesthesia with Lidocaine 2% (total dose of 5-10 ml) that
      will be sprayed via the bronchoscope on the vocal cords before passage through them, as well
      as into the bronchial tree in order to suppress coughing.

      In addition, patients from both groups will optionally receive intravenous Midazolam (up to a
      total dose of 0.05 mg/kg)if deemed necessary during the procedure.

      Sedation will be started by 10-15 mcg/kg Alfentanil and 0.4 mg/kg Propofol, or by 0.2-0.3
      mg/kg Ketamine and 0.4 mg/kg Propofol. It will be maintained by additional boluses of
      Propofol (aliquots of 10-50 mg) or by additional boluses of Propofol (aliquots of 10-50 mg)
      and/or Ketamine (aliquots of 5-25 mg).

      All patients will receive supplemental oxygen via nasal cannula (2-4 L/min) before the
      beginning of the procedure.

      Patients whose functional oxygen saturation (SpO2) prior to the beginning of the procedure
      will be lower than 92% while connected to a nasal cannula, will receive oxygen
      supplementation via a face mask.

      If the SpO2 after initiation of sedation will fall below 90%, the patients' airways will be
      opened using a jaw-thrust maneuver or insertion of a nasal airway. Should the SpO2 remain
      low, the patient will receive oxygen supplementation via a face-mask.

      If deemed necessary, additional safety measures will be taken by the anesthesiologist or by
      the performer of the bronchoscopy, such as administration of oxygen directly through the
      bronchoscope, assisted ventilation with an Ambu bag, and tracheal intubation.

      The duration of bronchoscopy will be calculated from the administration of sedation until the
      flexible bronchoscope is removed from the tracheobronchial tree.

      In all cases, patients will be monitored using continuous electrocardiography, pulse
      oximetry, and transcutaneous carbon dioxide (PtCO2, using a digital sensor placed on the
      patient's earlobe),and automated noninvasive blood pressure recordings every 5 minutes. All
      parameters will be recorded beginning from prior to connecting the patient to the nasal
      cannula before initiation of sedation, throughout the entire procedure and until 10 minutes
      after removal of the bronchoscope from the nasopharynx.

      Immediately after the end of the procedure, the bronchoscopist will grade the quality of
      sedation (ease of performing the procedure) by Visual Analog Scale.

      A questionnaire evaluating pain and discomfort by Visual Analog Scale will be completed by
      the patient when fully awake after the procedure.(~30 minutes after the end of the
      procedure).

      Percutaneous carbon dioxide tension, blood oxygenation, heart rate, and blood pressure will
      be compared between the groups.
    
  