
    
      AIMS & OBJECTIVES

      The main aims of this preliminary research are:

        1. To determine the feasibility of conducting a future larger study in terms of
           recruitment, randomisation, estimates of effect size, study protocol and procedure,
           intervention and outcome acceptability.

        2. To determine if combining SSTT (MTrP therapy) as an adjunct to the presently only
           provided usual care of hands off (rehabilitation and self-management programme) is
           feasible and acceptable to participants in this combined treatment approach to FMS.

      METHOD

      The multidisciplinary team includes researchers and health professionals who are actively
      involved in musculoskeletal therapy and research. This current randomised controlled
      feasibility study is supported by internal funding from the Faculty of Health & Applied
      Sciences, University of the West of England (UWE), Bristol. Ethics approval from NHS
      ethics/IRAS has been obtained.

      Participant be identification and recruitment Participants will be identified and recruited
      from those FMS patients enrolled on the 6 week FCSP in the Royal National Hospital for
      Rheumatic Diseases (RNHRD) out-patients department. All enrolled patients on the FCSP, will
      be emailed and sent out an invitation letter and information sheet by the RNHRD admin and
      clinical team requesting participation in the feasibility study.

      Prior to primary collection of data, all participants sign an informed consent form.
      Participants will undergo a screening (for inclusion/exclusion criteria), will provide
      demographic information and complete a general health screening survey.

      Randomisation- All participants will be randomly allocated to either a control or
      intervention group, by an independent researcher using block randomisation utilising an
      online randomisation tool. This method involves creating a table using two number sets. The
      randomiser ensures each group appears an equal number of times whilst simultaneously randomly
      allocating participants to each group. The randomisation order will be performed by the
      co-researcher, who will prepare opaque envelopes that can be opened at a relevant point in
      the process.

      Control Group - Participants will undertake the 6 FCSP only. The FCSP is a
      non-pharmacological, multidisciplinary exercise and education group programme. Its main aims
      are to provide condition-specific, patient centred, self-management education and advice, in
      line with national drivers for long-term conditions and international FMS clinical
      guidelines.

      All group participants are screened prior to acceptance onto the FCSP and must have a
      diagnosis of fibromyalgia using the ACR 1990 or 2010 criteria. Patients with co-morbidities
      are accepted. Core components of the 6 week FCSP include goal-setting, pacing, hydrotherapy,
      exercise and dietary advice. There is one face-to-face review session three months after the
      taught component of the FCSP is completed.

      Patient reported outcome measures (PROMS) are collected from participants at three
      time-points; start of course, end of course and three months post course. These are inputted
      onto a clinical database, and analysed to measure clinical progress on an individual basis

      Intervention Group - Participants in this group will undertake the 6 week FCSP plus SSTT
      (myofascial trigger point (MTrP) therapy) (initially TrP pressure release performed by the
      researcher and then also taught a SSTT home programme). The specific form of soft tissue
      therapy used in this feasibility study is MTrP therapy, as used in a case series on triceps
      surae dysfunction as described in the protocol below. This protocol is adapted for patients
      with FMS and will be administered by the researcher for only two sessions which will include
      training to teach the participant how to do SSTT on themselves. All participants in the
      control group will receive an advice booklet for SSTT.

      Researcher TrP pressure release intervention- Lower leg/foot- The participants will be
      positioned prone with the knee extended for TrP pressure release on the gastrocnemius and
      knee flexed for the soleus. While still in prone, TrP pressure release will also be used on
      the medial plantar aspect of the foot specifically quadratus plantar and abductor halluces.
      TrP pressure release, employing the barrier release concept will be used. The researcher will
      slowly apply increasing thumb pressure on the soleus or gastrocnemius MTrPs until the first
      increase in tissue resistance is felt (barrier). Pressure will initially be perceived as
      tender or mildly painful, but participants will be instructed to notify the researcher to
      stop if the procedure is not tolerable. Pressure will be maintained until a release in muscle
      tension or until the participant feels no tenderness or pain only related to the thumb
      pressure. On releasing the pressure the researcher will apply a passive stretch to the
      affected calf muscle, to facilitate maintenance of the gained muscle length. On subsequent
      visits TrP pressure release will be progressed while rocking or facilitating the ankle into
      greater dorsiflexion and will be applied to the hamstrings while flexing and extending the
      knee. Participants will be warned about possible mild post treatment soreness (mild ache)
      which may last up to 24 hours, but will not interfere with day to day function.

      Forearm/Hand- Exactly the same TrP pressure release protocol will be used. All participants
      will be seated with the forearm resting on a plinth, with researcher and participant facing
      each other. The thenar and hypothenar muscles, wrist extensor and flexor muscles will receive
      TrP pressure release and stretching.

      Self soft tissue therapy (SSTT)- participants will be advised on self treatment and shown the
      technique on identified active or latent MTrPs in the lower leg/foot or forearm/hand.
      Participants will be shown varying techniques including self-massage, use of a tennis ball or
      foam roller. All participants will be advised to do SSTT at least once a day and advised to
      stop SSTT if symptoms are increased.

      Stretching programme - stretching is advised post SSTT of MTrPs as part of a home exercise
      programme. A standardised home stretching protocol will be issued and detailed in the advice
      booklet including demonstration of the stretching techniques and advice on dosage. A full
      description and demonstration will be given to participants. No specific time will be given
      for the stretching protocol as the evidence is inconclusive on the duration of static stretch
      needed to produce benefit.

      Data management and analysis- Data will be analysed by the PI and co-researcher in an office
      at the University of the West of England. Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS)
      version 20.0 will be used to analyse the data using descriptive (mean, standard deviation and
      range of scores at the initial and follow up sessions). The results of the additional FCSP
      /FMS PROMS and criteria for FMS diagnosis-Widespread Pain Index/Symptom Severity Score plus
      tenderness in 18 tender point sites will also be analysed for differences between groups. In
      line with the aims of this feasibility study, no inferential statistics will be employed.

      Sampling frame-

      As this is feasibility study no sample size or power calculation has been conducted. The aim
      is to recruit 20 patients, enough to meet the aims of a feasibility study and being
      sufficient to provide estimates of variability between the control and intervention groups.
      All potential participants to be screened and accepted if they meet the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria:

      Confidentiality/ Anonymity- Any data produced from the feasibility study will be anonymised;
      therefore, any identifying details will be replaced numerically. All data will be analysed
      and downloaded on a password protected computer at the University of the West of England.

      Data handling and Record Keeping- The CI and PI will be responsible for data collection,
      recording and quality. Anonymised collected data from each participant will be analysed and
      downloaded on a password protected computer at the University of the West of England. Data
      will be collected and retained in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998. Back-up
      copies of electronic data will be made regularly onto a CD. All source documents will be
      retained for a period of 5 years following the end of the study.

      Addressing Consent & Withdrawal- Consent- Consent will be addressed via an informed consent
      form that will be given to all participants a week before data collection and signed prior to
      collection of data. A full explanation and opportunity to ask questions prior and during data
      collection will be afforded to all participants.

      Withdrawal- Participants are completely free to abstain or withdraw from the feasibility
      study at any time during the process of data collection.

      Risk & Risk Management- Participants will be invited to participate in the feasibility study.
      Each participant will have the option to participate or opt out. Participants' futures will
      not be affected in any way by their decision to take part or not. There will not be any
      physical, psychological, social legal or economic risks for participants to participate in
      the feasibility study. There will be no additional risks to the researchers or other people
      impacted by this study as a consequence of undertaking this proposal that are greater than
      those encountered in normal day-to-day life.

      Access to source data- Direct access to the source data and documents will be permitted for
      monitoring, audits, Research Ethics Committees and review.

      Safety Assessments and Monitoring- The project management committee will consist of the
      research team (Dr Rob Grieve, Sandi Derham and Julie Russell), who will meet regularly to
      assess the study. This study will be monitored and audited in accordance with UWE policy.

      Other Ethical Considerations- Apart from the already mentioned possible mild discomfort,
      participants will have to make an effort to attend the sessions and do the SSTT home
      programme.
    
  