
    
      Brain function is based on the communication between sets of neurons at different spatial and
      temporal scales. The dysfunction of these networks is thus at the origin of several brain
      pathologies, including epilepsy. The recent improvement in recording methods paves the way
      for better characterization of brain networks, with several spatial and temporal resolutions,
      depending on the techniques used.

      Still, several key points remain outstanding. First, several mechanisms can underlie the
      interaction between brain regions, and it remains to determine the most relevant tools in
      practice to quantify them. Second, there are difficulties in extracting these networks from
      surface recordings. The best strategies for studying these interactions in a non-invasive way
      therefore remain to be defined.

      It will be propose to answer these questions based on simultaneous surface
      (magneto-encephalography/ electroencephalography) and depth (intracerebral stereotactic EEG,
      SEEG) recordings, a technique it was developed by the team of Marseille, in patients
      undergoing preoperative epilepsy assessment.

      The primary objective is to find, among all the mechanisms of interaction between brain
      regions, which are most relevant in describing physiological and pathological brain networks.

      The secondary objective is to test whether the visible coupling information at depth can be
      found from surface data (EEG, MEG) only. To do this, it will be compare the surface results
      with the SEEG results.

      The SEEG implantation is performed on purely clinical criteria for preoperative diagnosis.
      Magnetoencephalography and EEG are purely passive techniques that do not involve any
      additional risk. This project is a continuation of an existing project in which we have
      demonstrated the feasibility of simultaneous SEEG and MEG/EEG recordings.
    
  