
    
      Approximately 1264 subjects at a maximum of 100 clinical sites will be part of this study.
      This study will recruit approximately 30 subjects from NHC & NUH (12 from NUH) over a period
      of 6 to 9 months recruitment period.

      Paclitaxel is the active ingredient in Taxol®, a drug originally developed to treat cancer.
      The addition of the paclitaxel coating to the stent could improve the performance of the
      stent by preventing the re-narrowing of the treated coronary artery. This re-narrowing is
      called restenosis. Restenosis can occur after balloon angioplasty or the placement of a stent
      and is the result of too much cell growth at the treatment site in the coronary artery.

      The TAXUS Element stent is an investigational device. The term investigational means that the
      stent is not currently approved for commercial use by the FDA or other regulatory agencies
      worldwide. The TAXUS Express 2 stent is also a coronary stent made with the same drug coating
      as the Element stent. It is approved for commercial use by the FDA and other regulatory
      agencies worldwide, with the exception of the 4.0 mm size, which is not yet approved by the
      FDA. However, the 4.0 mm size was studied for safety and performance in a clinical trial and
      the results of that trial have been submitted to FDA to support approval. FDA has agreed that
      the 4.0 mm size may be used in this trial.

      Paclitaxel was selected as the drug to coat the stent because it is known to prevent the
      uncontrolled cell growth that contributes to the narrowing of artery, by interfering with the
      ability of cells to divide and multiply. Because of these properties, it has been used as a
      drug for the treatment of various types of cancer. Cancer patients are given paclitaxel as a
      solution into the vein. For this study, paclitaxel will be administered locally to the wall
      of coronary artery as a coating on the stent. Cancer patients receive a dose of paclitaxel
      approximately 1100 - 1400 times greater than the dose used in the coating of the stent. It is
      highly unlikely that levels of paclitaxel in the blood would be measurable or have effects
      anywhere beyond the heart.
    
  