
    
      The population will be employees who were previously evaluated in the pre-employment phase by
      the Occupational Health Clinic (OHC) of Colorado Children's Hospital (CHC) from 2004 until
      2009 and were found to be seronegative for varicella antibody at that time and were thus
      vaccinated per CHC protocol. Additionally, a matching number of comparator subjects who were
      positive for varicella antibody at the pre-employment phase will be selected from the same
      pool (2004-2009).

      Subject participation will last up to 6 months. Subjects will be enrolled into one of two
      study groups:

        -  Group 1 consisting of 50 subjects who tested seronegative for varicella antibody and
           received varicella vaccine to meet employment criteria at least 5 years previously; and

        -  Group 2 consisting of 50 subjects who had natural varicella infection and thus tested
           seropositive for varicella antibody at least 5 years previously.

      Group 1 subjects will receive 1 additional dose (lifetime total will be 2 or 3) of varicella
      vaccine (Varivax) and participate in a total of 4 study visits over a period of 6 months.
      Before receiving the dose of varicella vaccine at Day 1, Group 1 subjects will be given the
      CDC Vaccine Information Sheet for varicella vaccine. Study staff will review this with the
      subject to assure understanding prior to administering vaccine. Vaccination will occur after
      eligibility criteria have been confirmed and completion of a urine pregnancy test -with a
      negative result - on females of childbearing potential. Following administration of the
      varicella vaccine, the subject will be observed in the clinic for at least 15 minutes for
      safety. Blood (60 ml per sample) will be collected from all Group 1 subjects on Day 1
      immediately prior to vaccination, and at Day 7(±2), Day 30(±7) and Day 180(±14) in order to
      measure VZV-specific antibody, antibody avidity, and cell-mediated immunity by the methods
      indicated above. Subjects receiving a third lifetime dose of Varivax will be asked to
      complete a diary for 5 days after vaccination to track anticipated and unanticipated
      reactions to the vaccine.

      Group 2 subjects, the comparator group, will receive no vaccine and will only participate in
      the first visit for a blood draw. Blood (60 ml) will be collected from Group 2 participants
      only at Day 1. Subject information to be recorded includes age; gender; varicella vaccine
      history at the OHC; age vaccinated (calculate interval since vaccination); the number of
      doses (1 vs 2) received; and any exposure to varicella or HZ (including involvement in any
      CHC outbreak work-up).
    
  