
    
      Study Groups:

      If participant agrees to take part in this study, they will be randomly assigned (as in the
      flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups.

      Group 1 will take a placebo during maintenance therapy.

      Group 2 will take minocycline during maintenance therapy.

      A placebo is not a drug. It looks like the study drug but it is not designed to treat any
      disease or illness. It is designed to be compared with a study drug to learn if the study
      drug has any real effect.

      Neither participant nor the study staff will know if participant is receiving the study drug
      or the placebo. However, if needed for participant's safety, the study staff will be able to
      find out what they are receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Participant will take the study drug/placebo by mouth, two times a day for about 3 months,
      starting the first day (or within 2 days) that they begin their lenalidomide therapy.

      Participant should take the study drug/placebo with a full glass (8 ounces) of water.
      Participant may take it with or without food, but if the study drug/placebo causes an upset
      stomach, participant should take it with food.

      Study Visits:

      Participant must bring the study drug/placebo container, along with any remaining drug, with
      them to their clinic visit at each new cycle of lenalidomide therapy, or at the clinic visit
      when the study is over if no clinic visits are scheduled until then.

      Before participant starts lenalidomide therapy:

        -  Participant will fill out 4 questionnaires about pain and other symptoms. It should take
           about 20-25 minutes to complete all of the questionnaires.

        -  A study staff member will ask participant questions about their demographic information,
           such as their marital status, job status, education, and race.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing. This will be during an
           already scheduled blood draw and participant would not need to have an extra needle
           stick. Biomarkers are found in the blood/tissue and may be related to participant's
           reaction to the study drug. Researchers want to study how changes in the biomarkers may
           be related to the symptoms reported by participants in this study.

      During lenalidomide therapy:

      °Participant will complete a symptom questionnaire in the clinic or by telephone 1 time each
      week about any symptoms they may be having and how they may be affecting participant's daily
      activities. The symptom questionnaire should take about 3-5 minutes to complete each time.

      During participant's clinic visit at each new cycle of lenalidomide therapy:

        -  Participant will fill out 3 questionnaires about their pain and other symptoms. It
           should take about 15-20 minutes to complete all of the questionnaires each time. If no
           clinic visit is scheduled until the study is over, these questionnaires will be
           collected over the phone by the study coordinator.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing. This will be during an
           already scheduled blood draw and participant would not need to have an extra needle
           stick.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Participant will have an end-of-treatment visit at the end of month 3. At this visit,
      participant will complete 4 questionnaires about pain and other symptoms. It should take
      about 20-25 minutes to complete all of the questionnaires. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will
      be drawn for biomarker testing. This will be during an already scheduled blood draw and
      participant would not need to have an extra needle stick.

      Length of Study:

      Participant may continue taking the study drug/placebo for up to 3 months. Participant will
      no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side
      effects occur, if they are unable to follow study directions, or the study doctor thinks it
      is in their best interest.

      This is an investigational study. Minocycline is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of bacterial infection. The use of minocycline to reduce chemotherapy related
      side effects in patients with MM is currently being used for research purposes only.

      Up to 88 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson
      Cancer Center.
    
  