
    
      The objectives of this study are to determine whether patients undergoing kidney transplants
      for end stage renal disease (ESRD) can be taken off immune suppression drugs given to prevent
      kidney rejection or can be maintained on low dose immune suppression while maintaining normal
      kidney function. Patients will receive blood stem cell transfusions from their donors 11 days
      after transplant to reduce the risk of graft rejection while tapering the post-transplant
      immune suppression drug regimen. Patients will be treated with total lymphoid irradiation
      (TLI) and rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin (rATG) followed by transfusion of enriched CD34+
      hematopoietic cells containing blood stem cells and CD3+ T cells from their donors in order
      to induce blood cell mixed chimerism. These chimeric patients produce blood cells from both
      their own and their donors' blood stem cells. Donors will have blood collected by apheresis
      after treatment with drugs to "mobilize" blood stem cells from their bone marrow. Collection
      of the donor's cells will occur 6-8 weeks before kidney donation surgery. After transplant,
      patients will receive a 14 week course of corticosteroid therapy (e.g., Prednisolone) with
      gradual dose reduction. They will also receive a 12 month course of mycophenolate mofetil
      (MMF) with dose tapering beginning 9 months post-transplant and an 18 month course of
      Tacrolimus with tapering also beginning at 9 months post-transplant. Patients will be
      monitored for renal function, mixed blood cell chimerism, the appearance of donor specific
      antibodies (DSA) from their own immune cells reacting to the transplanted kidney, and
      evidence of rejection in any biopsies of the donor kidney after transplant. Immune
      suppression drug withdrawal will begin and continue as long as mixed chimerism is maintained,
      the patient shows no evidence of graft versus host disease (GVHD), the transplanted kidney
      functions well, and there is no indication of kidney rejection in biopsies. Patients not
      meeting these criteria will be maintained on low dose immunosuppressive drug therapy unless
      more extensive treatments are needed to prevent rejection. Potential candidates need to be
      approved for kidney transplant under this protocol and available for close follow-up
      post-transplant. This study, sponsored by the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine
      (CIRM), is being conducted in parallel with NCT01165762 sponsored by the National Institutes
      of Health with distinct reporting and separation of funding support for the patients enrolled
      under each sponsor.
    
  