
    
      Chronic neuropathic pain (NP) is an extremely debilitating condition with few treatment
      options and many of which with multiple side effects. This will be a randomized,
      sham-controlled trial that will investigate the effectiveness of a novel wearable device
      called the Sana Pain Reliever (Sana PR) at reducing chronic neuropathic pain. The Sana PR is
      a device comprised of a Mask to be worn over the eyes with a pair of ear buds to be worn in
      ears. It displays light and sounds in a predetermined algorithm which runs for 16 minutes at
      a time. The underlying mechanism of action for the Sana PR is Audio Visual Stimulation (AVS),
      a form of non-pharmacological intervention that induces a brain wave response called
      Frequency Following Response (FFR), which has been used for both performance enhancement and
      symptom management. The device will be used with a compatible tablet application that will
      collect data from each session that the device is used. This data will be collected through
      user inputs of responses to several questionnaires. This will be an at-home trial and
      participants will be loaned the Sana Pain Reliever device and a tablet device to run the
      application for the duration of the study. The trial will last a total of 14 weeks and will
      involve four study visits, either in-person at the Abilities Research Center at Mount Sinai
      Hospital in New York City, or remotely using a video call. The trial includes two baseline
      sessions on weeks 0 and 2, 8 weeks of the at-home intervention, and post-intervention
      sessions at the end of weeks 10 and 14. Participants will be instructed to use the device at
      the end of the day prior to going to sleep as well as whenever they experience greater than
      typical pain during the day . Data during the at home portion of the trial will be recorded
      daily via the application. The application will also prompt participants to answer
      fortnightly weekly questionnaires and send out compliance reminders. Additionally, a series
      of pain, sleep and quality of life assessments will be completed by participants at both
      baseline visits, a post-intervention visit and a 4-week follow-up visit.
    
  