
    
      Individuals with joint injuries, including ankle sprain and anterior cruciate ligament (ACL)
      injury have been observed to exhibit changes in central nervous system function that
      potentially predispose them for further injury (Needle et al. 2017). In ankle sprains,
      repeated sensations of rolling and giving-way known as chronic ankle instability (CAI)
      emerges in nearly 50 percent of those with a history of ankle sprain (Holland et al. 2019),
      with symptoms tied to changes in central nervous system function. As the understanding of
      these pathologies have expanded, researchers have begun to attempt to identify
      neuromodulatory interventions capable of addressing injury-induced maladaptive
      neuroplasticity, thus improving function (Bruce et al. 2020, In Press).

      Among those with ACL injury, one of the most common interventions implemented to overcome
      muscle activation deficits includes neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) (Lepley et
      al. 2015). This intervention is often used in the initial stages of post-surgical recovery to
      improve quadriceps function; however, it's use in other populations of joint injury (i.e.
      ankle sprain) is far more limited. Some previous research has looked at the effects of NMES
      on acute ankle sprains, as this is the timeframe in which muscle activation deficits would be
      most evident (Wainwright et al. 2019), but there is very limited evidence in those with CAI.
      It was potentially thought that activation deficits are less evident and strengthening may
      overcome these deficits in those with chronic injury; however, new insights have identified
      additional mechanisms by which NMES may be effective (Lepley et al. 2015). Aside from
      generating activation of a generally inactive muscle, NMES when performed at high intensities
      has been described to improve neuromuscular function through disinhibitory mechanisms. That
      is that increased somatosensation from the electrical stimulation raises the central nervous
      sytem's awareness of that muscle's activation, yielding decreased inhibition and ultimately
      increased neural excitability.

      Our previous research using cortically-directed interventions demonstrated that improving
      neural excitability yielded better function in patients with chronic ankle instability (Bruce
      et al. 2020). This study will follow a similar framework; however, determining if these
      changes can be induced via a peripheral intervention. These findings have the ability to
      reframe the current treatment for CAI.

      We are pursuing the following 2 specific aims:

        1. To determine if NMES changes neural excitability (MEP size, H:M ratio, silent period)
           compared to a placebo treatment in participants with chronic ankle instability.

           H1: NMES will increase MEP size, H:M ratio, and decrease cortical silent period in
           individuals with CAI compared to the placebo treatment.

        2. To determine if changes in neural excitability related to NMES or placebo treatment
           result in improved function (balance, muscle activation, outcomes) in participants with
           chronic ankle instability.

      H2: Increased neural excitability will yield improved balance (postural stability indices),
      muscle activation, and patient-reported function.
    
  