
    
      The proposed clinical trial is a dose escalation study of self-complementary
      scAAVrh74.tMCK.hSGCA to LGMD2D (alpha-sarcoglycan deficient) subjects delivered via a major
      lower limb artery of each leg sequentially by isolated limb perfusion (ILP). Three cohorts
      (Cohorts 1A, 1B, and 2) will undergo gene transfer in a dose escalation scheme to establish
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) using toxicity. Two (n=2) adult wheelchair-dependent patients
      will be enrolled in Cohort 1A and three (n =3) ambulatory subjects will be enrolled in Cohort
      1B. Three (n =3) ambulatory subjects will be enrolled in Cohort 2. The first cohort (1A) will
      receive a dose of 1E12 vg/kg in a single limb with delivery to the whole limb. This same dose
      will be delivered to both limbs in Cohort 1B. Cohort 2 will receive a total dose escalation
      of 3E12vg/kg per limb delivered to both extremities. The vector will be infused into an
      indwelling catheter in the femoral artery. This will be a one-time vector infusion to an
      isolated limb with a 10-minute dwell time. The total vector genome dose for each subject will
      be adjusted by rounding down to the closest 10 kg.

      Safety monitoring during infusion will include: activated clotting times, limb gases, real
      time monitoring of arterial and venous access pressures, and perfusate temperature. Safety
      endpoints will be assessed by changes in hematology, serum chemistry, urinalysis, immunologic
      response to rAAVrh74 and hSGCA, and reported history and observations of symptoms. Efficacy
      will be measured by the six minute walk test as well as direct muscle testing for strength
      (MVICT) of lower limb muscles. These quantitative measures will be done at baseline, day 30,
      60, 90, 180, and at the end of 1st and 2nd years. Subjects will be evaluated at baseline,
      infusion visit (days 0-2), and return for follow up visits on days 7, 14, 30, 60, 90, and
      180. On Day 180, subjects will undergo a muscle biopsy on the injected muscles in one leg to
      compare with the pre-treatment biopsy done at baseline screening in the opposite leg to
      establish the size of muscle fibers and any potential toxicity from gene transfer.
    
  