
    
      Intimate partner violence (IPV) is well established as a widespread problem with important
      negative physical and mental health, social and cost consequences for victims, their families
      and the community. Beyond the physical conditions associated with IPV, research has
      consistently demonstrated a strong association between experiencing IPV and increased rates
      of anxiety, depression, low-self esteem, substance abuse and suicidality. Increasing abused
      women's safety and reducing ongoing exposure to violence is key to minimizing such
      consequences.

      Building from the empowerment framework, safety planning interventions focus on protecting
      women from exposure to repeat violence. However, despite the significant evidence of the
      negative outcomes of IPV and the complex individual and community factors that influence
      safety, little is known about what interventions improve the safety and mental health
      outcomes of abused women. While experimental trials are beginning, to date there has not been
      a trial to examine the effectiveness of safety planning, a cornerstone of IPV interventions,
      on exposure to repeat violence, safety, and mental health outcomes for women. An
      internet-based safety decision aid may assist abused women in weighing risks and benefits of
      safety options, assessing danger, and identifying the factors that are most important in
      their safety decisions. Further, it provides personalized links with community mental health
      and domestic violence resources, which are invaluable in assisting women in planning for
      safety, thereby reducing the immediate and long terms risk of negative mental health
      consequences of violence.

      Women who consent to participate in this study and who have access to a safe computer (e.g.
      at home, work, community agency, friend/family) will be randomized to the intervention or
      control group. If a woman is randomized into the intervention group, she will complete the
      internet-based safety decision aid program. The decision aid program will be located on a
      confidential password protected and secured study website and will take approximately 60
      minutes to complete. Participants will first be asked demographic and relationship questions
      as well as questions about their ability to make decisions about safety in their
      relationship. Next, participants will be asked to make a series of comparisons to determine
      the importance of specific factors such as: keeping the abuse private, safety of self, family
      and children, feelings for partner, resources such as housing and employment and maintaining
      norms within family, to safety decisions. Participants will then be asked questions specific
      to risk factors for violence and safety seeking behaviors in their relationship. After
      completion, the safety decision aid generates results to provide an individualized safety
      plan to the participant. Women randomized into the control group will access the confidential
      and password protected control website which includes a brief assessment of risk factors and
      their history of violence, and will provide a list of local resources, but not an
      individualized safety plan. Both intervention and control group participants will then
      complete a series of instruments to measure intimate partner violence, mental health
      outcomes, and safety seeking behaviors. Each participant will have a skilled and trained
      research assistant available by phone or email to assist them in understanding questions,
      interpreting the results, developing strategies for safety and providing referrals for
      community-based services.

      Follow up sessions on the study website will be conducted at 3, 6, and 12 months
      post-baseline. Participants will be encouraged by the RA through phone or email contact to
      access the password-protected website to complete the internet session and follow-up
      assessment questions. Post-baseline questions will be the same as the baseline, but will
      focus on outcomes since the previous internet session.
    
  