
    
      Children with PA not only suffer physically and emotionally, but some of them will develop
      fear of physicians and healthcare providers. These children tend to avoid future medical care
      and can lead to increased suffering for the child and their family, as well as higher rates
      of morbidity and health care costs.

      There is a paucity of research evaluating the effects of AudioVisual interventions in
      reducing perioperative anxiety in children undergoing surgery. To date, no one has examined
      the physiological effects of PA or interventions designed to reduce it.

      In the past 2 years, the investigators have conducted 3 pilot studies that have examined the
      stability of perioperative anxiety in children (n=90) and parents, as well as the feasibility
      of our recruitment and testing protocol, and to pilot test the interactive tablet-based
      application. The investigators have established that PA can be reliably and validly measured
      in children and that the rate of participant recruitment, data collection, website adherence
      and follow-up protocols for the proposed study are feasible and acceptable. The investigators
      will now progress to conduct the randomized controlled trial (RCT).

      This RCT will be the first to examine the effects of STM in reducing PA and perioperative
      outcomes in children undergoing elective surgery. Therefore, the investigators will include
      both behavioral (i.e., observer- and self-rated) and biological measures of stress (i.e.,
      heart rate, salivary cortisol) to further our understanding of the impact of STM on PA.

      Unlike existing interventions, the customizable STM program provides a simulated hospital
      environment that can not only educate, but also increase children's coping abilities to
      better prepare them for surgery. In addition to reducing children's PA, it can also play an
      important role in reducing parental anxiety by preparing parents with a knowledge tool to
      support their child throughout the surgical process.The investigators believe that STM is a
      promising tool to improve children's health and ease the familial and societal costs of PA in
      an easy and cost-effective way. Given that many children in other hospitals do not receive
      adequate preoperative preparation, STM has the potential to provide proper perioperative care
      for every child in need.
    
  