
    
      Obesity is a significant health threat in South Texas, a largely Latino region with one of
      the most underserved, at-risk populations in the nation. Obesity can start in early childhood
      and persist lifelong, setting the stage for disease.1-3 Because obesity impairs
      health-related quality of life and billions are spent to manage obesity-related diseases,4
      interventions to help obesity-affected families to adopt and maintain a healthier lifestyle
      and achieve a healthy weight can have great individual and public health benefits.

      Much has been learned about the efficacy and effectiveness of comprehensive healthy lifestyle
      interventions to reduce obesity, but few studies have been translated into rural settings or
      for Latinos.5 Barriers to implementing lifestyle interventions in rural settings include:
      limited accessibility to health promotion programs, lack of health infrastructure,
      transportation constraints, poverty, and low levels of health literacy.6,7 To address these
      challenges, the proposed study will test two different methods of delivering a
      family-focused, culturally appropriate healthy lifestyle intervention to obese Latino adults
      and their families in rural South Texas. The family-focused intervention (FI), which builds
      on evidence from studies of urban Latino families by PI Dr. Deborah Parra-Medina and her
      South Texas-based research team, is a 12-week behavioral modification program grounded in the
      social cognitive theory of behavior change. The intervention is designed to engage the whole
      family in lifestyle changes by developing knowledge and skills in physical activity (PA) and
      healthy eating, building skills in goal-setting and self-monitoring, and creating a
      supportive environment at home.

      Two parallel delivery methods of the FI will be developed and tested: 1) in-person group
      setting at a community center (FI-IP) and 2) home-based delivered remotely with technology
      (FI-RT). While both will be designed to address the unique social, cultural and environmental
      factors facing rural Latino families, the latter takes advantage of innovative technology and
      e-Learning to increase program availability, accessibility and program participation in rural
      settings. The investigators will conduct a 3-arm randomized controlled trial to compare the
      effectiveness of the two delivery approaches on weight loss (primary outcome) and energy
      balance behaviors (secondary outcomes) among obese Latino parent-child pairs versus control.
      The investigators will recruit 270 obese (BMI 30-39.9kg/m2) Latino adults (ages 21-65) with a
      child (ages 8-17) from three primary care practices in rural South Texas. These 270
      parent-child pairs will be randomized to one of three arms stratified by clinic: 1) FI-IP
      (n=90); 2) FI-RT (n=90); or 3) control group (n=90). The primary specific aims of the study
      are:

      Aim 1: Conduct community-engaged formative studies to transform the existing family-focused
      intervention (FI) into two unique delivery methods (FI-IP and FI-RT) for use in a subsequent
      randomized controlled trial in a rural Latino community.

      Aim 2: Conduct a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the comparative effectiveness of two
      parallel delivery methods of family-focused intervention (FI-IP and FI-RT) to address weight
      loss (primary outcome) and energy balance behaviors (secondary outcomes) among obese rural
      Latino adults compared with control group adults at immediate post intervention (3 months
      post randomization), again after a 3-month maintenance program (6 months post randomization)
      and a 6-month follow-up (12 months post randomization).

      • The investigators hypothesize that adult participants randomized to either FI-IP or FI-RT
      will achieve greater weight loss and improved energy balance behaviors compared with adult
      participants in the control group immediate post intervention (3 months post randomization),
      after a 3-month maintenance program (6 months post randomization) and a 6-month follow-up (12
      months post randomization).

      The secondary aims are to examine:

        -  the impact of family-focused interventions on children's weight and energy balance
           behaviors;

        -  the impact of the family-focused interventions on health-related quality of life
           (HRQOL);8 and

        -  factors that facilitate or impede implementation and adherence to the two intervention
           forms.

      Findings from this comparative effective research will contribute to the evidence base to
      inform clinical and health policy decisions in regard to weight management for obese patients
      who may benefit from different approaches in intervention delivery.9 If successful, the
      remote delivery approach holds great promise in improving healthcare to underserved
      populations in rural and other remote locales.
    
  