
    
      Due to different opinions in the literature about the relevance of respiratory physiotherapy
      in the treatment of bronchiolitis, there is an urgent need to conduct studies with robust
      methodologies to explore the impact of physical therapy in children with bronchiolitis,
      especially on non-hospitalized, and to consider the different levels of severity of
      bronchiolitis.

      This study aims to evaluate the recovery of children with bronchiolitis with and without
      physical therapy treatments primarily through the computerized respiratory sounds. As
      secondary goals secondary measures will be registered to evaluate and compare treatments,
      such as the duration and frequency of bronchiolitis until 3 months after the diagnosis.

      The plan is to recruit approximately 52 children (until the age of 2) with 1st or 2nd
      bronchiolitis diagnostic by a pediatrician.

      Then, the researcher will contact the legal representative of the participants to provide
      more detailed information and obtain the consent forms. Patients will then be randomly
      assigned to the conventional treatment group or the conventional treatment plus respiratory
      physiotherapy group.

      The experimental group will receive 5 physiotherapy sessions at home or in a physical therapy
      office. The respiratory techniques follow a flowchart wich begins with saline instillation in
      the nose and nasopharyngeal cleaning techniques. Then to clear the lung slow inspiratory and
      slow and forced expiratory techniques will be used. The application of vibration is also
      included on the flowchart. During the sessions, educational information will also be
      provided.

      The baseline evaluation will include sociodemographic, anthropometric and clinical data, the
      calculation of Wang's score and well as computerized lung auscultation. The lung sounds are
      recorded on 7 anatomic regions: trachea (sternum node) left and right anterior regions
      (middle clavicular line over the 2nd intercostal space), left and right lateral regions
      (axillary line over the 4th / 5th intercostal space), left and right back regions (5 cm from
      the para-vertebral line and 7 cm under the inferior angle of scapular) for approximately 20
      seconds.

      With the exception of the sample characterization data to be retrieved only in the first
      evaluation, all other measures will take place in the remaining three evaluations (3th, 5th
      and 21st days).

      The experimental group will still have a final evaluation (auscultation, vital signs and Wang
      scale) at the end of each treatment session.

      A follow-up evaluation will take place after 3 months with a phone interview regarding
      questioning the recurrence of bronchiolitis, as well as the current presence of symptoms such
      as cough, sore throat, nasal obstruction, respiratory noise, difficulty sleeping or feeding
      At the end of this study are expected better results on the experimental group, based on a
      robust methodology on the impact of respiratory therapy in children from 0 to 2 years, on the
      treatment bronchiolitis in order to justify the intervention of physiotherapy in this area
      and to generate recommendations for clinical practice.
    
  