
    
      PAST PRE-CLINICAL AND CLINICAL EXPERIENCE:

      The effect of the electric fields (TTFields, TTF) has demonstrated significant activity in in
      vitro and in vivo ovarian carcinoma pre-clinical models both as a single modality treatment
      and in combination with chemotherapies. TTFields have been demonstrated to act
      synergistically with taxanes and have been shown to be additive when combined with other
      chemotherapies. In addition, TTFields have shown to inhibit metastatic spread of malignant
      melanoma in in vivo experiment.

      In a pilot study, 31 patients with recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian carcinoma received
      paclitaxel together with TTFields (200 kHz) applied to the abdomen/pelvis until disease
      progression. The combination was well tolerated and the only device-related adverse event was
      contact dermatitis.

      In addition, a phase III trial of Optune® (200 kHz) as monotherapy compared to active
      chemotherapy in recurrent glioblastoma patients showed TTFields to be equivalent to active
      chemotherapy in extending survival, associated with minimal toxicity, good quality of life,
      and activity within the brain (14% response rate). Finally, a phase III trial of Optune®
      combined with maintenance temozolomide compared to maintenance temozolomide alone has shown
      that combined therapy led to a significant improvement in both progression free survival and
      overall survival in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma without the addition of high
      grade toxicity and without decline in quality of life.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE TRIAL:

      All patients included in this trial are patients with platinum-resistant ovarian carcinoma.
      In addition, all patients must meet all eligibility criteria.

      Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups:

        1. Patients receive TTFields at 200 kHz to the abdomen and pelvis using the NovoTTF-100L(O)
           System together with weekly paclitaxel.

        2. Patients receive weekly paclitaxel alone.

      Patients will be randomized at a 1:1 ratio. Baseline tests will be performed in patients
      enrolled in both arms. If assigned to the NovoTTF-100L(O) group, the patients will be treated
      continuously with the device until progression in the abdomen/pelvis. On both arms, patients
      who have progression outside the abdomen/pelvis will switch to a second line treatment
      according to local practice.

      SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND:

      Electric fields exert forces on electric charges similar to the way a magnet exerts forces on
      metallic particles within a magnetic field. These forces cause movement and rotation of
      electrically charged biological building blocks, much like the alignment of metallic
      particles seen along the lines of force radiating outwards from a magnet.

      Electric fields can also cause muscles to twitch and if strong enough may heat tissues.
      TTFields are alternating electric fields of low intensity. This means that they change their
      direction repetitively many times a second. Since they change direction very rapidly (200
      thousand times a second), they do not cause muscles to twitch, nor do they have any effects
      on other electrically activated tissues in the body (brain, nerves and heart). Since the
      intensities of TTFields in the body are very low, they do not cause heating.

      The finding made by Novocure was that finely tuned alternating fields of very low intensity,
      now termed TTFields (Tumor Treating Fields), cause a significant slowing in the growth of
      cancer cells. Due to the unique geometric shape of cancer cells when they are multiplying,
      TTFields cause electrically-charged cellular components of these cells to change their
      location within the dividing cell, disrupting their normal function and ultimately leading to
      cell death. In addition, cancer cells also contain miniature building blocks which act as
      tiny motors in moving essential parts of the cells from place to place. TTFields interfere
      with the normal orientation of these tiny motors related to other cellular components since
      they are electrically-charged as well. As a result of these two effects, tumor cell division
      is slowed, results in cellular death or reverses after continuous exposure to TTFields.

      Other cells in the body (normal healthy tissues) are affected much less than cancer cells
      since they multiply at a much slower rate if at all. In addition TTFields can be directed to
      a certain part of the body, leaving sensitive areas out of their reach. Finally, the
      frequency of TTFields applied to each type of cancer is specific and may not damage normally
      dividing cells in healthy tissues.

      In conclusion, TTFields could potentially become treatment for ovarian cancer with very few
      side effects.
    
  