
    
      Over the last 20 years the number of induced labors doubled so that over one in five births
      in 2003 was induced. In response to the rising need for cervical ripening the American
      College Obstetricians and Gynecologists have stated that both mechanical and prostaglandin
      ripening is acceptable and safe.

      Prior to beginning an induction, the Bishop score (cervical dilation, effacement, station,
      consistency, and position) is assessed. With Bishop scores less than five, a cervical
      ripening agent is commonly used. The mechanical dilation with a foley catheter works by both
      a direct stretching of the lower uterine segment and cervix and a local inflammatory response
      that releases matrix metalloproteinases and prostaglandins. It is often chosen due to its
      lower cost, low incidence of systemic side effects, and low risk of hyperstimulation.

      Compared to misoprostol a foley with oxytocin was more effective at induction in primiparous
      patients, more effective at improving the dilation, safe to use after misoprostol, and not
      associated with an increased risk of uterine rupture in a vaginal birth after cesarean
      (VBAC). The foley was also shown to have a shorter induction time and less contractile
      abnormalities than prostaglandin E2 gel and no increased rate of uterine rupture in VBAC
      attempts. The use of extra-amniotic saline infusion with a foley catheter has been used to
      augment the mechanical stretching, however this did not decrease the induction time or
      improve the outcomes. Finally, a Cochrane Database review found that mechanical methods of
      cervical ripening were equally effective as prostaglandin agents.

      Although the safety, efficacy, and side effects of foley catheter ripening have been compared
      with multiple other methods for cervical ripening, very few studies have compared different
      protocols for foley placement. One study showed that the use of oxytocin while the foley
      catheter was in place did not significantly shorten the time to delivery. Levy et al showed
      that a larger, 80 ml, balloon resulted in a greater post-ripening dilation and a higher
      number of deliveries in 24hours. No study to date has examined how the traction placed on the
      foley catheter affects the outcome.

      Therefore, we propose doing a randomized controlled study in which the control is the current
      standard of care at MetroHealth Medical Center of placing a 500cc weight on the foley and
      placing it to gravity over the end of the bed. The comparison will be the method used at many
      institutions where the foley catheter is placed on gentle traction and taped to the inner
      thigh of the patient.

      The primary outcomes measured will be a post-ripening dilation of 3cm or more and time to
      delivery. The secondary outcomes are patient pain/comfort rating and method of delivery.
    
  