
    
      Compared to other races/ethnicities, African Americans with HIV have lower levels of
      engagement in care, are less likely to be on antiretroviral treatment (ART), and are more
      likely to delay care and ART initiation; those on ART are less likely to be adherent at high
      enough levels for the treatment to be effective. We propose to test an innovative, culturally
      relevant treatment advocacy (TA) intervention for African Americans with HIV that targets
      social, cultural, and structural issues contributing to poor HIV treatment behaviors. TA,
      which has been sustained in many community organizations throughout the HIV epidemic, has
      never been systematically evaluated. TA facilitates patient navigation through the medical
      system and provides tailored HIV treatment education and client-centered counseling to
      improve adherence and engagement in care. TA targets structural issues in healthcare and
      patients' lives by advocating to providers to improve patient-provider relationships,
      recommending changes in treatment and/or providers (if needed), and referring patients to
      mental health and social services. TA is particularly appropriate for African Americans with
      HIV, who may be mistrustful of providers: it can be conducted outside of the medical system
      in a safe, neutral community setting by individuals not associated with patients' healthcare.
      We developed a culturally relevant TA program that additionally discusses factors such as
      racism that undermine healthcare in Black communities, by acknowledging and directly
      addressing patients' medical mistrust and stigma as coping strategies that arise in response
      to oppression. The specific aims are to (1) conduct a randomized controlled trial to examine
      the effects of a culturally relevant TA program on adherence among African Americans with
      HIV; (2) identify culturally relevant mediators that explain the effects of treatment
      advocacy on antiretroviral treatment adherence among African Americans with HIV (e.g.,
      improved behavioral adherence skills, coping with stress/discrimination, mental health, and
      patient satisfaction; lower levels of HIV misconceptions, internalized HIV stigma/homophobia,
      medical mistrust, and substance use); and (3) explore culturally relevant moderators of the
      effects of treatment advocacy on antiretroviral treatment adherence among African Americans
      with HIV (e.g., access to care, discrimination, incarceration, poverty, social support,
      spirituality, and trauma). A sample of 200 African Americans with HIV will be randomly
      assigned to a TA intervention or wait-list control group. Participants will complete surveys
      at screening, and at 3- and 6-months post-baseline, to assess pre-, intra-, and
      post-intervention effects on adherence.
    
  