
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the dose of anetumab ravtansine that is safe in combination with pembrolizumab
      to be used in the randomized phase 2 study. (Phase I safety lead-in) II. Determine if the
      overall response rate of the combination of anetumab ravtansine and pembrolizumab is superior
      to pembrolizumab alone. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression free survival of anetumab ravtansine and pembrolizumab
      compared to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) alone.

      II. To evaluate the pharmacodynamic effects of anetumab ravtansine and pembrolizumab on
      soluble megakaryocyte potentiating factor (MPF).

      III. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of anetumab ravtansine and pembrolizumab. IV. To
      evaluate mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) function, FcgammaRs, hormone and chemokine
      mediators as methods to evaluate factors affecting the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics
      of these agents.

      V. To determine the incidence of antibodies directed against anetumab ravtansine.

      CORRELATIVE STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether elevations in Bim in TTR predict responses to treatment and whether
      its detection is dynamic with treatment.

      II. To determine whether soluble PD-L1 predicts responses to treatment and whether its
      detection is dynamic with treatment.

      III. To evaluate PD-L1 expression in archival tissue as a predictive marker of response to
      pembrolizumab-based therapy.

      IV. To explore the symptomatic adverse events (AE) for tolerability of each treatment group
      using patient reported outcomes (PRO)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles
      repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Upon radiologic documentation of disease progression, patients may cross over to
      Group II.

      GROUP II: Patients receive anetumab ravtansine IV over 1 hour and pembrolizumab IV over 30
      minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 12 months.
    
  