
    
      Study Overview:

      • Design

      EVAREST is a multi-centre observational study comparing accuracy of novel quantitative stress
      echocardiography biomarkers for prediction of 12 month outcome against standard clinical
      interpretation.

      • Scientific Justification

      Coronary artery disease affects 2.3 million people in the UK and is responsible for 66 000
      deaths each (BHF, 2018). As such, early diagnosis and intervention is crucial for saving
      lives and improving people's quality of life. Stress echocardiography is a commonly used,
      non-invasive imaging test used for detection of prognostically significant coronary artery
      disease. It allows the detection of regional wall motion abnormalities (RWMAs) which develop
      when the myocardium is not receiving adequate perfusion and, as such, indicates obstructive
      coronary artery disease. Average sensitivity and specificity for stress echocardiography is
      estimated at 81% and 82%, respectively (Geleijnse et al., 2009) in meta-analysis but remains
      highly subjective (Hoffmann et al., 1996) and subject to operator skill (Picano et al.,
      1991). Objective, quantifiable biomarkers in blood samples, or from images, acquired during
      the stress echocardiogram, which predict outcome of patients, could be used to reduce
      variability of stress echocardiography and ensure consistent and accurate results.

      Aims

        -  To establish whether the measurement of specific blood biomarkers, in particular,
           extracellular vesicles, during a stress echocardiogram, can give additional prognostic
           information to stress echocardiography.

        -  To establish whether imaging biomarkers can provide additional prognostic information to
           stress echocardiography.

      Phase One

      Phase one will investigate the impact of cardiac stress on the levels of circulating
      biomarkers, in particular, extracellular vesicles. This phase will also assess whether they
      provide further prognostic information in addition to the echocardiogram. Blood samples will
      be collected from a cannula (inserted for the standard clinical procedure) before stress,
      during peak stress and during recovery and analysed to determine whether there were any
      changes in circulating extracellular vesicles during these three stages and whether these
      differ between patients with and without ischaemic heart disease.

      Phase Two

      Phase two continues recruitment for collection of stress echocardiogram images. Data
      collected during this phase will be compared with the data obtained during phase one to
      assess the usefulness of incorporating blood biomarkers into assessment of stress
      echocardiograms. In addition, the images obtained during phase two will be combined with the
      images collected during phase one to allow for the identification of novel imaging biomarkers
      which can be used to assist in the identification of patients with prognostically significant
      coronary disease.

      Phase Three

      Phase three will expand recruitment to allow evaluation of the generalisability of the
      imaging biomarkers identified in phase one and two across different healthcare settings,
      operators, stress protocols, machines and patient groups.

      Phase Four

      The fourth phase of the study allows for an assessment of all stress echocardiography
      practise in the UK and the demographics of patients being referred for stress echocardiogram.
      Phase four will investigate the use of stress echocardiography as a clinical procedure in the
      UK.

      • Recruitment, Consent and Data Collection

      Patients who have been scheduled a stress echocardiogram (using either pharmacological or
      exercise stress) as part of clinical investigations will be sent a participant information
      leaflet to read prior to their clinic appointment. When they are in the department, they will
      be approached by a study investigator to see whether they would be interested in taking part
      in the study and have the opportunity to ask the investigator any questions so that they
      fully understand the study. If they are interested in taking part, the process of obtaining
      informed consent will take place.

      Following consent, the images acquired during the stress echocardiogram will be downloaded
      and anonymised with the participant's unique study ID number. These images will be
      transferred to the Oxford Research Echocardiography Core Laboratory (ORECL) for further
      analysis. Relevant medical history will be obtained for each participant as well as the
      clinician's interpretation of the echocardiogram. One year after the initial stress
      echocardiogram (range: 11-18 months), the participant will be followed-up to determine
      whether they underwent any further investigations for ischaemic heart disease (such as
      coronary angiography, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, myocardial perfusion scintigraphy
      or repeat stress echocardiography) or had any coronary events. The participant may also be
      contacted via telephone to find out whether they were admitted to any other hospital for
      investigations. For phase one participants only, three blood samples (totalling approximately
      40 ml) will be obtained before, at peak stress and after a recovery period, for the
      assessment of blood biomarkers. These samples will be taken through the cannula inserted as
      is routine during stress echocardiography. Participants will also give consent for follow-up
      information to be accessed for up to ten years after their initial stress echocardiogram.

      • Outcome Assessment

      Patient outcomes will be examined by an adjudication committee, blinded to the results of the
      stress echocardiograms. This committee will be led by a cardiologist and will examine all
      information obtained for a participant after the follow-up period has concluded. The criteria
      for confirming the presence of significant coronary artery disease include > 70% stenosis
      (assessed either via invasive coronary angiography or CT coronary angiography), an FFR < 0.85
      or disease requiring intervention (either by percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or
      coronary artery bypass grafts (CABG)). Other end-points include coronary events (such as
      myocardial infarction) or death (attributed to coronary artery disease). If a patient has had
      no further investigations or events since their stress echocardiogram, their outcome will be
      recorded as normal.

      • Confidentiality

      All data obtained will be securely stored in accordance with the General Data Protection
      Regulations and Data Protection Act (2018) and Caldicott Principles.
    
  