
    
      Anthropometric measurement tools including a stadiometer, a measurement tape and digital
      weighing scale, activity monitor and Flash Glucose Monitor and sensor will be posted to the
      participants' home or workplace or research team drop all these items to participants'
      doorstep to allow participants to take their measures including height, weight, and waist
      circumference.

      Every participant will have to perform a try-out day of the SitLess regimen for 24 hours
      before starting the study and it will be performed after preliminary testing and before the
      first experimental condition. Those participants will be included for this study who will be
      able to adhere to the protocol based on a review of the activPAL activity monitor data that
      will be worn during the day. Additionally, a second attempt will be offered to them to adhere
      to the protocol if needed.

      Participants will undertake two separate activity regimens in free-living conditions which
      will be lasting 4-day each condition in a random order:

      # Sit regimen: Participants will be instructed to restrict walking and standing to ≤1 h/day
      each (total ≤2 h/day ) and the remainder of the waking day will be seated apart from visiting
      the toilet. They will be allowed to perform their daily activities including cooking and
      other household activities within the 2 h of permitted walking and standing.

      #SitLess regimen: Participants will be instructed to substitute a minimum of 5h/day of
      sitting with ≥2 h of light-intensity physical activity and ≥3 h of standing. Participants
      will be advised to rise from the seated position for 2-5 min every 30 min to engage in
      standing /light-intensity physical activities to interrupt their sitting.

      During each activity regimen, participants will be asked to record all of the activities in
      an activity logbook. In addition, they will be asked to weigh (using kitchen scales) and
      record food and beverage consumption in a diary for the first four days (days 1-4) and then
      replicate the dietary intakes and timings exactly for the second four days (days 8-11). They
      will need to make sure that each meal contains at least 50% carbohydrate. Kitchen scales and
      a food diary will be provided by the research team.

      Throughout the 11 days, participants will be required to avoid alcohol consumption and
      performing exercise (e.g. brisk walking, sports, going to the gym, cycling, running etc).
    
  