
    
      This is a mixed-methods will be conducted in multiple phases:

      Phase 1: development of an enhanced genomic test result report through in-depth interviews
      with parents and providers

      Phase 2: refine the report through parental focus groups and provider interviews and create
      the final report and delivery method.

      Phase 3: implement the enhanced test report and evaluate the impact on patient and providers

      Subjects for the study are parents of affected children enrolled in the Whole Genome
      Sequencing (WGS) Clinical Research Pilot Study (study within a study). All parents receive
      routine clinical care for WGS and clinical return of results per protocol of the WGS study.

      Parents from the WGS study were invited to participate in phases 1 and 2 of this study to
      help design and test an enhanced genomic test report that would meet their needs for
      information about their child's condition and communication with providers, caregivers,
      teachers, and family.

      This report in clinicaltrials.gov reports on phase 3 data only. The experimental design to be
      used for phase 3 of the project is a randomized, single-blinded pre- post-intervention trial
      with crossover.

      According to the WGS study protocol all results of the WGS testing will be provided by a
      geneticist and genetic counselor at an informing session. At this session, results will be
      returned and explained, recommendations provided and questions answered (routine clinical
      care). Following this session, parents will be randomized as couples based on whether their
      child received a result of a causal variant or non-causal variant to receive either routine
      clinical care with an enhanced report (intervention arm) or routine clinical care first
      followed by enhanced report (control with crossover). Randomizing parents as couples is
      necessary as randomization at the individual level would lead to contamination and spillover
      if one member of the couple were in the usual care arm and the other in the intervention arm.

      After routine clinical care to deliver the WGS test results and randomization, parents will
      be invited to participate in phase 3 to test the impact of the enhanced report on parental
      and provider satisfaction, communication, and knowledge. Parents will enter into phase 3 of
      the study (experimental design) by completing baseline surveys. Upon completion of baseline
      surveys, parents will be provided the enhanced report (intervention) or another copy of their
      standard lab report (control with crossover).

      All parents will be surveyed at 3 months. Parents in the control with crossover arm will be
      provided the enhanced report at this time and sent another survey 3 month post enhanced
      report (6 month post baseline). Standard, validated, survey instruments will be utilized for
      the baseline and follow-up surveys; therefore, it is possible that important differences
      between the routine clinical care with crossover and intervention arms could be missed. To
      insure capture of all important differences and all impact of the enhanced genomic test
      result report, additional in-depth qualitative interviews will take place after the final
      survey post enhanced report is administered.
    
  