
    
      Urea cycle disorders (UCD) are amongst the most frequent of the inborn errors of metabolism
      (IEM) and result from a block in the hepatic disposal of waste nitrogen from protein
      catabolism. Viral infections play a significant role in precipitating life-threatening acute
      hyperammonemic crises in UCD. The recent H1N1 influenza pandemic has placed this vulnerable
      population at significant risk. The standard of care for these patients is routine
      vaccination for seasonal and H1N1 influenza viruses. However, nutritional deficiencies and
      their underlying enzymopathy may affect the efficacy of vaccination.

      Dietary management of urea cycle disorders includes dietary modification with protein
      restriction. Protein energy malnutrition, essential fatty acid deficiencies and micronutrient
      deficiencies due to restrictive dietary management have been reported in various inborn
      errors of metabolism. In general, dietary deficiencies and their effect on immune function
      are well documented.

      In addition to the disposal of waste nitrogen, the urea cycle also generates arginine for
      various biologic functions. Depending on the site of the metabolic block, UCD patients are at
      risk for becoming systemically deficient in citrulline and arginine, with potential
      implications for the immune system. The immunomodulatory roles of the amino acids citrulline
      and arginine have been characterized in the context of nutritional deficiencies in disease
      states such as cancer and sepsis. Systemic infection may also deplete systemic citrulline and
      arginine, compounding an underlying deficiency in UCD. Cells of the immune system have a more
      direct relationship with the urea cycle: urea cycle enzymes arginosuccinate synthetase (ASS),
      arginosuccinate lyase (ASL) and arginase (ARG1) may also be components of leukocyte
      metabolism. Overall, general and specific nutritional deficiencies and enzymopathies
      affecting leukocyte metabolism may potentially affect vaccine efficacy. However, immune
      system function in experiments of nature such as UCD remains an understudied area.

      In this protocol, we will clinically evaluate the nutritional/metabolic and immunologic
      states of patients with UCD or related disorders. Routine inpatient admissions will last 2-3
      days and involve urine collection, blood drawing, radiological procedures, nutrition
      assessment and biometrics, and vaccination for combined seasonal/H1N1 influenza. Follow-up
      outpatient appointments will be scheduled at the end of the study period.

      The study objectives will be to describe the nutritional and immune deficiencies seen, query
      for nutrition/enzymatic/immunologic correlations in this patient population, describe vaccine
      efficacy in this patient population, and search for new genes in rare families that have
      evidence for an unknown class of UCD. The population will consist of patients previously
      evaluated at NIH, physician referrals, and families directed to the study from
      clinicaltrials.gov as well as the National Urea Cycle Disorders Foundation. All patients will
      be evaluated at the NIH Clinical Center.
    
  