
    
      Rationale of the study supported by cited literature:

      Role of biomarkers in AKI has been established in different clinical settings, to not only
      early diagnosis but also make prognosis. There are some studies in contrast-induced AKI,
      mainly in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization. Due to scarcity of prospective studies
      on this clinically important issue in critically ill patients, there is a need for this
      proposed study. The investigators will do study to analyse the role of plasma and urinary
      biomarkers (Neutrophil Gelatinase-Associated Lipocalin (NGAL), Cystatin C and Kidney Injury
      Molecule-1) in predicting CI-AKI in critically ill patients

      The relevance and expected outcome of the proposed study:

      With this study, the investigators will be able to know that is there any predictive value of
      these biomarkers to predict CI-AKI in critically ill patients.

      Preliminary work done so far:

      No systematic study so far in critically ill medical-surgical ICU patients.

      Definition of Contrast-induced acute kidney injury:

      Contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI) is defined as a rise in serum creatinine of ≥
      0.3 mg/dl from the baseline (before contrast exposure) value within 48 hours after
      administration of the radiographic contrast

      Work plan methodology:

      This is a prospective observational study to know role of biomarkers in CI-AKI in critically
      ill patients. Patients will be included from 2 intensive care units (ICU): 1. ICU of
      Department of Critical Care Medicine, and; 2. ICU of Department of Neurosurgery. All adult
      critically ill patients will be consider for inclusion in this study, who will require a
      contrast-enhanced CT scan of any organ system as decided by the treating clinician and also
      met study criteria as predefined. After getting written informed consent from the patient or
      close relatives to participate in this study, patients will be included in this study. There
      will be no intervention in this study. Treatment of patient will continue as per treating
      clinician. Transportation of patient for CT scanning will be accompanied by a senior resident
      and a staff nurse; and relevant monitoring of vitals will be done as per ICU protocol.

      Sample collection: Sample will be collected after informed written consent. At baseline,
      before contrast exposure, 5 ml blood and 5 ml urine will be collected. Similar amount of each
      will be collected after 04 h, 24 h and 48 h of contrast exposure. Collected samples (plasma
      and urine) will be stored at temperature of -80 degree centigrade in deep freezer till
      analysis.

      Data collection: Demographic and clinical characteristics of all ICU patients who fulfil
      inclusion criteria will be collected along with relevant laboratory tests done for patient
      management. ICU prognostication scores, i.e., Acute Physiologic and Chronic Health Evaluation
      (APACHE) II score and Sequential Organ Dysfunction Assessment (SOFA) score will also be
      recorded. Contrast type and volume will be noted. Fluid balance in last 24 hours, uses of
      nephrotoxic drugs will also be noted.

      Intervention: None. Outcome: The primary outcome measure will be development of
      contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI), defined as a rise in plasma creatinine of ≥
      0.3 mg/dl from the baseline (before contrast exposure) value within 48 hours after
      administration of the radiographic contrast.

      Laboratory methods: Samples will be analysed for plasma and urinary creatinine and studied
      biomarkers before contrast exposure as well as after 04 h, 24 h and 48 h of contrast
      exposure. Biomarker, Neutrophil Gelatinase-Associated Lipocalin (NGAL), Cystatin C and Kidney
      Injury Molecule-1 (KIM 1) in plasma and urine, will be analysed by commercially available
      ELISA kits (RnD) as per manufacturer instructions. Urinary biomarker will be normalized as
      per urine creatinine values for each sample.
    
  