
    
      While performing a botulinum toxin A (BTX-A) treatment for glabellar frown lines and crow's
      feet of a lady who has also periocular vitiligo, we noted gradual and complete resolution of
      the vitiliginous patch, within few months, without adding other therapy. To test this
      observation, whether BTX-A lead to this repigmentation or it was a spontaneous one, we
      designed a controlled, prospective pilot study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of BTX-A
      in patients with localized vitiligo.

      MATERIAL AND METHODS

      Patients The study will be conducted in the dermatology clinic at King Khalid University
      Hospital. 10 patients with focal or segmental vitiligo will recruited to the study Data will
      be collected by patients interview included: patient characteristics (age, sex, age of onset
      of vitiligo, disease activity, presence of pruritus), medical history, previous treatment
      modalities including the clinical outcome of each modality. Complete physical examination and
      laboratory testing including: complete blood count, fasting blood sugar and thyroid
      autoantibodies were performed.

      Injection Procedure Dilution of 1 ml of unpreserved saline per 100 U vial of BOTOX (Allergen
      pharmaceuticals, Irvine, CA). 2 units will injected intradermally every 1 cm2 with a 1ml
      syringe and 30 gauge needle. No other treatment modality will performed during the study.

      Assessments For each patient with focal vitiligo, one vitiliginous patch - or two patches
      from different sites- will be treated. The other patches from the contra lateral site will be
      left untreated and used as control at the follow-up visit. For each patient with segmental
      vitiligo, half of the lesion will be treated. The other half will be left untreated and used
      as a control at the follow-up visit. The main outcome is the percentage of repigmentation in
      the previously depigmented patch, in form of color or size changes and folliculocentric
      repigmentation, of the treated and the control patches. Each patient will be assessed by the
      three investigators before and after injection with BTX-A. Patients will; be re-examined at 2
      wk, 2 and 6 months after therapy. The outcome of each visit will be noted on a standardized
      sheet. Standardized photographs of the treated and control patches, including measurement,
      will be taken at each visit.

      Repigmentation in previously depigmented patch will be judge by the photograph and the
      measurement of lesion and compared to pre treatment status by a blinded dermatologist.
    
  