
    
      The overall goal of this project is to better understand the micro-physiology of human
      epilepsy and cognition using iEEG, electrical brain stimulation, fMRI, and histology.

      Specific AIM 1: Mapping cognitive networks using intracranial electrodes, functional magnetic
      resonance imaging, and cognitive tasks. To identify brain areas and mechanisms involved in
      cognitive function we will ask participants to perform tasks while their brain activity is
      measured with intracranial electrodes or functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).

      Specific AIM 2: Using microelectrodes to better understand the mechanisms of seizure genesis
      and spread. We will use microelectrodes to measure activity within single neurons, data that
      will allow us to tease apart incoming and outgoing activity to a brain area.

      Specific AIM 3: Using macroscale measures of brain connectivity to map functional and
      epileptogenic brain areas. We will measure connectivity between macroscale brain regions via
      variety of techniques: diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), fMRI, cortico-cortical evoked
      potentials (CCEP), and intracranial electrophysiology. We believe that epileptogenic and
      functional regions will be mutually segregated by their connectivity patterns.

      Specific AIM 4: Using EEG/iEEG source localization to better identify the sources of
      epileptiform activity. We will construct models of participants' heads via MRI and CT, which
      will potentially allow us to localize the neural generators of EEG and iEEG recordings.

      Specific AIM 5: Investigating the effects of transcranial electrical stimulation (tES) on
      cortical excitability and cognitive function. We will apply tES to epileptogenic and
      functional brain regions and evaluate the effects of this stimulation on microelectrode
      recordings, CCEPs, and cognitive tasks.

      Specific AIM 6: Studying local connectivity of epileptic brain tissue with histology. We will
      reserve a small portion of resected brain tissue from patients who have undergone surgical
      resection for histological analysis to better understand altered patterns of neural
      connectivity in epilepsy.
    
  