
    
      Description of the study:

      Single-center clinical trial, controlled, randomized, double-blind, crossover design, against
      inactive placebo.

      Each patient will receive successively the 3 products (ketamine / placebo, ketamine /
      magnesium sulfate, placebo / placebo) follows a predeter randomization list, with a wash-out
      period between each administration.

      Visit 1

      -Inclusion visit, signature of informed consent form, clinical examination and fill
      questionnaires.

      For women of childbearing age a pregnancy test will be performed.The pain will be measured by
      a numerical scale.

      The pain will be evaluated by scoring on a numerical scale. A booklet for monitoring
      analgesic concomitant medication and overall pain on a numerical scale will be given to the
      patient 14 days before the programmed infusion.

      Visit 2 : Period 1 Day 0

      Clinical examination, return of booklet completed by patient and fill questionnaires.

      The pain will be evaluated by scoring on a numerical scale before and after the infusion.

      For women of childbearing age a pregnancy test will be performed. Treatment allocation period
      follows a predeter randomization list. At the end of the infusion, a booklet for monitoring
      will be given to patients for the following weeks in order to score their overall pain until
      the next study period.

      The output of the hospital patient (CPC / CETD) after each treatment will be authorized by
      the investigator.

      Wash-out period: 5 weeks.

      Phone call 1 (Day 1):

      Patients will be called by phone to collect adverse events and concomitant medications. If
      necessary, the patients should return to consult the CPC / CETD for a clinical examination.

      Patients will be called the week before their scheduled visit, if at that time their
      spontaneous pain is still low, according to the opinion of the investigator, the infusion
      visit will be shifted to allow the pain level back its basal level.

      Visit 3 : Period 2 : Day 36 +/- 3 days

      Same of period 1.

      Phone call 2 J 37 +/- 3 days:

      Same of phone call 1.

      Visit 4 : Period 3 : Day 72 +/- 3 days

      Same of period 1

      Phone call 3 J 73 +/- 3 days:

      Same of phone call 1.

      Visit 5 : Day 108 +/- 3 days

      Clinical examination, return of booklet completed by patient and fill questionnaires.

      The pain will be evaluated by scoring on a numerical scale For women of childbearing age a
      pregnancy test will be performed. This visit is the end of the study.
    
  