
    
      Repair of thoraco-abdominal aortic aneurysms (TAA) is mostly performed in specialized
      centers. These centers report an operative mortality around 10%. In an analysis of 337
      consecutive TAA, Cambria et al reported pulmonary (44%), cardiac, (13.8 %) renal (13.5%) and
      postoperative spinal cord deficit as prominent complications. Due to the extent of the
      surgery and the high risk of complications, all these patients require post- operative care
      in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). In 2003, the operation was performed in approximately 40
      patients at the Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH). The median length of stay in the ICU
      was 7 days (range 2-55) All patients required postoperative mechanical ventilation for
      greater than 48 h. During this period, a continuous intravenous infusion of propofol is
      normally used for sedation. Pain relief is provided by a continuous intravenous infusion of
      hydromorphone. This combination of sedation and analgesia is widely used at MGH and other
      institutions. Although very effective, it may cause respiratory depression and a deep
      sedative state, which may result in a prolonged requirement for mechanical ventilation.
      Lighter or more controllable sedation appears to be beneficial in this regard: daily wake up
      of intubated and sedated ICU patients decreases days on the ventilator and length of stay in
      the ICU.

      Dexmedetomidine is a highly specific α2 agonist with prominent central nervous system (CNS)
      and cardiovascular effects It is FDA-approved as a postoperative sedative-hypnotic agent for
      intensive care patients for use up to 24 hours. The drug has hypnotic, sedative, analgesic
      and anxiolytic actions, and it tends to cause a mild decrease in blood pressure and heart
      rate. Patients or healthy volunteers sedated with dexmedetomidine alone are easily arousable
      and have no apparent respiratory depression. Dexmedetomidine has synergistic hypnotic and
      analgesic interactions with virtually all CNS depressants tested. It significantly decreases
      sedative and opioid requirements during and after major surgical procedures.Other potentially
      beneficial effects that are not as well-documented include bronchodilation and the ability to
      induce a more 'physiologic' sleep than other hypnotics commonly used in the ICU.
      Dexmedetomidine sedation may also be associated with a lower incidence of delirium.

      Patients recovering from TAA surgery routinely require substantial ICU resources. If
      dexmedetomidine decreases the opioid and sedative requirement in these patients, it may
      potentially decrease the average number of days spent on the ventilator and in the ICU.
    
  