
    
      Clinicians often make decisions about ordering low-value services in the midst of clinical
      encounters when their thinking can be rushed and susceptible to patient demands. This
      pragmatic trial examines the uptake and effects of shifting clinicians' decisions about
      ordering low-value services to the pre-encounter period when their thinking is slower and
      more deliberative; inviting clinicians to commit to avoid ordering those services during
      patient encounters; and providing to clinicians who committed decision support resources such
      as point-of-care reminders, patient education handouts, and access to brief communications
      training.

      The investigators will conduct a mixed-methods, stepped wedge cluster randomized trial in 6
      IHA primary care clinics in southeastern Michigan. The intervention will be introduced in
      each clinic in sequence approximately one month apart and in a randomly assigned order (i.e.,
      temporal randomization). In each clinic the intervention will continue for 1 to 6 months so
      that the intervention ends in all clinics at the same time. For example, in the first clinic
      the intervention will run for 6 months; in the sixth clinic the intervention will run for 1
      month. The total length of the control period plus the intervention period will be 8 months
      at all clinics.

      Prior to the start of the study, IHA made its primary care clinicians aware of publicly
      available recommendations from the ABIM Foundation's Choosing Wisely® campaign applicable to
      avoiding overuse of low-value services for 3 common conditions: (1) low back pain, (2) acute
      sinusitis, and (3) headaches. However, research has shown that clinician behavior seldom
      changes as a result of information alone. Therefore, at the start of the intervention period
      clinicians will be invited to make a pre-encounter commitment to follow the 3 Choosing Wisely
      recommendations. Clinicians who choose to commit will throughout the intervention period
      receive point-of-care commitment reminders, Choosing Wisely patient education handouts, and
      weekly emails with decision support resources. Clinicians will remain free to order services
      at any time without penalty.

      The investigators will measure whether the clinician-focused intervention leads to declines
      in rates of ordering imaging tests for low back pain, antibiotics for acute sinusitis, and
      imaging tests for headaches. The study team will analyze ordering patterns and costs using
      clinical operations datasets (drawn from electronic health records and from the billing and
      practice management system). The following hypotheses will be tested:

      Hypothesis 1: Inviting primary care clinicians to commit to avoid ordering imaging for low
      back pain, antibiotics for acute sinusitis, and imaging for headaches will decrease ordering
      of these services.

      Hypothesis 2: Inviting primary care clinicians to commit to avoid ordering imaging for low
      back pain, antibiotics for acute sinusitis, and imaging for headaches will reduce health care
      costs in patient visits for low back pain, acute sinusitis, and headaches.

      Hypothesis 3: Inviting primary care clinicians to commit to avoid ordering low-value services
      will reduce per-clinician per-visit health care costs across clinical conditions.

      For each outcome investigators will also compare differences between clinicians who did and
      did not commit to follow the 3 Choosing Wisely recommendations. Additionally, investigators
      will compare differences in outcomes between the 3-month follow-up period (immediately after
      the intervention has ended) and the control and intervention periods.

      After the intervention period, the study team will conduct surveys and semi-structured
      interviews with study clinicians. The survey results will be used to identify correlates of
      primary care clinician uptake of invitations to commit to avoid ordering low-value services.
      The semi-structured interviews will elicit qualitative data on clinician attitudes towards
      overuse of low-value services, clinicians' responses to the intervention, and facilitators of
      and barriers to avoidance of delivering low-value care.
    
  