
    
      Asthma is a common childhood disease that affects over 9 million children in the United
      States. In 1997, the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) published a set of
      guidelines aimed at improving the quality of patient care for individuals with asthma.
      According to the guidelines, a daily dose of inhaled corticosteroids is considered the most
      effective treatment for the long-term control of asthma. Despite this recommendation, many
      pediatricians are not prescribing daily corticosteroids to asthmatic children who may benefit
      from this treatment.

      Continuing medical education (CME) is viewed as the primary method of keeping health care
      providers informed of new research knowledge and the latest medical trends. While traditional
      CME programs have not been successful in changing physician behavior, an interactive program
      that offers skills development for implementing changes in the care and treatment of
      asthmatic patients may prove effective. The purpose of this study is to develop, implement,
      and evaluate an interactive asthma education program targeted towards pediatricians.
      Specifically, the study will determine the program's effectiveness at developing asthma
      management skills in pediatricians, including corticosteroid prescribing practices, and
      improving asthma-related outcomes among their pediatric patients.

      In this 5-year study, pediatricians will be randomly assigned to either an asthma education
      intervention group or a control group. The intervention group will attend the enhanced asthma
      education seminar, and the control group will attend a traditional lecture about asthma. In
      Years 1 and 2, the intervention group will participate in a 2-hour focus group to discuss
      barriers to adopting the NHLBI asthma guidelines for daily corticosteroid therapy. A brief
      survey on this same topic will also be completed. During Year 2, physicians in the
      intervention group will attend at least 5 hours of educational seminars designed to improve
      adherence to the recommended guidelines. In Years 2 through 5, all physicians will complete
      yearly questionnaires to assess barriers to corticosteroid prescription methods. Parents of
      asthmatic patients treated by the pediatricians will take part in a 20-minute telephone
      survey each year, and study researchers will review the medical records of each child.
    
  