
    
      Potentially inappropriate prescribing (PIP) is frequent, particularly in Long-Term Care (LTC)
      patients. Tools such as STOPP/START and Beers criteria were developed to identify PIP in
      clinical settings. Due to lack of clinical data in such databases, only a subset of these
      criteria are applicable to routinely collected health administrative data (HAD). This subset
      was shown to identify PIP in HAD with a frequency comparable to clinical studies using the
      full STOPP-START criteria. Nonetheless, the performance of subsets of STOPP/START and Beers
      criteria in HAD compared to clinical data from the same patients is unknown; furthermore, the
      performance of the updated 2014 STOPP-START and 2012 Beers criteria compared with one another
      is also unknown.

      The overall aim of this study is to validate medication appropriateness criteria applicable
      to HAD by comparing their performance when applied to clinical data. The present study has
      two main and three secondary objectives (see Figure 1 for details):

      A. Main objectives:

      Objective 1: To validate subsets of the STOPP/START and Beers criteria defined by their
      applicability to HAD, by comparing their performance in detecting PIP when applied to HAD
      with that of the full set of criteria applied to clinical data for the same residents (with
      the clinical data providing the "gold standard").

      Objective 2: To compare the detection rates of the full STOPP/START and full Beers criteria
      with one another when applied to clinical data.

      B. Secondary objectives:

      Objective 3: To assess the number and proportion of unidentified PIP when using the subset of
      STOPP/START and Beers criteria with HAD when compared with the full set of criteria, when
      applied to clinical data.

      Objective 4: To compare the performance of the subset of the STOPP/START and Beers criteria
      applied to the HAD in detecting PIP when compared to clinical data for the same residents.

      Objective 5: To compare the performance of the subset of STOPP/START and Beers criteria
      applicable to HAD with one another when applied to HAD.

      To achieve these objectives, the investigators will conduct a cross-sectional study of linked
      HAD and clinical data. Eligible patients will be 66 years and over and recently admitted to
      one of six LTC facilities in Ottawa, Ontario, beginning June 1st, 2014. The target sample
      size is 275, but recruitment may stop if interim analyses demonstrate statistical
      significance can be achieved with fewer patients. Medication, diagnostic and clinical data
      will be collected after admission by a pharmacist not otherwise involved in the patient's
      care. The main outcome measure is the proportion of PIP missed by the subset of STOPP/START
      criteria applied to HAD when compared to clinical data (the gold standard).
    
  