
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) type 1 is a disease with significant social and economic impact. The
      prevalence of the disease in the United States is about 120,000 in individuals aged 19 or
      less and 300,000 to 500,000 at all ages and 150 million worldwide. There are 30,000 new cases
      diagnosed each year in the United States. DM is one of the most frequent chronic diseases in
      children in the United States 1. The cost of treatment and complications of this disease in
      the United States is 90 billion dollars a year.

      To date there are no mechanical devices able to effectively adjust the dose of insulin
      injected according to the serum glucose levels in patients with DM. This leads to
      less-than-perfect sugar control, with episodes of hypoglycemia which can be dangerous.

      The emerging alternative to whole organ pancreas transplantation is pancreatic islet cell
      transplantation (ICT). The process is based on the enzymatic isolation of the pancreatic
      islets of Langerhans from an organ procured from a cadaveric donor 13-15; the islets obtained
      are injected into the liver of the recipient via percutaneous catheterization of the portal
      venous system 16. This procedure allows the selective transplantation of the
      insulin-producing cell population avoiding open surgery as well as the transplantation of the
      duodenum and the exocrine pancreas and their related morbidity.

      The initial efforts with ICT had only modest results. The immunosuppression regimen was
      similar to the one used in solid organ transplantation, based on high dose steroids and
      calcineurin inhibitors - both agents with diabetogenic effects. The results improved markedly
      with the changes in the manipulations of the islets, and the change in immunosuppression thus
      avoiding the higher doses of steroids and using sirolimus, tacrolimus and daclizumab
      initiated by the investigators group at the University of Alberta in Edmonton, Canada. Their
      protocol requires in general two islet cell infusions in order to attain the critical cell
      mass necessary to achieve insulin-independency. The changes in treatment were adopted as the
      Edmonton Protocol, which is used in several transplant centers, worldwide.

      Isolation of the islets from donor pancreata will occur in the Baylor University Medical
      Center Islet Cell Processing Laboratory (ICPL). The islet cell infusion is performed in the
      Interventional Radiology Suite at Baylor University Medical Center or Baylor All Saints
      Medical Center by an interventional radiologist. The procedure takes place in a suite
      designed for invasive procedures using sterile technique with access to general anesthesia if
      necessary. Following the procedure the patient is observed in the Interventional Radiology
      recovery area for as long as necessary as determined by a Physician and then transferred to
      the Transplant Service for an overnight stay. After recovery, the patient is admitted to the
      hospital on the Transplant Service for a 1-2 day observation.

      The focus of the research in the ICT is centered on the development of a safe and effective
      procedure that will eventually replace surgical pancreas transplantation together with an
      ideal immunosuppressive regimen that provides safe and effective prevention against
      rejection, while minimizing the adverse events associated that negatively impact transplant
      recipient's quality of life.
    
  