
    
      For each case patient (i.e. HSCT recipient with a CNS disorder) two control patients (1:2
      allocation) should be analysed prospectively with the aim to get more insights into risk
      factors for CNS disorders. Hereby, the two patients transplanted subsequently to the
      corresponding case patient should be included as controls if they survive and do not develop
      a CNS disorder until the inclusion time point. Inclusion time points of controls should be
      determined by using the same delay between transplant and the onset of the CNS disorder of
      the corresponding case patient. Controls should also be stratified by centre, HSCT type (i.e.
      allogeneic vs. autologous) and age (adults vs. paediatrics). As for cases with CNS disorders,
      controls should also be evaluated regularly until last follow-up. To avoid bias and to
      estimate the incidence of infectious vs. non-infectious CNS disorders in autologous and
      allogeneic HSCT recipients accurately centres should also report patients with CNS disorders
      not included in this study (e.g. due to lack of informed consent or essential Med-A data).
      Centres are additionally asked by the data management office in Leiden/Netherlands for these
      data on a regularly basis.

      Primary objectives

        -  Clinical and diagnostic characteristics of infectious and non-infectious CNS disorders
           following allogeneic or autologous HSCT

        -  Outcome 30 days after CNS disorder onset (cured vs. improved vs. stabilized vs. worsened
           vs. died due to CNS disorder vs. died by other cause)

      Secondary objectives

        -  Incidence, timing, and distribution of infectious and non-infectious CNS disorders after
           HSCT

        -  Impact of development of CNS disorders on overall survival

        -  Risk factors for CNS disorders after allogeneic and autologous HSCT using a
           prospectively assessed matched control group

        -  Efficacy of treatment for different types of CNS disorders

      Data Collection & Statistical Analysis Plan Data collection will be performed by the IDWP
      data office (Leiden/Netherlands). Hereby, patient and transplant data are reported directly
      from the centres to the data office according to EBMT guidelines.

      Important basic data for analysis (collected from Med-A and Med-C for both case patients and
      controls):

        -  Recipient/donor sex

        -  Recipient/donor age (at HSCT)

        -  Primary diagnosis (leading to HSCT)

        -  Status of the primary disease at the time of HSCT - remission (partial or
           complete)/relapse/relapse including CNS involvement/progression, stable disease,
           unknown)

        -  Prior CNS radiotherapy

        -  Prior intrathecal (antineoplastic) treatment

        -  Prior (antineoplastic) treatment (especially 'novel drugs´)

        -  Pre-existing medical conditions, e.g. chronic kidney disease, liver disease

        -  Recipient/donor serostatus of CMV, EBV, HHV-6, HSV, VZV, Toxoplasma spp.

        -  Type of transplant (allogeneic vs. autologous)

        -  Type of donor (MRD vs. haploidentical donor vs. other donor type)

        -  Stem cell source (CB vs. BM vs. PB)

        -  Type of conditioning (e.g. MAC vs. RIC, fludarabine-containing vs. other, TBI incl.
           dose), including details on absolute dose and dose adjustments of fludarabine

        -  TCD (yes vs. no), ATG (yes vs. no), alemtuzumab (yes vs. no) in conditioning and at
           study inclusion (day 0)

        -  Acute and chronic GvHD (at day 0, including grade)

        -  ECOG performance status at different time points

        -  Concomitant infections: e.g. paranasal sinusitis, results of blood cultures performed
           during the episode of CNS disorder, galactomannan, beta-D-glucan (peripheral blood, BAL
           etc.)

        -  Selected peripheral blood parameters, e.g. white blood cell count, absolute neutrophil
           count, duration of neutropenia <0.5x109/L, absolute lymphocyte count, platelet count,
           sodium, potassium, calcium, phosphate, creatinine, urea nitrogen, ammonia, bilirubin,
           IgG concentration, creatinine, GFR

      Specific data to be collected for patients with CNS disorders (see also Med-C for cases and
      appendix), e.g.:

        -  Recipient´s age at onset of the CNS disorder (day 0)

        -  Date of symptom onset of the CNS disorder

        -  Type of symptoms (e.g. seizures, hemiplegia, paraplegia, paresis, psychosis, vomiting,
           confusion/altered consciousness, fever)

        -  Date of diagnosis of the CNS disorder (e.g. CSF analysis)

        -  Clinical diagnosis of CNS infection (e.g. encephalitis, meningitis, meningoencephalitis,
           myelitis, abscess, leukoencephalopathy)

        -  Clinical diagnosis of non-infectious CNS disorder (e.g. metabolic/drug-induced disorder,
           posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, bleeding, thrombosis, ischemic stroke, CNS
           relapse of a underlying malignancy)

        -  Time interval between HSCT and symptom onset

        -  Time interval between symptom onset and diagnosis of CNS disorder

        -  Antimicrobial prophylaxis prior to onset of a CNS disorder

        -  Level of likelihood of the type of CNS disorder - the centres report the diagnostic
           tests performed to make a diagnosis of CNS disorder including i.e.: magnetic resonance
           imaging (MRI), MRI spectrometry, positron emission tomography/computed tomography
           (PET/CT), CT, electroencephalography (EEG), CSF analyses, microbiological studies (e.g.,
           cultures, PCR, galactomannan, Candida mannan, beta-D-glucan, antibodies in peripheral
           blood, CSF or other materials such as brain biopsy), autopsy results

        -  Type and efficacy of treatment for the CNS disorder 30 days after onset (cured vs.
           improved vs. stabilized vs. worsened vs. died due to CNS disorder vs. died by other
           cause)

        -  Outcome (alive or death, including date, cause of death, CNS disorder-related death vs.
           other death cause) at the different study points

      Specific data to be collected for patients without CNS disorder (see also Med-C for
      controls), e.g.:

        -  Time interval between HSCT and day 0 (inclusion time point, same delay between
           transplant and CNS disorder onset of the corresponding case)

        -  Date of study inclusion (i.e. day 0)

        -  Recipient´s age at study inclusion

        -  Occurrence of a CNS disorder after study inclusion

        -  Antimicrobial prophylaxis prior to study inclusion

        -  Outcome (alive or death, including date, cause of death) at the different study points

      Statistical analysis Statistical methods used to compare groups for primary and secondary
      outcomes Primary endpoints: descriptive statistics will be performed to report the main
      characteristics (and 30 day outcome) of patients with infectious and non-infectious CNS
      disorders: absolute and percentage frequencies will be reported for categorical variables;
      median, IQR and range will be used for continuous variables.

      Secondary endpoints: the cumulative incidence of infectious and non-infectious CNS disorders
      after HSCT will be estimated by the cumulative incidence method: infectious and
      non-infectious CNS disorders will be considered as events, whilst non-CNS relapse, non-CNS
      secondary malignancy and non-CNS death will be considered as competing event. Overall
      survival will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier curves, and the impact of the development of CNS
      disorders on overall survival will be assessed using time-dependent Cox models. To compute
      these endpoints, the data of all patients after HSCT will be obtained from the EBMT patient
      databases (e.g. ProMISe).

      The risk factor analysis will be performed by a conditional logistic regression model.
      P-values <0.05 will be considered statistically significant. The analyses will be performed
      using the software SAS/R v 9.4 or higher (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA).

      Methods for additional analyses, such as subgroup analyses and adjusted analyses The
      cumulative incidence of infectious and non-infectious CNS disorders after HSCT will be
      computed and reported separately for different transplant types (autologous vs. allogeneic -
      matched related donor vs. haploidentical donor vs. other donor type), and stem cell source
      (cord blood vs. bone marrow vs. peripheral blood) of HSCT and for different age categories
      (adults vs. paediatrics). These comparisons will be presented in terms of crude cumulative
      incidence curves, and differences between groups will be assessed using Gray's test.
      Multivariable analyses will be performed using cause-specific hazard models. Cox models for
      overall survival will include CNS disorders as time-dependent covariates. Candidate variables
      for these analyses will be obtained from a list of predefined variables, including (but not
      limited to) type of transplant (allogeneic vs. autologous HSCT), age, stem cell source, donor
      relationship, and use of T cell depletion. Potential effects of centres will be examined
      using random effects.

      Risk factors for CNS disorders after allogeneic and autologous HSCT will be assessed using
      multivariable conditional logistic regression. Candidate variables for this analysis will be
      obtained from a list of predefined variables, including the stratification variables.

      Model building will proceed as follows: each variable will be preliminarily assessed using
      univariable analyses. Factors associated with the response and significant at the 20% level
      in univariable analyses will be considered for inclusion in a multivariable model. Factors
      will be retained if significant at the 5% level, and interaction terms included (after
      assessment of main effects) if significant at a 10% level (with possible corresponding
      subgroup analyses used to illustrate differential effects).
    
  