
    
      Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), including crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, is a
      group of diseases characterized by acute and chronic inflammation of the intestinal tract.
      Persons with IBD are at an increased risk of developing colorectal cancer (CRC) and require
      frequent CRC screening with colonoscopy. Current IBD screening guidelines recommend the
      taking of biopsies of any lesions suspected to be pre-cancerous (targeted biopsies), as well
      as the taking of 30 to 40 random biopsies throughout the colon. The recommendations for
      random biopsies are based on historical practice and the theory that they would capture
      "invisible lesions", but are not supported by strong scientific evidence.

      In fact, recent evidence has shown that random biopsies capture a very small number of
      pre-cancerous lesions and that they capture such lesions only in persons with additional risk
      factors for CRC. In addition, new colonoscopy practices and technology have made 80-90% of
      pre-cancerous lesions visible. Random biopsies also carry potential risks for patients,
      including lower gastrointestinal bleeding and bowel perforation, and substantially increase
      procedural costs and time.

      Hence, there is a strong impetus to conduct a well-powered non-inferiority Randomized
      Controlled Trial (RCT) on this topic in a Canadian setting. With the support of a
      pan-Canadian IBD clinical trials alliance (the Canadian IBD Research Consortium (CIRC)), and
      the high prevalence of IBD in Canada, Canadian investigators are well-positioned to undertake
      such a trial. Before embarking on a large multi-center trial, a one-year pilot feasibility
      trial will be conducted to ensure that patients can be enrolled efficiently with excellent
      protocol compliance. A feasibility trial will also provide a crude estimate of the neoplasia
      detection rate (primary outcome) among persons with colon IBD (cIBD) in Canada, which will
      allow refinement of the sample size, recruitment period and budget for a definitive trial.
      To-date, no well-powered or North American RCTs have evaluated random biopsies as an
      intervention to guide our estimates for a definitive trial.
    
  