
    
      In front of the recent emergence of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus (COVID) in December 2019 in
      the Wuhan region of China, knowledge of the clinical course and of the aggravating risk
      factors linked to this virus is still incomplete.

      COVID is associated with severe morbidity and an estimated mortality of 2-4% in patients
      without comorbidity. According to a WHO report published on the situation in China, patients
      with serious chronic pathologies, such as diabetes or severe obesity, are particularly
      vulnerable and mortality rates were higher: from 7 to 13%.

      Monitoring and describing the clinical pathway of out-patients suspected of being infected
      according to their medical history should improve knowledge of COVID, and then adapt patient
      care management and control the COVID pandemic.

      Currently, few European studies have described the potential risk factors that could lead to
      the worsening of the disease. Since the March 16th, the university hospital of Grenoble
      (France) has developed an information technology system to monitor out-patients suspected of
      being infected with SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus and with early home monitoring: the COVIDADOM
      cohort

      That's why the COVIDADOMEVA study is then to identify the risk factors aggravating the COVID,
      in out-patients with precocious home monitoring.

      The primary event defining the aggravation will be then: hospitalization (medicine,
      resuscitation) or death

      The studied potential risk factors will be the following:

        -  Socio-demographic: age, sex, place of residence, CSP, and income.

        -  Comorbidities or aggravation: COPD, asthma, immunosuppression, or heart failure,
           diabetes imbalance, etc.

        -  Clinical signs: asthenia, dyspnea (kinetics), blood sugar, nutritional status, weight
           gain…

        -  Drugs other than those related to the infection and potential self-medication
           (anti-inflammatory, CEI, ARA…)
    
  