
    
      Suicide is one of the leading causes of death in adolescence. To improve the ability to
      predict and prevent suicidal behavior, there is a pressing need for research in this area to
      advance beyond identifying risk factors toward a greater focus on the mechanisms of risk for
      this behavior. In particular, elucidating the neural pathways underlying risk for suicidal
      behavior is important insofar as such work may yield specific and modifiable targets for
      clinical intervention. The adoption of new experimental paradigms providing experimental
      control over potentially modifiable risk factors has been recommended as a means of
      meaningfully advancing the field in this regard. Although yet to be applied to the study of
      suicidality, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), in conjunction with measures of
      electroencephalography (EEG) and event-related potentials (ERPs), may hold promise as an
      experimental paradigm in the study of potentially modifiable risk factors, and underlying
      neural mechanisms, for suicidality. One such risk factor of particular relevance to suicide
      in adolescence is state-sensitive aspects of impulsivity. Impulsivity has been consistently
      linked with suicidality, with this association appearing to be stronger in adolescence than
      adulthood. As a first step toward investigating whether modulation of impulsivity and
      associated neural pathways may yield clinically meaningful changes in risk for adolescent
      suicidal behavior, the R21 is a proof-of concept study evaluating the potential for tDCS
      targeting brain regions associated with behavioral impulsivity (right inferior frontal gyrus
      [rIFG]) and cognitive impulsivity (left orbitofrontal cortex [lOFC]) to modulate these facets
      of impulsivity in a sample of adolescent suicide attempters. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to receive anodal tDCS over the rIFG, anodal tDCS over the lOFC, or a sham
      stimulation condition, in a three-group design. Task-based measures of behavioral and
      cognitive impulsivity will be administered before and after tDCS or sham stimulation.
      Additionally, EEG and ERP data will be collected during the impulsivity tasks, and
      resting-state EEG data will be collected pre- and post-tDCS administration to confirm
      engagement of the targeted brain regions and to delineating the neural pathways underlying
      the effects of tDCS on impulsivity.
    
  