
    
      This prospective single blind randomized controlled study. All patients who undergoing
      tunneled catheter regular hemodialysis in the three hemodialysis units and meet the inclusion
      criteria will be included in the study.

      Signed informed consent will be taken from all patients or their first authorized relative.

      All patients will be randomized on 1:1 basis using computer-generated program.Patients will
      be randomly assigned to lock the catheter post HD either with 1.35% taurolidine citrate
      (2H-1,2,4-thiadiazine-4,4'-methylenebis[tetrahydro-1,1,1',1'-tetraoxide], 4% citrate and 500
      IU/ml heparin (TauroLock Hep500) (TauroPharmGmbH, www.tauropharm.de) at the end of of all
      Hemodialysis sessions and during all interdialytic periods or after the first two session
      only per week and during first two interdialytic periods then taurolidine citrate, 4% citrate
      /25000 IU unit urokinase (TauroLock U25000) at the end of third session before week end,
      (over the week end). The assigned nurse will flush the catheter after each session with 20 mL
      of saline then instill TauroLock according to the filling volume of the catheter. Before
      starting the next dialysis the lock solution has to be aspirated and discarded. Acute
      catheter thrombosis which interrupt the dialysis will be treated with r-TPA according to unit
      protocol, if this happen for three consecutive HD we will consider it as malfunction and we
      will refer it for catheter exchange . Any catheter will be referred to the vascular surgeon
      for exchange; we will not continue calculating its days as there might be a gap between
      referral's time and catheter exchange due admission problems. If the catheter is replaced,
      patient will continue on the same arm of the study.

      Control Group:

      We will lock the dialysis catheter post HD with TauroLock Hep500 at the end of of all
      Hemodialysis sessions and during all interdialytic periods.

      Intervention Group:

      We will lock the dialysis catheter post HD with TauroLock Hep500 at the end of the first two
      session only per week and during first two interdialytic periods then TauroLock U 25000at the
      end of third session before week end, (over the week end).

      For episode of the acute catheter malfunctioning:-

      The study coordinator will know the name of the patients who received interdialytic r-TPA
      from medication room then will collect the data from the patient's files. The study
      coordinator will follow the vascular census on daily bases to know all the patients who have
      catheter problems and will follow their status from dialysis and inpatient files.

      For catheter related infection:-

      If there is any episode of CRI, this will be documented in our infectious control file and
      the study coordinator will collect the data from in-patient file, dialysis file and medicom.

      planned enrollment: 300 subjects
    
  