
    
      Pervasive Developmental Disorder (PDD) is defined by its unique symptoms such as qualitative
      impairment in social interaction and communication and restricted repetitive and stereotyped
      patterns of behavior and interests. Recently, studies have been conducted on PDD without
      mental retardation, and have reported that the morbidity of PDD is 0.6%-1.7％． Several studies
      have focused on distress of the mothers of PDD facing atypical development of their children.
      Some of them have indicated the associations between depression and family history of PDD.
      Therefore it is important to pay attention to parental mental health.

      In Western countries, researchers have investigated the effectiveness of various
      psychotherapeutic techniques such as childcare counseling and education for mothers about how
      to treat their children with PDD. It has been reported that one of them which innovates
      pragmatical methods to manage their children and parental educational programs made
      improvement in parental adaptation to their children and parental mental health.

      However, to the best of our knowledge, few studies have shown the effectiveness of family
      intervention about PDD in Japan, despite widely implementation of family psychoeducation with
      various approaches in medical center, public health department. New research may be needed to
      establish rigorous evidence base for improvement of parental mental health and of behaviors
      of their children with PDD.

      The investigators hypothesized that psychoeducation programs for mothers in addition to
      treatment as usual to their children would be more effective for parental mental health and
      behaviors of their children with PDD than treatment usual to their children alone.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of psychoeducation to the
      psychological distress of mothers with the children of high-functioning PDD and to behaviors
      of the children affected by disorder traits, in a randomized controlled trial.
    
  