
    
      This is a Phase II multicenter, randomized, evaluator-blinded, vehicle-controlled, parallel
      group light dose ranging study of photodynamic therapy in subjects with moderate to severe
      facial acne vulgaris.

      Subjects will be randomized to one of the following four treatment groups (1:1:1:1) to
      receive topical Levulan® Kerastick® containing 20% aminolevulinic acid HCL (ALA, active study
      drug) or the Kerastick® containing vehicle ingredients only (VEH).

        -  Group 1 will have ALA applied to the entire facial area 45 minutes ± 15 minutes prior to
           BLUE light treatment for 1000 seconds (16 minutes 40 seconds)

        -  Group 2 will have ALA applied to the entire facial area 45 minutes ± 15 minutes prior to
           BLUE light treatment for 500 seconds (8 minutes 20 seconds)

        -  Group 3 will have VEH applied to the entire facial area 45 minutes ± 15 minutes prior to
           BLUE light treatment for 1000 seconds (16 minutes 40 seconds)

        -  Group 4 will have VEH applied to the entire facial area 45 minutes ± 15 minutes prior to
           BLUE light treatment for 500 seconds (8 minutes 20 seconds)

      Each subject may receive up to four treatments at three week (± 2 days) intervals. The power
      density (dose rate) and the total fluence (light dose) used at each treatment is intended to
      remain constant throughout each subject's participation. If a subject meets or exceeds the
      criteria restricting retreatment (CRR) prior to retreatment (Section 5.6), he/she will not
      receive additional PDT treatment at that visit and will be asked to return for the next
      scheduled PDT visit 3 weeks later, if applicable.

      Post-treatment follow-up visits will be scheduled to occur at 3 and 6 weeks after the
      subject's final PDT.

      Grading of the subject's facial acne will be conducted by a blinded evaluator who will remain
      blinded with respect to the subject's treatment assignment. Tolerability of treatment will be
      assessed by evaluations of the local skin response (erythema, edema, etc.) and will be
      conducted by an unblinded evaluator.

      Safety will be evaluated by adverse events and local skin responses reported during the
      study.
    
  