
    
      Tobacco use remains the leading preventable cause of morbidity and mortality in our society.
      Results from epidemiologic studies indicate that tobacco use is especially elevated among
      those living in rural areas. Although interventions exist that are both effective and
      cost-effective, few rural smokers utilize them during any given quit attempt. A lack of local
      treatment resources, the travel distance required to obtain treatment, and a reduced tendency
      to visit primary care on a regular basis all appear to contribute to the lower levels of
      treatment for nicotine dependence in rural smokers.

      Smokers frequently experience conditions and concerns that adversely impact their ability to
      quit smoking. Depression and risky alcohol use, both of which are prevalent among smokers,
      reduce the likelihood of successfully quitting smoking. Concern about gaining weight, a
      common consequence of quitting smoking, is also frequently cited by smokers as an important
      barrier to quitting. Therefore, in order to be most effective, tobacco cessation
      interventions will need to address these important issues. Presently, treatment for nicotine
      dependence, risky alcohol use, depression, and weight management is typically delivered
      separately and without optimal integration among providers, an approach which only serves to
      fragment care and increase the number of required visits, further reduce rural smokers'
      access to care.

      In an effort to address these barriers, the current study will evaluate a telephone
      intervention for tobacco use that also addresses issues related to risky alcohol use,
      depressed mood, and postcessation weight gain based on each individual smoker's needs.
      Results will provide valuable information regarding the potential to more widely implement an
      individually-tailored telephone intervention for rural smokers.
    
  