
    
      Specific Aim #1: To compare the effectiveness of an intense physiotherapy program with the
      current standard of care in the management of children with spastic cerebral palsy.

      Hypothesis #1: Children receiving a short cluster of intense therapies (5 times per week for
      12 weeks) will show greater functional gains as determined by the Gross Motor Function
      Measure (GMFM-66) and the Pediatric Evaluation Disability Inventory (PEDI) than those
      receiving the same therapies once a week, the current standard of care.

      Specific Aim #2: To determine if the functional gains by children with spastic cerebral palsy
      achieved with an intense physiotherapy program will continue to improve while receiving less
      intense standard weekly therapies for at least 36 weeks (9 months) following completion of
      the intense program.

      Hypothesis #2: Motor skills gained after 12 weeks of intensely administered physiotherapies
      as determined by the GMFM and the PEDI will continue to improve at a rate greater than that
      seen in children receiving the same therapies once a week, the current standard of care.

      Specific Aim #3: After receiving the same number of therapies at the end of the 48-week
      protocol, children receiving the intense series of therapies during the first 12-weeks will
      have made greater functional gains than those receiving them during the last 12-weeks.

      Hypothesis #3: Children who receive intense physiotherapies at an earlier age make greater
      gains then those who receive the same therapies at a later age.

      Specific Aim #4: To develop a clinical profile that will identify those children most likely
      to benefit from intensely administered physiotherapies.

      Hypothesis #4: Clinical and radiologic characteristics play a major role in response to
      therapy.

      Explorative Aim: To assess the correlation between clinical improvement from intense
      physiotherapies and anatomical changes using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      Hypothesis: The improvements from intense physiotherapies seen in the clinical assessments
      will be reflected by alterations of brain connectivity parameters available from
      neuroanatomical MRI and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI).
    
  