
    
      SUMMARY

      Rationale: In clinical practice the position of TENS electrodes appears to be critical to
      success. It is claimed that electrodes should target areas with high neural density and where
      nerve bundles come close to the body surface. These areas are likely to have low skin
      resistances. Research in the field of electro-analgesia suggests areas of low skin resistance
      are linked to TENS stimulation points, and that this lower skin resistance may reflect areas
      with a higher density of neural tissue. When stimulated these areas are likely to generate
      larger nerve activity and potentially a greater analgesic outcome. For this reason many
      acupuncturist use a point finder to locate the optimal site to insert the acupuncture needle.
      To date the relationship between the skin resistance of the areas stimulated by TENS and pain
      relief is not known.

      At present, optimal sites for electrode positioning is made ad hoc using a trial and error
      approach. This may result in electrodes being positioned at sub-optimal sites. The Philips
      new electronic pain relief device contains an array, or matrix, of small electrodes. Using
      this array, the device can measure electrical skin properties. In addition, the user can
      select which electrodes in the array are active and can adjust the intensity of those
      electrodes so that stimulation can be targeted to a specific location. In this way it is
      possible to investigate whether stimulating areas of low skin resistance has an effect on
      pain relief.

      With a novel matrix TENS electrode we would like to investigate the TENS outcome for
      different electrode specifically chosen locations versus randomly chosen locations. Randomly
      chosen locations are defined as an area of approximately 10x10 cm around the specifically
      chosen location in which the random simulation point is chosen. The outcome of the specific
      vs. random stimulation will be measured with as primary outcome pain and mobility and as
      secondary outcome strength, joint range, and quality of life.

      Objective: Determine effects of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) on pain
      and mobility by comparing different stimulation sites; 1) the location with the lowest
      resistance, 2) the location that causes an irradiation sensation, 3) a random stimulation
      site (but within a 10x10cm area of the irradiation site). The effect is defined as the pain
      VAS baseline-measurement before treatment minus the pain VAS repeat-measurement after the
      given treatment

      Study design: double-blind intervention study

      Study population: Patients with chronic pain arise from osteo-arthritis in one or both knees
      Age (>18y), sex and ethnic background are not relevant

      Intervention (if applicable): Patients receive a 3 times 30 minutes TENS treatment.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary outcome parameters are pain (VAS) and mobility
      (PDI and 6 min walk). Secondary outcome parameters are strength (MVC) and range-of-motion
      (ROM) in knee extension and quality of life (SF36).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: There is no risk for the patients. The burden for the participants is 3 times 1
      hour.
    
  