
    
      Coronary heart disease, including acute coronary syndromes (ACS), is the leading cause of
      death in European countries, including Poland. In addition, it is one of the main causes of
      disability and the number of lost years of life and the number of years of life lost in good
      health. The costs of its treatment include not only the primary prophylaxis of cardiovascular
      events, the treatment of cardiovascular events, the treatment of chronic conditions and
      complications such as chronic heart failure or arrhythmia, but also the secondary and
      tertiary prophylaxis of acute coronary syndromes.

      One of the basic elements of secondary and tertiary prevention of ACS is cardiac
      rehabilitation. It should be implemented as soon as possible after the ACS and be part of a
      comprehensive, planned and systematic care of the patient after ACS. The beneficial effect of
      cardiac rehabilitation on the cardiovascular system, lipid and carbohydrate metabolism and
      physical performance has been demonstrated in a way that does not raise any doubts. However,
      in the light of the growing epidemic of civilization diseases such as excessive body mass,
      diabetes, dyslipidemia, hypertension and other cardiometabolic disorders, it is necessary to
      conduct high-quality research on the development of the most effective cardiac rehabilitation
      programs, so as to maximize their beneficial effect on patients' health.

      The aims of the study are:

        1. Evaluation of the impact of cardiac rehabilitation on selected anthropometric,
           biochemical, mineral parameters, body composition parameters, physical fitness
           parameters and cardiovascular function parameters in patients after acute coronary
           syndrome.

        2. Assessment of lifestyle, acceptance of disease, quality of life, diet and psychological
           profile and the influence of these factors on the course of cardiac rehabilitation in
           patients after acute coronary syndrome.

        3. Evaluation of the influence of the level of gene expression and polymorphisms of genes
           associated with ischemic heart disease and predisposing conditions (including excessive
           body weight, hypertension, lipid and carbohydrate disorders, impaired vascular
           endothelial function) on the course of cardiac rehabilitation in patients after acute
           coronary syndrome and searching for new genes that may affect the course of cardiac
           rehabilitation in this group of patients.

      Research hypotheses:

        1. Cardiac rehabilitation has a positive effect on selected anthropometric, biochemical,
           mineral parameters, body composition parameters, physical fitness parameters and
           cardiovascular function parameters in patients after acute coronary syndrome.

        2. Lifestyle, acceptance of disease, quality of life, diet and psychological profile have a
           significant impact on the course of cardiac rehabilitation in patients after acute
           coronary syndrome.

        3. The level of expression and gene polymorphism of genes associated with ischemic heart
           disease and predisposing conditions (including excessive body weight, hypertension,
           lipid and carbohydrate disorders, impaired vascular endothelial function) have a
           significant impact on the course of cardiac rehabilitation in patients after acute
           coronary syndrome.

      The study will consist of a retrospective and prospective part. The retrospective part will
      include patients who have had acute coronary syndrome in the past and then - before being
      included in the study - have undergone cardiac rehabilitation. In the retrospective part,
      patients enrolled in the study will not undergo cardiac rehabilitation as a part of the study
      intervention. In contrast, the prospective part will include patients who have had an acute
      coronary syndrome in the past and will undergo cardiac rehabilitation as the study
      intervention.

      About 200 women and men aged 18 to 99 are planned to be included in the study.

      After being included in the study, patients will undergo medical examination and their
      medical documentation will be collected, analyzed, copied and archived. Then subsequent
      procedures will be performed:

        -  anthropometric measurements (body weight, height, hip, waist, neck circumference
           measurement)

        -  ECG - electrocardiography

        -  non-invasive analysis of the body composition by bioimpedance

        -  non-invasive measurement of resting blood pressure, resting heart rate and oxygen
           saturation of hemoglobin

        -  non-invasive pulse wave analysis

        -  non-invasive transthoracic echocardiography of the heart

        -  non-invasive 24-hour blood pressure measurement by ABPM

        -  non-invasive 24-hour ECG recording using the Holter method

        -  non-invasive electrocardiographic exercise test on a treadmill and / or a six-minute
           walk test or other exercise test adequate to the patient's state of health; these tests
           will always be preceded by a detailed medical qualification

        -  assessment of the quality of the diet

        -  assessment of lifestyle, acceptance of disease and quality of life

        -  assessment of the psychological profile

      Subsequently patients taking part in the prospective part of the study will perform a cardiac
      rehabilitation program.

      After the cardiac rehabilitation program measurement procedures listed above (anthropometric
      measurements; ECG; non-invasive analysis of the body composition by bioimpedance;
      non-invasive measurement of resting blood pressure, resting heart rate and oxygen saturation
      of hemoglobin; non-invasive pulse wave analysis; non-invasive transthoracic echocardiography
      of the heart; non-invasive 24-hour blood pressure measurement by ABPM; non-invasive 24-hour
      ECG recording using the Holter method; non-invasive electrocardiographic exercise test;
      assessment of the quality of the diet; assessment of lifestyle, acceptance of disease and
      quality of life; assessment of the psychological profile) will be repeated.

      Before and after the cardiac rehabilitation program blood samples, urine samples and hair
      samples will be collected. Blood samples, urine samples and hair samples will also be
      collected from patients taking part in the retrospective part of the study.

      After data collection statistical analyses will be performed.
    
  