
    
      Coronary heart disease is the leading cause of cardiac arrest. The incidence of cardiac
      arrest in Europe is between 0.4 and 1 per 1000 inhabitants per year, thus involving between
      350.000 and 700.000 people per year. Approximately, 275.000 of these cardiac arrests are
      treated by the emergency medical service (EMS) in Europe. (1) Survival after cardiac arrest
      varies from less than 5% to 60% according to the characteristics of the cardiac arrest event
      (e.g. cardiac etiology, witnessed arrest, initial recorded rhythm (shockable: ventricular
      fibrillation (VF), ventricular tachycardia (VT) or not shockable).(1) Cardiac arrest
      patients, who despite conventional cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) do not achieve return
      of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) within 10-20 minutes of advanced life support (ALS) have
      the worst prognosis with rates of survival to hospital discharge of 2-11%.

      A selected group of patients with refractory cardiac arrest may benefit from very aggressive
      in-hospital treatment and this may warrant transfer to the hospital with ongoing CPR. In
      patients with VF or ventricular tachycardia (VT) the underlying cause may be reversible and
      damage to other organs is limited at the time of the arrest. Many patients will have a
      coronary event that can be treated by angioplasty. However, up to now absence of ROSC poses a
      barrier for angioplasty, and most patients are therefore not even transported to a hospital.

      With the use of extra corporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) the circulation can be restored
      immediately, providing time to diagnose and treat the underlying cause of the cardiac arrest.
      International cohort studies show that a strategy of pre-hospital triage and transport to a
      cardiac arrest expertise center for "rapid-response" ECMO and coronary revascularization is
      feasible and improves survival. The recent 2015 European Resuscitation Council Guidelines for
      Resuscitation position extracorporeal CPR (ECPR) as follows: "ECPR should be considered as a
      rescue therapy for those patients in whom initial advanced life support (ALS) measures are
      unsuccessful and to facilitate specific interventions (e.g. coronary angiography and
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or pulmonary thrombectomy for massive pulmonary
      embolism)".(2) A recent meta-analysis performed by our group supports ECMO in this setting.
      (3)

      Currently, a strong pre-hospital and clinical pathway for acute myocardial infarction exists
      in the greater Amsterdam region / Noord-Holland region, i.e. "Lifenet protocol". The Academic
      Medical Center is an international recognized center with the ARREST program to evaluate
      treatments for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA).(4) However, a dedicated clinical
      pathway for refractory OHCA patients does not yet exist. Integration of the "Lifenet
      protocol" and ARREST program would provide an ideal setting to create and install a dedicated
      clinical pathway for these cardiac arrest patients.

      The existing clinical pathway for cardiac arrest patients will be optimized and upgraded to
      be able to provide ECPR for refractory cardiac arrest patients. This clinical pathway will
      encompass intense cooperation and optimal logistics between several paramedical and medical
      disciplines, i.e. from pre-hospital ambulance service to intensive care. Incorporation of
      mechanical chest compressions devices (LUCAS™), rapid-response veno-arterial (VA-)ECMO
      (Cardiohelp, Maquet), and ECMO assisted revascularization in a dedicated clinical pathway
      will offer a potential lifesaving treatment option that is in accordance with the
      recommendations in the current Guidelines.

      The aim of the study is to investigate the feasibility of a new local clinical pathway to
      provide ECPR for refractory OHCA patients.
    
  