
    
      Doctors recommend hormone replacement therapy to postmenopausal women as treatment for
      symptoms of estrogen-deficiency. However, many women do not take hormone replacement therapy
      because of side effects. In women with an intact uterus, estrogen must be given with
      progesterone to prevent overgrowth of the lining of the uterus. Side effects from
      progesterone may cause women to discontinue hormone replacement therapy.

      Compounds that are similar to naturally occurring hormones have been synthesized and studied
      for their ability to block or simulate the action of sex steroids such as estrogen and
      progesterone. The development of this class of compounds, called selective hormone receptor
      modulators, may provide new treatments that are targeted to specific organs or tissues. One
      example is the selective estrogen receptor modulator raloxifene, which blocks estrogen action
      at the uterus, and acts like estrogen at the bone. Raloxifene has been approved for use in
      post-menopausal women as a form of hormone replacement therapy and a treatment for
      osteoporosis. It provides many of estrogen's benefits without stimulating the uterine lining
      and thus may be taken without a progestin.

      This study evaluates the selective progesterone receptor modulator CDB-2914, a man-made
      hormone. Other progesterone receptor modulators have been shown to block estrogen's
      stimulating effect on the uterus in monkeys. If CDB-2914 has this effect in menopausal women,
      it may provide a new approach to hormone replacement therapy. In women studied at the NIH,
      single doses of CDB-2914 slowed uterine development or induced menses, depending on when it
      was given during the menstrual cycle. Like raloxifene, CDB-2914 has the potential for use in
      hormone replacement therapy, but to date the effects of its chronic administration have not
      been studied. This study aims to evaluate the safety and the physiologic and endocrine
      effects of chronic oral administration of CDB-2914 in postmenopausal women. All study
      subjects will receive daily oral estrogen and either CDB-2914, progesterone or a placebo to
      evaluate whether CDB-2914 blocks or enhances the usual effects of hormone replacement therapy
      on the uterine lining, lipid levels, clotting factors, bone turnover, hot flashes and quality
      of life. Weekly blood measurements, quality of life questionnaires, pre- and post-treatment
      ultrasound examinations of the uterus and a single biopsy of the uterine lining will be
      performed on all study subjects to assess these endpoints.
    
  