
    
      This study proposes to describe how children s hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) risk status
      affects family functioning, behaviors, and relationships. HCM is the most common inherited
      cardiovascular single-gene disorder. Individuals with HCM may experience shortness of breath,
      chest pain, palpitations, dizziness, syncope, heart failure, and arrhythmias predisposing to
      sudden cardiac death at any age. Notably, HCM is the most common cause of sudden cardiac
      death in people under 30 years of age. Genetic testing can identify at-risk individuals;
      however, the impact of potentially life-altering genetic information on families remains
      largely unexplored. Increasingly, health care providers are providing the testing in children
      for conditions like HCM that are life-threatening and medically manageable without the
      benefit of understanding the psychological consequences. The few studies that have been
      conducted suggest that genetic testing in children may result in changes to family
      relationships, parental emotional wellbeing, parenting behaviors, and child functioning in a
      subset of children. One synthesis of these studies suggests that children as a group show
      little evidence for maladjustment to risk information, but that parents are affected by the
      carrier status of their children. The proposed study intends to further this body of
      knowledge by exploring the impact of children s risk status on families with HCM. Health care
      providers and researchers can inform their work with HCM families by better understanding the
      potential impact of genetic risk as an important component of families adaptation to the
      life-threatening information about their children. The families targeted for this exploratory
      study will be purposively sampled from those that have been aware of the children s risk
      status or not at-risk status for HCM for at least 3 months. The cross-sectional design is
      composed of semi-structured interviews with a parent and, separately, with his/her 13 to 23
      year-old child who is either a carrier for HCM, a non-carrier, or at 50% risk for being a
      carrier. The interview will target issues related to the perceived impact of the child s risk
      status on family functioning, parenting behaviors and relationships. Data from the
      parent-child dyads will be analyzed for concordance/discordance along parallel themes. The
      results of this study may facilitate the understanding of the perceived impact of learning
      children s HCM risk status, which will inform both clinical care and future research.
      Importantly, since predictive testing in children for adult-onset diseases is generally
      discouraged, very little is actually known about its impact on families. Therefore, the study
      of this unique subgroup of an HCM population that uses clinically indicated predictive
      testing in childhood offers a preliminary opportunity to learn about predictive testing of
      minors.
    
  