
    
      Virtually all COVID-19 RNA assays require centralized laboratories. Samples collected in
      locations including public testing sites, workplaces, nursing homes, and residential housing
      are transported to centralized laboratories for testing, leading to lengthy delays in results
      reporting. The window of maximal contagiousness is thought to be only a few days, so these
      delays create the risk of excess transmission. Current testing methods are painful, which
      encourages testing hesitancy. Rapid, onsite detection of SARS-CoV-2 RNA from non-invasive
      saliva could overcome these issues and provide a pathway to high-throughput detection of
      people at the greatest risk of SARS-CoV-2 transmission but the logistics of such a testing
      program require real-world prototyping.

      The investigators have developed a simple test to detect high concentrations of SARS-CoV-2 in
      saliva with assays that require no specialized equipment and can be completed in one hour.
      This assay is not diagnostic for SARS-CoV-2; instead, it specifically identifies saliva
      samples that have high amounts of viral RNA that are correlated with live virus shedding.
      Many samples that would be identified as SARS-CoV-2 by diagnostic qRT-PCR would be negative
      with this saliva assay. Conversely, detection of RNA in saliva is a potential finding of
      clinical significance, so participants with that result will be contacted by a medical
      professional to discuss potential follow-up with their own health care provider, including a
      possible independent diagnostic testing.

      Because the assay requires no specialized equipment, it can be performed at the site of
      sample collection using a portable laboratory that fits in the backseat of a car. The
      prototype testing will take place in a variety of settings that may include parking lots,
      workplaces, nursing homes and residential housing. Participants will be asked to consent to
      provide a saliva sample that will be tested for SARS-CoV-2 RNA levels consistent with live
      virus shedding. The consent document will explicitly state that this is not a diagnostic test
      for SARS-CoV-2 but that a potential finding of clinical significance should be discussed with
      a medical professional. Participants can opt-out of receiving any results at the time of
      consent and can provide samples for the sole purpose of contributing to community
      surveillance and assay development. Paper consent forms will be reviewed and signed and held
      by team members in a secure location (locked box at the collection site) until taken back to
      the AIDS Vaccine Research Laboratory for storage. Participants will then spit into a coded
      vessel (e.g., cup or tube). Samples should be at least 1ml (~¼ teaspoon) and will be assayed
      for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 RNA using the aforementioned detection assay; the presence of
      high concentrations of SARS-CoV-2 RNA is indicated by a colorimetric change from pink to
      yellow/orange.
    
  