
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in Mexico and the world. One of the
      comorbidities most commonly associated with this type of malignancy is malnutrition, which
      occurs in approximately 40-50% of newly diagnosed cases. In addition to its high incidence,
      malnutrition in patients with cancer is of great relevance due to the negative effect that
      this entails on the quality of life and the prognosis of patients, as well as the increase in
      toxicity associated with oncological treatment. Malnutrition is a pathological state in which
      the deficiency in the adequate contribution of energy contributes to its development,
      producing a systemic catabolic state; Its etiology is variable, however, in most patients
      malnutrition is associated with a lack of appetite, which is called anorexia.

      Mirtazapine is a tetracyclic antidepressant which has been widely used for the treatment of
      depression. Several clinical studies have proven its efficacy in this indication, with more
      than 5000 patients endorsing its clinical effect compared to placebo, other tetracyclic
      antidepressants and trazodone. In addition to its effect on mood, it has been observed that
      mirtazapine, used in standard doses, induces weight gain, increasing appetite and food
      consumption compared to patients receiving placebo.

      The increase in appetite with consequent weight gain and increased food intake may be due to
      the blocking of 5HT1b, 5-HT2, 5-HT3, H1 receptors, involved in the regulation of appetite. A
      pilot study of 2 doses of mirtazapine (15 or 30 mg per day) in ambulatory cancer patients
      with pain and other discomforts suggests that it provides a significant improvement in
      quality of life, particularly in weight and energy intake. Recently, another phase II study
      observed that 57% of oncology patients, ambulatory, non-depressed, increased their appetite
      and body weight when treated with mirtazapine for 4 weeks. Despite these encouraging data,
      the study included a small sample of patients, so it is not possible to generate robust
      conclusions from these data.

      The objective of this protocol is to conduct a prospective, randomized, double-blind clinical
      trial to evaluate the effect of Mirtazapine on appetite, nutritional status and quality of
      life in patients with anorexia associated with lung cancer. The sample would include 86
      patients, 43 patients with Mirtazapine and 43 sith placebo for 8 weeks, with an inducing dose
      of 15 mg to a máximum of 30 mg. The methodology for conducting this study consists of
      recruiting patients diagnosed with anorexia according to the anorexia-cachexia (ACS) scale,
      which has a cut-off point specifically validated for lung cáncer. Once the patient is
      selected, they are invited to participate in the study and an informed consent is requested.
      Subsequently a subjective global evaluation is performed, a 24-hour reminder of energy
      consumption, evaluation of anthropometric measures (weight, height,% weight loss, body mass
      index), evaluation of body composition (% fat, fat-free mass and phase angle), common
      gastrointestinal adverse effects of chemotherapy according to CTCAE, an evaluation of anxiety
      and depression (HADS) , as well as determination of quality of life through the questionnaire
      "The European organization for research and treatment of cancer quality of life questionnaire
      (QLQ) -C30 and (QLQ) LC-13", validated for Mexican population.

      All determinations will be made at baseline, at 4 and at 8 weeks. All the variables are going
      to be evaluated inside each groups and between groups. It´s going to be considered
      significant p ≤ 0.05.
    
  