
    
      -  The study drug CC-5103 (lenalidomide) will be administered orally once daily for 21 days
           followed by 7 days of no CC-5103 (lenalidomide) (this will be one 28 day treatment
           cycle). This cycle will repeat itself every 28 days as long as the patient is tolerating
           the medication and there is no disease progression.

        -  Starting on the second week, patients will begin treatment with rituximab intravenously
           once a week for 4 weeks (week 2-5). Prior to each treatment, patients will receive
           medications to prevent or reduce the side effects of rituximab (benadryl, tylenol and
           possible decadron). During the infusion, the patients' blood pressure and pulse will be
           monitored frequently and the rate of infusion may decrease depending upon the side
           effects. Blood work will also be performed each week.

        -  On week 12 the disease status will be evaluated. A physical exam, blood test, CT scan
           and bone marrow biopsy may be repeated if necessary to fully evaluate the disease. If
           the disease has gone away completely, some tests may be repeated again to confirm this.

        -  If the disease has gotten worse after 12 weeks, then the patient will be removed from
           the study.

        -  If the disease is stable or getting better, the patient will continue with therapy.
           During weeks 13-16 rituximab infusions will be repeated and CC-5103 will continue to be
           taken daily for 21 days followed by 7 days of rest. This 28 day cycle may be repeated
           until the patient has completed 48 weeks (12 months) of treatment as long as the side
           effects are acceptable and the disease does not progress.

        -  All patients will undergo an off-study evaluation that includes a physical exam, blood
           work, CT scans and bone marrow biopsy. If the patient completes 78 weeks of therapy and
           the disease does not get worse, they will be evaluated every 12 weeks to determine the
           status of their disease for up to 2 years.
    
  