
    
      Chronic pain is a costly syndrome that influences every aspect of a patient's life.
      Significant interference with sleep, employment, social functioning, and daily activities is
      common. Chronic pain patients frequently report depression, anxiety, irritability, sexual
      dysfunction, and decreased energy. Family roles are altered, and worries abound about
      financial limitations and future consequences of a restricted lifestyle. Epidemiological
      studies have independently documented that chronic pain is an immense international problem.
      Chronic pain symptoms afflict one third of the American population (more than 80 million
      people). Chronic pain accounts for 21% of emergency room visits and 25% of annual missed work
      days. When direct and indirect costs are considered, chronic pain imposes a greater economic
      burden than any other disease, with annual estimates up to $100 billion.

      Patients will complete a number of questionnaires at baseline and undergo quantitative
      sensory testing (QST) as well as complete a handheld electronic diary PDA throughout the
      entire 10 weeks of the study. Patients will be evaluated by a physician and receive a
      complete history and physical. Radiological studies will be consulted to confirm diagnosis.
      All subjects who consent to participate in this study will be started on or converted to
      milnacipran if they are currently taking an SSRI, buproprion, or a TCA. This will be done
      over a 1 to 2 week period of gradually weaning the antidepressant and escalating milnacipran.
      All other adjuvant medication will remain constant through the course of the 10-week trial.
      Efforts will be made to recruit at least 40% of the patients (N= 24) who are not taking
      opioids for pain.

      At the end of the study, all patients will repeat the baseline questionnaires listed above
      except the demographic questionnaire. They will also be asked to complete the Treatment
      Helpfulness Questionnaire. We will compare secondary outcome differences (treatment
      satisfaction and helpfulness) between patients either on or off of opioids.
    
  