
    
      Background: Probiotics are defined as live microorganisms that may confer health benefits
      when ingested. Meta-analysis of probiotic trials suggests a 25 % lower ventilator-associated
      pneumonia (VAP) and 18 % lower infection rates overall when administered to patients in the
      intensive care unit (ICU). However, prior trials are small, largely single center, and at
      high risk of bias. Before a large rigorous trial is launched, testing whether probiotics
      confer benefit, harm, or have no impact, a pilot trial is needed. The aim of the PROSPECT
      Pilot Trial is to determine the feasibility of performing a larger trial in mechanically
      ventilated critically ill patients investigating Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG. A priori, we
      determined that the feasibility of the larger trial would be based on timely recruitment,
      high protocol adherence, minimal contamination, and an acceptable VAP rate.

      Methods/design: Patients ≥18 years old in the ICU who are anticipated to receive mechanical
      ventilation for ≥72 hours will be included. Patients are excluded if they are at increased
      risk of probiotic-associated infection, have strict enteral medication contraindications, are
      pregnant, previously enrolled in a related trial, or are receiving palliative care. Following
      informed consent, patients are randomized in variable unspecified block sizes in a fixed 1:1
      ratio, stratified by ICU, and medical, surgical, or trauma admitting diagnosis. Patients
      receive 1 × 1010 colony forming units of L. rhamnosus GG (Culturelle, Locin Industries Ltd)
      or an identical placebo suspended in tap water administered twice daily via nasogastric tube
      in the ICU. Clinical and research staff, patients, and families are blinded.

      Discussion: The primary outcomes for this pilot trial are the following: (1) recruitment
      success, (2) ≥90 % protocol adherence, (3) ≤5 % contamination, and (4) ~10 % VAP rate.
      Additional clinical outcomes are VAP, other infections, diarrhea (total, antibiotic
      associated, and Clostridium difficile), ICU and hospital length of stay, and mortality. The
      morbidity, mortality, and cost of VAP underscore the need for cost-effective prophylactic
      interventions. The PROSPECT Pilot Trial is the initial step toward rigorously evaluating
      whether probiotics decrease nosocomial infections, have no effect, or actually cause
      infections in critically ill patients.

      Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov. NCT01782755

      Keywords: Critically ill, Intensive care, Probiotics, Infection, Pneumonia
    
  