
    
      The main aim of this three-armed clinical study will be to determine the effects of
      hydrotherapy with alternate cold and warm affusions of the thigh in the concomitant treatment
      of osteoarthritis of the hip or knee. The main outcome measures are pain reduction,
      improvement in the quality of life, and increased movement in the affected joint.

      Research questions

        1. Does Kneipp hydrotherapy show a measurable effect in the sense of altered clinical
           findings in the affected knee or hip joint?

        2. How effectively does hydrotherapy influence the clinical parameters of pain, range of
           movement, and function of the affected joint?

        3. How effectively does hydrotherapy affect the secondary outcome measures of quality of
           life, pain experienced, mood, and blood pressure?

        4. Do hydrotherapeutic applications simply provide short-term therapeutic success or are
           there long-term changes in the clinical findings?

        5. Are the clinical effects of hydrotherapy comparable with those of conventional
           physiotherapy of the affected joint?

        6. Are the clinical effects of hydrotherapy used as monotherapy comparable with a
           combination of hydrotherapy and physiotherapy of the affected joint?

        7. Do unwanted effects or side effects occur with hydrotherapy?

      This study was designed as a prospective randomised controlled clinical trial with three
      arms, which is to be carried out at a German clinic specialised in integrative medicine, to
      investigate the clinical effects of hydrotherapy on osteoarthritis of the knee or hip, as
      compared with conventional physiotherapy.

      To achieve maximum scientific accuracy with respect to randomisation, random distribution,
      avoidance of selection bias, etc., the independent Department of General Medicine and Primary
      Care of the University of Leipzig Medical School will function as an external evaluation and
      testing centre.

      The design and concept of this study, as well as its ethical validity, were reviewed and
      approved by the Ethics Committee of the Bavarian State Chamber of Physicians [Ethikkommission
      der Bayerischen Landesärztekammer], (Study Number 08032, dated 04.05.2008).

      One hundred and eighty patients diagnosed with osteoarthritis of hip or knee will be randomly
      assigned to one of three intervention groups: hydrotherapy, physiotherapy, and both
      physiotherapy and hydrotherapy of the affected joint. In the first group, patients will
      receive Kneipp hydrotherapy daily, with water applied in the form of alternate cold and warm
      thigh affusions (alternating cold and warm water stimulation is particularly relevant to the
      knee and hip regions).

      Patients in the second group will receive physiotherapy of the hip or knee joint three times
      a week. Patients in the physiotherapy-hydrotherapy combination group will receive both
      joint-specific physiotherapy three times a week and alternate cold and warm thigh affusions
      every day.
    
  