
    
      1. Patients

      1.1. Patients

      CML patients will be included according to the following inclusion criteria: a) patients of
      both sexes, b) age between 18 and 80 years, c) treated with imatinib or nilotinib, d)
      included in the follow-up in the Divisions / Units of Hematology involved in the project e)
      able to give informed consent to trial participation, f) with a proved compliance with the
      scheduled treatment.

      Patients will be excluded from participation to the study if: a) age <18 or >80 years or b)
      unable to provide informed consent. The inability to attend the follow-up visits will not be
      considered an exclusion criterion from the study. In this case, collected data will be used
      in pharmacokinetic and statistical analyses on the basis of an intention-to-treat criterion.

      The following conditions should be noted:

        1. the concomitant administration of other drugs will be allowed, provided it will be known
           the active ingredient, the dose and the period of administration;

        2. smoking and herbal products will be allowed but they should be reported on patient's
           case report form;

        3. alterations in liver and kidney functions, body mass index higher than 28, or any other
           alteration in physicochemical exams do not represent exclusion criteria.

      1.2. Sample size

      For the purposes of this study it has been estimated that it will need to recruit at least
      206 subjects per drug (total, 412 patients), taking into account:

        1. the minor allele frequency of the most studied polymorphism evaluated in this research
           protocol (i.e., 0.3, T allele of the ABCB1 c.3435C>T polymorphism);

        2. the 1:1 ratio allele C carriers and patients homozygous for the T allele of the ABCB1
           c.3435C>T polymorphism;

        3. covariate effects on drug pharmacokinetics will be considered significant when the mean
           difference in pharmacokinetic parameters will be at least 20%;

        4. the power of the study will be 80%;

        5. the alpha error will be set at 0.05.

           1.3. Enrollment

           Patient enrollment in the various participating centers will be competitive, up to the
           achievement of 206 individuals per drug.

           At the first visit, the TIKlet study will be presented to patients who will satisfy the
           inclusion / exclusion criteria. The following activities will take place:

             -  patients will be informed about the characteristics, objectives, and procedures of
                the study.

             -  Consent to study participation will be confirmed by signing the informed consent
                form.

             -  Personal alphanumeric code assignment for patient's identification and privacy.

             -  Updating of the enrollment list.

             -  Collection of main data of the patient (age, sex, age at diagnosis, clinical
                chemistry test results as reported in the patient's record and any combination
                therapies, with their doses and duration) within the individual case report form
                (CRF).

             -  A blood withdrawal (approximately 4 mL) will be performed from a peripheral vein of
                the forearm. The time at which blood will be withdrawn will be registered within
                patient's CRF, together with the time elapsed from the last administration of
                imatinib or nilotinib. For sample handling see section 2.1. "Blood sample
                handling".

             -  The updated list of enrolled patients and individual case report forms will be sent
                to the Division of Hematology, Dept. of Clinical and Experimental Medicine,
                University of Pisa

           1.4 Follow-up visits

           According to clinical routine at each participating center, the following activities
           should be performed during each follow-up visit:

             -  Collection of patient's data: clinical chemistry test results, cytogenetic analysis
                and molecular biology results (BCR/Abl transcript levels), any concomitant therapy,
                any adverse drug reaction.

             -  A blood sample (approximately 4 mL) will be collected from a peripheral vein of the
                forearm. The time at which blood will be withdrawn will be registered within
                patient's CRF, together with the time elapsed from the intake of last imatinib or
                nilotinib dose. For sample handling see section 2.1. "Blood sample handling".

                2. Laboratory analyses

           Laboratory analyses will be conducted at the Division of Pharmacology, Department of
           Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa (measurement of drug plasma
           concentrations, pharmacogenetic analyses) and at the Department of Pharmacology,
           University of Bologna (pharmacogenetic analyses).

           2.1. Blood sample handling

           Each tube containing the patient's whole blood, plasma or DNA (see below) and used for
           the execution of therapeutic monitoring or pharmacogenetic analyses will be identified
           by a) the patient's code and b) the date of execution of blood withdrawal.

           All blood samples will be collected in lithium-heparin Vacutainer® tubes, then they will
           be stored at 4 °C until centrifugation. The sample will be centrifuged and the resulting
           plasma (1.5 mL) will be collected and stored in a tube for therapeutic drug monitoring.
           Only during the enrollment visit, an aliquot of whole blood (0.5 mL) will be collected
           in a sterile eppendorf for molecular analyses. Both samples will be stored at -20 °C for
           a maximum of 2 weeks, then they will be sent to the Dept. of Clinical and Experimental
           Medicine, University of Pisa.

           For sample storage see section 2.7. "Biological sample storage".

           2.2 Measurement of plasma concentration of drugs

           The measurement of plasma concentrations of imatinib and its active metabolite, and
           nilotinib will be conducted by a high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method
           using commercially available kits (Chromsystems GmbH, Munich, Germany) on Waters Breeze
           and Alliance instruments (Waters, USA).

           Briefly, solid-phase extraction columns will be balanced with Equilibration buffers 1
           and 2, then the internal standard and plasma (0.5 mL) will be added. The column will be
           centrifuged, and subsequently washed with Wash buffer and water for HPLC. The eluate
           will be collected by centrifugation, diluted with water for HPLC and injected (0.025 mL)
           into the HPLC system for the execution of the analysis. The peak area of the analytes of
           interest (imatinib and its active metabolite, nilotinib and internal standard) will be
           recorded and the actual concentration of drug in plasma will be obtained by comparison
           with standard calibration curves for each day of analysis.

           The HPLC analyses will be carried out on a weekly basis. The reports of the analysis
           will be sent to the Divisions / Units of Hematology and registered into both the
           patient's medical record and study CRFs.

           2.3. Pharmacokinetic analyses

           Plasma concentrations of imatinib/active metabolite and nilotinib will be analyzed
           trough a population pharmacokinetic analysis according to a nonlinear mixed-effects
           modeling approach, using the NONMEM software, version 7.2. The Xpose and PsN packages
           will be used to check database, for model diagnostic and covariate testing. Former
           models for imatinib/metabolite and nilotinib will be 1- and 2-compartment models with
           first-order elimination and parameterized in terms of apparent drug clearance (CL/F),
           volume of distribution (V/F) and absorption constant (ka), while the residual error will
           be modeled as additive, proportional or mixed (additive and proportional) error. The
           availability of records, goodness-of-fit plots and the precision of parameter estimates,
           together with a generalized additive modeling procedure (GAM) implemented in the Xpose
           package, will be adopted for model development and to explore correlations among the
           covariates. In particular, age, weight, body mass index, liver (ALT, AST) and renal
           function (creatinine plasma concentration), albumin and α1-acid glycoprotein plasma
           concentrations and results of pharmacogenetic analyses will be considered as possible
           covariates. A stepwise covariate model building will be performed with forward inclusion
           and backward exclusion. In particular, a decrease in the objective function value (OFV)
           greater than 3.84 points (i.e., p<0.05) and 6.63 points (i.e., p<0.01) will be the
           criteria used in the forward inclusion and backward exclusion steps, respectively. The
           goodness of the final model will be checked by bootstrap analysis using the PsN and
           Xpose packages and calculating η-shrinkage. The area under the plasma concentration-time
           curve from time zero up to infinity (AUC) and terminal elimination half-life (t1/2) will
           be calculated from the individual empirical Bayes estimates (EBE) from the final
           population pharmacokinetic model as follows:

           AUC=(Total daily dose)/(CL/F) t1/2=ln(2)/kel where kel is imatinib elimination constant.

           2.4. Pharmacogenetic analyses

           The aliquot of frozen whole blood will be employed for the extraction of genomic DNA
           with a suitable kit (Qiagen, Milan, Italy) following manufacturer's instructions and the
           nucleic acid will be stored at -80 ° C until the time of analysis in sterile tube
           bearing the identification code of the patient.

           Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the following genes will be assayed: ABCB1,
           ABCG2, hOCT1, OCTN1, OATP1A2. SNPs will be evaluated by specific kits from Applied
           Biosystems (Life Sciences, Milan, Italy) on an ABI Prism 7900HT Sequence Detection
           System (Life Sciences). Each analysis will be performed in triplicate. Genotypes will be
           automatically identified through the software SDS (Life Sciences). Frequency of alleles
           and genotypes according to the Hardy-Weinberg law, haplotype and linkage disequilibrium
           analysis will be performed using Arlequin software package.

           2.5. Treatment effectiveness and tolerability

           The response to the therapy with imatinib will be evaluated in agreement with criteria
           recently published and adopted. In particular, results from chemical, biochemical and
           molecular analyses will be performed every 2 weeks during the first 3 months of
           treatment, then cytogenetic (metaphase chromosomal banding assay) and molecular analyses
           (quantification of BCR-ABL transcription levels in plasma by real-time-PCR) were
           performed every 6 and 3 months, respectively, until the attainment of a complete
           response. The time to complete cytogenetic response (CCyR) and to major molecular
           response (MMR) will be defined as the length of time elapsed from diagnosis and response
           attainment for every patient.

           Furthermore, treatment-associated adverse reactions (i.e., nausea and vomiting,
           periorbital oedema, cramps and myalgia, neutropenia, skin and liver toxicities) will be
           identified and scored according to the Common Toxicity Criteria-NCI grading system
           (version 3).

           2.6. Statistical analysis

           The results will be analyzed in aggregate form. Parameter of dispersion (standard
           deviation, range), central indexes (mean, median) and distribution (i.e.,
           Kolmogorov-Smirnov test) will be calculated. The most appropriate statistical tests
           (ANOVA, Fisher test, etc.) will be applied to investigate any possible difference
           between groups, and the level of significance will be set at p = 0.05. The
           identification of cut-off values for parameters predictive of efficacy / tolerability
           (plasma concentrations, polymorphisms) will be pursued trough ad hoc analyses (receiver
           operating characteristics analysis, evaluation of positive and negative predictive
           values).

           2.7. Biological sample storage

           All biological samples [whole blood (0.5 mL), plasma (1.5 mL) and genomic DNA] will be
           stored at the Division of Pharmacology, Department of Clinical and Experimental
           Medicine, University of Pisa. Aliquots of DNA samples for pharmacogenetic analyses will
           be stored at the Department of Pharmacology, University of Bologna.

           Each sample will be identified by the individual alphanumeric code assigned to every
           patient. According to protocol, patients may require the destruction of their own
           biological samples.

           2.8. Authorship

           The criteria declared by the ICMJE (International Committee of Medical Journal Editors)
           will be adopted for authorship definition.
    
  