
    
      Involuntary muscle activity, often referred to as spasticity, is a common problem following
      spinal cord injury. Spasticity can be evoked by stimuli or occur spontaneously, and it can
      manifest as spasms, clonus, or the stiffness associated with hypertonia. While medications
      are typically used to treat the general symptoms of spasticity, they often have additional
      side effects, like muscle weakness, that can impede rehabilitation. Physical therapeutics
      offer an alternative to these drug treatments, but the most effective therapeutic strategy
      for managing spasticity has not yet been identified. A combination of physical therapeutics
      may provide the best strategy for managing spasticity while also improving general motor
      control for functional movements.

      Walking ability can be improved through locomotor training, which has also been shown to
      reduce spasticity. When locomotor training is combined with electrical stimulation, the
      benefits of training may be increased. To investigate the potential benefits of this
      combinatorial treatment strategy, investigators will use a kind of electrical stimulation
      called transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation ("tcSCS") to stimulate spinal cord nerves
      during locomotor training.

      In order to facilitate the translation of study findings into clinical practice, this study
      uses a pragmatic design, meaning that the study will involve the use of real world clinical
      settings and practices. Participants will undergo their standard physical therapist directed
      locomotor training program while receiving transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation (tcSCS) as
      an additional treatment. The effects of locomotor training alone will be compared to the
      combination of locomotor training with tcSCS, specifically comparing the effects of these
      treatments on spasticity and walking function.

      Investigators expect that the combination of tcSCS with locomotor training will provide 1) a
      greater reduction in spasticity and 2) a greater improvement of walking function compared to
      locomotor training alone.

      The findings from this study have the potential to rapidly facilitate the translation of a
      novel combination treatment for the management of spasticity and improvement of walking
      function into real world clinical practice.
    
  