
    
      This is a research study which aims to improve the way that doctors determine the dose of
      chemotherapy given to patients. Right now, chemotherapy is determined by a patient's height
      and weight. However, some patients metabolize chemotherapy faster or slower than the average
      person because of a different level of drug metabolizing enzyme in the liver. Therefore, some
      patients are either given too small or too large a dose of chemotherapy because the amount of
      enzyme is not taken into account. This research study will examine the use of a simple test,
      call the Erythromycin Breath Test(ERMBT) to determine the amount of enzyme which can
      metabolize the chemotherapy drug docetaxel (Taxotere). The dose of docetaxel will be tailored
      to the amount of enzyme which is available to metabolize the drug for each patient. The drug,
      docetaxel, is combined with another drug, trastuzumab (Herceptin), because at this time this
      combination appears to be promising in metastatic breast cancer research.-Patients
      participating in this study will have biopsy proven, measurable metastatic breast cancer.

      During the study:

        -  Patients will receive tailored-dose docetaxel and Trastuzumab for their breast cancer.

        -  There are no sex or age restrictions although the patients in this disease category are
           reflective of an adult female population.

      Approximately 30 subjects will be recruited at this site.

      Diagnosis and Staging • All patients will have primary tumor measurements by physical exam
      and/or radiographic studies (CT, MRI, bone scan).

      Erythromycin Breath Test*

      • The ERMBT will be administered in the outpatient setting, prior to the first cycle of
      docetaxel. Twenty minutes after the injection of a trace amount of (14C N-methyl)
      erythromycin, (This test assesses the activity of the cytochrome P450 enzyme which is largely
      responsible for the metabolism of the chemotherapeutic agent docetaxel.)patients will exhale
      through a tube creating bubbles in a solution of hyamine hydroxide, ethanol, and a blue
      indicator until 2 mmol of carbon dioxide has been trapped and the blue color vanishes.

      Chemotherapy Regimen

      Premedications

        -  Dexamethasone 8 mg po bid for three days, beginning the day prior to docetaxel
           administration.

        -  Diphenhydramine 50 mg IVPB

        -  Granisetron 2 mg po 30 minutes pre-docetaxel

      Chemotherapy

        -  Docetaxel, tailored dose, to be infused over 1 hour on day 1 every 3 weeks for the
           duration of study.

        -  Starting dose of docetaxel to be determined by the ERMBT and serum albumin according to
           formula as stated in protocol (page 11).

        -  Trastuzumab, 4 mg/kg to be infused over 90 minutes on day 2 (after pharmacokinetic
           sampling).

        -  Beginning week 2, trastuzumab will be given at a dose of 2 mg/kg weekly throughout
           duration of study. (After the first dose of docetaxel, future doses may be given on the
           same day as docetaxel).

      Suggested post-chemotherapy antiemetics:

        -  Compazine 10 mg po q 6 hours prn nausea/vomiting Pharmacokinetic Analysis

        -  All patients will have pharmacokinetic determination with blood drawn for
           pharmacokinetic analysis over a 24 hour period after the first docetaxel treatment. Time
           points include time 0, 15 minutes, 45 minutes, 180 minutes (3 hours), 390 minutes (6.5
           hours), and 1440 minutes (24 hours).

      DEXA Scan*

        -  DEXA scan will be performed during the patient's stay in the Clinical Research Center,
           on the Lunar DPXL Bone Densitometer. This is a very simple and noninvasive test which
           uses x-rays and a computer program to analyze the ratio of 38 keV to 70 keV attenuation.
           The program then calculates Fat and Lean values for the arms, legs, abdomen, ribs, and
           the total body. This is the same test that is in widespread clinical use for the
           evaluation of osteoporosis. During the DEXA scan, patients will be exposed to a trace
           amount of radiation which is equal to about 2% of the yearly background dose, or less.

           *The amount of radiation to be administered by the erythromycin breath test and DEXA
           scan is not medically significant.

        -  Patients will receive 2 cycles of docetaxel/trastuzumab and be re-evaluated for response
           (ever 6 weeks, or later if dosage delays caused lengthening of cycle).

        -  Responding and stable patients will continue to receive docetaxel therapy, with
           evaluations every 2 cycles (every 6 weeks, or later if dosage delays caused lengthening
           of cycle).

        -  Continued treatment beyond 8 cycles will be at the discretion of the patient's primary
           oncologist.
    
  