
    
      This is a prospective study evaluating radiation exposure to operators of invasive
      cardiovascular procedures at the UCSD Medical Center in La Jolla. Primary and secondary
      operators of cardiac catheterization procedures using fluoroscopy guidance, including cardiac
      catheterization, coronary angiography, and interventional procedures will wear multiple
      dosimeters to evaluate levels of radiation exposure. The primary and secondary operators will
      wear six dosimeters on their heads; three outside the non-lead attenuating cap and three
      underneath the cap. Above and beneath the cap, the dosimeters will be on the left side, in
      the center, and on the right side of the head. The dosimeters will be worn for a target of at
      least 50 procedures for each operator. The primary operators will be closest to the
      procedural site and the fluoroscopy unit for the majority of the procedure, while the
      secondary operators will be to the right side of the primary operators during the procedures.
      The operators will maintain this designation while participating in the study. All operators
      will continue to wear the dosimeters issued by the catheterization laboratory as part of
      standard radiation monitoring.

      Each operator will be assigned six dosimeters, which will be secured within the cap at the
      time of assignment. The use of each cap and respective set of dosimeters will be recorded in
      a log book in the secure cardiac catheterization laboratory and associated with specific
      cardiac case numbers. Specific factors related to operator radiation exposure for each
      procedure will be recorded including: operator height, patient weight and BMI, dose area
      product (DAP), fluoroscopy time, length of procedure, type of procedure, access site, and
      complexity of procedure as determined by the attending physician. The operators will comment
      on the comfort of the cap using a semi-quantitative scale and the levels of exposure will be
      measured from the dosimeters. The operators will also be asked to compare and contrast the
      study cap with any other attenuating or non-attenuating cap that has been previously worn. At
      the conclusion of the study, statistical analysis will be performed to determine the
      differential levels of exposure between the primary and secondary operators, between
      different sides of the head, and the attenuation ability of the XPF cap. The dosimeters on
      the outside of the cap will serve as the control in evaluating the attenuating ability of the
      cap compared to the corresponding dosimeters on the inside. Each dosimeter location on the
      outside of the cap will be compared to the other locations for both the outside and the
      inside sets. And finally, the exposure measurements will be compared between the primary and
      secondary operators for each dosimeter location. The specific factors listed above that
      affect operator exposure will be taken into account as well.
    
  