
    
      Appetite refers to the desire associated with eating. Both internal and external factors can
      stimulate appetite. Hunger and satiety are included in appetite regulation. Hunger is related
      to physiological needs and the commencement of eating. Satiety refers to a state without the
      urge to eat, where both the onset of satiety and post ingestion satiety are included.

      Anorexia is abnormal loss of appetite for food. Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder
      characterized by food restriction, despite low weight, leading to speculation about the
      presence of appetite alterations by weight loss.

      AN is a syndrome of unknown etiology which has been well described since 1873, and which
      occurs most frequently in adolescent women. The syndrome is characterized by distorted body
      image, and fear of obesity, why low ideal weight is pursued. The disorder occurs in different
      degrees of severity with secondary endocrine and metabolic changes and disturbances. The
      symptoms may also include excessive physical activity, abuse of laxatives, or diuretics and
      self-induced vomiting.

      There are multiple medical complications due to the starvation and weight loss in AN, several
      of which directly may affect appetite, for instance, delayed emptying of the stomach and
      constipation. Furthermore, compression of duodenum has been observed causing nausea and early
      satiety.

      Hypothalamic hypogonadism is one of the well-known adaptive endocrine alterations in AN due
      to starvation and exaggerated exercise. Progesterone and testosterone is believed to
      stimulate appetite and eating, in a manner mediated centrally, selectively increasing the
      number of meals.

      Moreover, AN patients have significantly higher levels of ghrelin, growth hormone (GH) and
      cortisol and significantly lower leptin, compared with partially recovered AN patients and
      constitutionally thin subjects.

      Hunger and satiety are subjective sensations which may be influenced by sensory factors and
      palatability, including taste, smell and texture. A recent study suggested that patients with
      AN may have an altered perception of olfactory, gustatory stimuli, and reduced perception of
      bitter stimuli.

      Other physiological factors such as, hypothalamic and mesolimbic endocannabinoids, enhance
      appetite by stimulating neurochemical pathways underlying both homeostatic and rewarding
      aspects of food intake. Endocannabinoids are involved in food-related reward mechanisms, and
      there are increasing evidence that these mechanisms are dysregulated in AN patients.
      Moreover, functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated decreased food-related stimuli in
      brain areas of the mesolimbic reward system in AN patients.
    
  