
    
      Context: The Chronic Heart Failure (CHF) is a major public health problem in terms of
      frequency, mortality and costs. The care integrates a low-salt diet to reduce fluid retention
      and cardiac decompensation. A large observational study (ODIN) shows the effectiveness of the
      Patient's Therapeutic Education program (PTE which provides learning management sodium intake
      by the intervention of a dietician, I-CARE) on reducing mortality. But prognosis of CHF
      remains serious leading to many hospitalizations. The nutritional status of patients with CHF
      is threatened by inadequate energy intake in connection with the low sodium diet and the rest
      energetic cost (REC). Malnutrition increases the risk of hospitalization because it causes an
      immune deficiency responsible for infections, bones weakness and impaired cognitive function.

      Hypotheses: The investigators postulate that an educational diet focusing on prevention of
      malnutrition would reduce morbidity and improve quality of life for patients with CHF. For
      this, the investigators propose a new educational method: adding a personalized program
      monitoring energy and protein intake in addition to managing sodium intake, notably by
      offering personalized menu ideas and recipes.

      Main objective: Demonstrate that a dietetic education program involving the prevention of
      malnutrition and managing sodium intake is more effective than the usual dietetic education
      (based only on management of sodium intake) on the frequency of unplanned hospitalizations
      (all causes ) at 6 months in CHF patients.

      Secondary Objectives: Demonstrate the superiority of the dietetic education program involving
      the prevention of malnutrition and managing sodium intake over the usual dietetic education,
      by improving the nutritional status, the quality of life, the survival, the adherence to
      dietary recommendations and the reduction of hospitalizations for cardiac decompensation, the
      burden associated with low sodium diet and the costs.
    
  