
    
      Background. Functional disability, a natural consequence of weakness, is a frequent and
      long-lasting complication in survivors of critical illness. Over recent decades, mortality
      from acute critical illness has decreased with a consequent increasing number of ICU
      survivors. Understanding the post-ICU morbidity experienced by these survivors has become
      increasingly important. The greatest burdens that survivors of critical illness face are
      related to neuromuscular dysfunction and neuropsychological maladjustment. In particular,
      neuromuscular abnormalities during critical illness are common, with a median prevalence of
      57%. In both patients with chronic critical illness and survivors of severe critical illness,
      neuromuscular weakness may be substantial and persistent, resulting in important decrements
      in physical function and quality of life for years after discharge. In the past, routine
      features of general care provided in the ICU included liberal use of sedation and
      immobilization of the patient, which were thought to be necessary for facilitating
      interventions to normalise physiological function by artificial means. Recently, there has
      been a paradigm shift away from this approach towards a more conservative treatment
      philosophy for patients in the ICU. This paradigm shift is consistent with the observation
      that long-term physical problems in survivors of critical illness, particularly those with
      respiratory failure, may result from the protracted ICU stay and period of immobilization
      during which the patient is receiving organ support that is essential for survival. In line,
      daily interruption of sedation policy has been widely adopted and proven to be beneficial and
      early mobilization culture is spreading quickly across ICUs. Indeed, these strategies,
      together with early physical therapy are the only safe and effective interventions in the
      prevention of long-term neuromuscular disability in survivors of intensive care. It should be
      stressed that in these studies, early rehabilitation is defined as starting between day 2-5
      of ICU stay or as an activity beginning before ICU discharge. Standard early rehabilitation
      cannot be started early enough, and functional electrical stimulation-assisted cycle
      ergometry may be a solution to this dilemma.The first week on the ICU is critical as muscle
      mass and function is lost quickly. Immobility-associated muscle loss is evident as early as
      within18-48 hours of onset of acute critical illness or severe injury and is greatest during
      the first 2 to 3 weeks of critical illness. Up to 40% loss of muscle strength can occur
      within the first week of immobilization, with a daily rate of strength loss between 1.0% and
      5.5% A 10-14% decrease in cross-sectional measurements of the rectus femoris muscle has been
      observed within the first week of ICU stay. Conventional rehabilitation during the first few
      days in the ICU is indeed limited in patients who are sedated and mechanically ventilated,
      and typically consists of passive limb movements, with or without the use of stretch reflex
      provided the earliest (within 48 hours of intubation) and largest dose of rehabilitation
      (26±14 min a day for patients on mechanical ventilation) and reported improvements of
      physical function at hospital discharge, but no measurements beyond. Active rehabilitation is
      delayed until the neurological condition of the patient improves enough to facilitate
      participation. In the sickest patients, who are at particular risk of developing ICUAW,
      sedation and immobility may be prolonged well beyond first week, when established damage to
      the muscle has already occurred. In order to achieve maximum efficacy, passive cycling and
      neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) can be delivered simultaneously and synchronised
      to produce a coordinated pattern of movements. The technique is called FES-CE (functional
      electrical stimulation-assisted cycle ergometry). There is a large body of experience with
      these methods in the rehabilitation of patients with stroke and spinal cord injuries. The
      method is effective in preventing the loss of muscle mass and has been shown to improve
      anabolic resistance and insulin sensitivity in quadriplegic patients. In critical illness,
      pilot studies have shown NMES itself (without synchronization and the use of bicycle) to be
      safe, feasible and effective in maintaining muscle strength and mass. The only study of
      FES-CE in critically illness is the pilot trial of Parry et al., where the feasibility and
      safety of FES-CE was demonstrated in a small cohort of critically ill patients (8 patients
      received the FES-CE intervention, versus 8 controls). Patients in the intervention group
      showed significant improvements in the Physical Function in Intensive Care Test and a faster
      recovery of functional milestones (e.g. time to stand from lying, and walking on the spot).

      Hypotheses H1: As most of the damage to the structure and function of skeletal muscle occurs
      during the first week, intensified rehabilitation, which includes FES-CE and starts within 48
      hours after ICU admission, improves functional outcome of ICU survivors at 6 months when
      compared to the routine standard of care. H2: Intensified early rehabilitation compared to
      routine standard of care, shall preserve muscle mass and improve muscle power at ICU
      discharge. H3:Intensified early rehabilitation compared to routine standard of care shall
      increase insulin-mediated whole-body oxidative glucose disposal and mitochondrial functional
      indices. Sample size calculation:In studies of critical illness outcome at 6-months using
      36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) scores, the standard deviation varied between 10-13
      points. In order to have 80% power to detect 5 point difference in SF-36 score between
      control and intervention at the level of significance p<0.05 in the population with standard
      deviation (SD) of 13, we would need 108 subjects (54 in each arm). In order to allow for
      deaths and dropouts, the plan is to randomize 150 subjects.

      Randomization. As soon as possible, but always within 48 hours of admission, participants
      will be randomly assigned (1:1) to receive either standard care or the intervention using
      offsite-independent randomization protocols (www.randomization.com). Randomization will be
      stratified according to presence or absence of sepsis and the availability of a biopsy at
      baseline. Concealed allocation will be performed using sequentially numbered opaque sealed
      envelopes only accessible by research personnel with no involvement in the trial.

      Once consent/assent is obtained, and prior to randomisation; participants will be referred to
      a study physiotherapist who will administer baseline testing of muscle mass/cross-sectional
      area (CSA) using diagnostic ultrasound (US), and baseline blood samples will be taken Both
      groups will receive usual best medical and nursing care in the ICU, which include daily
      sedation holds when applicable and delirium management as usual in the routine practice.
      Respiratory physiotherapy will also be delivered without alterations. The routine standard
      care arm will undergo mobilisation/rehabilitation delivered by personnel not involved in the
      study in a usual, routine way. Details of physiotherapy treatment will be recorded but not
      protocolled in the standard care arm. Intervention group In the intervention arm, early
      rehabilitation is protocolled according to patients' condition and degree of cooperation and
      there will be pre-defined safety criteria, which are in accordance with current
      recommendations for active rehabilitation of critically ill ventilated adults. Whilst the
      safety criteria are binding for the study physiotherapist, the rehabilitation protocol is not
      and the delivery of physical exercise can be altered according to actual patient's condition.
      However, any alteration and the reason for it will be recorded. The intervention will start
      as soon as possible and always within 48 h of ICU admission, continuing until ICU discharge.
      Supine cycling will be delivered as per protocol on supine cycloergometer attached to a
      neuromuscular stimulator Surface electrodes will be applied to the gluteal, hamstrings,
      quadriceps and calf muscles on both legs. The intensity of muscle stimulation will be
      delivered at a level able to cause visible contractions (confirmed by palpation if uncertain)
      in all muscle groups without causing undue pain or discomfort to the participant, according
      to a regime specified by Parry, 2012. Once the patient is more alert, and able to
      participate, they will be provided with standardized encouragement to engage in therapy. To
      increase the intervention workload, resistance will be increased incrementally and cycling
      cadence. If a participant is readmitted to intensive care, the intervention will be
      re-initiated.

      Study Procedures The ICUs are paperless and fully computerized, so vital functions and other
      physiological parameters are monitored and data is routinely stored to secure hospital data
      bases via a protected dedicated network. This includes data about nutritional intake and
      urinary output. Urine samples will be collected daily, surfaced with toluene and stored in a
      deep freeze facility for later determination of nitrogen content and 3-methyl histidine
      levels (to calculate muscle catabolism rate and nitrogen balance). In addition, all study
      patients will undergo an assessment by a study physiotherapist, which includes a measurement
      of rectus muscle cross-sectional area on both legs and whenever the patient regains
      consciousness, also muscle power by Medical Research Concil (MRC) score (standardized testing
      of muscle power [0-5] on 12 muscle groups on all 4 limbs, giving the score 0-60 (60
      suggesting normal muscle power). Blood will be taken, plasma separated and frozen at -80 C
      for later analysis of cytokines and hormone levels. This assessment will be repeated at 7-day
      intervals and at ICU discharge. At ICU discharge, the patients and relatives will be asked to
      provide contact details for follow up. After 6 months, the patient or family will be
      contacted for structured interview as required for SF-36 questionnaire, and collected using
      Research and Development Organization (RAND) methodology. Whilst participants and
      intervention physiotherapist cannot be blinded to group allocation, research staff assessing
      outcome will be from separate clinical departments and thus remain blinded to treatment
      allocation.

      Complementary Studies: Insulin resistance and mitochondrial function These studies will be
      performed in addition to other study procedures in a subgroup of patients, who give specific
      consent to it. First measurement will be performed at baseline prior to randomization,
      ideally the next morning after admission. Second measurement on day 7 of ICU stay, i.e. after
      at least 5 days of intervention. Muscle biopsy. Will be performed from vastus lateralis
      muscle by needle biopsy technique. The sample will be separated into three parts (50-100mg
      each). One part will be immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen for analysis of protein/DNA
      ratio and protein expression studies. The second part will be frozen in liquid
      nitrogen-cooled isopentane for muscle fibre typing and immunohistochemistry analysis. The
      third part put into culture media on ice for the preparation of homogenates and measurement
      of citrate-synthase activity, spectrophotometric analysis of the activity of respiratory
      complexes I-IV and western blot analysis of respiratory complexes. In the fresh muscle
      homogenates, the investigators will use high-resolution respirometry to determine the
      function of individual respiratory complexes in the cytosolic context and measure basic
      functional metabolic indices. the investigators will specifically look at the degree of
      mitochondrial uncoupling, respiratory chain capacity and the function of individual
      complexes, including glycerol-3-phosphate shuttle. Frozen muscle samples will be stored at
      deeply frozen for analysis of DNA/protein ratio, messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and
      proteins involved in the regulation of proteolysis, substrate oxidation and anabolic pathways
      of skeletal muscle as well as immunohistochemistry and typing of muscle fibres. In addition,
      the investigators will look at the change of these indices after seven days of critical
      illness and the influence of the intervention vs. standard of care. the investigators will
      look at correlation of these parameters with muscle power (i.e. compare bioenergetics profile
      of skeletal muscle in those who develop ICUAW and in those who do not) and insulin
      resistance. Insulin sensitivity and substrate oxidation will be measured after overnight
      fasting by hyperinsulinaemic euglycemic clamp.
    
  