
    
      Human amniotic membrane (AM) is composed of three layers: a single epithelial layer, a thick
      basement membrane, and an avascular stroma. The amniotic membrane was first used along with
      the chorion as a biologic membrane to promote healing of skin burns in 1910. In
      ophthalmology, it was used in 1940 in the management of conjunctival defects. Its revival in
      the 1990s was due to its ability to reduce ocular surface inflammation and scarring, promote
      rapid epithelialization due to the presence of growth factors, and antimicrobial
      properties.1,2 The amniotic membrane is a biologic tissue that has been used as a graft for
      corneal and conjunctival reconstruction in a variety of ocular surface diseases. It is
      avascular and possesses anti-angiogenetic, anti-scarring and antiinflammatory properties. It
      is not a substitute but rather a substrate upon which cells can migrate and regenerate,
      forming new and healthy tissue.2 Amniotic membrane has several properties and is extremely
      useful in ocular surgery2,3:

        1. Promotes Epithelialization:

           Amniotic membrane acts like a basement membrane and facilitates the migration of
           epithelial cells.4 It reinforces adhesion of basal epithelial cells, promotes epithelial
           differentiation, prevents epithelial apoptosis, and improves corneal sensitivity and
           tear film stability,5 although the exact mechanism is not known. It also produces growth
           factors that promote epithelial cell growth.6 It is believed to expand and maintain
           epithelial progenitor cells ex vivo.7

        2. Inhibits Fibrosis:

           Fibroblasts are normally responsible for the scarring associated with wound healing and
           are activated by transforming growth factor TGF-β. Amniotic membrane downregulates
           TGF-βand the receptor expression by fibroblasts and thus reduces fibrosis. Choi and
           Tseng 8,9 implanted dispase-treated amniotic membrane with and without cultured rabbit
           corneal epithelial cells intrastromally into rabbit corneas. They observed that the
           amniotic membrane alone did not induce keratocyte differentiation into myofibroblasts
           and the cornea remained clear. Amniotic membrane also suppressed the TGF-β signaling in
           corneal and limbal fibroblasts and in conjunctival and pterygial fibroblasts.10

        3. Antiinflammatory and Antiangiogenic Factors:

           There are several reports of reduction of inflammation with amniotic membrane.11 The
           exact mechanism is not known. The amniotic membrane probably acts as a barrier against
           the tear film resulting in a reduced amount of inflammatory cells and hence the amount
           of inflammatory mediators.12 In addition, the presence of proteinase inhibitors may
           promote healing.

        4. Antimicrobial and Antiviral Properties:

           Amniotic membrane seems to have antimicrobial properties that decrease the risk of
           postoperative infection. It also contains cystatin E, an analogue of cysteine proteinase
           inhibitors, which has complementary antiviral properties.13 Its antimicrobial and
           possible antiviral properties warrant further studies.

        5. High Hydraulic Conductivity:

      The different layers of the placenta have been studied, and it has been found that the
      amniotic membrane has a high hydraulic conductivity, thus facilitating its use in bleb repair
      following glaucoma-filtering surgery.14 Amniotic membrane transplantation is currently being
      used for a continuously widening spectrum of ophthalmic indications. Amniotic membrane
      transplantation has been shown to be effective in the reconstruction of the corneal surface
      in the setting of persistent epithelial defects, sterile corneal ulcerations, and partial
      limbal stem cell (LSC) deficiency states, including those secondary to chemical or thermal
      burns. The amniotic membrane has several properties that promote epithelialization and reduce
      inflammation, and these have prompted its use in the management of persistent epithelial
      defects,15,16 deep ulcers,17,18 neurotrophic ulcers,19 and perforations,20,21 with initial
      success rates varying from 50% to 90%. Multiple layers of AM restore stromal thickness in
      deep and perforated noninfectious ulcers and probably provides a substrate for collagens and
      growth factors for epithelial healing. AMT was also used for huge pterygium or recurrent
      pterygium.27 The limitations of AMT include continuous tissue destruction beneath the graft,
      the need for adequate stem cells at the limbus and normal keratocytes in the surrounding
      tissue, and intact sensory innervation for healing.15 In mild to moderate chemical injuries,
      AMT restores corneal and conjunctival surfaces. It prevents symblepharon formation in severe
      burns.22,23 In severe cases, owing to extensive ocular surface inflammation with deep stromal
      ischemia and near-total destruction of the limbal stem cells, the amniotic membrane may at
      best reduce inflammation, prevent further stem cell damage, and prevent symblepharon
      formation in the acute stages. Joseph et al 24 describe the complete failure of AMT in 4
      cases of acute grade 4 chemical burns with complete loss of vision in all.

      With the development of cell therapy, amniotic membrane can be also used as a carrier of
      limbal stem cells or their progeny, cultivated in vitro.2,25,26 Most recently, ex vivo
      cultivation and expansion of limbal epithelial cells has been performed utilizing AM as a
      matrix. However, the superiority of AMT over other treatment modalities in many of these
      settings needs to be substantiated by controlled clinical trials.5 The use of amniotic
      membrane in ophthalmic surgery has been shown to provide an alternative for corneal and
      conjunctival reconstruction in many clinically challenging situations. It has without doubt
      provided an option where previously none existed in some conditions. Nevertheless, it is has
      its limitations and is not universally successful for every indication. The indications for
      its use are ever increasing, often on anecdotal evidence. In some instances where it is
      successfully used, existing and at times simpler options are equally effective. The
      collective global experience with the membrane is now vast, and the field should now move
      into proper randomized controlled studies to evaluate its true potential.1,2,28
    
  