
    
      The descriptive studies showed that voice problems, in particular hypophonia, are present in
      45% to 91% of patients with multiple sclerosis and may constitute a limitation in social life
      participation. Although voice, speech and communication are significant aspects for the
      biopsychosocialwell-being and life quality, only 2% of the PwMS had received any speech
      therapy and, at the same time, few studies assessed the effects of speech treatment for PwMS.

      In according to the taxonomy of voice therapy, the conventional treatment may include direct
      interventions such as vocal function and modification of respiratory function.

      The LSVT LOUD® treatment is a standardized, research-based speech treatment protocol with
      established efficacy for Idiopathic Parkinson Disease (IPD) and is well described in a large
      number of studies. Subsequently, further studies supported the efficacy of LSVT LOUD® in
      voice rehabilitation in various neurological diseases, including Multiple Sclerosis. In the
      study of Sapir et al., only two women were treated with LSVT LOUD® and the authors concluded
      that intensive phonatory-respiratory treatment can produce clinically significant and
      long-term improvement in vocal function in PwMS. These findings are consistent with
      suggestion that intensive training can improve function in those parts of the body that are
      prone to fatigue and that vocal training probably minimizes disuse atrophy and increases
      muscle strength and coordination.

      The content and dose of the SLT (Speech Language Therapy) of dysphonia in MS is poorly
      defined within the published literature and we did not find any meta-analyzes or guidelines
      that suggest instructions for therapists.

      The purpose of this project is to identify the most effective method of intervention to
      reduce hypophonia in PwMS, as a way to optimize the speech-therapy treatment based on
      scientific evidence. The data in literature suggest that LSVT LOUD® may be functional for
      these aims, although there isn't broad-based study with PwSM.

      Fourty Persons with Multiple Sclerosis will be randomly allocated to an experimental group
      (Lee Silverman Voice Treatment - LSVT LOUD® method) or to a control group following usual
      care rehabilitation programs.

      Also an historical cohort of untreated patients was considered (voice assessment: baseline,
      after 4 weeks, FU-Follow Up at 6/12 months).

      Data collection in both groups will be performed at baseline, after 4 weeks of treatment and
      after 6-12 months up to the end of the rehabilitation program (FU). In order to evaluate the
      perceptual impact of the treatment, GIRBAS and VHI will be proposed.

      The acoustic variables will be recorded with the software PRAAT: SPL (Sound Pressure Level)
      of a sustained /ah/, SPL of functional sentences, maximum phonation time, SPL of 1 minute
      monologue. In addition, the following values were taken in the minute of spontaneous speech:
      Jitter, shimmer, fundamental frequency, maximum frequency and minimum frequency. The type of
      MS, Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) , demographic data, disease duration, presence of
      postural and respiratory problems, presence of depression (Beck Depression Inventory-II - BDI
      II) , pharmacological treatment and cognitive status (Brief Repeatable Battery of
      Neuropsychological Tests) will be considered.
    
  