
    
      The conduct of high quality clinical research is dependent on the ability to recruit and
      retain subjects who are invested in, understand, and have confidence in the clinical research
      process. Understanding subjects experiences as research volunteers is critical to the
      continual improvement of the processes of clinical research and, subsequently, to enhancing
      the subject s experience. Heretofore, studies evaluating the subject s comprehension of the
      informed consent process have served as, at best, an indirect measure of the quality of the
      subject s experience. Few, if any, studies have assessed the quality and efficacy of the
      entire clinical research process from the subject s perspective. This study is the first
      phase of a two-part study designed to directly measure research participants perceptions of
      all aspects of the clinical research process (e.g., recruitment, informed consent, education,
      autonomy and subject's rights, provision of clinical care) for the purposes of improving the
      clinical research subject s experience.

      Obtaining robust, validated data requires a partnership between those with expertise in the
      design and analysis of surveys, and those who can articulate the needs of research
      participants and improve the way in which clinical research is conducted. For the former, we
      will be greatly advantaged by our partnership with NRC Picker, which has committed the
      resources necessary to assist the survey project development; conduct the focus groups,
      telephone interviews, and expert advisory group sessions required to further optimize the
      survey; collaborate in the analysis; and fund the second-stage formal validation of the
      survey. For the latter, we have assembled a collaborative team of research professionals from
      the CTSA award recipient centers, and interested GCRCs, with expertise in human subject
      protections, research ethics, research conduct, education and performance improvement.

      The current study entails the recruitment and conduct of up to a total of 22 Focus Groups,
      each consisting of either 8-10 research subjects (12-16 groups) or 6-10 research
      professionals (6 groups), in order achieve the first goal: to assess the key dimensions of
      the research experience upon which to test the second part of the research, a perception of
      the research experience survey. The current study will involve 8-11 academic medical centers,
      enrolling a total of 100-128 research subjects, and 45-60 research professionals in total. A
      second goal of the project is to describe the process, obstacles and successes of
      implementing a multi-center protocol across the GCRCs and the CTSA consortium. A subsequent
      research protocol will concern the fielding and validation of that survey in approximately
      3,700 subjects at up to 10 academic medical centers (CTSA and GCRC awardees).
    
  