
    
      Diabetic retinopathy is a common cause of severe loss of vision and the most common cause of
      blindness in individuals between the ages of 20 and 65 years in developed countries. Swelling
      of the central retina, or "macular oedema", is the commonest cause of visual loss in diabetic
      retinopathy.

      Diabetic macular oedema (DMO) is treated with laser photocoagulation of areas of leak in the
      macula according to established guidelines which take into account the extent of the leak and
      its proximity to the centre of the macula, the "fovea". This treatment does not always work,
      however, and is inherently destructive.

      New drugs have become available which appear to reduce the risk of loss of vision in eyes
      with advanced diabetic macular oedema for which further laser treatment is unlikely to be
      beneficial. Intravitreal injection of slow-release steroid formulations such as Ozurdex™, a
      slow release formulation of dexamethasone, has been proposed as a new modality to treat
      clinically significant DMO. We have recently conducted randomised clinical trials which have
      demonstrated that treatment with intravitreal triamcinolone (IVTA) leads to reduction of DMO
      and improved vision in these eyes. Another class of drugs, inhibitors of Vascular Endothelial
      Growth Factor (VEGF) such as bevacizumab (Avastin®), also appear efficacious.

      While both drugs appear to reduce macular oedema and improve vision in the short term, they
      may have differences which could guide how they are best used. Around 1/3 of eyes that
      receive dexamethasone may develop elevated intraocular pressure and cataract, both of which
      are manageable but may complicate the picture. Anti-VEGF drugs do not have these local
      adverse events, however they must be given more frequently (4-6 weekly vs 4-6 monthly for
      Ozurdex™) and it is suspected they may have a neurotoxic effect on the retina. Some
      authorities suspect that anti-VEGF treatment may be associated with a small increased risk of
      having a stroke or heart attack during treatment, even when they are injected into the eye.
      This has not been proven with a related drug, ranibizumab, but it is still possible that it
      may occur with bevacizumab.

      This will be a, 2 year, phase II, prospective, multicentre, randomised, single-masked
      clinical trial of sustained release intravitreal dexamethasone (Ozurdex™) versus intravitreal
      injections of bevacizumab (Avastin®) for diabetic foveal oedema that persists or recurs
      despite previous laser treatment, or for which the investigator believes laser treatment is
      unlikely to be helpful.
    
  