
    
      In the field of sports training and recovery, the work of muscular strength has become the
      star theme in terms of its influence on the performance of athletes. In fact, in relation to
      the training of the inferior members, the scientific evidence indicates that, to increase the
      other two physical qualities conditioned (speed and resistance), it is necessary to work and
      to increase the muscular strength.

      To this end, numerous training methods have been developed, in which research and technology
      provide new solutions that favor and enhance the muscular work done.

      Therefore, in the performance of an athlete this work of force influences, and what this
      implies: type of muscular contraction, way of working that contraction, recruitment of the
      muscular fiber, and modality of muscular strength developed. But, this performance, it
      appears that it can also be influenced by environmental parameters such as diet,
      technological support and genetic factors. It has been discovered in the human genome 12
      million of polymorphisms, but it is only recorded that some 214 may have influence on
      physical qualities, and all of them, the most studied in terms of their influence on sports
      performance are: genes Muscular, and more specifically the ACTN3, and vasomotor genes that
      affect the production of energy and that intervene in metabolic processes (ACE gene).

        -  Design: Randomized intervention clinical trial, double blinded.

        -  Sample: by contrast of hypothesis, a sample size of 80 subjects divided into 4 groups (n
           = 20) of muscular work: concentric, eccentric, concentric-eccentric and isometric. They
           were randomized using excel software. As criteria of inclusion, subjects that did not
           present musculoskeletal lesions in the lower train at the time of the study, which
           showed a serious commitment to perform the entire muscle training, which were not
           subject to another type of plan Training that could interfere with the results obtained
           from the measurement of the study variables, and that would not have been diagnosed with
           hypertension.

        -  Methodology:

      The duration of the muscular work was 12 consecutive days, measuring before and after the
      same variables indicated below.

      The protocol of work was as follows: 4 series of 12 repetitions of the type of muscular
      contraction of each group, with one minute of rest between series and series. For the
      muscular work isometric: 6 seconds of contraction, with 20 seconds of rest, for a total
      working time of 12 minutes.

      As a material for muscular work, the muscle brace or Russian belt was used for the three
      types of dynamic muscular work and the quadriceps bench for isometric muscular work. Other
      variables that were taken into account were: sex, age, weight, height, body mass index, blood
      pressure and heart rate.

      As explosive force variables were measured: The Jump Power (Sayers formula), the vertical
      jump (the Sargent jump test), horizontal jump and speed 60 meters.

      Other variables that were taken into account were: sex, age, weight, height, body mass index,
      blood pressure and heart rate.

      At the end of the 12 days of training was extracted 10 ml of blood to each subject of the
      sample, then obtain the DNA analysis of the genotypes of the two genes analyzed.
    
  