
    
      Radiated White Blood Cell Transfusions:

      White blood cell transfusions from a volunteer donor may contain blood cells that your body
      can react with to produce a disorder called transfusion-associated graft versus host disease.
      This means that some of the injected white blood cells can reproduce in your body and react
      with your own tissues and create side effects. To avoid this, the blood is radiated (changed
      through radiation) to kill all the cells that can divide. But this radiation also may destroy
      some of the infection-fighting capacity of the white blood cell transfusion, this may
      decrease the effectiveness of these white blood cell transfusions. Radiating white blood
      cells is the standard procedure that has been used to treat serious, life-threatening
      infections.

      Non-Radiated White Blood Cell Transfusions:

      If the white blood cells are not radiated, it may increase the effectiveness of these white
      cell transfusions. This may help the white blood cells to make more infection-fighting white
      blood cells. But, the cells that are also responsible for the transfusion-associated graft
      versus host disease will not be killed. This increases the risk that you could have this
      complication.

      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, and if you are one of the first 40 patients, you
      will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. You or your physician
      will not know the results of this randomization. If you are in Group 1, you will have a
      non-radiated white blood cell transfusion. If you are in Group 2, you will have a standard
      white blood cell transfusion (with radiation). If you are less than 50 years old, you will
      receive 4 transfusions of radiated white cells. If you continue to show signs and symptoms of
      infection you will receive additional white cell transfusions based on the group you were
      randomized to.

      If you are after the first 40 patients, you will be placed in a group that the study doctor
      thinks will most benefit you. It is important to note that this study is designed as a
      "adaptive randomization" which means that as the outcome for each individual is observed, the
      next patient receives the product which is most likely to be beneficial and least likely to
      be harmful.

      White Blood Cell Transfusion:

      Before the transfusion, a nurse will take your temperature, breathing rate and blood
      pressure. During the transfusion a nurse will watch you closely. Side effects sometimes occur
      during and soon after the transfusion. You may be given a drug to help or reduce any side
      effects.

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive 4 standard white blood cell transfusions (with
      radiation).

      If you still have an infection after 4 transfusions and the doctor thinks it is necessary,
      you will have additional transfusions. You will continue to have transfusions until the
      doctor feels the infection has been controlled. If you experience graft-versus-host disease
      (GVHD), this will be up to your doctor's discretion.

      If you need a white blood cell transfusion for a new infection or for an infection that comes
      back, you will receive the same type of transfusion as you received before.

      If you were discharged from the hospital and your doctor would like for you to continue
      receiving white blood cell transfusions, you will be able to receive them as an outpatient.

      Each transfusion will take from 1 hour to several hours depending on how you tolerate the
      treatment. Each transfusion will be given daily or as close to daily as possible.

      Before every infusion, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to measure the number of
      white blood cells in your blood.

      Length of Study:

      You will receive transfusions until your doctor feels the infection has been controlled.

      This is an investigational study. White blood cell transfusions are considered standard
      procedure for the treatment of serious, life threatening infections.

      Up to 150 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at The University of
      Texas (UT) MD Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  