
    
      Background COVID-19 is pandemic with high mortality among hospitalized patients despite a
      benign course in the large majority of patients infected. Limited data are available from
      small outpatient studies and have not shown efficacy in preventing hospitalization.
      Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and chloroquine have antiviral and immune-modulating effects, but
      there are no data concerning their efficacy in reducing viral load and shedding in
      outpatients.

      Evidence supporting possible efficacy for hydroxychloroquine. In cell models, chloroquine
      both interferes with terminal glycosylation of the ACE2 receptor (the cell surface receptor
      by which SARS-CoV2 enters human cells) and increases endosomal pH, which interferes (at least
      in vitro) with a crucial step in viral replication.1,2 HCQ is 5x more potent than chloroquine
      in a Vero cell model of SARS-CoV-2 infection. In independent experiments, chloroquine has
      confirmed in vitro activity against SARS-CoV-2. Additionally, HCQ has in vitro efficacy
      against SARS-CoV-1. According to news releases, an as-yet-unpublished set of case series in
      China (N reportedly 120) suggests the possibility of rapid viral clearance and low rates of
      progression to critical illness. In addition to in vitro anti-viral effects chloroquine and
      HCQ appear to have immune-modulatory effects, especially via suppression of release of TNF
      and IL6, especially in macrophages.

      Evidence against efficacy for hydroxychloroquine. Chloroquine and HCQ have been promoted as
      extremely broad anti-infective agents for decades. The reported effects include suppression
      of fungi, atypical bacteria, and viruses. Other than the effects on ACE2 glycosylation, the
      mechanisms invoked as evidence for efficacy against SARS-CoV-2 have also been invoked for a
      wide range of viruses. However, when chloroquine and HCQ have been studied in humans, neither
      agent has demonstrated consistent efficacy in clinical trials, including in HIV, influenza,
      hepatitis, and Dengue. In one trial, chloroquine resulted in increased viral replication in
      Chikungunya virus [Roques et al, Viruses 2018 May 17;10(5)] while in another
      hydroxychloroquine was associated with increased HIV viral load [Paton et al, JAMA 2012 Jul
      25;308(4):353]. Expert opinion advises against HCQ for MERS, another serious coronavirus. An
      underpowered (n=30) study of HCQ in COVID-19 recently published in China did not demonstrate
      any clinical benefit [Chen et al, J Zhejiang University, 2020 March 9]. The long history of
      clinical failure despite in vitro anti-viral activity suggests a low probability of efficacy.

      Rationale for Trial There is significant publicity concerning the potential use of HCQ in
      this pandemic, and many patients are seeking access to this unproven therapy. The ANZICS
      guidelines emphasize that novel treatments should be administered within clinical trials; the
      Surviving Sepsis Campaign guidelines (http://bit.ly/SSCCOVID-19) also affirm the lack of
      evidence to support the clinical use of (hydroxy)chloroquine. WHO guidance
      (https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/handle/10665/331446/WHO-2019-nCoV-clinical-2020.4-eng.pd
      f) also strongly affirms that "investigational anti-COVID-19 therapeutics should be done
      under ethically approved, randomized, controlled trials." The evidence thus strongly favors
      equipoise.
    
  