
    
      Specific Aims: Anxiety disorders impact up to one-third of children, cause tremendous
      suffering, increase risk for psychiatric and medical morbidity, impair school and social
      functioning, and cost billions of dollars each year. Data consistently show that child
      anxiety is characterized by amygdala hyperactivity and deficits in prefrontal control of the
      amygdala. Emerging data link these disruptions to anxious children's over-reliance on parents
      for amygdala-medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) engagement and anxiety reduction.

      In the first phase of this study we aim to demonstrate that an entirely parent-based
      psychosocial treatment with no child involvement, Supportive Parenting for Anxious Childhood
      Emotions (SPACE), engages an amygdala-mPFC target in anxious children, lessening child
      reliance on parents to reduce amygdala reactivity.

      Cross-species neurobiological evidence indicates that parental presence reduces amygdala
      reactivity and activates the mPFC to reduce offspring anxiety. In humans we recently
      demonstrated parental presence increases functional connectivity between their child's mPFC
      and amygdala, reducing the child's amygdala reactivity and anxiety. In a healthy sample,
      parental engagement of child amygdala-mPFC connectivity was linked to the child's reliance on
      parents for help with anxiety. Data from clinically anxious children likewise show parental
      presence engages child mPFC, and data we collected since our previous submission demonstrate
      that parental presence reduces amygdala reactivity in clinically anxious children.

      Offspring's natural reliance on parents for anxiety reduction is magnified in clinically
      anxious children. Parents become deeply enmeshed in their child's symptoms through the
      process of family accommodation, defined as change in parents' behavior to help the child
      avoid or alleviate anxiety. In clinically anxious children, 90% report depending on parents
      to reduce their anxiety, and 97% of parents report accommodating their anxious child's
      symptoms. These cross-generational patterns of parental entanglement in their child's anxiety
      symptoms contribute to the immense burden, distress, and costs of pediatric anxiety (e.g.,
      parents missing work to be with their anxious child). Anxious children's reliance on parents
      for anxiety reduction may disrupt the child's ability to independently reduce amygdala
      reactivity and anxiety.

      We developed SPACE to translate these neurobiological and clinical research findings into a
      manualized parent-based treatment focused on reducing family accommodation in parents of
      anxious children. Preliminary data from a randomized clinical trial show that after 12 weeks
      of parents receiving SPACE (N=29), with no therapist-child contact, family accommodation and
      child anxiety were significantly reduced. We propose that SPACE engages anxious children's
      amygdala-mPFC circuitry, lessening their reliance on parents to reduce amygdala reactivity.

      The first phase of the study will examine clinically anxious children's (N=90, 7-10 yrs)
      amygdala-mPFC response to fear faces when (A) the child's parent is beside them holding their
      hand during the fMRI scan (Parent-Present), and (B) the child is alone during the scan
      (Parent-Absent) (within-subjects design). Children with primary separation, social, or
      generalized anxiety disorder diagnoses, the most common childhood anxiety disorders, will
      serve as participants. Children will complete Parent-Present and Parent-Absent scans PRE- and
      POST-SPACE, or PRE- and POST-Parent Educational Support (PES), the comparator treatment that
      controls for treatment duration and therapist-parent contact. We expect SPACE will lessen
      child reliance on parental presence to engage amygdala-mPFC circuitry and reduce child
      amygdala reactivity. Aim 1: Demonstrate SPACE lessens children's reliance on parents to
      reduce amygdala reactivity (target engagement). Hyp 1: Child reliance on parental presence to
      reduce amygdala reactivity, (i.e., the difference between child amygdala reactivity in the
      Parent-Present and Parent-Absent scan), will decrease significantly from PRE- to POST-SPACE,
      as compared with PRE- to POST-PES. If Hyp 1 is confirmed we will proceed to the the second
      phase of the study.

      The second phase of the study will be performed to re-demonstrate target engagement in SPACE,
      compared to cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT); demonstrate target engagement is associated
      with symptom reduction in SPACE; and demonstrate SPACE's acceptability/feasibility. The
      second phase will enroll 136 clinically anxious children (7-10 yrs), randomly assigned to
      SPACE or CBT. Aim 1: Re-demonstrate target engagement in SPACE. Hyp 1: Child reliance on
      parental presence to reduce amygdala reactivity will decrease significantly from PRE- to
      POST-SPACE, as compared with PRE- to POST-CBT. Aim 2: Demonstrate target engagement is
      associated with symptom reduction in SPACE. Hyp 2: Reduction in child anxiety from PRE- to
      POST-SPACE will be significantly associated with reduction in child reliance on parental
      presence to reduce amygdala reactivity. Aim 3: Establish acceptability and feasibility of
      SPACE. Hyp 3: SPACE will be acceptable and feasible to administer, and comparable to CBT. The
      second phase will also provide insight into the relative efficacy of SPACE, to inform future
      research and development of SPACE.

      This study has the potential to provide groundbreaking results, with major public health
      impact, on how parent-based treatments can target disrupted neurobiological processes in
      children with psychopathology. These novel data will inform decision-making about a
      large-scale study (R01) to confirm the efficacy of SPACE and examine personalized treatment
      strategies.
    
  