
    
      A Prospective, randomised, double blind and placebo controlled study. Patients assigned to
      experimental group (group 1) will receive iv methylprednisolone 2 mg/kg/day (in two divided
      doses) and/or oral prednisolone 2,5 mg/kg/day (in two divided doses) every 12 hours, during 7
      days.

      Patients assigned to control group (group 2) will receive iv/oral glucose 5% solution as
      placebo, at the same dose and time as the experimental group. A total of 50 (initially 39,
      but it was extended to 50 by Protocol Amendment) patients per group are recruited.

      Bronchiolitis is the most common infection of the lower respiratory tract. It is defined as,
      the first episode of bronchospasm, dyspnea, expiratory difficulty, feed refusal, tachypnea
      greater than 50 rpm and radiological evidence of hyperinflation, in less than 24 months.

      It is a very prevalent disease, Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infects 70% of children
      under one year and 100% of children under 2 years and generates a major health impact on
      epidemic period (especially from December to February) . It is the most frequent cause of
      hospitalization in children under one year during the winter and up to 10% of those admitted
      will need intensive care, of which up to 60% required intubation and mechanical ventilation.
      The estimated disease in healthy children, mortality ranges from 0.005% to 0.02%, while in
      hospitalized children becomes between 1% and 3%.

      In recent years, there have been numerous studies, mainly in RSV bronchiolitis, to analyze
      the immunological basis of the disease, as discussed complex, in order to perform a
      prophylaxis and treatment of more optimal infection.

      Inflammatory response in bronchiolitis results in activation of cytokines and chemokines that
      generates a viral clearance. However, if the inflammatory response is disproportionate, the
      pathogenesis of the disease can lead to a worse clinical evolution.

      Corticosteroids are drugs having inhibitory effects on specific immune response, mediated
      both T cells and the B cell, and are potent inhibitors of phagocyte function. These drugs are
      effective in the management of multiple forms of secondary inflammatory diseases or immune
      disorders and may also be useful in the management of bronchiolitis.

      The treatment of bronchiolitis is mainly based on supportive therapy: oxygen therapy, proper
      hydration and aspiration of nasal secretions. Many treatments have been tried that have tried
      to lessen the severity of the infection, such as the use of bronchodilators and / or
      corticosteroids, although with controversial results.

      In the literature review conducted in PubMed, the investigators found about 110 related
      bronchiolitis, as MeSH Terms, publications using the words "bronchiolitis" [All Fields] AND
      ("child" [MeSH Terms].

      Only three of these articles shows results of clinical trials, although none in relation to
      the usefulness of steroids in bronchiolitis.

      There is just a case report describing the use of intravenous corticosteroids in infants with
      severe bronchiolitis, in combination with therapies such as extracorporeal oxygenation.

      One of the important aspects that the investigators took in consideration is that rhinovirus
      bronchiolitis is one of the most involved cause in the development of asthma, and just one of
      the etiologies of bronchiolitis who could benefit from treatment with corticosteroids.

      Prednisolone and methylprednisolone are also well known and used drugs, whose side effects
      are often dose and duration dependent.

      The identification and recruitment of patients will take place during the admission in the
      Intensive Pediatric Unit Care unit at the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu.

      Treatment of patients starts on days 0 and 3 of hospitalization. The patient treatment
      duration is 7 days, after that starts the follow-up phase, which duration is one month from
      the date of the baseline visit and until the hospital discharge.
    
  