
    
      Cushing's syndrome is a rare disease resulting from chronic exposure to glucocorticoids
      (endogenous or iatrogenic) with abnormal fat distribution (lipodystrophy). Glucocorticoids
      regulate the functions of adipose tissue (AT) targeting adipocyte differentiation as well as
      anabolic, catabolic and secretory pathways of the adipocyte. However, the mechanisms by which
      glucocorticoids differentially disrupt the development or metabolism of AT between deep and
      superficial deposits remain unknown. Among the main effectors of the glucocorticoid signaling
      pathway, 11 beta-hydroxysteroid deshydrogenase (11beta-HSD1) , that regenerate cortisol from
      cortisone, is likely a key step in the biological effect of glucocorticoids in AT.
      Identifying these mechanisms of action of glucocorticoids on different fat depots requires
      the comparison with fatty deposits derived from two types of control populations: 1/ normal
      weight individuals without inflammatory or metabolic disorder (controls1); 2/individuals
      obese matched for the level of insulin resistance (controls2).

      Hypothesis: Excess glucocorticoids cause abnormal fat distribution via a direct effect on the
      various deposits of AT, leading secondarily to insulin resistance.

      Primary endpoint: To compare gene expression of glucocorticoid signaling between the visceral
      AT (VAT) of Cushing patients with that of controls1 (matched for age and sex).

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. For patients with Cushing and controls1, to compare their respective subcutaneous AT
           (SCAT) and VAT for:

             -  The expression of genes involved in differentiation and inflammation of the AT,

             -  Morphological aspects: adipocyte size, fibrosis, inflammation,
                immunohistochemistry.

        2. Same parameters for Cushing patients and controls2 (matched for sex, age + / -5, HOMA-R
           + / -1), to differentiate the specific effects of glucocorticoid from the effects of
           insulin resistance,

        3. To compare these parameters between SCAT and VAT from Cushing patients. Methodology and
           experimental design: non-randomized comparative multicenter study with constitution of a
           biological collection.

      Patients will be recruited in endocrinology before adrenalectomy and controls1 in urology.
      They will have a preoperative assessment and sampling of perirenal AT and SCAT at surgery.
      Controls2 are already included in the CRC2007-P050318 and will be drawn for matching.

      Number of patients needed: We assume the relative gene expression of 11β-HSD1 in the VAT not
      exposed to glucocorticoids = 0.81 ± 0.121. Our recruitment potential of Cushing patients is
      30 patients. With 30 patients per group, we will be able to detect a difference in 11β-HSD1
      gene expression in the VAT of Cushing patients at least 15% higher compared to controls1.
    
  