
    
      Men who are discharged from the hospital with urinary catheter in situ are given an
      appointment to come to trial TWOC (trail without catheter) clinic for removal of their
      catheters.

      Purpose and design:

      In the TWOC clinic their catheters are removed and they usually wait for up to 5 hours hours
      before they get an urge to pass urine and empty the bladder and then sent home by the nurse.
      Waiting for up to 5 hours in the clinic reduces patient satisfaction and increases their
      anxiety. It also keeps the urology nurse busy in the clinic. This is shown by a clinical
      audit, which has been carried out in our department.

      The aim of this study is to find out the ways to reduce this waiting time for the patients.
      In this study catheter valve is used to see if it significantly reduces time spent by the
      patient in the TWOC clinic after catheter removal. The patients in the catheter valve group
      are compared to the patients who did not use the valve (this is the standard method which is
      currently used by most of the TWOC clinics).

      Catheter valve is a device, which is attached to the end of urinary catheter and can be used
      easily by any one who has normal manual dexterity and no cognitive impairment.

      The study proposal was developed by lead urology nurse practitioner and endorsed by the
      consultant urological surgeons from three different hospitals in Kent UK (Medway Maritime
      Hospital, Darent Valley Hospital and Maidstone Hospital).

      Recruitment:

      Patients will be identified and recruited in the hospital ward. The patients who are planned
      to go home with the catheter will be provided with the patient information leaflet about his
      study. They will be given 6 hours to decide if they want to participate in this study. Those
      patients who agree to participate will be asked to sign a written informed consent. A
      computer-generated randomisation will be carried out. They will be given a contact number of
      the urology nurse in case they have any problems or if they want to ask any questions before
      attending TWOC clinic.

      A day after discharge urology nurse practitioner will ring the patient at home to check if
      the patient still wants to participate in this study. A day before their appointment for TWOC
      clinic urology nurse will ring the patient (in Group A, valve group) to remind him about the
      appointment and also remind him to close the valve 3-4 hours before appointment time and
      patients in both groups (Group A and Group B) to drink three glasses of water before coming
      to the hospital for catheter removal. Patients will be informed that they can withdraw from
      the study at any point.

      Inclusion and exclusion:

      A strict inclusion and exclusion criteria will be observed. Vulnerable men with learning
      difficulties/dementia/Alzheimer's disease or those with poor manual dexterity will not be
      included.

      Consent:

      Written informed consent will be used after patients has read the patient information leaflet
      and the study has been verbally explained to the patient by the researchers.

      Risks, burdens and benefits

      There is no potential risk to the patients associated with the planned intervention.The
      vulnerable adults with learning difficulties/Dementia and poor manual dexterity will be
      excluded. In the intervention arm (GROUP A: patient with valve) the patient may get a pain
      with strong desire to pass urine or start bypassing catheter much before 3 hours after
      closing the valve. In this case patients will be instructed to open the valve and drain the
      urine. (These patients will be excluded).

      If there is significant reduction (one hour or more) in the time spent in the clinic for the
      valve group noted in this study that will help in decreasing patient's anxiety, improved
      efficacy of the TWOC clinic and reduce the cost of running the TWOC clinic.

      Confidentiality:

      The data will be recorded electronically and will be saved in a password protected computer.
      The researchers and statistician can only access it.

      Conflict of interest:

      There is no conflict of interest. All the researchers will sign the form.
    
  