
    
      Objectives:

        1. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the possible benefits of reduced joint pain and
           increased joint functionality in patients with knee osteoarthritis after the injection
           of Lipogems. Based on limitations of prior research, intra-articular corticosteroids are
           included as a study group to be evaluated for impact on pain relief and joint
           functionality in comparison to placebo.

        2. The investigators hypothesize that patients who receive an injection of Lipogems will
           experience a decrease in pain of the affected knee and an increase in joint
           functionality in comparison to placebo. The investigators also hypothesize that patients
           who receive an intra-articular corticosteroid will experience decreased pain or improved
           functionality in the affected joint.

      Background:

      Osteoarthritis (OA) causes patients considerable joint pain and leads to instability, reduced
      range of motion, and functional limitations. Pathologic findings of OA include decreased
      articular cartilage, joint space narrowing, osteophytes, subchondral sclerosis and bone
      cysts. Currently, treatment options are confined to symptom management only. Options for
      treatment include: topical preparations, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs),
      intra-articular injections, and, in severe cases, total knee arthroplasty. Review of recent
      recommendations shows limitations to all available treatments. Oral NSAIDs have shown relief,
      but is limited to patients without risk factors or contraindications. Topical NSAIDs are
      recommended in elderly patients or those with GI risk factors, rather than oral NSAIDs.
      However, pain improvement took 12 weeks and was not long-lived, potentially due to compliance
      issues in application. A recent systematic review of intra-articular corticosteroids reported
      that, due to low-quality evidence, it is inconclusive whether intra-articular corticosteroids
      provided any short or long-term pain relief. Taylor's review of hyaluronic acid treatment is
      hampered by the variability of preparations currently on the market and shortage of
      double-blind placebo controlled studies, but conflicting data is reported. Osteoarthritis
      Research Society International currently recommends corticosteroid injections for short-term
      pain relief only, and is inconclusive in recommending hyaluronic acid.

      The aforementioned treatment limitations have generated interest in alternative options to
      restore function and alleviate joint pain, some with the aim of healing damaged articular
      cartilage. It is well known that articular cartilage is avascular and lacks innervation,
      which limits its intrinsic healing and repair capabilities. Chondrocytes, derived from MSCs,
      have limited potential to replicate, which also limits the intrinsic healing and repair
      capabilities of articular cartilage. The stromal vascular fraction, containing adipose
      derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), has historically been isolated successfully via
      enzymatic processes. There has been preliminary support in the literature for reduced pain
      and improved functional performance in patients who received MSCs as part of treatment.
      However, approaches to isolate MSCs are costly, time consuming, require extensive lab
      equipment, and are currently limited by complex regulatory issues.

      Thus, interest in an alternative isolation method lead to the development of Lipogems.
      Lipogems is a technique to harvest, process, and inject minimally manipulated adipose tissue.
      This procedure is enzyme free and requires no clonal expansion or manipulation. Lipoaspirate
      is harvested and washed in saline solution, then processed through a closed-system device
      that micro-fragments the adipose tissue. This mechanical process retains the vascular
      architecture, mature pericytes, and MSCs for autologous injection.

      As new technologies are becoming available for the treatment of OA, it is important that
      investigators gather high-quality data on their efficacy and outcomes. The goal of this study
      is to evaluate the possible benefits of reduced joint pain and increased joint functionality
      in patients with knee osteoarthritis after the injection of Lipogems. In addition, given the
      limitations of prior research on the efficacy of intra-articular corticosteroids, the
      investigators will also include this as an additional study group to compare to placebo.
      Although Lipogems is relatively new to the United States, it has been used for a variety of
      orthopaedic arthroscopic applications overseas including the treatment of knee OA and is
      being used more frequently now in the United States. As of now, there are no published
      studies reporting the outcomes of patients who receive Lipogems for knee OA. There have been
      case reports published showing favorable outcomes. Thus, this would be the first study
      reporting data on the efficacy of Lipogems for pain relief in knee OA in a randomized,
      controlled clinical trial with a larger sample of patients. It would also be the only study
      to date comparing Lipogems to intra-articular corticosteroids and placebo injections. The
      investigators feel this study design will provide new insight into the efficacy of Lipogems
      for pain relief of symptomatic knee OA as well as offer new data on the efficacy of
      intra-articular corticosteroids in this application.
    
  