
    
      Recurrent Malignant Gliomas (RMG) have a very short survival time, and re-operation risk is
      large and failed to significantly improve the prognosis of patients. At present, targeted
      therapy with bevacizumab is effective in prolonging the progression of patients However, a
      considerable proportion of recurrent malignant gliomas are insensitive to bevacizumab, and
      therefore, using noninvasive imaging methods to predict which RMG is sensitive to bevacizumab
      therapy prior to targeted therapy is very important On the other hand, the current evaluation
      of bevacizumab is mainly based on the degree of gadolinium enhancement and tumor volume
      changes, repeated gadolinium injection may increase the risk of gadolinium ion deposition of
      brain tissue, and because of Bevacizumab only acting as an anti-tumor angiogenesis, and a
      false response may occur in assessing efficacy, which is a bias in the overall assessment of
      bevacizumab.

      Amide Proton Transfer (APT) is a new molecular imaging technique for the detection indirect
      of free protein and peptide concentrations based on chemical saturation exchange. Our
      previous studies have shown that APT signal is independent of gadolinium-enhanced imaging
      markers , The signal intensity is closely related to the density of tumor cells, cell
      proliferation and angiogenesis. Therefore, the imaging features and signal changes of APT can
      fully reflect the therapeutic effect of malignant glioma, and avoid the side effects caused
      by contrast injection.

      This study will be designed as multi-center, prospective, observational clinical research.
      100 cases of RMG patients in Zhujiang Hospital and Nanfang Hospital will be recruited. The
      patients will be examined with conventional MRI and APT-MRI imaging of 3.0T high field MRI.
      The treatment of different types of RMG line will be scanned with APT protocol. The changes
      of signal intensity will be studied. The relationship between APT imaging characteristics and
      clinical end point events will be observed and compared with conventional MR imaging
      technique. Two techniques will be used to predict the the 6-month progression-free survival
      after bevacizumab treatment. The aim of this study is to determine whether APT can predict
      the efficacy of bevacizumab in the treatment of RMG, and which RMG is effective and sensitive
      to bevacizumab therapy .Also,we will evaluate the feasibility of APT-MR imaging as a
      surrogate biomarker for predicting the efficacy of targeted therapy and to establish the
      basic criteria for the selection of individualized targeted therapy regimens for RMG.
    
  