
    
      Electrical neuromodulation can be used to treat UUI refractory to medication. Electrical
      neuromodulation therapies include transvaginal or transanal electrical stimulation (TES),
      percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS), sacral neuromodulation (SNM), and pudendal
      neuromodulation (PNM). TES is easily applicable but is sometimes intolerable for many
      patients due to discomfort, mucosal injury, and high-intensity stimulation necessary to
      obtain acceptable outcome. SNM with the InterStim device differs from TES by its continuous
      stimulation and close nerve contact. It has a high rate of success, but symptoms appear to
      recur almost immediately after discontinuation of the stimulation, and at least 20 % of
      patients initially tested do not respond to a test procedure. Its disadvantages included
      invasiveness, high cost of treatment, high surgical revision rate, device replacement
      required when battery runs out, and adverse events. PNM with the Interstim device or the Bion
      device can be used to treat UUI refractory to SNM, but this therapy also has the
      disadvantages similar to those of SNM. PTNS with needle electrodes is minimally invasive,
      demonstrates efficacy, and is easily applicable and well tolerated, but PTNS effects diminish
      over time after the end of treatment.

      By combining the advantages of PTNS and PNM and incorporating the technique of deep insertion
      of long acupuncture needles, the investigators developed electrical pudendal nerve
      stimulation (EPNS). In EPNS, long acupuncture needles of 0.40 Х 100 or 125 mm were deeply
      inserted into four sacral points and electrified to stimulate the pudendal nerves (PN). CT
      transverse plane at the coccygeal apex has showed that the position of the lower needle tip
      is similar to where (adjacent to PN at Alcock's canal) the Bion device is implanted for
      chronic PN stimulation. Besides the radiographic evidence, simultaneous records of perineal
      ultrasonographic pelvic floor muscle contraction, vaginal pressure and pelvic floor surface
      electromyogram in our previous study have proved that EPNS can exactly excite PN. The purpose
      of this study is to compare the efficacies of EPNS versus TES in treating female UUI.
    
  