
    
      The investigators have planned to study the efficacy of cerebello-spinal stimulation via
      Transcranial pulsed current stimulation (tPCS) in patients of neurodegenerative ataxia.
      Anodal stimulation will be used for the cerebellum and cathodal stimulation for the dorsal
      cord.

      Patients will be assessed clinically and by EEG, KinArm and Gait - before and after a single
      session of 20 min stimulation via tPCS or sham stimulation.

      The investigators have planned to assess-

        1. Speech

        2. Upper limb ataxia via KinArm. Standard KinArm testing protocol will be used which is
           used universally.

        3. Gait via Gait Carpet

        4. EEG

        5. Scale for the assessment and rating of ataxia (SARA)

      tPCS will be delivered through a pair of saline-soaked (0.9% NaCl) surface sponge electrodes
      (7 × 5 cm2, for the anodal cerebellar electrode; 8 × 6 cm2 for the cathodal spinal
      electrode). Anode will be placed on the scalp over the cerebellum area (2 cm under the
      inion). Cathode will be placed over the dorsal cord. Stimulation will be given for 20 mins.

      Participant's speech will be recorded using a head-mounted microphone (AKG-c520) and a
      digital recording device (Zoom H4nPro) while performing the following calibrated tasks
      (Calibration involves a sound level meter placed at 15cm from the mouth while talker says
      'ah' at 70dBA) -

        1. Prolonged 'ah'.

        2. Rapid repetitions of the sounds "puh", "tuh", and "kuh".

        3. Two productions of a sentence with selected speech sounds (s, sh, p, b, t, i, a, u, ae,
           ai). "She saw Patty buy two poppies."

        4. Two times louder production of a sentence with selected speech sounds. "She saw Patty
           buy two poppies."

        5. Repetition of a continuous vowel at normal and fast rates. 'eye-eye-eye-eye-eye' without
           making any voice breaks or pauses".

        6. Read aloud a section of a standard passage - standard rainbow passage

        7. Monologue. Talk for two minutes about an interesting vacation (or an interesting hobby
           or activity).

      The Zeno walkway will be used in conjunction with the ProtoKinetics Movement Analysis
      Software (PKMAS) . The walkway contains a series of pressure sensors to detect footfalls.
      These data will be captured and collated via the PKMAS software, resulting in numerous
      spatial, temporal and pressure-related gait parameters. Timed-up-and-go (TUG) task will be
      used, consisting of rising from chair, walking across the 20-foot gait carpet, turning around
      off the carpet, walking back and sitting down. This will be performed over 3 trials.

      Gait analysis provides various parameters as output such as stride length, line of
      progression, step length, toe-offs and other temporal and spatial parameters for analysis.

      Neurophysiological EEG signals will be recorded, eyes-closed, no-task, using g.Nautilus g.tec
      wireless system. The g.tech system uses earclip reference sensors. The subject will be in a
      quiet place with less light or electromagnetic perturbations. During the resting state
      recordings, patients are seated in a comfortable arm chair and will be instructed to keep
      relaxed, with their eyes closed for 5 min.

      A paired t test will be used to compare baseline data and post tPCS data. Descriptive
      analysis of the neurological examination findings will be provided.
    
  