
    
      Menopause years represent an increasing risk for hypertension and autonomic nervous system
      (ANS), endothelial and vascular imbalance. Existing data point to beneficial effects of
      respiratory exercises either on ANS and light on therapeutic relevance of these kind of
      exercises on prevention and treatment of cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases. However, few
      data is available about the effects of respiratory exercises on both vascular and endothelial
      function, and its possible interactions with ANS. Besides that, recommendations of slower
      respiratory rates are associated to healthier physical and psychological states. Among
      available techniques to perform breathing exercises, most referenced are Inspiratory Muscle
      Training (IMT) and Yoga based slow breathing (pranayamas). New technologies have allowed the
      development of Apps which aim to ease the possibilities of exercising breathing.

      IMT uses a mouth device for pressure adjustment and presents a variety e training forms
      including combinations of intensity and volume through loads adjustment. It aims the
      enhancement of respiratory muscles strength and endurance.

      CardioBreath®App has been developed by experienced physical education and yoga professional
      based on individual prescription of respiratory rates to workout through voice and image
      guidance of both posture and breathing technique. The performance might be followed through a
      progression map. It´s available in portuguese language for Android and Ios, has been
      submitted to Brazilian Trend Marks Institute (INPI) which has not shown opposition to the
      registration.

      It´s a randomized clinical trial recruiting normotensive post menopause women. Eligible
      participants will be assessed by Finometer for blood pressure and heart rate variability as
      measures for autonomic outcomes. Data analysis of these data will be processed by
      CardioSeries software through Fourier fast transform (FFT) in order to generate vagal and
      sympathetic values. For pulse wave velocity and central arterial pressure the participants
      will be assessed by Complior Analyser. Endothelial function will be evaluated through
      ultrasonography of brachial artery (Flow Mediated Dilation - FMD-) at baseline and after 5
      minutes reactive hyperemia with a cuffing installed in forearm at 200 mm Hg for 5 minutes.
      Images will be recorded and Cardiovascular Suite software will be used for analysis of flow
      and dilation.

      The participants will be randomized into 3 intervention groups as follows: IMT, IMT placebo
      and CardioBreath®App. The intervention will long five weeks. The exercises will be performed
      at home for five days/ week during 10 minutes and will be registered by audio for whatsapp
      (IMT) and "Progress" graphics (CardioBreath®App) Once a week they will visit the laboratory
      set to adjust loads (IMT) and respiratory rates in CardioBreath®App groups, respectively.

      After five weeks the participants will be re-evaluated for all outcomes described above.

      Data analysis will be provided by ANOVA of two repeated measures and Bonferroni post hoc. All
      data will be presented in mean +- standard deviation.
    
  