
    
      BACKGROUND Radiation Necrosis: Stereotactic radiosurgery has become integral in treatment of
      brain tumors and arteriovenous malformations (AVM). In up to 10% of cases, this can lead to
      radiation necrosis (RN) with significant surrounding vasogenic edema and mass effect. Medical
      treatment for RN includes steroids, vitamin E, pentoxiphylline, and hyperbaric oxygen. Up to
      20% of cases however, are medically refractory and experience progressive neurological
      decline and disabling headaches.

      Bevacizumab: Bevacizumab (Avastin, Genentech BioOncology, South San Francisco, CA) is a
      recombinant humanized version of a murine anti-human vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF) monoclonal antibody. Recently, bevacizumab was shown in a small randomized controlled
      trial (n=14) to be effective in treatment of refractory radiation necrosis after radiation
      therapy in brain tumors1. Patients received 7.5 mg/kg IV-Bevacizumab every 3 weeks for 4
      cycles. All patients receiving Bevacizumab and none of the patients receiving placebo had
      significant clinical and radiographic improvement.

      PRE-CLINICAL DATA Role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in radiation necrosis
      VEGF has been implicated in the pathophysiology of radiation necrosis. Reactive astrocytes
      immediately surrounding the necrotic core in RN are strongly VEGF-positive by
      immunohistochemistry. It is postulated that radiation causes microvascular injury leading to
      hypoxia. Hypoxia-induced VEGF up-regulation then drives an increase in vascular permeability,
      leading to the extensive vasogenic edema seen in RN. Bevacizumab binds circulating VEGF
      receptors with high specificity, blocking the down-stream signaling cascade.

      CLINICAL DATA:

      Bevacizumab was originally developed and tested as an anti-angiogenic treatment for various
      solid tumors. More recently, IV-Bevacizumab was shown in a small, randomized controlled trial
      (n=14) to be very effective in treatment of refractory radiation necrosis after radiation
      therapy in brain tumors1. Patients received 7.5 mg/kg IV-Bevacizumab every 3 weeks for 4
      cycles. All patients receiving Bevacizumab and none of the patients receiving placebo had
      significant clinical and radiographic improvement. This improvement was durable at 10 months
      in 8 of 11 patients (4 patients crossed over from the control group). There was however, a
      very high rate of adverse events (60%), major adverse events (30%. Major adverse events
      included venous sinus thrombosis, pulmonary embolus, and aspiration pneumonia.

      The investigators recently published a case series of two pediatric patients with highly
      symptomatic steroid refractory radiation necrosis in the brain after stereotactic
      radiosurgery for treatment of cerebral arteriovenous malformations3. Both patients were
      refractory to all accepted medical therapies. Both were steroid dependent for a prolonged
      period and severely cushingoid. Both had suffered a significant decline in quality of life
      with severe headache and need to withdraw from school. In both instances, the patients made a
      remarkable progressive clinical and radiographic improvement after receiving a single 2.5
      mg/kg dose of intra-arterial bevacizumab, which was durable one-year later. To increase
      bevacizumab penetration into the brain, the investigators used intra-arterial Mannitol to
      disrupt the blood-brain barrier immediately prior to targeted intra-arterial drug
      administration.

      RATIONALE:

      RATIONALE: CURRENT IV BEVACIZUMAB REGIMEN FOR RADIATION NECROSIS AND ITS ASSOCIATED
      MORBIDITY:

      Current IV-bevacizumab regimens use a dose of 7.5 mg/kg every 3 weeks for 4 cycles. There are
      significant known side effects of bevacizumab including gastrointestinal perforation, deep
      venous thrombosis, venous sinus thrombosis, pulmonary embolus, intracranial hemorrhage, wound
      dehiscence, and severe hypertension. These complications are common to the anti-angiogenic
      class of drugs and reflect systemic exposure to bevacizumab. In our initial clinical
      experience, the investigators utilized a combination of IA-route of delivery and BBB
      disruption to reduce bevacizumab dose while maintaining efficacy. This is supported by the
      durable clinical and radiographic response in our patients after a single 2.5 mg/kg dose of
      bevacizumab. The investigators believe that this approach will reduce the incidence of
      serious systemic toxicities compared to the IV-bevacizumab regimens (7.5-15 mg/kg every 2-3
      weeks for several weeks to months).

      There are multiple recent reports of patients with radiation necrosis who improved with
      IV-bevacizumab, only to relapse months later. In fact 3/11 patients in the randomized
      controlled trial discussed above required repeat treatment with IV-bevacizumab because of RN
      symptom progression1. In contrast, the two patients in our series who received IA-bevacizumab
      continue to show progressive clinical and radiographic improvement more than one year later.
      The investigators believe that the increased penetration of bevacizumab into the brain
      because of the intra-arterial administration after blood-brain barrier disruption results in
      binding of virtually all VEGF molecules. The fact that the results are durable and
      progressively improving suggests that massive blocking of VEGF activity could have stopped a
      positive feedback loop of inflammation. Therefore, IA-bevacizumab may result in more
      effective and durable control of radiation necrosis compared to traditional IV-bevacizumab
      treatment.

      RATIONALE: INTRA-ARTERIAL (IA) ROUTE OF BEVACIZUMAB ADMINISTRATION SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE
      DRUG DELIVERY TO THE BRAIN:

      IA-therapy decreases volume dilution of the drug in the circulation and reduces first-pass
      degradation via proteolytic catabolism, resulting in higher drug delivery to target brain
      tissue. Super-selective IA-injection of 99mTc-HMPAO (Ceretec®) into human cerebral arteries
      achieves a concentration of radiotracer in brain tissue 50 times higher than with IV
      injection. In clinical studies of cerebral chemotherapy, the concentration delivered to the
      tumor by using intra-arterial injection versus intravenous administration of chemotherapeutic
      agents was five times higher with hydrosoluble drugs and up to 50 times higher with
      liposoluble drugs. The investigators will infuse bevacizumab in the artery that supplies the
      territory affected by RN, such as cervical internal carotid artery and/or cervical vertebral
      artery.

      RATIONALE: BLOOD-BRAIN-BARRIER BREAKDOWN PRIOR TO INTRA-ARTERIAL THERAPY FURTHER ENHANCES
      DRUG DELIVERY TO THE BRAIN:

      The blood-brain-barrier is a selective permeability barrier that block entry of many drugs
      into the brain. Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody with a high molecular weight (149 kDa).
      There is convincing evidence in the literature that the concentration in the brain of high
      molecular weight molecules can be significantly increased after osmotic BBB disruption.
      Several tumor clinical trials have shown that localization of monoclonal antibodies to the
      brain is poor without BBB disruption (0.0006%-0.0043% of the injected dose/g of tumor). There
      is also evidence of a 20-fold increase in permeability to immunoreactive IgM Mab with BBB
      disruption in rats. The investigators believe that using blood-brain-barrier disruption
      significantly increases delivery of Bevacizumab to the affected brain. The investigators will
      use the protocol described by Neuwelt and colleagues, using infusion of 25% Mannitol over 30
      seconds. This protocol has been shown to temporarily disrupt the blood brain barrier, peaking
      at 15 minutes and dissipating in 4 hours. IA-chemotherapy following BBBD has been shown to be
      feasible and safe across multiple centers with low incidence of complications27. The efficacy
      and safety profile was reproducible across multiple centers. In fact, safety of this protocol
      has been established in more than 6000 patients treated worldwide with BBBD for
      intra-arterial chemotherapy infusion. The main possible complication is seizure, which occurs
      in <6% of cases. It is important to note that these seizures generally occurred in patients
      with widespread malignant pathology such as Glioblastoma and CNS lymphoma who were treated
      with very toxic chemotherapy agents immediately after BBBD. Recent refinements to the osmotic
      BBBD protocol have incorporated the use of general anesthesia, as well as prophylaxis with an
      anti-epileptic agent and Valium to reduce seizure threshold and the chance of seizures.

      SAFETY OF CEREBRAL INTRA-ARTERIAL BEVACIZUMAB TREATMENT:

      Safety of IA-Bevacizumab treatment after hyperosmotic BBBD was recently established in a
      series of malignant glioma patients. This was done through super-selective injection of
      intracranial tumor arterial pedicles for purpose of anti-tumor effects. Dose-escalation was
      performed from 2 mg/kg to 15 mg/kg without reaching maximal tolerated dose. There was a
      significant decrease in the contrast enhancing and FLAIR signal characteristics of the tumor
      and surrounding brain at one month after treatment. Overall toxicity for this cohort was
      comparable to previous reports for IV Bevacizumab therapy. Specifically, hyperosmotic
      BBB-breakdown followed by IA-Bevacizumab administration did not cause any direct
      neurotoxicity; there were no cases of intracranial hemorrhage. Multiple other reports of BBBD
      followed by intra-arterial bevacizumab treatment for other pathologies such as vestibular
      schwannoma, ependymoma, and malignant brainstem glioma have also demonstrated good safety
      profile with no obvious neurotoxicity.

      TREATMENT PLAN:

      VASCULAR ACCESS, CEREBRAL ANGIOGRAM, AND OSMOTIC BLOOD-BRAIN-BARRIER DISRUPTION:

      The investigators will use the protocol described by Neuwelt and colleagues, using infusion
      of 25% Mannitol over 30 seconds. The safety of this protocol has been established in more
      than 6000 patients treated worldwide with BBBD for intra-arterial chemotherapy infusion.

      The patients are to be premedicated with 6 mg Dexamethasone and 1000 mg Keppra. General
      endotracheal anesthesia will be induced. The femoral artery will be accessed using the
      Seldinger technique. A 5-French diagnostic catheter will be used to catheterize the cervical
      internal carotid artery ipsilateral to the area of radiation necrosis. Baseline internal
      carotid angiogram will be performed.

      The anesthesiologist will be instructed to maintain SBP >120 or at pre-operative baseline,
      whichever value is higher. This is important for efficient bulk flow of drug through the
      blood brain barrier opening. The catheter is positioned at C1-2 level in the cervical
      internal carotid artery and C6-7 for a vertebral artery infusion. Optimal rate of Mannitol
      infusion will be determined by performing injection of contrast at 4 ml/sec for 3 seconds
      into vessel. If there is no reflux of contrast into the external carotid artery, the
      injection rate injection will be increased by 2 ml/sec to maximum of 12 ml/sec. The lowest
      rate at which there is reflux into the external carotid artery will be chosen (the rate to
      just exceed cerebral blood flow.

      Next, 5 mg IV Valium and 0.2 mg IV Atropine are to be administered. Warm (37 degrees Co) 25%
      Mannitol is filtered through a 5-micron filter, and then infused into the ipsilateral
      cervical carotid artery at the rate determined above for a total of 30 seconds.

      INTRA-ARTERIAL BEVACIZUMAB ADMINISTRATION:

      Test injection of contrast will be done in the artery. If there is any evidence of
      catheter-induced vasospasm, the catheter may be withdrawn more proximally within the artery.
      Repeat test injection of contrast will be done to document resolution of vasospasm. Within 5
      minutes of Mannitol infusion, 2.5 mg/kg bevacizumab in a volume of 100 ml will be
      administered into the artery over 10 minutes. Repeat angiogram will be performed to document
      BBBD, as well as to rule out thromboembolic phenomenon.
    
  