
    
      Extremely preterm infants frequently need to be placed back on invasive mechanical
      ventilation following initial attempts to remove them from this mode of respiratory support.
      Continued mechanical ventilation is thought to be the primary driver in the development of
      chronic lung disease and a major component in adverse developmental outcome of these infants.
      Infants fail their first trial of removal from ventilation because of apnea and respiratory
      failure. Animal studies and early clinical experience suggest that it is possible to
      effectively provide ventilation via high frequency nasal ventilation. In the animal models
      this mode of ventilation appears to provide for better lung development and less injury.

      Nasal CPAP has been shown to improve the success rate of extubation from mechanical
      ventilation by preventing post extubation atelectasis with resultant improvements in gas
      exchange. However in many of the most premature infants, poorly developed control of
      respiratory drive is a major problem and despite treatment with caffeine, mechanical
      ventilation is needed. High frequency nasal ventilation may support ventilation enough during
      apneic periods to mitigate the need for traditional mechanical ventilation. Use of
      non-invasive modes may result in a decrease in the incidence and or severity of chronic lung
      problems and developmental disability of this group of infants.

      Extremely premature infants (GA <28 weeks) less than 7 days old will be randomized to either
      NHFV or nCPAP following the first attempt at extubation and removal from mechanical
      ventilation. All infants will have received at least a loading dose of caffeine citrate (10
      mg/kg of caffeine base equivalent prior to extubation. Initial nCPAP level will be determined
      by clinical staff but will be at least equal to the level of positive end expiratory pressure
      (PEEP) used during mechanical ventilation. A similar level of pressure will be used as
      initial mean airway pressure (MAP) in infants receiving HFNV.

      The primary outcome will be need for reintubation during the first 7 days after extubation
      attempt due to preset criteria. Crossover to the other modality will not be allowed during
      this period. Infants may remain on HFNF beyond the 7 day primary endpoint if deemed necessary
      by the clinical staff. Weaning of HFNV to nCPAP will be allowed during the 7 day primary
      study period and reinstitution of HFNF will be allowed for those initially randomized to that
      mode of respiratory support.

      The magnitude of the effect size cannot be determined as there are no studies to base a
      sample size calculation on. A pragmatic sample size of 20 infants was selected (10 in each
      arm) to allow estimation of any potential effect size. Further study(ies) will need to be
      performed to show conclusively efficacy (or lack) of NHFV to prevent post-extubation
      respiratory failure or its use in preventing chronic lung disease or improving developmental
      outcomes.
    
  