
    
      This study builds on pilot work in which Live Inspired LLC and research partners developed
      T2Q (formerly "Text-2-Quit") a smoking cessation intervention delivered through text
      messaging. T2Q is a unique program with a number of features that provide superior support
      and service compared to existing text message quit smoking products. T2Q is 100% accessible
      through text messaging provides medication support for quitting smoking, an integrated social
      support network and live counseling. This phase II project will add functionality to
      accommodate use of multiple forms of quit smoking medications, and then conduct a rigorous
      test of the efficacy of T2Q among 280 adult smokers and examine smoking outcomes compared to
      controls at 3 and 6 months follow up. The study will also examine changes in smoking-related
      attitudes and behaviors among T2Q users to identify strengths and any potential weaknesses
      that may affect T2Q's impact on smoking outcomes. Analyses will examine the quality of social
      interactions within the T2Q integrated social support network and their role in promoting
      smoking abstinence. We will also conduct interviews with study participants in the T2Q arm to
      enable understanding of the user's experience with T2Q. Results of this trial will
      demonstrate the efficacy of T2Q - providing important credibility needed for successful
      commercialization. This research will also provide important data for possible enhancements
      to improve consumer appeal prior to commercialization.

      This proposal finalizes development and testing of a unique, highly scalable intervention
      that can reach a U.S. market comprised of over 34 million adult smokers who use text
      messaging, and provide them with effective, evidence-based treatment. Text messaging enjoys
      near-market saturation and is a widely preferred method of communication with deep
      penetration across diverse groups. Wide availability of an attractive and effective smoking
      cessation program such as T2Q, may exert a powerful, sustained impact on public health
    
  