
    
      Aim: In this post hoc study of a RCT the primary aim is to determine the effect of EPO
      compared to placebo in improving outcome, including survival, neurological function and
      quality of life two years after the conclusion of the EPO-TBI study (two to seven years after
      moderate or severe TBI occurring in individual patients).

      Design: A long term follow-up study of a prospective, multi-centre, double blind, phase III,
      randomised controlled trial.

      Methods: Survival status at the time when this follow-up trial is executed will obtained in
      all patients. Time from injury will vary between 2 to 7 years depending on when the patient
      was enrolled. This information will obtained from hospital notes, national register offices
      and/or national statistical bureaus. Since the trial was an international RCT, strategies may
      vary and will take into account local circumstances. Local plans will be developed by the
      local principal investigators and approved by the management committee.

      Data includes

        -  Survival status at long term follow up (alive/dead)

        -  Time from injury to assessment (days)

        -  If the patients is deceased, time of death and time from injury in days

      Quality of life assessment

      Patients (or a proxy - generally a close family member) who are alive at 2-7 years after
      randomisation will be interviewed by trained assessors. The same contact person as used in
      the primary trial will be contacted primarily. Consent will be obtained for the conduction
      for long term assessment. Assessors will use a standardized structured telephone
      questionnaires to determine GOSE and QOL. Neurological outcomes will then be defined as
      favourable (GOSE 5 to 8; moderate disability and good recovery) or unfavourable (GOSE 1 to 4;
      death and severe disability). Data include:

        -  Time of assessment

        -  Time from injury in days

        -  Follow-up GOSE

        -  Follow-up EQ-5D

        -  Follow-up SF-12
    
  