
    
      Several known prognostic factors are used to identify breast cancer patients with an
      unfavourable prognosis to receive adjuvant systemic therapy, such as tumor size, histological
      grade, hormone receptor status and axillary lymph node metastasis. However, a large majority
      of early stage breast cancer patients with small primary tumors and no lymph-node metastasis
      receive such treatment without being at risk of developing recurrent distant disease.
      Furthermore, today still only about 1/3-1/2 of the patients with occult residual cancer who
      receive standard adjuvant chemotherapy and/or endocrine therapy are cured as a consequence of
      this treatment.Therefore, the future clearly needs a more precise stratification for
      treatment decisions. As several alternative potent therapeutic agents exist for breast
      cancer, a detailed characterization of the individual breast cancer disease may improve
      individualized prognostication and treatment. The possibilities for detailed characterization
      of the primary tumor have grown substantially during the last 10 years, and the prognostic
      and predictive impact of various molecular-based analytical tests and algorithms has been
      established. In order to bring forward such strategies to the individual patient in a routine
      clinical setting, a project with a clear goal of establishing and evaluating the most
      validated molecular profiles is needed.This project will evaluate the consequences of a
      molecular based classification of breast cancer on treatment selection as well as on
      economical issues such as laboratory expenses and costs related to treatment. The safety and
      reproducibility of the molecular assays will also be evaluated and compared to existing
      prognostic and predictive markers. Finally, it will also provide an opportunity for
      development and prospective testing of novel prognostic or predictive subtype-specific
      molecular markers. The project is multidisciplinary involving personnel from the following
      disciplines; pathology, molecular pathology, surgery, oncology and molecular biology.

      Patients with lymph node negative ER+positive HER2 negative breast cancer who have completed
      primary surgery, are candidates for this study. Patient can be included after written
      informed consent has been obtained and eligibility has been established and approved. It will
      be organized as a multi-center study. The study will be run as a one-armed trial. Patients
      with appropriate primary tumor characteristics will be informed at first postoperative visit.

      Treatment recommendations will be based on the Prosigna test result, in addition to
      conventional clinicopathological parameters. The Prosigna test will be performed after study
      inclusion. Before the Prosigna test result will be informed, the treating physician has to
      report the type of adjuvant treatment that would have been recommended without performing the
      Prosigna test. After the Prosigna test results is available, the final decision of adjuvant
      systemic treatment plan is registered.

      During and after adjuvant treatment, the follow-up of patients will be according to usual
      care and Norwegian Breast Cancer Group (NBCG) guideline recommendations, including annual
      mammography and/or breast ultrasound. The events recorded during follow-up will be reported
      in the Norwegian Breast Cancer Registry (NBCR) which will be the main study CRF. The annual
      follow-up can be organized at the hospital or with the general practioner (including
      telephone contact from study center).

      The study will recruit a total of 2150 patients, of whom approximately 1500 will not be
      recommended chemotherapy. After inclusion, the patients will be followed for breast cancer
      related events for at least 5 years (8 years from study start).

      Study assessments includes the following: Demographics (age, sex) (at inclusion), medical
      non-breast cancer related history (not to be included in case report form, only in the
      medical record). Physical examination including locoregional examination of breast/chest wall
      and regional lymph nodes, additional examination if clinically indicated. Functional status
      according to NBCR.

      Mammography and if indicated breast ultrasound, if not bilateral mastectomy (before surgery
      and at follow-up visits).Clinical status (at follow-up).

      In addition to information from the patient questionnaires, patient medication (including
      continuation of endocrine treatment or other breast cancer treatment related medication) will
      be collected through the Norwegian Prescription Database and occupational disability/sick
      leave through the Norwegian Labor and Welfare Administration (NAV) or FD-Trygd. As the
      recorded patients' data in the project will be stored for a very long time, it will later be
      relevant to link information against the information from the Cancer Registry of Norway and
      the Death Cause Registry.

      At baseline, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, 2 years and at 5 year follow-up all patients will be
      asked to answer questionnaires consisting of established scales with good psychometric
      properties and single items covering socio-demographics, comorbidity, work ability, general
      health and quality of life (including RAND-36 and the EQ-5D), fatigue (fatigue
      questionnaire73), anxiety (GAD-7 questionnaire) and depressive symptoms74, life style, sleep
      and breast cancer specific symptoms and complaints (EORTC QLQ-BR23, FACT-B and FACT-ES).

      Formal economic evaluation of cost-benefit will be performed based on simulation of treatment
      paths. First, an analysis of the expected cost of the interventions (patient and hospital
      costs) will be performed. The second step will involve an estimation of the benefits. A
      likely key benefit is the potential reduction in health resource use (for instance late
      effects that need health service and sick-leave) resulting from fewer patients treated with
      chemotherapy. The size of the cost/benefits will be estimated from data provided by the
      questionnaires as mentioned above as well as from other external sources.
    
  