
    
      Tear film dysfunctions, which are collectively diagnosed as dry eye syndromes and Meibomian
      Gland Dystrophy (MGD) afflict millions of individuals worldwide, more than 10 million in the
      United States alone. Typically, symptoms include ocular burning, foreign body sensation,
      photophobia, redness and other symptoms that result in overall chronic discomfort in
      patients. Tetracycline analogues, such as minocycline, have demonstrated effectiveness in
      treating primary meibomianitis, one type of chronic blepharitis and have been prescribed to
      patients for sometime. It has been demonstrated that tetracycline can inhibit lipase activity
      and therefore decrease the release of noxious free fatty acids. Tetracycline also inhibits
      bacterial lipase activity in vitro and has other effects. We have been investigating the
      associations between chronic blepharitis and eyelid meibomian gland lipids and microflora for
      a number of years and have discovered important relationships between these lipids and
      chronic blepharitis disease states. Because of its high concentration 12 hours post dose, low
      renal clearance, long half life, and high level of binding to serum proteins, minocycline has
      been suggested as a good treatment option. The study proposes to determine the effect of oral
      treatment with tetracycline analogues on the Tear Film and Tear Lipid Composition within a
      Population of Patients Diagnosed with Dry Eye Disease and Meibomian Gland Dysfunction.

      Patients diagnosed with dry eye syndrome as well as Meibomian Gland Dystrophy (MGD) will be
      selected to participate in a clinical study: baseline visit, 1-month following initiation of
      treatment, 3-months after initiation of treatment, and 3-months after discontinuation of
      treatment.

      Once assessed and qualified to take part in the trial, participants will undergo the
      following tests during each visit:

      I. Ocular assessment of signs and symptoms II. Evaporometry III. Fluorophotometery IV.
      Schirmers Testing V. TBUT VI. Bacteriology VII. Transillumination & Meibography VIII.
      Meibomian gland expression and lipid analysis

      After completion of the baseline visit, each patient will be given a 2-week regimen of 50-mg
      dose of Minocycline followed by 10-week supply of 100-mg Minocycline to be taken daily after
      breakfast. In addition, they can continue using artificial tears and additional treatments as
      prescribed by their treating physicians.

      I. Ocular assessment Patients' symptomology as well as the assessors' diagnostic findings
      will be recorded and reviewed in detail before patient entrance into study. These include
      visual acuity, biomicroscopy of lids/lashes, conjunctiva, and cornea. Moreover, corneal as
      well as conjunctival staining will be performed with the use of two colored dyes: Lissamine
      green and fluorescein. In addition, the investigator will record any pathology with the
      patients' natural lens, iris, and pupil.

      II. Evaporometer: Evaporative flow and contribution to turnover An evaporometer utilizes a
      pump to direct air through a drying tube (Hammond Drierite, Xenia, OH) into a goggle. The
      goggle containing a water vapor detector and a temperature monitor is placed firmly over the
      eye. The pumped air passes into the goggle, reducing the humidity to 15%, at which time the
      pump is turned off. The increase in humidity due to evaporation from skin or evaporating
      tears is measured and stored in a computer. The process is carried out first with the eyelids
      closed and then with them open; the difference is the tear evaporation rate. The area of the
      interpalpebral ocular surface is used to calculate evaporation per unit area; the image of
      the area is captured with the use of a digital camera and calculated directly with the aid of
      computer software (ADOBE Photoshop, version 6.0.1.2001, ADOBE Systems, and San Jose,
      California). Evaporative outflow as a percentage of available tear volume will be calculated
      from the rate of the rise of relative humidity inside the goggle with the eye open minus the
      evaporative contribution of the closed eye skin within the goggle.

      The evaporative contribution to turnover will be calculated as evaporative outflow per
      available tear volume per minute divided by tear turnover.

      III. Fluorophotometer: Tear volume, flow and turnover Background fluorescence will be
      determined prior to the instillation of 0.5 micro liters of 0.5% sodium fluorescein onto the
      ocular surface. Utilizing a fluorophotometer (Fluorotron Master, Ocumetrics, Mountain View,
      CA), eight measurements will be taken from each eye to determine tear fluorescence. The first
      two measurements will be performed one minute apart and subsequent measurements will be
      repeated with three minute intervals until completion at 19 minutes. This data will be
      analyzed to calculate tear volume, flow and tear turnover.

      IV. Schirmers testing: Quantitative tear measurement performed with and without anesthetic
      Drops. A commonly used paper wick will be placed between the eyeball and outer third of the
      lower lid cul-de-sac in order to measure quantitatively the production of tears. This test
      typically takes 5 minutes to perform.

      V. Tear Break-Up Time - Quantitative/Qualitative assessment of corneal and conjunctival dry
      spots (devitalized surface epithelial cells) A drop of fluorescein will be instilled in both
      eyes of the patient. Patient will be asked to blink normally for the dye to spread evenly in
      the eye. Once completed, patient will be asked to blink once and hold eyes open while the
      assessor uses a stop watch to record number of seconds it takes for the tear film to
      break-up. This is a tool that allows the examiner to grade the quality of the tear film.
      Normal control patient TBUT is 10-12 seconds while a dry eye patient TBUT is less than 2
      seconds.

      VI. Bacteriology - Eyelid microflora evaluation Samples of eyelid and conjunctival microflora
      of each eye will be taken separately with a calcium alginate swab dipped in 0.9% salt
      solution. After streaking the swab on different plates (blood agar, chocolate agar, and
      reduced brucella blood agar), it will placed into a tube of thioglycolate for bacteriological
      assessment.

      VII. Transillumination & Meibography - Quantitative assessment of lower lid meibomian gland
      lipid production An excretory gland, the primary role of the meibomian glands is to produce
      and secrete lipids into the tear film. The purpose of this test is to determine
      quantitatively the number of lower lid glands that are functional lipid producers. A
      transilluminator (muscle light) with a light dispersing tip will be used to illuminate the
      glands. The small band of light will transilluminate the inverted lower lids of patients.
      With the use of a digital camera, a picture will be taken in order to assess vital glands
      from drop-outs (non-producing glands). This is accomplished with a frame grabber that is
      matched to a Hitachi KP-F2A progressive scanner infrared camera that is mounted on a slit
      lamp microscope. Images will be captured and stored with the use of imaging software.

      VIII. Meibomian gland expression and lipid analysis - Lower and Upper eye lid samples will be
      collected and assayed for their biochemical makeup With the use of an ocular conformer and
      cotton tip applicator, samples of upper and lower lid meibomian gland lipids will be
      collected and assessed for make-up
    
  