
    
      High risk surgical participants in South valley university hospitals (teaching hospitals) who
      will undergo major abdominal surgeries will be included in research after giving written
      informed consent from the participants or from the patient's legal representative. The use of
      obtained data will be approved by local ethics committee.

      All participants will be evaluated pre operatively and pre medicated according to protocols
      in our hospital, base line sequential organ failure (SOFA) score will be taken. General
      anesthesia for all patients will be carried on according to our local standards. As part of
      our routine hemodynamic monitoring during major surgery, all patients will be monitored with
      central venous (standard three-lumen catheter) and arterial catheters placed before the
      beginning of surgery. The central venous line will be positioned with the tip within the
      superior vena cava, and correct positioning will be verified by chest radiograph.

      the participants will be divided randomly onto to groups using numerical system group A PCO2
      gap algorithm(carbon dioxide partial pressure venous arterial gap) will be applied
      intraoperative and 12 h postoperative end point PCO2 gap 2-6mm Hg(appendix 1).

      Group B goal directed therapy protocol which will include targets mean arterial blood
      pressure ( MAP) > 65 mmHg, central venous pressure(CVP) between 8-12 cmH2O , Haematocrite
      value more than 30, mixed venous oxygen saturation (Svo2) >75% and urine output more than
      >0.5 ml/kg/hr and will be applied intraoperative and 12 postoperative end point base deficit
      +/- 2(appendix 2 ).

      All participants will be admitted to the ICU (intensive care unit) immediately after surgery
      .Standard postoperative monitoring will include: electrocardiograph (heart rate), invasive
      mean arterial pressure, pulse oxygen saturation and urine output then will be all managed
      according to their allocated group for 12 hours.

      Outcomes in both groups will be recorded which will be number of ventilator dependant days,
      number of days on vasopressors or inotropes length of ICU stay, length of hospital stay, 30
      days organ dysfunction, assessed by using the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) and
      30 days mortality .
    
  