
    
      THE OPPORTUNITY BEDTIME PRESCRIBING MIGHT PROVIDE: Blood pressure normally exhibits a
      circadian rhythm with relatively lower pressures during sleep.(Ref 1) Lack of this sleep time
      "dip" correlates strongly with adverse cardiovascular events and BP correlates most strongly
      with such events when measured at night (i.e. during sleep).(Ref 2-5) Motivated by such
      observations, Spanish researchers studied the effect of taking BP medication at BEDTIME (when
      the effect on nighttime BP would be greatest) versus conventional morning use, when most BP
      medications are taken. The results of this study (the MAPEC trial) were striking.(Ref 6) Over
      a median 5.6 years follow-up, adverse cardiovascular events occurred in 187 of 1084 subjects
      taking BP medication in the morning but only 68 of 1072 subjects who took their BP medication
      at bedtime (relative risk 0.39, 95%CI [0.29-0.51], p < 0.001). This 61% reduction in adverse
      events was similar for all individual components of the primary outcome (including death from
      all causes, stroke, MI, new angina pectoris, CHF and retinal artery occlusions). If true, a
      switch to bedtime prescribing would have more impact on the health of hypertensive patients
      than whether high BP is treated at all. However extraordinary claims require extraordinary
      evidence - independent replication of such surprising findings is needed for widespread
      practice change to occur.

      BEDMED: The BedMed trial is a pragmatic primary care trial intended to verify whether bedtime
      antihypertensive use, as compared to conventional morning use, reduces major adverse
      cardiovascular events. It is designed as an adaptive randomized registry trial within
      community primary care and draws both trial outcomes and baseline covariates from provincial
      administrative claims data (vital statistics, hospital separations, physician services,
      prescription dispenses, laboratory data). Covariates for the primary analysis will include
      age, sex, physical frailty (continuous, as determined by the Tilburg Frailty Indicator
      Physical Components sub-score), cognitive impairment (continuous, as determined by the Short
      Blessed Test score), current smoking status, hospitalization in the 6 months prior to
      enrolment, ≥3 baseline BP meds (resistant hypertension), presence/absence of specific
      diagnoses (diabetes, CHF, stroke/TIA, coronary artery disease, sleep apnea), BMI > 30, ≥ 4
      additional non-BP lowering medications (polypharmacy), kidney disease (a claims data renal
      insufficiency diagnosis or eGFR less than 40), or end-stage kidney disease on dialysis.
      Subgroup analysis based on the presence or absence of each of these covariates will be
      carried out (using an age threshold of ≥ 70 yrs, a Tilburg physical frailty threshold of ≥ 3,
      and a Short Blessed cognitive impairment threshold of ≥ 7). BedMed is government
      funded/facilitated, event driven (with the trial breaking upon 406 primary outcome events),
      will have over 300 volunteer primary care providers recruiting, is expected to enrol 8,750
      consenting community patients with hypertension, and relies heavily on a collaboration
      between the volunteer family physicians of the Pragmatic Trials Collaborative
      (www.PragmaticTrials.ca) who will recruit for the trial and the Alberta SPOR Support Unit's
      Data Platform - which will facilitate accessing and analyzing the relevant administrative
      databases (http://www.aihealthsolutions.ca/initiatives-partnerships/spor/).

      DIURETIC SUB-STUDY: The "adaptive" element of the BedMed trial design refers to an interim
      examination of bedtime diuretic tolerance. Although it is commonly believed that diuretics
      can't be taken at bedtime without inducing unwanted nocturia, the sparse evidence in the
      literature suggests this may not be the case.(Ref 7,8) Rather than excluding patients whose
      only medication is a diuretic the investigators will instead initially include such patients
      and evaluate bedtime diuretic tolerance early on in the trial to determine whether or not
      such patients should continue to be enrolled. Specifically, upon allocating to bedtime dosing
      203 patients whose only BP medication is an AM diuretic (excluding diuretic / non-diuretic
      combination pills) the investigators will analyze 6-week compliance to bedtime allocation for
      all participants with a single morning BP medication (of all types). If diuretic compliance
      is worse, the "adaptive" trial design will exclude enrolment of additional patients whose
      only BP medication is a diuretic. The BedMed investigators will report on bedtime diuretic
      tolerance separate from (and in advance of) the main BedMed analysis.

      INTERIM SAFETY ANALYSIS: An independent data safety monitoring board (DSMB) organized and
      chaired by Jim Wright (Cochrane Hypertension Review Group Coordinating Editor) will review
      all data upon reaching 200 events (estimated to occur ~20 months in). If p is ≤ 0.001 for
      benefit (the Haybittle-Peto boundary - recommended to reduce the chance of stopping too early
      and magnifying benefit), or if p is ≤ 0.05 for harm, the DSMB will apply clinical judgement
      and make recommendations to the steering committee on whether the trial should break early.
    
  