
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of peposertib (M3814) in combination with
      radium-223 dichloride or in combination with radium-223 dichloride and avelumab in patients
      with advanced metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) based on dose limiting
      toxicities (DLTs) in the doublet or triplet combinations. (Phase 1) II. Radiographic
      progression free survival (rPFS) will be evaluated based on both skeletal and extraskeletal
      progression following Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) methodology. (Phase 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the time to the first symptomatic skeletal event [SSE]. II. To determine the
      safety of radium-223 dichloride, M3814, and avelumab combination treatment.

      III. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. IV. To evaluate progression free survival
      (PFS) and overall survival (OS). V. To evaluate symptomatic skeletal events (SSE) per
      standardized case report form (CRF) distinguishing between pathologic and non-pathogenic
      fractures.

      VI. To explore patient-reported symptomatic adverse events (AE) for tolerability of each
      treatment arm.

      VII. To examine the radium-223 dichloride bio-distribution and absorbed dose in each bone
      metastatic lesions as well as elsewhere in the body including critical organs using
      dosimetry.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform molecular profiling assays on malignant and normal tissues, including, but not
      limited to, whole exome sequencing (WES), and messenger ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing
      (RNAseq), in order to:

      Ia. Identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers beyond any genomic alteration by
      which treatment may be assigned, and Ib. Identify resistance mechanisms using genomic
      deoxyribonucleic (DNA)- and RNA-based assessment platforms.

      II. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data
      Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current
      and future research; specimens will be annotated with key clinical data, including
      presentation, diagnosis, staging, summary treatment, and if possible, outcome.

      III. To bank plasma and peripheral immune cells from patients to assess predictive biomarkers
      of response at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical Trials Network (ETCTN) biorepository at
      Nationwide Children's Hospital.

      IV. To correlate change in level of total alkaline phosphatase, bone-specific alkaline
      phosphatase, and serum osteocalcin to rPFS and OS.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of peposertib, followed by a phase II
      study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive radium-223 dichloride intravenously (IV) over 1 minute on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive radium-223 dichloride as in Arm A and peposertib orally (PO) once
      daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) on days 3-26. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive radium-223 dichloride IV as in Arm A and peposertib PO QD or BID as
      in Arm B. Patients also receive avelumab IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15 of cycles 2-6.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months for up to 2 years.
    
  