
    
      The introduction of antenatal steroid use, postnatal surfactant administration and modern
      respiratory care in the past decade has markedly improved the survival of small preterm
      infants. However, this has been offset by an increasing incidence of chronic lung disease
      CLD) as defined by oxygen requirement at 36 weeks post-conceptional age. Although previous
      studies showed that preterm infants resolving from neonatal respiratory disease are more
      likely to exhibit respiratory illness, developmental disorders, impaired growth and cognitive
      limitations compared with those without, the information concerning the longitudinal
      respiratory and neurodevelopmental outcome of recently survived preterm infants with CLD is
      limited. Therefore, this prospective three-year two-centered study will continue following up
      the respiratory health and neurodevelopment of our 73 very low birth weight (VLBW) preterm
      infants at preschool ages. This cohort consists of 44 infants with CLD and 29 demographically
      matched infants without CLD who were enrolled from the National Taiwan University Hospital
      and the MacKay Memorial Hospital. Those infants had been comprehensively examined for their
      respiratory function and neurodevelopmental performance during the neonatal and infant
      periods. Twenty five age-matched full-term infants will be additional included to serve as
      the normal reference group. The purpose of this study is threefold. First, VLBW infants with
      CLD, VLBW infants without CLD and full-term infants will be examined for respiratory health
      using pulmonary function and exercise test at 3-5 years old and will be assessed the
      relations of early respiratory and environmental variables with later respiratory outcome.
      Secondly, all infants will be examined for neurodevelopmental outcome using the Bayley Scales
      of Infant Development- 2nd edition, Developmental Test of Visual Motor Integration, Peabody
      Developmental Motor Scale- 2nd edition, Child Behavior Check List, Weschler Preschooler
      Intelligence Scale and clinical diagnosis by a pediatric neurologist and a pediatric
      psychiatrist, and will be assessed the relations of early neuromotor and environmental
      variables with later neurodevelopmental outcome. Thirdly, the VLBW infants will be assessed
      for the concurrent and consecutive longitudinal relationships between respiratory and
      neurodevelopmental measures. The results of this study will help understand the nature and
      changes of respiratory health and neurodevelopment of VLBW infants with CLD from birth to
      preschool age. The identified influencing factors for adverse respiratory and
      neurodevelopmental outcome will assist health professionals in designing treatment strategies
      to improve their outcome. Furthermore, the obtained database will help develop a national
      monitoring system for measuring effects of respiratory management and early intervention
      programs for preterm infants with neonatal respiratory disease.
    
  