
    
      Patients undergoing select procedures in the LPCH operating rooms or ambulatory procedure
      unit, as identified by review of the daily schedule will be reviewed for potential study
      enrollment. Study personnel will work with preoperative nurses to identify potential
      participants. When potential candidates are identified, the investigators will discuss with
      the surgeon or proceduralist and request that he/she talk with patients about study
      participation to introduce the idea. On the day of surgery, potential subjects will arrive to
      preoperative intake areas and proceed through the usual preoperative processes. Once in the
      preoperative intake area, potential participants will be approached by study personnel at
      least 30 minutes prior to their scheduled procedure for further explanation of the study and
      obtaining consent and assent. At this time, potential subjects will be evaluated for interval
      changes in health that may exclude them from the study. A random number generator will be
      used to enroll participants into either the usual care (control) or THRIVE (treatment) arm.
      Control subjects will undergo their scheduled procedure and recovery with the usual care.
      Treatment subjects will undergo the scheduled procedure, with the difference being that a
      high-flow nasal cannula will be applied prior to the start of the procedure and removed
      following the procedure's conclusion. While applied, the cannula will deliver high- flow rate
      oxygen, air, or a mixture of variable oxygen concentration (21-100%) depending on the
      surgical conditions and requirements. The rate will be set at 1-2L/kg/min with a maximum of
      70L/min. Participants in the treatment arm will then proceed to the recovery area as usual.
      Following recovery from anesthesia, a brief questionnaire will be provided to applicable
      patients or their parents/guardians/representatives. The intraoperative vital signs and
      post-operative course will be analyzed with any patient data stored in a deidentified manner
      on Stanford- compliant encrypted devices.
    
  