
    
      U.S. nursing homes (NHs) serve 1.6 million older persons, all of whom have significant
      physical and/or cognitive impairment, and the majority of whom have Alzheimer's disease or a
      related cognitive disorder. In these settings the vast majority of hands-on care is provided
      by an estimated 634,000 certified nursing assistants (CNAs) - paraprofessional caregivers who
      are racially diverse, largely female, and an annual income equivalent to the poverty
      threshold for a family of four. Despite the crucial role of CNAs in providing care for the
      long-term care population and efforts to recruit and retain a stable workforce, absenteeism
      rates are high and annual turnover averages 65%, with adverse impact on the quality of care
      provided to NH residents, making CNA retention a policy priority.

      CNAs have significant life stressors that affect their ability to work, such as single
      parenthood, poor physical health, difficulty finding childcare, and transportation problems.
      They also face emotionally and physically demanding job tasks, particularly when working with
      persons with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias, and many lack helpful strategies for
      dealing with stress, negative feelings, and burden.

      A newly developed, standardized Mindful Self-Compassion (MSC) intervention may have
      particularly high impact and relevance for the high-stress lives of NH CNAs. MSC training has
      been shown to increase wellbeing, compassion for others, and stress-coping skills. However,
      little is known about the impact, feasibility and acceptability of MSC training in
      low-educated, stress-burdened paraprofessional populations such as CNAs, or whether it can
      impact outcomes such as burnout, absenteeism, and turnover.

      This preliminary study will modify, refine, and test a MSC training intervention for CNAs, to
      be known as the CNA Wellbeing Program, who care for nursing home residents. The researcher
      teams' goal is to increase CNA coping skills and well-being, thereby reducing absenteeism and
      intent to leave the job, reducing burnout, and improving job satisfaction and attitudes
      toward people with dementia. The proposed research will be conducted in 3 similarly rated and
      structured community NHs. In Aim 1 the investigators will assess intervention feasibility and
      acceptability in one NH, using the knowledge they gain to tailor an evidence-based MSC
      program specifically for CNAs. In Aim 2 the investigators will pilot test the MSC training
      program with 30 CNAs who work in 2 similarly rated and structured NHs, evaluating the
      fidelity of the revised training and exploring trends in immediate, 3-month, and 6-month
      outcome measures in order to inform power calculations for future trials.

      The specific aims are:

      Aim 1. Determine the feasibility, acceptability, and necessary adaptations of MSC training
      needed to meet the diverse cultural background, limited literacy, and job and family
      challenges of the nursing home CNA workforce, including the unique challenges of caring for
      persons with dementia, and of the data collection methods.

        1. Conduct a field trial of the standardized 8-week MSC training program with 15 CNAs
           within a single community NH. Evaluation will focus on: (a) participation (including
           home practice adherence); (b) attendee evaluation of the training; (c) barriers to and
           facilitators of participation; (d) use and retention of class material by participants;
           and (e) recommendations for improvement of training.

        2. Field test the feasibility and acceptability of our study recruitment and evaluation
           strategy.

        3. Use data collected from the field test to modify recruitment strategies, protocols, and
           course structure, content and materials so as to be maximally feasible, acceptable and
           effective in a CNA population.

      Aim 2. Conduct a pilot test of the adapted protocols and intervention in a sample of 30 CNAs
      from 2 similarly rated and structured community NHs to reexamine feasibility and
      acceptability, identify trends in key intermediate and long-term outcomes, and estimate
      effect size in preparation for a future randomized trial.

        1. Evaluate the fidelity and immediate impact of the modified training by measuring (a)
           training attendance; (b) satisfaction with the training; and (c) pre-and post-training
           measures of self-compassion, perceived stress, job satisfaction, job burnout symptoms,
           and attitudes towards persons with dementia.

        2. Evaluate the sustained impact of the training by comparing baseline, 3-and 6-month
           post-training measurements of: absenteeism, intent to leave job, self-compassion,
           perceived stress, job satisfaction, job burnout symptoms, and attitudes towards persons
           with dementia.
    
  