
    
      Rationale: Tinnitus is the perception of sound or noise in the absence of an external
      physical source. It is a highly prevalent condition and for a high percentage of patients,
      there is no satisfying treatment modality. For some people, tinnitus has a very severe impact
      on quality of life, leading to incapacity for work and sometimes even suicidality. The
      auditory brainstem implant (ABI) is an implant indicated for the restoration of hearing in
      patients with an hypo-, or aplasia of the cochlear nerve or with dysfunction of the nerve
      caused by tumor growth in neurofibromatosis type II. It has been shown that the standard
      intended effect of an ABI has reduction of tinnitus as a welcome side effect in about 66% of
      the cases. This is in analogy with the promising effect of a cochlear implant (CI) as a
      treatment for patients with unilateral tinnitus. In this study, the effect of an ABI on
      severely invalidating, unilateral, intractable tinnitus will be investigated. The ABI may
      have an advantage over the CI as tinnitus treatment, because CI-implantation leads to
      destruction of inner ear structures, leading to profound deafness, while an ABI is presumed
      to not damage anatomical structures. This is the first study to implant an ABI for the
      primary aim of tinnitus reduction.

      Objective. To evaluate the efficacy of an ABI for the suppression of unilateral, intractable
      tinnitus and to establish the safety of the ABI for this new indication.

      Study design. This is a single center, non-randomized, prospective cohort, intervention pilot
      study. There is no control group. In this study, 10 patients will be implanted with an ABI.

      Study population. Adult patients with invalidating, unilateral, intractable tinnitus and
      ipsilateral severe hearing loss are included in this study. All study participants have no
      significant comorbidity and are mentally competent.

      Intervention. All study participants receive an ABI, which will be neurosurgically implanted.
      The ABI will be switched on 6 weeks after implantation. The surgery and post-surgery
      follow-up and switch-on procedures are consistent with the intended use of the ABI.

      Main study parameters. The primary outcome is change in the Tinnitus Functioning Index (TFI).
      The endpoint is set at 1 year after implantation. Follow up will take place until 5 years
      after implantation.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness. The implantation, activation and fitting of the ABI will be performed exactly as
      described in the existing protocols for intended use, however in this study, the ABI is
      placed for another indication. Implantation of the ABI requires hospital admission for
      estimated 4 days. After dismissal, patients visit the outpatient clinic at least 8 times in
      the first year, depending on the amount of fitting session necessary. Implantation of the ABI
      is an invasive procedure, which potentially can cause severe complications (meningitis 3,8%,
      transient hydrocephalus 1,3%, cerebellar contusion 1,2%). Other complication that may occur
      are infection, bleeding, hearing loss and other cranial nerve dysfunctions. By an extensive
      training program for the neurosurgeon and presence of the experienced surgeon during the
      first surgical procedures, the investigators feel that neurosurgical risks and risk of device
      failure due to inadequate implantation can be limited. In this pilot study, the effects on
      hearing and tinnitus are still uncertain, however based on the results published in
      literature the investigators are confident that the effects on both will be positive.
      Nonauditory side-effects and disappointing results on hearing and/or tinnitus can be well
      managed by altering stimulation strategy or if necessary, by turning off the device. Tinnitus
      can be severely invalidating with a large impact on quality of life and the ABI is promising
      in reducing tinnitus in these patients. This study imposes a significant risk on the study
      participants. However, the investigators feel that the risks outweighs the potential to
      ameliorate severely debilitating tinnitus.
    
  