
    
      This is a multi-centre, two-arm blinded feasibility clinical trial with an embedded
      qualitative study. Following baseline assessment, participants will be randomized (using
      minimization) to either: active vs. sham version of computerised Spatial Inattention Grasping
      Home-based Therapy (c-SIGHT). Randomization and group allocation will be managed and run by
      Norwich Clinical Trials Unit (independent from research team and outcome assessors).
      Participants, carers, outcome assessors, clinical care team and research team will be blinded
      to participant group allocation. Participants allocated to the active intervention c-SIGHT
      group will be required to lift and balance three wooden rods of different lengths. Those in
      the attentional control c-SIGHT group will use the same equipment, but will be required to
      lift the rods from one end only and not attempt to balance them (an attentional control).
      During the first training session a therapist (independent from the outcome assessors) will
      set-up the equipment and train the participant to self-administer the relevant version of
      c-SIGHT independently (i.e., without the presence of a therapist). Following this training
      session, participants will self-administer the training for 10 consecutive days
      (thirty-minute sessions 2 times a day - 'Training phase'). On the last day of the training
      (day 10) the therapist will return to participant's homes to complete a monitoring visit and
      collect equipment. To monitor adherence and therapy compliance the therapist will collect
      photos and videos of the first and last session of the training. A blinded assessor will
      collect outcome assessments at the end of the training phase (T1) and at one-month
      post-training (T2). The post-training (T1) data collection visit will also include one-to-one
      semi-structured interviews with stroke survivor participants and their carers (qualitative
      study).
    
  