
    
      A rare disease is a condition affecting fewer than 200,000 persons. Pediatric patients with
      rare diseases experience high mortality with 30% not living to see their 5th birthday.
      Families are likely to be asked to make complex medical decisions for their child. Pediatric
      advance care planning involves preparation and skill development to help make future medical
      care choices. Children with rare disorders are a heterogeneous group often with
      co-morbidities, resulting in their exclusion from research, thereby creating a health
      disparity for this vulnerable population. Available research on families of children with
      rare diseases lacks scientific rigor. Although desperately needed, there are few empirically
      validated interventions to address these issues. We propose to close a gap in our knowledge
      of families' needs for support in a heterogeneous group of children with rare diseases; and
      to test an advance care planning intervention.

      The FAmily CEntered (FACE) pediatric advance care planning intervention, proven successful
      with cancer and HIV, is adapted to families with children who have rare diseases.
      Theoretically informed and developed by the PI, Dr. Lyon, and colleagues, the proposed
      intervention will use Respecting Choices Next Steps Pediatric Advance Care Planning™ for
      families whose child is unable to participate in health care decision-making. Our
      consultation with families of children with rare disorders and the National Organization for
      Rare Disorders (NORD) revealed that basic palliative care needs should be addressed first,
      before an advance care planning intervention. For the study to be able to meet this request,
      all families randomized to the intervention will first complete the Carer Support Needs
      Assessment Tool (CSNAT)© which our investigative team adapted for use in pediatrics. In the
      CSNAT Approach, facilitators assess caregivers' prioritized palliative care needs and develop
      Shared Action Plans for palliative care support. Thus, we propose an innovative 3-session
      FACE-Rare intervention, integrating two evidence-based approaches. We will evaluate FACE-Rare
      using a scientifically rigorous intent-to-treat, single-blinded, randomized controlled trial
      design. Family/child pairs or dyads (N=30 dyads) will be randomized to FACE-Rare (CSNAT
      Sessions 1 & 2 plus Respecting Choices Sessions 3) or control (Treatment As Usual) groups.
      Both groups will receive palliative care information. All families will complete
      questionnaires at baseline and 3-months follow-up. Investigators will evaluate the initial
      efficacy of FACE-Rare on family quality of life (psychological, spiritual). We will estimate
      how religiousness and caregiver appraisal influence families' quality of life. We will also
      explore health care utilization by the children during the study and family satisfaction.

      If the aims of this pilot trial are achieved, a future, large, multi-site trial will test the
      full theoretical model to improve care for children with rare diseases and their families
      through family engaged pediatric Advance Care Planning. The ultimate goal is to minimize
      suffering and enhance the quality of life of family caregivers of children with rare
      diseases; and through this process to improve the palliative care of their children.
    
  