
    
      At the Centro Hospitalar do Porto (Reference Centre for the treatment of Inherited Metabolic
      Diseases) the annual nutritional status evaluation routinely generates data on anthropometry,
      body composition, blood pressure, nutritional intake and clinical biochemistry. Since 2009,
      all this information is recorded for all the patients with PKU under follow-up.

      For the purpose of this project, data will be collected, from 2009 until 2018, using a
      minimum of 5 annual nutritional status evaluations per patient. The project will be able to
      compare the longitudinal evolution of nutritional status in exclusively diet treated patients
      (period between 2009 and 2014) with a subgroup of patients already under sapropterin
      treatment in the period between 2015 and 2018. Genotype is available for all patients with
      PKU under follow-up at Centro Hospitalar do Porto. However, the decision for starting
      sapropterin treatment was based on the results from a sapropterin-loading test protocol,
      approved in 2014 by the Portuguese Society of Metabolic Disorders (not published).

      For every PKU patient under follow-up at Centro Hospitalar do Porto, the information about
      nutritional intake is recorded in a special file that contains all the diet details collected
      in every appointment. In that way, for the purpose of the annual nutritional status
      evaluation, every PKU patient is submitted to anthropometric and body composition
      evaluations, blood pressure assessment and blood samples collection for completing the
      hematological and biochemical measurements. Also in the same day, at the nutrition
      appointment, a dietary assessment is done, in order to allow further nutrition adjustments
      when needed. This approach allows us to know the precise nutritional ingestion in the period
      before all the measurements.

      Data will be collected from patient databases or patient records. In the period between 2009
      and 2014 there are no treatments or interventions to which the patients can be randomly
      assigned, as no specific treatment is the focus of the project. In the period between 2015
      and 2018, patients will be divided in two groups based on treatment modalities: diet-treated
      only or sapropterin treatment. However, their assignment in each group does not have any
      influence of the project itself. The inclusion in one of the two groups will be decided based
      on the results of the sapropterin loading test done previously within the clinical routine
      protocol. Patients will be identified only by a number and only medical data will be
      collected. No directly or indirectly nominative data will be collected and data will be
      anonymous.
    
  