
    
      The purpose of the study is to evaluate the ability and efficacy of using a
      polarization-enhanced reflectance and fluorescence imaging device, PERFIS, (see the Device
      Brochure) for demarcation of nonmelanoma skin cancer margins prior to surgery. PERFIS is a
      harmless and non-invasive device that has been used to image biological tissue both in vitro
      and in vivo. In this study it will be used to image nonmelanoma skin cancer lesions prior to
      surgery. The use of PERFIS will not affect patient care or treatment decisions in any way. No
      extra tissue will be used for imaging.

      Prior to imaging, the patient's lesion will be prepared, and cleansed per routine aseptic
      technique. Based on visual inspection, the major and minor axes of the tumor will be marked
      exactly at the apparent tumor margins, to ensure unbiased tumor excision. For marking, the
      investigators will use a sterile blue marking pen that will not be visualized in the optical
      polarization images at 440 nm. After marking, the length of the major and minor axes of the
      tumor will be measured using a ruler. A photograph of the tumor (and ruler as a reference
      scale) will be taken. After measuring and photographing, polarized reflectance optical
      imaging using the PERFIS device will be performed.

      Photographs of the PERFIS imaging device are presented in the Device Brochure. During
      imaging, the tumor and surrounding skin will be illuminated by a continuous wave low
      intensity monochromatic light from a non-coherent light source (Xe-arc lamp combined with
      interference filters) at the wavelength of 440 nm, with a power density on the skin of
      approximately 0.4 mW/cm2. This power density is well below standard safety thresholds. No
      other wavelengths or power densities will be utilized in this study. The light illuminator is
      controlled by a shutter which remains closed except during user-controlled image capture.
      Imaging will be initiated once the PERFIS device is positioned on the surface of the
      patient's skin. The shutter opens and closes automatically to facilitate imaging. This
      process ensures light will be transmitted only to the surface of the skin, thus minimizing
      the risk of potential accidental eye exposure. Imaging requires only a few minutes and is
      entirely noninvasive.

      After imaging, local anesthesia will be administered, using 1% lidocaine with epinephrine by
      deep dermal infiltration. The lesion will be prepared and cleansed per routine aseptic
      technique. Surgical excision of the tumor will be performed using standard Mohs technique. A
      regular photograph of the wound bed (and ruler as reference) will be taken. No extra tissue
      will be excised for research imaging purposes.

      The excised tumor lesion will then undergo standard Mohs frozen histopathological preparation
      with Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) staining. Dr. Neel will analyze the histological slides and
      record presence and location of residual tumor cells. He will not utilize the images
      generated by PERFIS for his clinical decision making. After confirming that the excision
      margins are free of tumor cells by histological evaluation, standard post-Mohs protocol will
      be performed.

      This is the first in-human trial of PERFIS collagen imaging to assist in tumor detection.
      Therefore, the investigators plan to acquire a set of qualitative training images that can
      also be subjected to a quasi-quantitative analysis if the device yields potentially valuable
      information for localizing tumor. Forty patients (i.e. 40 tumors) will be imaged
      pre-operatively to assess collagen irregularity or distortion at the operative site. The Mohs
      surgeon will then mark the boundaries of surgical site for excision and a white light image
      of this pre-surgical marking will be captured.

      There are two possible outcomes during histopathological analysis of the tumor sample
      following the first excisional stage of Mohs surgery: either the tumor margins are "clear,"
      meaning no tumor is present at the boundaries of the surgeon's pre-surgical marking, or the
      tumor margins are "positive," meaning that all or some of the surgical margin still has tumor
      present. Residual tumor can be localized topologically to the original tumor specimen so it
      can removed during an additional stage of Mohs excision.

      In the first case of "clear" tumor margins, the surgeon's pre-surgical estimate was
      sufficient and the Mohs procedure is completed. In this situation, PERFIS images of the
      pre-surgical site will be overlain upon the digital images of the surgeon's primary markings
      to determine if collagen distortion was present outside of the surgeon's original markings.
      The presence of collagen distortion beyond the surgeon's original marking would indicate
      failure of PERFIS to provide utility in guiding pre-surgical marking, since PERFIS would
      overestimate the extent of tumor spread at the margins. If collagen distortion lies within
      the pre-surgical marking of the surgeon, this would indicate that PERFIS could be useful in
      guiding pre-surgical marking.

      In the second case of "positive" tumor margins, the PERFIS image will again be overlain upon
      the digital image of the pre-surgical marking by the surgeon. If PERFIS detects collagen
      distortion in the area of tumor positivity such that the surgeon's pre-surgical marking would
      be altered to include more inconspicuous tumor, and hence reduce the need for additional
      excision after histological analysis, then the PERFIS analysis will be graded as successful.
      PERFIS would provide utility in guiding pre-surgical marking in this case.

      There may be areas of the PERFIS image that show distortion in both "normal" margins and in
      areas with histologically-proven tumor. In this case, PERFIS will be graded as a failure
      since extra, normal skin would be sacrificed if the surgeon relied on PERFIS images for
      pre-surgical marking and excision.

      At the conclusion of the study, meaningfulness of the image results and their applicability
      to clinical practice will be discussed, along with the limitations of this subjective
      evaluation. With an image set of 40 cases the investigators will be able to present an
      argument whether further research with this technology is promising and would be of benefit
      to a surgeon for delineating pre-surgical margins prior to excision. A larger, more thorough
      quantitative analysis will be postponed to the next phase of study and development.
    
  