
    
      We will test our hypotheses by recruiting 40 CF children from five CF centers (8 per center)
      across the country. Patients will be randomly assigned to receive treatment with GH (0.3
      mg/kg/wk) during the first 12 months, or during the second 12 months. All subjects will be
      followed every three months for the entire 24 months. Growth data and PFT data from the year
      prior to study will be obtained from the medical record for each subject. Our specific aims
      include:

        1. To determine the effect of GH on height, height velocity, body weight and lean body
           mass. We will measure height and weight using a standardized stadiometer and scale,
           respectively, every three months during the study. From these measurements we will
           calculate height and weight velocity and height and weight Z score. Lean body mass (LBM)
           will be measured by DEXA every six months. Baseline height and weight will be analyzed
           as covariates to determine whether children whose height and/or weight are at the lowest
           percentiles achieve greater improvement in height and weight velocity and lean body
           mass. This specific aim tests the hypothesis that GH significantly improves height,
           height velocity, weight, weight velocity and lean body mass in CF children irrespective
           of growth prior to starting the drug.

        2. To determine the effect of GH on pulmonary function. Pulmonary function tests, including
           FEV1, FVC and PImax and PEmax (for estimation of respiratory muscle strength), will be
           measured at baseline and every 6 months in all subjects. We will document inpatient
           admissions and outpatient antibiotic therapy during the study. Baseline pulmonary
           function will be analyzed as a covariate to determine whether children with good
           pulmonary function achieve greater benefit than children with poor pulmonary function.
           This specific aim tests the hypothesis that GH use improves pulmonary function in CF
           children regardless of level of pulmonary functions prior to using the drug.

        3. To determine if GH use in CF patients positively impacts quality of life. At baseline
           and every six months, we will administer a 15 minute questionnaire to both the parent
           and patient to assess quality of life. These questionnaires entitled "The Cystic
           Fibrosis Questionnaire" have been recently developed and tested for quality. They are
           specific for CF patients and have been approved by the National CF Foundation. This
           specific aim will test the hypothesis that GH use improves quality of life in CF
           patients.

        4. To determine if the clinical improvement obtained from GH use is sustained. Those
           patients treated with GH during the first 12 months will be followed for 12 months after
           treatment to determine if the outcome variables remain better than baseline after growth
           hormone therapy is discontinued. This specific aim tests the hypothesis that GH use
           results in sustained improvement in height velocity, weight velocity, lean body mass,
           pulmonary function and quality of life.
    
  