
    
      The treatment paradigm of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) has been transformed by the introduction
      of nucleoside analogue (NA) therapy. Long-term NA therapy can suppress viral replication,
      improve liver histology, and reduce the risk of liver-related complications and mortality.
      For the large majority of CHB patients, NAs need to be taken long-term, since the occurrence
      of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) seroclearance, the established treatment endpoint of
      CHB, is a rare event. Nonetheless, once HBsAg seroclearance is achieved, virologic
      suppression and improvement in clinical outcomes remain sustained in almost all patients even
      after treatment discontinuation.

      So far, attempts to discontinue NA therapy before HBsAg seroclearance had yielded variable
      results. Concerning hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-negative CHB, prior studies found rates of
      disease relapse to range from 45% to 66% after treatment cessation. A recent multicenter
      prospective study involving three Hong Kong institutes (including our center) and 184
      patients found the 48-week cumulative rate of virologic relapse to be 91.4%. While variations
      in relapse rates could be explained by the difference in study design and definition of
      endpoints, an important factor which could play a role is the serum HBsAg level of recruited
      subjects.

      The quantification of serum HBsAg has recently been advocated as a marker of disease
      monitoring for CHB [10]. Low levels of serum HBsAg are associated with good immune control of
      the hepatitis B virus (HBV), with serum HBsAg levels of 100-200 IU/mL being predictive of
      eventual HBsAg seroclearance in treatment-naïve CHB. Nonetheless , in the abovementioned
      multicenter prospective study, only 4.8% and 14.1% of study subjects had HBsAg levels <100
      IU/mL or <200 IU/mL at the point of treatment cessation - which could explain the study's
      high rate of disease relapse. In contrast, in another study of retrospective nature which
      found a lower relapse rate of 66%, 27.6% of patients had HBsAg levels <200 IU/mL at treatment
      cessation.

      Although HBsAg seroclearance is the established treatment endpoint of CHB, patients would
      still have low amounts of intrahepatic HBV DNA. Moreover, HBsAg seroclearance via a
      conventional assay (HBsAg <0.05 IU/mL) does not mean absence of serum HBsAg, but merely serum
      HBsAg at undetectable levels. Using more sensitive assays, detectable HBsAg can be found in
      29.1% to 53.2% of such patients. So despite the continued presence of HBV, the off-treatment
      durability of HBsAg seroclearance would suggest for treatment cessation, viral replication
      and viral protein production do not need to be totally absent, but at sufficiently low
      amounts to permit successful host immune control.

      Hence, a relevant clinical question would be:

        1. How low must serum HBsAg be for successful off-treatment durability? Must the "magic
           figure" of 0.05 IU/mL be reached? Or could an HBsAg level in the >0.05 - 200 IU/mL range
           be sufficient? This could have implications in drug budgeting. According to data
           retrieved from the Clinical Data and Analysis Reporting System (CDARS), Hospital
           Authority, NA prescription headcount in 2014 reached 36,287 prescriptions, with an
           estimated total drug expenditure of 381 million Hong Kong dollars. A finite duration of
           therapy for certain patients could help in the reduction of drug expenditure.

           Other clinical questions include:

        2. Could a longer duration of NA therapy enhance the success of off-treatment durability?
           For many available therapy cessation studies, the mean NA therapy duration was
           approximately 1.5-3 years. There is emerging evidence demonstrating intrahepatic
           covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) could actually decrease profoundly after more
           than 5 years of NA therapy ; a low intrahepatic HBV cccDNA level could be the key to
           successful off-treatment durability.

        3. Is there any clinical factor that can reliably predict off-treatment virologic relapse?
           A potential novel marker is the hepatitis B core-related antigen (HBcrAg), which detects
           an identical amino-acid sequence shared by HBeAg, hepatitis B core antigen and 22 kDa
           precore protein . Serum HBcrAg levels reflect the level of HBV disease activity [15],
           predict the occurrence of liver-related complications , and also correlate well with
           intrahepatic HBV cccDNA levels , the master intrahepatic reservoir for the production of
           HBV virions. Low levels of HBcrAg could reflect low levels of intrahepatic HBV cccDNA,
           meaning a better chance of maintaining off-treatment durability.

      Aims and Hypotheses to be Tested:

      Primary:

        1. To determine the optimal HBsAg level for cessation of NA therapy in CHB

           Secondary:

        2. To determine the rate of virologic relapse in after treatment cessation in CHB patients
           with serum HBsAg levels ≤200 IU/mL

        3. To determine the role of serum HBcrAg in predicting virologic relapse after treatment
           cessation.

      Study Design We propose a prospective observational study following the STROBE guidelines in
      which we will follow-up study subjects after cessation of NA for 48 weeks. HBsAg-positive
      patients from our clinic taking either entecavir or tenofovir therapy will be tested for
      HBsAg levels and screened for study eligibility. Those with serum HBsAg levels <200 IU/mL and
      fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria listed above will be seen by one of the study
      investigators, who would explain the study objectives and offer the option of treatment
      discontinuation.

      All enrolled study subjects, after cessation of therapy, will be evaluated at baseline, week
      6, 12, 18, 24, 36 and 48, with liver biochemistry, alpha-fetoprotein, HBV DNA, HBsAg and
      HBcrAg levels determined at each clinic visit. A regular 6-week follow-up will be in place
      for the first 24 weeks, since approximately 75% of all virologic relapse occurs in the first
      24 weeks - the regular monitoring will allow detection of relapse at an early stage. In
      addition, a dedicated research assistant will follow-up all study subjects and assist on all
      monitoring logistics. A telephone hotline will be provided to all study subjects if they have
      any additional queries.

      For every HBV DNA measurement of >2,000 IU/mL, as second HBV DNA will be measured after 2
      weeks. The primary outcome of the study will be virologic relapse, defined as serum HBV DNA
      >2,000 IU/mL in both 2 measurements of 2 weeks apart, regardless of serum ALT levels, in
      which the original NA (entecavir or tenofovir) will be recommenced. We chose HBV DNA >2,000
      IU/mL as the threshold for restarting NA as this is the level in which CHB patients would
      need to be considered for treatment.

      Secondary outcomes of the study include:

        1. HBV DNA <200 IU/mL at week 48

        2. Undetectable HBV DNA (<20 IU/mL) at week 48

        3. HBsAg seroclearance (<0.05 IU/mL) at week 48

      NA treatment could also be resumed at the discretion of the study investigators based on
      special clinical consideration, e.g. the sudden diagnosis of malignancy requiring
      chemotherapy. Patients will be always given the option of dropping out from the study;
      nonetheless we do not expect a high dropout rate (3.3% in our previous study).
    
  