
    
      Short Bowel Syndrome (SBS) is a condition that results from a host of different conditions,
      the most common of which is Necrotizing Enterocolitis. Patients who have SBS are often Total
      Parenteral Nutrition (TPN) dependent. TPN is a carefully formulated intravenous nutrition
      that is utilized either alone or in conjunction with gastrointestinal feeds in patients who
      fail to achieve adequate caloric intake enterally. According to the American Society of
      Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition, 360,000 hospital visits required usage of TPN in 2009.
      Short and long-term use of TPN is associated with catheter infections, cholestasis, liver
      failure, refeeding-syndrome, hyperglycemia, bone demineralization, and death (1). Thus
      careful and comprehensive monitoring of patients on TPN, especially after hospital discharge
      is essential (1-3). Some hospitals have introduced resource intensive support teams
      consisting of various health care professionals to manage these costly patients (1).

      Using a variety of definitions, the incidence of SBS has been estimated at approximately 0.02
      to 0.1 percent among all live births (4, 5), 0.5 to 2.0 percent among neonatal intensive care
      unit (NICU) admissions (4, 5), and 0.7 percent among very low birthweight infants (6).
      Approximately 80 percent of pediatric SBS cases develop during the neonatal period.

      The average cost of care in the US for a single pediatric patient with SBS is $550,250 +/-
      $248, 398 for the first year of care alone (7). These costs were attributable to prolonged
      requirements for intensive care resources, numerous surgical procedures, multiple
      readmissions, TPN and home care during the first year of diagnosis. Interestingly, Spencer et
      al. suggested that hospital-based costs steadily declined in subsequent years, but home-care
      services increased every year for the first 5 y of diagnosis (7). This increasing cost was
      attributable to increasing complications of TPN, especially infectious complications
      (something our application will specifically try to identify). The mean total cost of care
      per child over a 5-y period was US$1,619,851 +/- US$1,028,985 (7).

      At Cardinal Glenon, a significant amount of time (about 10 hours per week) is spent by nurses
      calling these patients. This automated system will allow nurses to spend a portion of these
      10 hours performing other activities, significantly reducing the costs attributed to SBS
      patients. Also, most of the mothers of patients who have SBS are between the ages of 15-30.
      This generation of millennials often have an aversion to phone calls and prefer texts [8].
      Text- messages can be answered at a convenient time for the parent while the parent must be
      present and available to answer a phone call. Multiple prior text message or application
      intervention studies have reported high response rates, high satisfaction, and improvement in
      outcomes (9-12). For example, Devitto et al. reported that the estimated odds of reporting
      critical care symptoms of application group was 8.9 times that of control and showed slightly
      higher adherence to the prescribed regimen (OR 1.64, 95% CI [1.01, 2.66]) (9). Martinez et
      al. reported that 16 patients would have returned to the hospital without photos of surgical
      sites prompting health care team intervention (12). Our automated texting system may improve
      response rates from these young parents.

      For this project, the investigators will be examining the effect of an Epharmix text
      messaging intervention on identifying potentially dangerous and re-admission causing symptoms
      with SBS patients on TPN.
    
  