
    
      Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) occurs secondary to carbohydrate intolerance in
      pregnancy. Screening of GDM occurs between 24 to 28 weeks gestation by a screening 1-hour 50g
      glucose challenge test and confirmed with a 100g 3-hour fasting glucose tolerance test. In
      the study team's practice, once a patient is diagnosed with GDM, they are enrolled in the
      Diabetes in Pregnancy program, undergo nutritional education, diabetes education and have
      their care overseen by a Maternal-Fetal Medicine specialist. They are instructed to check
      their fingerstick blood glucose four times daily, every day. There is insufficient evidence
      to determine the ideal frequency and timing of glucose monitoring in patients diagnosed with
      GDM and no absolute guidelines put in place by the American College of Obstetricians and
      Gynecologists. In 2017, a randomized control trial was performed by Menedez-Figeroa et al,
      showing non inferiority in patients diagnosed with GDM who were instructed to perform every
      other day (4 time daily) glucose monitoring versus daily (4 times daily) glucose monitoring
      with their primary outcome being a 5% change in birthweight between groups at delivery. The
      study team aims to confirm non inferiority on the patient population on the effects of daily
      (4x daily) versus every other day (4x daily) glucose monitoring in all patients diagnosed
      with GDM with the primary outcome being a 0% difference in birth weight. The study team will
      be enrolling approximately 300 patients. If a patient is enrolled in the study, there will be
      no excursion from normally scheduled visits (including follow ups), medications regimens, or
      procedure (including ultrasounds). They will remain in the Diabetes in Pregnancy program
      throughout their pregnancy. Participants will be enrolled at the first visit with the high
      risk doctor, and they will be asked to perform standard (4x daily) fingerstick monitoring, or
      every other day fingerstick monitoring (4x daily, every other day). Data collected from the
      patient (including labs, and fingerstick glucose values) will not be exclusively for research
      purposes, and will be collected as a routine part of the patients care
    
  