
    
      Obesity, pre-diabetes, and diabetes are related diseases that are reaching epidemic
      proportions in the United States. In order to ultimately control health care costs,
      employers, private payers and public payers must address this issue with models that
      effectively identify individuals with these conditions and aggressively intervene to improve
      compliance with evidence-based care standards.

      Project NOT ME leverages a proven model that drives earlier identification, improved
      individual compliance, better health outcomes, and lower costs for the consumer, the payer
      and plan sponsors. More specifically, Project NOT ME provides a solution by offering
      pre-diabetic participants access to a virtual program that includes a reality TV show, an
      electronic scale and trackers. Project NOT ME is an evidence-based intervention that follows
      the National Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP). It is designed to enact lifestyle changes
      that result in a safe reduction in weight, and a reduction in conversion to full blown type-2
      diabetes.

      Project NOT ME is divided in two parts --

        1. Program: For the first 20 weeks, participants work to become more aware of the food they
           eat, and the amount of exercise they are getting. The Video on Demand episodes educate
           participants on strategies that are proven to help them make better food choices, and
           find time in their lives to be more active. During the core program, participants will:

             -  Weigh themselves every week using a program-provided electronic scale that
                automatically records their weight and sends to the study team

             -  Log all the food they eat and all the exercise they are getting in a tracker

             -  Watch 16 episodes of a captivating reality based TV show that highlights 6 adults
                participating in the Diabetes Prevention Program.

             -  Review weekly online episode summaries.

        2. Maintenance Sessions: For the next 32 weeks, participants will practice what they
           learned in the Core Sessions, continue to track food and exercise, and have access to
           the television episodes.
    
  