
    
      Standard initial treatment of ovarian cancer patients includes both surgery and chemotherapy
      which in the vast majority of cases achieves the disappearance of ovarian cancer lesions.
      This status, called "clinical remission" which means having no evidence of cancer on CT scan
      or physical examination needs to be carefully follow up in order to confirm the maintenance
      of the remission status or to early detect if the cancer grows again and then start a new
      chemotherapy. At present, no approved therapies exist for the maintenance treatment of
      patients who achieved the clinical remission.

      This trial aims to evaluate if the repeated vaccination with Abagovomab creates an
      immunoresponse which is able to fight the cancer cells thus keeping the remission status as
      long as possible and help patients live disease-free and longer.

      Patients who achieve the remission status after chemotherapy will be screened for study
      participation and if they meet the criteria for inclusion they will start to receive a single
      subcutaneous injection every 2 weeks (for the first 4 doses - induction phase) and then every
      4 weeks (maintenance phase). The duration of treatment is up to approximately 4 years or it
      will be stopped in case relapse occurs.

      In order to evaluate the real benefit of vaccination, the experimental treatment includes
      Abagovomab (the active drug) or placebo (the vehicle only, without drug), with a double
      chance to receive Abagovomab. Assignment of Abagovomab or placebo will be done by a
      computerised system and nobody in the study will know which treatment has been allocated
      until study end.

      Patients will be visited every 4 weeks and will undergo CT scan of pelvis and abdomen every
      12 weeks in order to confirm the remission status or to early detect if relapse eventually
      occurs. This will be done in blind condition (i.e. without being aware which treatment the
      patient is going to receive) for the first part of the study which is expected to last four
      years. After then the overall status of patient will continue to be monitored by phone
      contact for additional five years.
    
  