
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive Pegasys through
      a needle under the skin 1 time each week while you are on study. You will be taught how to
      use the study drug at the first visit and will administer it to yourself at all future doses.

      You will continue receiving the TKI you are already taking at the dose and frequency you have
      been receiving it when you began taking part in this study.

      Study Visits:

      At every study visit, you will be asked about any side effects you may have had and to list
      any drugs you may be taking.

      Every 1-2 weeks for 8 weeks, then every 6-8 weeks after that, blood (about 1-2 teaspoons)
      will be drawn for routine tests.

      Every 3 months for 6 months, then every 6-12 months after that, you will have a complete
      physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

      Every 3-6 months for 1 year, you will have a bone marrow aspirate to check the status of the
      disease and to check for changes in your chromosomes.

      Every 3-6 months for 1 year, then every 6-12 months after that, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will
      be drawn to check the levels of leukemia in the blood.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking Pegasys for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best interest.
      You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable
      side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      This is an investigational study. Pegasys is FDA approved and commercially available for the
      treatment of CML. TKIs (imatinib, nilotinib, and dasatinib) are FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of CML. The combination of these drugs to treat CML is
      investigational.

      Up to 50 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  