
    
      Parkinson's Disease (PD) affects about 1 million individuals in the United States. In
      addition to the typical motor dysfunction, PD also affects cognition and vision, even in
      early stages of the disease, impairing instrumental activities of daily living such as
      driving. Reduced cognitive speed of processing, or bradyphrenia, strongly contributes to
      cognitive decline in PD. Recent research has demonstrated that interventions can enhance
      cognitive speed of processing, protect against further cognitive decline, and improve the
      everyday functioning of relatively healthy, older adults. However, the potential of such
      training techniques to enhance cognitive functions among subpopulations with different
      disease states, such as PD, has not been thoroughly investigated. The proposed study will
      further examine the feasibility and test the efficacy of a well-established cognitive
      training tool among individuals in the early stages of PD who have not been diagnosed with
      dementia. A variety of factors have been found to influence cognitive performance among
      persons with PD and may moderate their ability to benefit from cognitive training such as age
      at disease onset, disease duration, manifestation, severity, and medication use as well as
      concomitant depression. These factors along with demographic variables will be evaluated as
      moderators of training benefit. Baseline cognitive assessments will be completed among
      seventy-five individuals with PD who will be randomized to cognitive training or a
      treatment-delayed control condition. The efficacy of training to immediately enhance
      cognitive functioning will be evaluated through a post-training (or equivalent delay)
      assessment. Disease and demographic factors that may impact the efficacy of cognitive
      training for persons with PD will be examined in relation to training gains. Considering that
      cognitive function among individuals with PD is a strong predictor of everyday functioning
      and subsequent need for long term care, enhancing cognitive function of individuals with PD
      through training has great potential to prolong such persons' productivity, independence, and
      quality of life. The information gained from this study will be useful for identifying
      individuals with PD who are most likely to benefit from cognitive training as well as the
      development, refinement, and implementation of appropriate cognitive interventions for this
      population.
    
  