
    
      The investigators are proposing a randomized clinical and social scientific trial comparing
      outcomes among women with cardiovascular disease into 2 treatment groups: (1) conventional
      general cardiology outpatient programme; (2) gender-tailored women's heart health outpatient
      programme consisting of general cardiologist, advanced practice nurse, dietician,
      physiotherapist and occupational therapist. Participants will include consecutive women
      admitted to NUH for general cardiology problems and those attending general cardiology
      clinics. Women requiring sub-specialty care (eg valve clinic, pulmonary hypertension clinic,
      congenital heart clinic) will be excluded. The investigators will randomly assign 150 women
      to a control group (where only the biomedical variables will be measured throughout the
      course of a year's time) and 150 to an experimental group (where the biomedical variables
      will be measured in addition to the participants' involvement in interviews, focus groups,
      and prospective workshops based on expressed needs). Randomization will occur through the
      consent process and after the participant is assigned to a group, the full involvement will
      be explained. If randomized into the experimental group, the participant will be asked to
      give consent for participation in one-on-one interviewing, focus group discussions, and the
      forthcoming health promotion strategies that are developed based on the data collected. There
      will be minimal risk involved in all of these intervention components since the investigators
      are involving our participants throughout the development process for any future
      intervention.

      In order to develop the cultured-centred approach/processes for the women heart health
      programme, the investigators will begin by forming an advisory board comprising of the women
      patients, nurses, as well as providers. The advisory board will comprise of 8 members (4
      patients, 2 nurses, 2 doctors). The advisory board will meet in the first month of the
      project and will subsequently meet every two months. Based on the inputs of the advisory
      board and the objectives established by the board, the research team will develop a design
      for conducting in-depth interviews with 20 patients (each in-depth interview will take 60 to
      90 minutes). The interviews will take place from month 2 to month 4. The advisory team will
      then analyze interview data and in collaboration with NUS Communication and New Media design
      team, materialized health-promoting strategies into workshops, to be conducted as part of the
      intervention programme. Additionally, on the basis of the interview data six workshops will
      be conducted in groups of 4 to develop health promoting strategies and tactics. The NUS
      Communication and New Media (CNM) design team will collaborate with the workshop participants
      to develop and implement the tactics. The workshops and material development will take place
      in months 4 through month 6 of the project.

      Once the strategies and tactics have been developed, a baseline survey will be conducted with
      150 women in the CCA experimental group and 150 women in the control group. For the
      experimental group only, we will be conducting semi-structured short interviews. Additionally
      the following clinical assessments will occur for both the experimental and control groups at
      baseline and the 12 month visit: change in cardiovascular risk markers (lipids, fasting
      glucose, waist circumference, body-mass-index, blood pressure, hs-CRP, NT-proBNP, body fat
      analysis), vascular reactivity (endoPAT), and arterial stiffness measurement, quality of life
      (SF-36 Health Survey), depression (Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale) and
      Duke activity status index. The patients' cardiovascular risk markers (Cr, Hba1C, Lipid panel
      or any other routing blood tests depending on physician), ordered as part of standard care
      will be recorded as well. Patients will be followed for 12 months for recurrent
      hospitalizations and deaths. Once the participants join the study, if randomized into the
      experimental group, they will be required to participate in one of the following activities:
      one-on-one interview, focus group, or joining the advisory board. The control group will only
      participate in the clinical assessments and a baseline interview (administration of
      questionnaires).

      The investigators believe that health interventions should be developed from a grassroots
      approach incorporating the opinions and advice of the target population themselves. For the
      experimental group, they will be participating in the development of a heart health
      intervention based by sharing their experiences through our interviews, focus groups, and
      advisory board. The investigators believe that focusing on the voices and expertise of the
      population to develop an effective intervention will result in improved health outcomes for
      our experimental group. In order to understand to what extent, the investigators plan to
      compare both the biomedical and social scientific measures of the experimental group to the
      control group. Any intervention materials will of course be made available to the control
      group after the study is complete.
    
  