
    
      Hypersensitivity reactions to wine have been rarely reported in the literature, and they are
      mainly attributed to grape proteins [1], biogenic amines, salicylates, sulfites or yeast
      [2,3]. However, wine production traditionally involves fining, during which some ingredients
      such as tannins are removed by co-precipitation with proteins derived from milk (casein,
      potassium caseinate), egg (ovalbumin, lysozyme), fish (isinglass) or shrimp (chitosan). These
      proteins are derived from animal sources which are known to play a role in food allergy. This
      is an increasingly prevalent health problem in Western countries [4,5] and it may manifest
      itself as life-threatening anaphylactic shock in the presence of only traces of the allergen.
      Recently, the safety for wine-fining agents derived from milk, fish and egg was established
      [6]. However, for chitosan, no studies of its safety as a fining agent in allergic patients
      were performed until now. Chitosan is used as fining agent by the mead and wine industry
      because of its electrostatic positive charge. Chitosan is obtained by the deacetylation of
      Chitin [C8H13NO5N]n , a derivative of glucose, and one of the most common polymers found in
      nature. It is the main component of the cell walls of some fungi, the exoskeletons of
      arthropods such as crustaceans and insects, the radulae of mollusks, and the beaks of
      cephalopods, including squid and octopuses [7].

      Seafood plays an important role in human nutrition and health, and Portugal is the European
      country with the second highest consumption [4]. The prevalence of crustacean allergy seems
      to vary largely between geographical locations, but it seems common in Portugal [8]. The
      major shellfish allergen is tropomyosin although other allergens may play an important part
      in allergenicity. The possibility of allergic reactions attributed to traces of chitosan used
      as a fining agent in wine has not been ruled out, particularly in shrimp allergic patients to
      whom small traces of the potential allergen may be enough to trigger anaphylactic reactions.
      Our aim is, therefore, to establish the safety of wine containing chitosan in patients who
      are severely allergic to shrimp [9].

      Potential Risks Several studies published in the literature have evaluated the safety of skin
      tests, but mostly using commercial extracts. Prick-tests to native foods, called
      prick-to-prick tests, have been less extensively studied. The CICBAA1 data, from 1,138 food
      allergic patients of all ages, cover 34,905 prick-to-prick tests to foods. The risk of
      systemic reactions was evaluated at 0.008% [10, 11]. The negative predictive accuracy for
      skin prick testing to foods is uniformly high. A negative skin test confirms the absence of
      an IgE-mediated reaction with 90 to 95% accuracy [12,13]. Therefore, skin testing is highly
      useful for excluding IgE-mediated food allergy.

      However, when positive, these tests, which evaluate sensitization and not clinical allergy,
      are not without pitfalls, and their results must be confirmed by an oral challenge to avoid
      over- and under diagnosis.

      The double-blind, placebo-controlled, oral food challenge (DBPCFC) is considered the gold
      standard for diagnosing food allergy and it is preferred for research purposes [14]. The
      overall level of risk associated with food challenges has been examined. A retrospective
      series reviewed 584 OFCs performed in children who were estimated to have a ≤50% risk of
      reaction. Forty-three percent of the challenges were positive. Thirty-nine percent of the
      reactions were mild, 33% moderate, and 28% severe. The type and incidence of the different
      reactions were cutaneous (78%), gastrointestinal (43%), oral (26%), lower respiratory (26%),
      and upper respiratory (25%). No patients had cardiovascular symptoms [15].

      Participants with positive and negative skin tests will proceed to oral challenge, as
      sensitization does not have a linear correlation with clinical allergy. Although the risk of
      a positive reaction to oral challenge with finned wine with chitosan is very low (severe
      seafood allergy is usually mediated by major shellfish allergen tropomyosin, not present in
      chitosan), for safety purposes the challenges will be performed in an appropriate setting,
      with CPR support available, medication and a doctor present at all times.

      Potential Benefits It will allow for patients with shellfish allergy to be informed if they
      can safely ingest this wine. Furthermore, it will be needed as a public health measure as
      this information could be included in the wine labels.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      To investigate the safety of chitosan, as wine fining agent, in patients with severe allergy
      to shrimp.

      Primary Outcome: Result of a DBPCFC with chitosan fined wine.
    
  