
    
      This is an open label, single-centre, pilot study for Radiosensitization of Everolimus with
      external beam radiotherapy to the liver for metastatic neuroendocrine tumors The study will
      have 2 safety run-in dose levels: 2.5mg and 5mg Everolimus PO daily. Two patients will be
      enrolled into the 2.5mg dose level and 2 patients enrolled into the 5mg dose level. However,
      only one patient can start the safety run-in doses at a time. For the safety run-in dose
      levels, if no serious adverse events related to Everolimus occur within 30 days of the first
      dose of radiation therapy (in combination with Everolimus) in one patient, then the next
      patient can start study drug. The same criteria applies for the first 4 patients (2 patients
      on 2.5mg PO daily and 2 patients on 5 mg PO daily).

      If no serious adverse events related to Everolimus occur in the fourth patient at 5mg PO
      daily within 30 days of the first dose of radiation therapy (in combination with Everolimus),
      more than one patient can then be enrolled at one time at the target dose of 7.5mg PO daily.
      Ten patients will be enrolled at 7.5mg PO daily.

      For all patients, Everolimus starts 30 days prior to radiation and continues throughout
      radiation and for 14 days post radiation. Patients will receive Everolimus for 14 days post
      treatment only; as this pilot is designed to assess the combined effect of radiation and
      Everolimus.

      All patients will receive external-beam radiotherapy (30Gy in 10 fractions) or SBRT (up to
      60Gy in 3-5 fractions given on alternating weekdays over 1-2 weeks). The decision to treat
      with either external-beam radiotherapy or SBRT will be based on whether the lesions are
      amenable to SBRT (preferred treatment), which is determined by the size of the target lesion,
      liver sparing and organs-at-risk dose constraints. The prescription dose of external-beam
      radiotherapy and SBRT will similarly be determined by these factors.
    
  