
    
      Low back pain (LBP) is one of the most frequent ailments in industrialized countries, with a
      lifetime prevalence of more than 70%, and is responsible for a major portion of work
      absenteeism. Measuring disability is important in LBP. First, as an outcome measure, it is an
      important indicator of the quality of life of the patient. The Oswestry Disability Index
      (ODI) and the Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ) have emerged as the most commonly
      recommended condition specific outcome measures for spinal disorders.

      The development of the ODI was initiated by John O'Brien in 1976. The index was designed as a
      measure for both assessment and outcome on patients with low back pain. The questionnaire can
      be completed in less than 5 minutes and scored in less than 1 minute. Version 1.0 of the
      questionnaire was published in 1980 and widely disseminated after the 1981 meeting of the
      International Society for The Study of the Lumbar Spine (ISSLS) in Paris. A new ODI version
      was adapted in 1989 by the Chiropractic College in England. The American Academy of
      Orthopedic Surgeons and other spine associations adapted the ODI 1.0 version in 1996 omitting
      categories 1, 8 and 9. This version is included in the assessment protocol proposed by the
      Musculoskeletal Outcomes Data Evaluation and Management System (MODEMS), which brings
      together the main international spine associations. Version 2.0 was modified by the Medical
      Research Council Group in the UK in 1996 (16) and they omitted the word "painkillers" in the
      first category. Version 2.1a is the most recent and recommended by its author. In this
      version a section called previous treatment appears, which is not taken into account for
      scoring. The score can be obtained for its clinical use after permission at:
      http://www.mapi-trust.org/.

      The RMDQ is a health status measure designed to be completed by patients to assess physical
      disability due to low back pain. It was designed for use in research (e.g., as an outcome
      measure for clinical trials) but has also been found useful for monitoring patients in
      clinical practice. Was derived from the Sickness Impact Profile (SIP), which is a 136 item
      health status measure covering all aspects of physical and mental function. Twenty four items
      were selected from the SIP by the original authors. It is simple, fast, and can be filled out
      by the patient. The patient must mark each item that applies to his or her current LBP.
      Scoring is also simple and fast; each checked item receives a score of 1, so scores range
      between 0 (no disability caused by LBP) and 24 (the maximum possible disability). To date
      only one version has been translated to Spanish and was published in 2002 by Kovacks FM, et
      al.
    
  