
    
      The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Abobotulinum
      Toxin Type A (Dysport) injection and Neubotulinum Toxin Type A (Neuronox) Injection for
      Hemifacial Spasm. The secondary objective of the study was to evaluate the quality of life of
      Abobotulinum Toxin Type A (Dysport) and Neubotulinum Toxin Type A (Neuronox) Injection for
      Hemifacial Spasm.

      120 patients diagnosed with Hemifacial Spasm were planned to be enrolled into the study.
      Total of 120 patients planed to be and randomized.

      Efficacy criteria:

      Primary efficacy variable: Comparesion of pre- and post- treatment after 12 and 24 week scale
      with 33.33 unit of Neubotulinum Toxin Type A (Neuronox) and 100 unit of Abobotulinum Toxin
      Type A (Dysport); as following

        1. 24 hours HFS diary record for 12 week after treatment Time to peak improvement, response
           duration period, Total intensity score per day, duration of facial muscle spasm (hour
           per day) and duration of functional impairment (hour per day) record for 12 week after
           each treatment will be assessed

        2. Hemifacial Spasm- 30 Questionnaire (Thai version). Seven subscales (30 items). Mobility
           (5 items), activity of daily living (5 items) and communication (3 items) are classified
           as physical health domain. Emotional well-being (7 items), stigma (4 items), social
           support (3 items) and cognition (3 items) are classified as mental health domain

        3. Abnormal involuntary movement scale (AIMS) (Thai version) Rating sacle of the severity
           of movements in 7 regions, each on a 5 points scale and a separate rating of the overall
           severity of the abnormal movements, judged on the amplitude of movements, incapacitation
           postures and positions, including sitting in chair, opening the mouth, tapping the thumb
           against each finger, holding the hand out stretched and standing and walking, are
           included. Dental status is also rated, as the presence or absence of problems with teeth
           or dentures.

      Secondary efficacy variables: : Comparesion of pre- and post- treatment after 12 and 24 week
      scale with 50 unit of Neubotulinum Toxin Type A (Neuronox) and 250 unit of Abobotulinum Toxin
      Type A (Dysport); as following

        1. 36-item questionnaire and comprises eight domains: Physical functioning (PF), Role
           limitations due to physical health (RP), Role limitations due to emotional problems(RE),
           Vitality (VT), Mental health (MH), Social functioning (SF), Bodily pain (BP), General
           health (GH)

        2. Center of Epidemiologic study -Depression scale (CES-D)

        3. Patient health Questionnaire - 9 item (PHQ-9)

        4. The investigator's /patient's global assessment of change (GAC) Safety criteria: The
           assessment of safety and tolerability were based mainly on the frequency of adverse
           events.
    
  