
    
      BACKGROUND: Delayed umbilical cord clamping as well as immediate skin-to-skin contact between
      mother and newborn are emerging practices due to documented benefits for the mother-child
      binomial. The American Academy of Pediatrics, through the neonatal resuscitation program,
      considers that late clamping should be a common practice in all healthy babies, but in the
      case of a baby at risk, it recommends cutting the umbilical cord early and treating newborn
      on radiant warmer for resuscitation. Caesarean birth is considered a risk factor.

      In Mexico and in many other countries early contact, skin to skin between the mother and
      child in Cesarean sections, is not common.

      The World Health Organization (WHO), among multiple strategies to promote breastfeeding,
      promotes skin-to-skin contact at birth, that is: "to place babies with their mothers since
      birth minimal an hour or until the baby has been fed to the mother's breast". Different
      publications has determined that the ideal period to strengthen breastfeeding corresponds to
      the first minutes of life and does not go beyond the first 2 hours. Because it is usual to
      take care of the baby in radiant warmer, away from his mother, in caesarean sections, these
      recommendations are generally not met.

      Searching the benefit of delayed cut of the umbilical cord, researchers began placing healthy
      babies in their mother's chest, even in cesarean deliveries, thus generating immediate
      skin-to-skin contact and incidentally an increase in the frequency of breastfeeding during
      the first six months, so a protocol was initiated to compare the morbidity and mortality of
      this technique in relation to traditional care (immediate cut of the umbilical cord and
      separation mother-child) and follow-up of babies at least six months to register the form of
      breastfeeding.

      MATERIAL AND METHODS: Pilot study. All healthy mother-neonates binomials, obtained by
      caesarean section by the same medical team in 3 private hospitals, born between January 2015
      and August 2017 in Villahermosa, Tabasco, Mexico followed for a minimum of 6 months in the
      private consultation were included. They were compared with an equal number of historical
      binomials, attended by the same medical team under the traditional technique and with the
      same follow-up time. The variables in this group were collected from their files.

      By protocol of the medical group in both groups, it was encouraged to carry out an adequate
      program of exclusive breastfeeding, as marked by the World Health Organization consisting of
      starting breastfeeding in the first hour of life, that the Infant only received breast milk
      excluding other beverages such as water, teas or food, that breastfeeding was made on demand,
      as often as the child wanted both day and night and no bottles or pacifiers were used during
      his hospital stay.

      The statistical evaluation included univariate analysis with frequencies and proportions for
      qualitative variables, measures of central tendency and dispersion for qualitative variables.
      In the bivariate analysis, X2 (or Fisher's Exact test) and Student's t (or Mann Whitney U)
      were used, as appropriate.
    
  