
    
      -  Pretreatment, a complete history and physical examination to include performance status,
           weight and concurrent non-malignant disease and therapy will be done before starting
           treatment. Prior surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy details will be noted.

        -  Prior to the initiation of treatment, laboratory studies should include a CBC with
           differential cell count, platelet count, urinalysis, complete metabolic profile,
           magnesium and electrocardiogram. A baseline imaging study of the tumor will be
           performed. Other X-rays will be done as clinically indicated.

        -  Physical examination, performance status and toxicity recording will be done before each
           course of therapy.

        -  During the study, patients will be followed with complete blood count (CBC),
           differential and platelet counts on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Chemistries will also be
           performed before each course within a 3 day leeway prior to treatment. Clinical
           schedules will be considered when scheduling patients for treatment, specimen collection
           and processing, and specimen shipment.

        -  Measureable and evaluable disease will be evaluated by the same imaging studies done at
           baseline and every 2 courses thereafter to determine tumor response.

        -  For patients on warfarin, International Normalized Ration (INR) testing will be
           performed prior to the first cycle, weekly during the first cycle, and then prior to day
           one for subsequent cycles if the INR is in an acceptable range during the first cycle.
           If the INR has not been in an acceptable range during the first cycle, the INR will be
           monitored weekly until the value is stable on three consecutive measurements one week
           apart.

        -  Since Sorafenib is a competitive inhibitor of cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 3A4 (CYP3A4)
           patients will be assessed each cycle for medications or changes in diet that would
           affect CYP3A4 metabolism.
    
  