
    
      In this study, a maximum of 6 dose levels (cohorts) were planned for daily oral
      administration of PHI-101. Subjects who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria of this study
      will be enrolled in each cohort and assessed for safety and tolerability after administering
      PHI-101 to determine the MTD. Subjects will be enrolled sequentially starting from the
      low-dose cohort, and DLT will be assessed for the first 28 days (Cycle 1) after the first
      dose of PHI-101. Before DLT is assessed in a specific cohort, enrolling a subsequent subject
      in the next higher dose cohort will not be allowed.

      According to the accelerated 3+3 design, the accelerated dose escalation scheme, which
      assesses DLT in 1 subject in each cohort ('single subject cohort'), is applied until toxicity
      (ADRs) related to PHI-101 ≥ [CTCAE version 5.0] grade 2 occurs. If ADRs ≥ grade 2 do not
      occur in 1 subject, DLT can be assessed in one level higher cohort according to the SRC's
      recommendation. If an ADR ≥ grade 2 occurs in a specific cohort, the accelerated 3+3 design
      will be immediately switched to the standard 3+3 scheme, and 2 additional subjects will be
      enrolled in that cohort (1 subject + 2 additional subjects) to assess DLT during 1 cycle.

      After switching to the standard 3+3 scheme, 3 to 6 subjects will be enrolled in each cohort.
      If no DLT is observed in the first 3 subjects, DLT can be assessed in one level higher cohort
      according to the SRC's recommendation. If DLT is observed in 1 out of 3 subjects (DLT: 1/3
      subject), that cohort will be expanded to 6 subjects by enrolling 3 additional subjects. If 2
      out of 3 to 6 subjects experience DLT (DLT: 2/3 to 6 subjects), this means that the MTD is
      exceeded. Thus, additional enrollment will be ended for that cohort. The one level lower
      cohort will expand to 6 subjects (If 6 subjects were already enrolled in that cohort,
      additional enrollment is unnecessary).

      A subject not evaluable for DLT (withdrawal for reasons other than AEs or ADRs, or less than
      20 out of 28 doses of PHI-101 were administered during Cycle 1) may be replaced by another
      subject according to the judgment of the investigator (decision/recommendation of the SRC, if
      necessary). If a subject in the single subject cohort is not evaluable for DLT, a substitute
      will be enrolled in the same cohort (1 subject + 1 additional subject) to assess DLT. If it
      is determined not to replace the subject not evaluable for DLT, the subject will be
      considered to have experienced DLT when the dose escalation is decided.

      If DLT is observed in > 1 out of 6 subjects in a specific cohort (χ) and DLT is observed in ≤
      1 out of 6 subjects in the cohort (χ-1) that is one level lower than the specific cohort, the
      one level lower cohort (χ-1) will be considered as the MTD. The dose of PHI-101 will be
      escalated until an MTD is determined. If the MTD is not determined at the MPD, dose
      escalation will be ended at that dose (Addition of cohorts may be reviewed by and discussed
      with the SRC, if necessary, but reporting to the MFDS and the IRB and protocol amendment
      should occur first.) According to the schedule of activities (SOA), observation, questioning,
      examination, and tests to assess the safety and tolerability of PHI-101, PK sampling to
      assess PK, and tumor response assessment to explore efficacy will be performed.

      After the EOT of PHI-101, the EOT visit will take place. Survival of subjects and initiation
      of new antineoplastic therapy will be periodically checked until the EOS. The follow-up will
      be performed for 1 year after the EOS to obtain such information.
    
  