
    
      Insomnia is a common and distressing medical condition that affects nearly 20% of U.S.
      adults, and persistent (or chronic) insomnia affects nearly 10-15% of U.S. adults. In a
      community-based prospective observational study, preliminary data suggests that insomnia is
      associated with hospitalizations due to cardiovascular, cancer, or any cause over a 4-year
      period. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I) is considered the gold-standard in
      the treatment of insomnia. There are 5 components of CBT-I, sleep restriction therapy,
      stimulus control instructions, relaxation training, cognitive therapy, and sleep hygiene
      education. In an ongoing study of CBT-I in recently hospitalized patients, the investigators
      found a high prevalence of insomnia (80%) and were able to administer CBT-I in the
      participants' home via iPADs with wireless connectivity and secure video-chat software.
      Recently hospitalized patients who are recuperating in their homes would find it difficult to
      return for weekly visits with a clinical psychologist and therefore could benefit from the
      convenience of CBT-I treatment administered in the patient's homes via the wireless iPAD and
      video chat software. The AASM SleepTM platform could conceivably allow performance of CBT-I
      without the added expense of an iPAD. The investigators are proposing to perform a
      non-inferiority trial of telemedicine CBT-I (AASM SleepTM) versus conventional office-based
      CBT-I that is performed in patients with insomnia who have been recently discharged from the
      hospital. The investigators will measure the following outcomes: insomnia severity index
      (primary outcome) and patient satisfaction. In the future, the investigators' program of
      research aims to improve understanding of whether insomnia represents a modifiable risk
      factor for re-hospitalizations in patients who are high utilizers of healthcare services.

      Specific Aim 1: To perform comparative effectiveness research of CBT-I administered by
      telemedicine versus conventional office-based CBT-I on insomnia severity in recently
      hospitalized patients.

      Hypothesis #1: In recently hospitalized patients with insomnia, after six weeks of CBT-I
      treatment, the mean improvement in ISI score among patients treated by telemedicine CBT-I
      (AASM SleepTM) would be no more than 3-points less than that in patients treated by
      conventional office-based CBT-I.

      Specific Aim 2: To perform comparative effectiveness research of CBT-I administered by
      telemedicine versus conventional office-based CBT-I on patient satisfaction.

      Hypothesis #2: In recently hospitalized patients with insomnia, after six weeks of CBT-I
      treatment, the mean improvement in patient satisfaction score (Consumer Assessment of Health
      Plans Survey [CAHPS v4.0] item) among patients treated by telemedicine CBT-I (AASM SleepTM)
      would be no more than 1-point less than that in patients treated by conventional office-based
      CBT-I.
    
  