
    
      Studies have reported a low vitamin K status in chronic kidney disease patients in
      hemodialysis linked to an increased risk of atherosclerosis and increased bleeding tendency.
      The overall aim of this study is to investigate the underlying causes of the reported low
      vitamin K status and to improve the patients' vitamin K status through diet and supplement.
      The study is divided in 5 sub-trials listed below. Sub-trial 1-4 focuses on determining the
      underlying course of low vitamin K status while sub-trial 5 deals with possible solutions to
      the reported low vitamin K status.

      The analysis method used to determine vitamin K status is dephosphorylated-uncarboxylated
      Matrix-Gla-Protein (dp-ucMGP). Dp-ucMGP is the inactive form of the protein MGP whose
      activation is vitamin K dependent. The dp-ucMGP analysis method is not a direct measure of
      vitamin K status. However, an increased concentration of dp-ucMGP is a manifestation of a low
      vitamin K status and vice versa.

      Sub-trial 1: Intake of vitamin K Aim: To assess the patients' intake of vitamin K.
      Hypothesis: The daily intake of vitamin K is insufficient. Method: Patients are asked to fill
      out a food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). The FFQ is based on their intake of different foods
      rich in vitamin K during the last month. To compare the results from the FFQ with their
      actual vitamin K status a blood sample is collected and analyzed to determine dp-ucMGP.
      Participants: 30.

      Sub-trial 2: The influence of dialysis Aim: To examine whether vitamin K status is
      compromised during dialysis. Hypothesis: Vitamin K is removed from the blood during dialysis.
      Method: A blood test is collected before and after dialysis and analyzed to determine
      dp-ucMGP. At the end of the dialysis a sample of the remaining dialysis-water is collected
      and analyzed to determine dp-ucMGP. Furthermore, the patients will be weighed before and
      after dialysis with the purpose of calculating concentrations. Participants: 16 (the analysis
      of the dialysis water is done for five patients at first, if the results are useful the
      analysis is done for every participant).

      Sub-trial 3: Absorption Aim: To investigate whether a decreased absorption can be the cause
      of the low vitamin K status. Hypothesis: Absorption in the intestines is impaired. Method: A
      D-xylose test is performed. The participants are given a dose of 15g D-xylose dissolved in
      water and after one hour a sample of blood is collected to determine D-xylose in serum. Prior
      to this trial the patients need to be fasting.The patients are asked to fill out a FFQ
      concerning their intake of fat during the last month. Participants: 16

      Sub-trial 4: Concentrations of dp-ucMGP is influenced by a low protein intake. Aim: To
      determine if a low protein intake influence the dp-ucMGP analysis method. Hypothesis: The
      analysis method (dephosphorylated-uncarboxylated MGP) is influenced by the patients' protein
      intake. Method: Patients are given a daily protein supplement for 14 days. Before and after
      the intervention a blood test is collected and the concentration of dp-ucMGP is determined
      and compared. Moreover, the patients are asked to fill out a FFQ concerning their intake of
      protein during the last month. Participants: 16

      Sub-trial 5: Intervention with vitamin K Aim: To investigate whether a diet or supplement
      with tablets is best for improve vitamin K status. Hypothesis: If the intake of vitamin K is
      insufficient the diet rich in vitamin K should be sufficient. However, if absorption is
      compromised or vitamin K is influenced by dialysis a larger dose of vitamin K might be
      necessary. Method: This trial lasts for 15 weeks divided in two periods of six weeks and a
      three week wash out period in-between. One period focuses on a diet rich in vitamin K while
      dealing with the possible restrictions on phosphate, potassium and fluid for hemodialysis
      patients. The intervention in the other period consists of a supplement of 360μg
      Menakinon-7/day. Blood samples are collected at the beginning, middle and end of both
      periods. These blood samples are analyzed to determine dp-uc-MGP during the intervention
      period. Moreover, coagulations factor 2, 7, 10, vitamin A and D status and calcification
      propency score analysis will be done as well if the funds allow it. Patients are asked to
      fill out a questionnaire concerning physical and mental wellbeing and the presence of
      bruising at the beginning and end of both periods to determine whether vitamin K has an
      effect. Participants: 24
    
  