
    
      Approval of the study was obtained from the hospital's ethical committee. The study design
      and methodology followed the tenets of Declaration of Helsinki. All patients were provided
      with written informed consent and received a thorough explanation of the study design, aims,
      and the off-label use of infliximab, its potential risks, and benefits. This is a prospective
      non-comparative interventional study. The study was conducted on 20 eyes of 20 patients with
      refractory posterior uveitis in Behçet's disease who received 3 consecutive intravitreal
      injections of infliximab (1 mg/0.05 ml) 6 weeks apart. Behçet's diseases was diagnosed based
      on the International Criteria for Behçet's Disease (ICBD).

      Patients were subjected to the following initial examinations: best-corrected visual acuity
      (BCVA) measurement; slit-Lamp examination; measuring intraocular pressure (IOP) by Goldman
      applanation tonometry; dilated fundus examination by indirect ophthalmoscope; and slit-lamp
      biomicroscopy including vitritis grading (0-4) and presence or absence of vasculitis,
      retinitis and papillopathy. Patients also had the following at baseline: fluorescein
      angiography (FFA), ERG, and central foveal thickness (CFT) OCT (Stratus III OCT; Carl Zeiss,
      Dublin, CA). Grading of vitritis was as follows: Grade 0: Good view of NFL (nerve fibre
      layer), Grade +1: clear optic nerve & vessels but hazy NFL, Grade +2: optic nerve & vessels
      are hazy, Grade +3: view of optic nerve only, and Grade +4: no optic nerve view.

      Follow up clinical examinations were at day 1, and weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 12 and 18. Each follow
      up visit included: BCVA, slit-Lamp examination, IOP, dilated fundus examination with grading
      of vitritis (0-4), and presence or absence of vasculitis, retinitis or papillopathy. CFT OCT,
      and ERG were done at 4, 12 and 18 weeks. FFA was done at the discretion of the examiner and
      not at every post-injection evaluation.

      The intravitreal dose of infliximab used in this study is 1mg/0.05ml. Animal studies have
      shown intravitreal infliximab in doses up to 2mg is safe clinically, and by
      electrophysiological and histopathological examinations. These findings were maintained for 3
      months with 3 monthly injections. However, in clinical trial severe intraocular inflammation
      was elicited with even a single low dose of 0.5mg in non-uveitic eyes. Since the 1 mg dose
      was shown to be effective in controlling inflammation in one study, we decided to use this
      dose and avoid the 1.5mg and the 2mg doses.

      Drug preparation: A vial containing 100 mg of commercially available infliximab powder
      (Remicade Janssen Pharmaceutical Egypt) was reconstituted with 5 mL of sterile water, and
      0.05 mL of this solution (1mg of infliximab) used for each patient and placed in a tuberculin
      syringe using aseptic techniques. The remaining syringes will be kept in a sterile package at
      2-8ºC for 6 weeks.

      Injection technique: The eye was prepared in a standard fashion using 5% povidone-iodine, an
      eyelids speculum to stabilize the eyelids, and the injection of 1mg (0.05 mL) was performed
      3.5mm to 4 mm posterior to the limbus, through the infero-temporal pars plana with a 30-gauge
      needle under topical anesthesia. After the injection, retinal artery perfusion is checked and
      patients were instructed to administer topical antibiotics for 3 days. All patients were
      given detailed post-injection instructions and asked to call promptly if any pain or
      significant changes in vision occurred.

      Patients were seen on follow ups and repeated injections were given at 6 weeks intervals if
      re-injection criteria were met: 1) No evidence of significant ERG changes, 2) No evidence of
      adverse effects to the drug, 3) Signs of anatomical and/or functional improvement during the
      first 6 weeks.

      Statistical Analysis: Data were statistically described in terms of mean ± standard deviation
      (±SD), median and range, or frequencies (number of cases) and percentages when appropriate.
      Comparison of numerical variables between the study groups was done using Freidman's test
      with Conover test for paired (matched) samples as posthoc multiple 2-group comparisons. For
      comparing categorical data, Chi square (±2) and McNemar tests were performed. GCC was done
      using McNemar test. Agreement was tested using kappa statistic. Correlation between various
      variables was done using Spearman rank correlation equation. P values less than 0.05 was
      considered statistically significant. All statistical calculations were done using computer
      program SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Science; SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA)
      version 15 for Microsoft Windows Stats Direct statistical software version 2.7.2 for MS
      Windows, StatsDirect Ltd., Cheshire, UK.
    
  