
    
      In the recent past and currently, the Wii Fit has been and will probably continue to be used
      as an effective rehabilitation aide in improving balance and coordination in all populations.
      It is another tool amongst traditional balance activities to assist the therapist and patient
      in reaching the goals of both parties and improving overall functional outcomes for the
      patient. The Wii Fit is capable of giving objective data in a stimulating environment in
      which to deliver fun yet effective and measurable balance training. The addition of fun and
      enjoyment is found in most populations using a virtual reality system like the Wii. (VR
      Rehab, 2008) Brumels et al suggested having lack of interest in an activity can lead to less
      than desired engagement and performance (Comparison, 2008), which can lead to overall less
      improvement. This was supported at the conclusion of their study, indicating scientific
      reason to include the use of video game based programs in clinical settings. If someone is
      interested in a task because it is enjoyable and it keeps their interest over and over then,
      because of the increased time practicing due to the desire to actually participate, they are
      more inclined to make improvements in the task being practiced. In the case of this study,
      balance would be the task improving.

      However, the same investigators concluded further research is required in order to determine
      the utility of an off-the-shelf gaming system like the Wii. One purpose of this project is to
      determine the effectiveness of this type of system with the hopes of eventually working with
      a company like Nintendo to make adjustments to their software and hardware systems in order
      to provide a comprehensive and adaptive system to deliver balance re-education to multiple
      populations. We also would like to determine, through the use of participant satisfaction
      surveys, if individuals prefer the use of a system like the Wii Fit over traditional balance
      exercises since improvements in balance can be linked to improved participation based on the
      enjoyment of the activity. If we can show that both the Wii Fit system itself is a viable
      apparatus with which to address and improve balance outside of traditional balance activities
      and that participants enjoy this method of balance activities then we open up the opportunity
      for a larger number of ways to assist in balance recovery for those affected with some sort
      of balance deficit. As the study by S M Flynn, et al, concluded, the use of systems like the
      WiiFit may encourage individuals to "play" with and against others promoting a healthier and
      less isolating lifestyle.

      The clinical trials in this study will be conducted in compliance with the mentioned protocol
      and within the regulations set by the University of Missouri and the Missouri Rehabilitation
      Center. The population to be studied will be individuals from the ages of 16-70 with varying
      degrees of functional abilities after traumatic or acquired brain injury, stroke or spinal
      cord injury who do possess the physical capabilities as explained in the below inclusion and
      exclusion criteria.
    
  