
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the proportion of early-stage, high-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)
      patients achieving a response (>= 4-fold increase from baseline and/or antibody
      concentrations >= 0.35 ug/mL in 6 of 7 type-specific anti-pneumococcal antibody levels) after
      2 doses of pneumococcal 13-valent conjugated vaccine (Prevnar 13, PCV13 [pneumococcal
      polyvalent vaccine]) administered concurrent with versus sequential to low-dose lenalidomide.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete response (CR) rate after 2 years of lenalidomide therapy.

      II. To determine the time to first treatment (TFT), defined as the time from diagnosis to
      first non-lenalidomide therapy for progressive CLL as described by International Workshop on
      Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL) 2008 criteria.

      III. To determine the incidence of infection and invasive pneumococcal infections following
      treatment with the PCV13 vaccine and either concurrent or sequential lenalidomide.

      IV. To determine the frequency of humoral and cellular immune response to CLL tumor antigens
      following treatment with the PCV13 vaccine and either concurrent or sequential lenalidomide.

      V. To determine the safety and toxicity associated with long-term lenalidomide exposure.

      VI. To perform correlative pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic studies and correlate these
      with vaccine/tumor immunologic and disease response.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A (concurrent PCV13 and lenalidomide): Patients receive low-dose lenalidomide orally (PO)
      once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 24 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive 13-valent
      protein-conjugated pneumococcal vaccine (PCV13) intramuscularly (IM) on day 1 of courses 3
      and 5.

      ARM B (sequential PCV13 and lenalidomide): Patients receive PCV13 IM on days 1 and 78 (cycles
      1 and 3). Patients also receive low-dose lenalidomide as in arm 1 beginning on day 1 of cycle
      4. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 24 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, every 3 months for
      1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  