
    
      Preoperative fasting instructions (6 hours for solids and formula, 4 hours for breast milk,
      and 1 hour for clear liquids) will be explained to parents orally during the preoperative
      anesthesia consultation and a written document, reminding them of these instructions, will be
      given to them afterwards.

      Upon arrival in the operating room, the anesthesiologist will record on a standardized
      collection sheet the time of fasting as well as the premedication received (time of
      paracetamol and/or ibuprofen, β2-mimetic aerosols, preoperative antibiotic therapy).

      After anesthetic induction, once airway management and securing of the peripheral venous line
      have been completed and before surgical setup, a capillary blood sample will be taken from
      the earlobe or fingertip to measure blood glucose and ketone levels using a blood glucose and
      ketone meter (FREESTYLE OPTIUM NEO H, ketone and blood sugar meter, calibration performed
      prior to the study by the pharmacology department). A ketonemia will be considered abnormally
      high if the ketone level is higher than 0.6 mmol/L (0.11g/L). Hypoglycemia will be defined as
      a capillary blood glucose level less than <3.5 mmol/L (0.63 g/L)9. In case of hypoglycemia or
      high ketonemia, a second capillary sample should be taken, taking care to change the sampling
      area (ear or finger) and then an average of the two results should be taken. Capillary blood
      glucose and ketone measurements are part of routine care in pediatric anesthesia. Therefore,
      there will be no additional cost.

      Intraoperative monitoring for all children will include a 3-lead ECG, pneumocardiograph,
      non-invasive blood pressure measurement, pulse oximetry (SpO2), esophageal or rectal
      temperature measurement, and capnography. A forced-air heating blanket will be used to warm
      the patient during the procedure. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) will be documented after
      induction of anesthesia, and hypotension will be defined as MAP < 45 mmHg7. Intraoperatively,
      data will be collected from the patient's blood pressure.

      Intraoperatively, the following data will be recorded on the standardized collection sheet:
      anesthetic agents used (hypnotics and morphinics), intraoperative analgesics, anti-nausea
      agents (dexamethasone, ondansetron), infusion fluids used (nature of the fluid, rate of
      infusion), catecholamine (ephedrine), drugs that may interfere with blood sugar regulation.

      In the recovery room, postoperative pain will be evaluated using the EVENDOL scale and by the
      consumption of analgesics (total dose of paracetamol, ibuprofen, nalbuphine). The treatment
      of postoperative nausea and vomiting, left to the discretion of the anaesthetist, will also
      be recorded (total dose of ondansetron, droperidol, others).

      After return to the department, the duration of hospitalization will be recorded. It will be
      defined as the number of days between arrival in the operating room and departure from the
      hospital. A clinically significant difference in length of stay will be considered a
      difference of at least 4 hours of hospital stay.
    
  