
    
      Characterized by failure to drain bile from the liver due to atretic extrahepatic bile ducts,
      BA is corrected in less than half of all affected children with surgical reconstruction. The
      remainder progress to cirrhosis and require liver transplantation. Because bile duct loss can
      be accompanied by other birth defects such as laterality defects of the gut and
      cardiovascular systems, the disease has been categorized into the more common 'isolated'
      variety presumably due to a perinatal viral cholangitis, and the 'syndromic' variety, due to
      genetic factors. Mechanistic differences implied by this categorization have not been
      demonstrated conclusively. In contrast, three susceptibility genes identified in
      predominantly 'isolated" BA cases, and the presence of abnormal cilia which are known to
      predispose to laterality defects, in both isolated and syndromic forms of BA suggest that in
      addition to environmental influences, genetic susceptibility is important in both forms of
      BA. This view is reinforced by our preliminary work which shows that knockdown of a novel BA
      susceptibility gene causes both biliary dysgenesis and laterality defects in animal models.
      This finding also suggests that common birth defects affecting the liver and other organs may
      originate from defects in the same genes. The project will combine candidate gene
      identification and replication with human DNA samples from 1100 BA subjects and their
      biological parents or siblings, if available, with validation using corresponding human BA
      liver tissue and zebrafish knockdown models.

      The project outcome will consist of pathways comprising multiple susceptibility genes
      involved in morphogenesis of the liver and other organs, which explain the complex phenotype
      of BA. The project will use the experimental and bioinformatics capabilities of the
      Universities of Pittsburgh and California (at San Diego) to analyze data and study human
      samples from the participating centers. Four of the world's largest pediatric liver
      transplant centers, the Children's Hospitals of Pittsburgh (CHP), King's College Hospital
      (KCH), London, UK, Birmingham Children's Hospital, UK (BCH), and the Hospital Sirio Libanes
      (HSL), Sao Paulo, Brazil will enroll biliary atresia subjects and their biological parents
      and/or siblings, if available.

      Information developed in this project will be the basis for designing novel management
      strategies to reduce the societal impact of this rare childhood disease.
    
  