
    
      For patients who have Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Type 2 (HER2) positive breast
      cancer, which has metastasised to the brain, the main treatment options for these brain
      metastases are Whole Brain Radiotherapy (WBRT), Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS) and
      Neurosurgery (NS).

      The purpose of the study is to determine:

        1. . How likely the tumours are controlled after treatment with local therapies
           Neurosurgery (NS) and/or Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS).

        2. . How likely is it that other tumours develop at new sites in the brain when no Whole
           Brain Radiotherapy (WBRT) is given.

      This study is aiming to recruit 50 participants that have HER2 positive metastatic breast
      cancer with 1-5 synchronous brain metastases, with at least one metastasis requiring
      treatment.

      The local treatment offered will be determined by the participant's doctor in consultation
      with the site multidisciplinary team and will be dependent on the size and location of the
      brain metastases. Each treatment will be performed by the specialist in that field, i.e.
      neurosurgeon and/or radiation oncologist.

      Neurosurgery: The decision whether or not to recommend neurosurgery will be made
      independently of this research study. The surgery may be performed up to 6 weeks before
      participant being registered on the trial or up to 4 weeks after registration. The complexity
      and length of the surgery depends on the size and location of the tumour(s).

      Sometimes stereotactic radiosurgery is required to be delivered to the cavity left after the
      metastasis has been removed (also known as a cavity boost). Timing of Cavity SRS is at the
      discretion of the treating team. SRS cavity boost must be given after registration and can be
      given up to 8 weeks after NS resection.

      Stereotactic Radiosurgery: If the participant will be receiving stereotactic radiosurgery
      (either alone or in combination with neurosurgery), the Radiation Oncologist will organise
      for the participant to have a Radiotherapy planning. Treatment is to commence within 4 weeks
      of study registration.

      The size, number and location of the brain metastasis will determine the dose and
      fractionation schedule of radiotherapy. Single metastasis, smaller than or equal to 2cm, may
      require 1 fraction. Alternately, multiple metastasis, metastasis in the brain stem, or those
      bigger than 2cm will required multiple fractions to treat. The dose range for the study is
      20Gy/1 fraction to 24Gy/3 fractions. Each fraction is given on a separate day.

      All participants will be followed up at 3 monthly intervals for 12 months after completing
      their trial treatment (i.e. from the day of their last SRS treatment or neurosurgery, the
      latter of the two).

      At each follow-up visit they will have a clinic visit with the study doctor who to assess any
      symptoms, record current medications and/or surgeries, monitor their brain metastasis, have a
      blood test and imaging (CT scan, bone scan and MRI brain).
    
  