
    
      This is an observational study which hopes to answer the question of whether the amount of
      coughing that occurs when a patient emerges from anaesthesia has a negative impact on the
      ability of the lung to transfer oxygen to the blood in the post anaesthetic care unit (PACU).
      The patients' involvement starts 45 minutes before the anticipated end of surgery when a
      standard lung recruitment manoevre will be performed. Fifteen minutes later a 2ml blood
      sample is taken from the arterial catheter which was placed at the beginning of surgery. From
      this, together with routinely monitored clinical data, the alveolar/arterial oxygen
      difference (AaDO2) is calculated. The AaDO2 is used as a measure of the degree of impairment
      of the lung's ability to fully oxygenate the blood. Next, as the patient wakes up from the
      anaesthesia, an observer (who is not involved in the clinical care of the patient) will
      record the amount of coughing that occurs. Assessment of coughing will involve recording:

        -  time spent coughing

        -  the number of coughs before and after removing the breathing tube Postoperative care
           will be routine with oxygen given as required. 1 hour after removal of the tracheal tube
           a second arterial blood sample is taken from the arterial catheter whilst the patient is
           breathing 40% oxygen and once again the AaDO2 is calculated. Following the second blood
           sample the subject's involvement with the study ends.

      During the operation no stipulations are made regarding the anaesthetic technique to be used,
      which is left entirely at the discretion of the anaesthetist with clinical responsibility for
      the patient. In the last 30 minutes of the operation, the patient's artificial ventilation
      will be with an oxygen concentration of 40% and a set 'positive end expiratory
      pressure'(PEEP). Other than that, anaesthetists will be free to wake the patient up by their
      own preferred method. Also, if at any time the responsible anaesthetist feels the adjustment
      of the ventilation is required in order to act in the patient's best interest, the patient
      will be removed from the trial.

      Data to be recorded will include sex, age, ASA grade (a measurement of the patients' fitness
      for an anaesthetic), height and weight, whether or not the patient is a smoker and whether
      the patient has any lung disease. At the end of surgery, the operation performed and its
      duration will be recorded. These data are required to characterise the population of patients
      studied and allow comparison with other research.

      No medication or perioperative treatment need be withheld or modified as a consequence of the
      patient being enrolled in the study. There is no requirement for starting any addition
      medication as a consequence of the study. Patients may withdraw at any time by withdrawal of
      consent, in which case all subject data will be destroyed and only the fact that consent was
      withdrawn will be documented. The anaesthetist with clinical responsibility for the patient
      may withdraw the patient from the study at any time, in which case the reason for withdrawal
      will be documented on the data collection form and any data collected will be kept until
      study completion.
    
  