
    
      Background:

      The relentless progressive process of muscular dystrophy requires extraordinary medical,
      physical, and emotional care. As a consequences caring for a patient with a severe chronic
      illness has been associated with increased stress and diminished social, psychological and
      physical well-being in parents. According to Thompson et al. 57% of parents with Duchenne
      muscular dystrophy children have self-reported poor psychological adjustment and, even in
      comparison with parents of children with other burdens like cerebral palsy or renal diseases,
      muscular dystrophy was associated with a wider spectrum of problems and parental stress.
      Moreover, parents are shown to have significant stress by feelings of guilt and associated
      difficulty discussing death issues with their children.

      However, despite the obvious need of support for parents only few and weak data exist
      regarding efficiency and efficacy of specific interventions supporting parental resilience
      and coping strategies. In practice, they are mostly limited to meetings of self-help groups
      and casual exchange between concerned parents, which is rather a problem-centered than
      proactive solution-focused approach. As a consequence, investigators see a great need for
      studies regarding more specific interventions supporting parents' self-management skills,
      coping strategies and competencies.

      Objectives:

      The present study evaluates the efficacy of a structured self-management training for parents
      of children with severe progressive muscular dystrophy compared to parents receiving
      treatment as usual (TAU). In addition, investigators measure established biomarkers of
      psychosocial stress, such as pro-inflammatory cytokines, which will be used to monitor
      physiological changes with assumed significance for parental health.

      Methods:

      Participants will fill out online-questionnaires before, during and after self-management
      training. Training interventions will take place in Zurich as group sessions (10-20
      participants per group). Investigators aim for a total of 60-80 participants. Parent-couples
      or single participants will be randomized in an intervention group (participants receiving
      self-management training) and a non-intervention group (participants continue with already
      established support). After one year parents from the non-intervention group will change into
      the intervention group with self- management training as well. Questionnaires focus on
      assessing parental strain and self- efficacy and will take 30-45minutes for each of four
      surveys. Validated biological markers such as cumulative cortisol levels in hair and
      pro-inflammatory cytokines in the blood will be collected before and after self-management
      trainings.
    
  