
    
      Subjects will be recruited via convenience sampling from the Methodist University community
      and local area. Additionally contacts from medical clinics may be contacted for recruitment
      of participants. Once individuals have been identified, they will be informed of inclusion
      and exclusion criteria to be assessed for appropriateness for the project. Informed consent
      will be provided to participants prior to start.

      Inclusion criteria consists of having a stroke and being able to walk 20 meters without a
      lower extremity orthotic. If participant's have significant fear of water, seizures,
      incontinence with bowel or bladder, open wounds, infections such as UTI or fever,
      tracheostomy, nasogastric or gastronomy tube, colostomy, uncontrolled hypertension, skin
      rash, hard cast due to fracture, isolation precautions, IV or indwelling catheters,
      uncontrolled agitation, require use of continuous supplemental oxygen, or allergies to
      chemicals used in a pool, they will not be placed in the underwater groups.

      Demographic survey will be provided and filled out prior to the start of data collection.

      As physical therapy exercise is within the scope of Physical Therapy Practice and in the
      state of North Carolina Physical Therapists have direct access to practice without a
      physician clearance, participants will be assessed using baseline testing (please see below)
      to ensure medical stability for participation in exercise. Furthermore, participants will be
      asked if they have been cleared by a physician prior to beginning in exercise (please see
      consent survey). If individuals evaluated by the supervising physical therapist are deemed to
      need additional medical clearance from their physician, they will be asked to attain a note
      from the physician stating they are clear to participate in exercise.

      Baseline testing: Participants will complete a basic physical therapy examination consisting
      of vitals assessment (heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, rate of perceived
      exertion and respiratory rate), anthropometric measurements, posture, range of motion,
      strength testing and use of the following outcome measures to assess self-perception of
      stroke impact, balance and gait: 4-square step test (FSST), Timed Up and Go (TUG), Dynamic
      Gait Index (DGI), Romberg, Sharpened Romberg and Single Limb Stance (SLS). Additionally, gait
      characteristics will be measured using the GAITRite System.
    
  