
    
      Study design

      Treatment arms in this two-arm parallel-group randomised controlled trial (RCT) included a
      sit-stand workstation intervention group (each participant received a sit-stand workstation)
      and a control group (usual practice).

      Recruitment

      - Organisation level

      Office workers from one organisation were targeted by the research team in August-September
      2013. Consent was sought from 11 departmental managers for employee recruitment, installation
      of sit-stand workstations, study contact and laboratory visits during work time. Departments
      were located across four buildings with varying office layout (open-plan, individual offices
      or a combination). Employees within the targeted departments were predominantly
      administrative staff.

      - Individual level

      Via an email from the research team, all employees in consenting departments received an
      overview of the study and participant information sheet, and were invited to a study
      information session (two sessions were organised per department). Employees were given 2
      weeks to express interest. Interested employees were screened for eligibility using stated
      criteria by the research team via telephone. If inclusion criteria were met, written informed
      consent was obtained and baseline assessments scheduled. There was no racial or gender bias
      in the selection of participants.

      Group assignment and Intervention

      Following baseline assessments, participants were assigned by one member of the research team
      to a treatment arm using a randomised block design and random number table. Departments
      served as blocks and participants within departments were randomly assigned at the
      individual-level to an arm. Assignment of individual participants within each department
      alternated between arms (i.e. intervention, control, intervention, control…).

      Data collection

      At baseline, 4 weeks (mid-intervention) and 8 weeks (end-intervention), participants'
      office-based behaviours were assessed via ecological momentary assessment (EMA) diaries. At
      baseline and 8 weeks, participants attended University laboratories in the morning for
      individual assessments of other stated outcomes. Prior to laboratory visits, participants
      were required to fast for a minimum of 8 hours, avoid the consumption of alcohol for 12
      hours, and avoid strenuous exercise for 24 hours.

      Sample size

      Allowing for small drop out, the study aimed to recruit 25 participants per arm, and retain
      23 participants per arm. A sample size of 23 per arm was chosen a priori to achieve 90% power
      (alpha 5%; two-tailed) to detect a minimum difference of 60 minutes/8-hour workday between
      arms for workplace sitting time (primary outcome: expected SD of 60 minutes/day). Data
      collection for vascular and metabolic outcomes would provide effect size estimates for power
      calculations in subsequent trials.

      Statistical analyses

        -  Data was analysed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version
           22 (IBM, New York, USA) with the alpha level set at p≤0.05. Intervention effects were
           compared at 4 weeks (sitting, standing and walking) and 8 weeks (all outcomes) from
           baseline using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA). The variable change score (4 or 8 weeks
           minus baseline) was the dependent variable, with intervention arm (control vs
           intervention) the independent variable. In all analyses, covariates were the baseline
           value for the variable to control for any imbalances at baseline. Anthropometric,
           sociodemographic, work-related and office-environment characteristics were tested as
           potential confounders for all outcomes. Confounders were entered as covariates if
           significant associations (p≤0.05) were observed with changes in an outcome and the
           effect on the mean difference between groups exceeded 20%. For changes in sitting,
           standing and walking time, baseline values of the other two behaviours were tested as
           potential confounders, though no effects on the mean difference between groups exceeded
           20%. Adjusted change scores and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for the difference in
           change between groups are presented unless stated otherwise. Acceptability and
           feasibility data are reported as medians and quartiles.

        -  Missing data and Intention-to-treat analysis Due to participant withdrawal, lost EMA
           diaries or the inability to conduct assessments, data were missing for all outcomes.
           Accordingly, a per-protocol analysis was conducted and participants were excluded from
           analyses for outcomes they were missing data for. For workplace sitting, standing and
           walking, the per-protocol analysis was compared with an intention-to-treat analysis, as
           a sensitivity analysis. To treat missing data, the fully conditional imputation
           technique and ten imputation sets were used due to a low rate of missing data.
           Imputation was based on all 47 randomized participants.

        -  Minimum important differences analysis Inferential statistics were ran using minimum
           clinically important difference principles, described elsewhere. Briefly, this approach
           makes inferences based on meaningful magnitudes and is recommended alongside hypothesis
           testing. A spreadsheet computed the quantitative and qualitative probability that the
           true effects were beneficial, trivial or harmful, after the outcome statistic, its p
           value, and the smallest/minimal important difference was entered. Minimum important
           differences for sitting and standing were 60 minutes/day, and for walking 10
           minutes/day. Minimum important differences for other outcomes were determined through a
           distribution-based method as a Cohen's d (standardized difference between change scores
           between groups) of 0.2 between-subjects standard deviations (SDs). The SD of pooled
           baseline data was used to negate the possibility of individual differences from the
           intervention influencing the SD at 8 weeks. For each effect at 8 weeks, quantitative
           probabilities for benefit, trivial and harm, and qualitative descriptors are reported.
           Effects were interpreted as unclear if probabilities for benefit and harm were >5%.
    
  