
    
      Postoperative hypoxemia complicates between 30 to 50% of patients after abdominal surgery.
      Loss of functioning alveolar units and development of atelectasis after abdominal surgery
      have been recognized as the underlying mechanisms responsible for postoperative hypoxemia.
      Supplemental Oxygen administration is therefore widely recommended after extubation in the
      postoperative period, especially in patients with high risk of postoperative respiratory
      complications. Although oxygen therapy is effective in preventing the vast majority of severe
      postoperative hypoxemia after extubation in surgical patients, respiratory failure may occur,
      thus requiring endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation or therapeutic use of
      non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NPPV). In patients with postoperative hypoxemia
      (defined as patients with a PaO2/FiO2 ratio <300), application of NPPV was found to decrease
      the incidence of endotracheal intubation after abdominal surgery. Nevertheless, use of NPPV
      in the postoperative period is responsible for organizational constraints and increases
      healthcare utilization.

      Nasal high flow cannula (NHFC) has been described as an attractive and well-tolerated method
      of non-invasive oxygen delivery. Previous studies have shown that NHFC generates a low level
      of positive airway pressure, increases end-expiratory lung volume and reduces airway
      resistance, thus contributing to a reduction in work of breathing. To date, however, no
      clinical trials have compared NHFC to standard oxygen therapy in the prevention of
      postoperative hypoxemia after abdominal surgery in patients with intermediate to high risk of
      postoperative pulmonary complications.

      The primary objective of the study is to compare: 1- Standard oxygen therapy; 2- Nasal high
      flow oxygen therapy after extubation in patients with intermediate to high risk of
      postoperative pulmonary complications after abdominal surgery.

      Our hypothesis is that, compared with standard oxygen therapy, early application of nasal
      high flow oxygen therapy can reduce the need for postoperative NPPV for postoperative
      hypoxemia (defined as PaO2/FiO2 ratio <300).
    
  