
    
      In Phase 1, the investigators will revise the distress tolerance (DT) protocol the
      investigators developed in a previous study. Currently, the DT protocol is comprised of 6
      two-hour weekly group sessions. However, based on the data the investigators collected in the
      previous study, the investigators will revise the DT protocol to have 7 instead of 6 two-hour
      weekly group sessions. 6 subjects (1 group) will be recruited to pilot the revised DT
      protocol. All subjects in the pilot will receive the transdermal nicotine patch (TNP). Prior
      to initiating use of the TNP on quit day, all subjects will be educated about its use and
      instructed to comply with all the recommended guidelines for usage as outlined in the
      directions. Smokers who lapse during treatment will be encouraged to set a new quit date and
      continue to attempt to quit. Subjects who continue to smoke or lapse after quit day will not
      be instructed to discontinue the patch unless their smoking level reaches 4 cigarettes/day
      for 4 days. This recommendation is consistent with safe TNP use. Smoking cessation will be
      objectively verified by expired carbon monoxide levels and saliva cotinine assays.
      Specifically, subjects who self-report nicotine abstinence will provide an exhaled breath
      into a Bedfont Micro Smokerlyzer to measure carbon monoxide levels and provide an adequate
      amount of saliva for cotinine analyses. RAs will wear non-latex gloves and follow all safety
      protocols for data collection and storage for biochemical materials. the investigators will
      use an 8ppm cutoff for expired carbon monoxide levels for stated abstinence of 24 hours for 2
      weeks and use a cutoff of 10ng/ml for saliva cotinine assays for stated abstinence of 2 weeks
      or more as cotinine may be incompletely metabolized before this time. Expired carbon monoxide
      results will be immediately available. Saliva samples will be frozen for shipment to the
      American Health Foundation (Valhalla, NY) for cotinine level determination by radioimmune
      assay. Detected values above the stated cutoffs will be considered indicative of smoking.
      Therefore, smoking cessation and weight loss will be assessed using expired carbon monoxide
      and weigh-ins during the intervention and saliva cotinine assays and weigh-ins at follow-ups.
      During Phase 1 post-intervention follow-up, the investigators will revise the active health
      control protocol comprised of standard treatment for smoking cessation and weight loss to
      make sure it equates for intervention contact time.

      In Phase 2, 48 subjects (8 groups of 6) will be recruited. Both conditions will receive the
      TNP and follow the protocol previously outlined in Phase 1. Once 6 eligible subjects are
      recruited, random assignment will be used to determine which of the two treatment conditions
      the group will receive. We expect to recruit 6 subjects within two weeks, reducing the lag
      time between a subject's eligibility and starting the intervention. Compensation for
      subjects' time will also support timely recruitment. To ensure an equal number of groups are
      assigned to each of the two conditions, assignment will be completed by choosing from among a
      fixed pool of 8 entries (4 from each condition). Smoking cessation and weight loss outcomes
      will be assessed using biochemical measures and weigh-ins during the intervention and at
      follow-up.
    
  