
    
      Ultrasound (US) continues to be the initial imaging modality of choice for the identification
      and characterization of adnexal masses (AM) . Structured reporting of AM findings was
      identified by a Society of Radiologists in Ultrasound consensus working group as a target for
      the investigation to improve the management of women with AM .

      Many established guidelines and structured reporting have been developed using sonography to
      characterize AM, including subjective assessment, simple scoring systems, and statistically
      derived scoring systems .

      In 2008, the International Ovarian Tumor Analysis (IOTA) group proposed the use of US simple
      rules for the diagnosis of ovarian malignancy. These are based on a set of five US features
      indicative for a benign tumor (B features), and five US features indicative for a malignant
      tumor (M features)

      . In 2009, the Gynecology Imaging Reporting and Data System (GI-RADS) was designed as an
      attempt allowing standardized reporting of AM. This system is based on recognition patterns
      and criteria provided by the IOTA.

      The American College of Radiology (ACR) published the Ovarian-Adnexal Reporting and Data
      System (O-RADS), which provides an up-to-date suggestion to stratify the AM according to
      sonographic features. The O-RADS offers a comprehensive algorithm that categorizes AM by
      their possibility of being normal (O-RADS 1), to high risk of malignancy (O-RADS 5) .

      For the application of the US classification system of AM in clinical settings, it is
      essential to evaluate their validity and reproducibility. Several studies have investigated
      the validity of these risk stratification systems in the assessment of AM. However, data on
      the comparability and reproducibility of the systems are limited.

      The purpose of this study is To detect added value of O-RADS in evaluation of ovarian lesions
      and compare O-RADS with GI-RADS regarding malignancy rate , the validity and reliability
      through pathological results.
    
  