
    
      Anxiety disorders are the most common form of pediatric psychopathology, affecting 5 - 20% of
      children and adolescents. Despite therapeutic advances, treatment-resistance remains high,
      and progress towards early detection of at-risk populations and more effective treatments has
      stalled. Although some anxiety disorders are transient, recent studies suggest that pediatric
      anxiety disorders commonly persist into adulthood. Because anxiety disorders are costly and
      debilitating conditions that are very often associated with other severe psychopathology such
      as substance abuse, depression and suicidality, there is an imperative need to identify risk
      and resilience factors that moderate pediatric anxiety and improve treatment.

      Fear conditioning and resistance to extinction are two domains that have been implicated in
      the etiology and maintenance of anxiety disorders. Indeed, one of the most effective
      treatment for pediatric and adult anxiety disorders, exposure therapy, relies profoundly on
      extinction learning. The proposed research plan will investigate the neural correlates of
      aberrant fear conditioning and extinction processes in children and adolescents with anxiety
      disorders.

      The proposed research aims to isolate brain-based information-processing mechanisms
      implicated in perturbed fear learning and extinction characteristic of pediatric anxiety. A
      fMRI study using a novel age-appropriate fear conditioning-extinction paradigm are proposed.
      The study will delineate perturbed psychological and psychophysiological response to fear
      conditioning and isolate neuro-cognitive mechanisms mediating extinction recall in anxious
      and non-anxious children. Three weeks after completing fear conditioning and extinction task
      in the psychophysiology lab, participants will return to complete an fMRI extinction-recall
      task quantifying responses to extinguished CS blends. Two major hypotheses will be examined:
      a) anxious children will exhibit perturbations during extinction as measured by
      psychophysiology indexes and self-reported fear compared to non-anxious children; b) less
      activation in ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) is expected in anxious, relative to
      healthy, children during extinction-recall. Furthermore, the study will focus on the
      therapeutic relevance of dysfunction in fear learning and extinction for treatment by
      examining the associations between vmPFC function and response to exposure intervention in
      anxious children. Lower levels of vmPFC activation prior to exposure therapy and larger
      pre-to-post-treatment changes in vmPFC activity are expected to be associated with better
      response to exposure therapy.
    
  