
    
      Hospital admission for infant bronchiolitis is associated with an increased risk of recurrent
      wheezing and subsequent asthma in childhood. In the literature, 17 to 60% of children will
      develop repeated wheezing (infant asthma in France). This highly variable incidence could be
      linked in part to the fact that the definition of bronchiolitis varies between continents. In
      Europe the usual definition is an acute and contagious viral infection which affects the
      bronchioles (small bronchi) of infants accompanied by coughing, rapid breathing and wheezing.
      In research studies, bronchiolitis must be associated with wheezing and / or crackles on
      auscultation in Europe, and wheezing imperatively in the USA. The diagnosis of wheezing is
      difficult, and medical agreement on auscultatory respiratory abnormalities is poor. We thus
      have developed a wheezing diagnostic tool using artificial intelligence processing of
      respiratory sound recordings by smartphone (Bokov P, Comput Biol Med 2016, DOI:
      10.1016/j.compbiomed.2016.01.002). In a second larger bicentric study that included only
      infants suspected of bronchiolitis, our approach has consisted in obtaining a recording by
      smartphone but also by electronic stethoscope in order to allow deferred listening of the
      sounds (WheezSmart study). The objective of these studies was to obtain a formal diagnosis of
      wheezing, the current project aims to assess the benefit of this diagnosis. The main
      objective of this cross-sectional study is to determine whether the formal presence
      (diagnosis of wheezing from a recording of pulmonary auscultation) is associated with the
      risk of childhood asthma (diagnosis of asthma at 6 years) regardless of the usual risk
      factors (atopic / allergic terrain, exposure to smoking, recurrence of symptoms). The
      secondary objectives are to determine whether the formal presence of wheezing on auscultation
      is a risk factor for subsequent repeated wheezing (diagnosis of infant asthma) and for
      initial disease severity (bronchiolitis) compared to SpO2 and admission of the child to
      hospital. The interest in differentiating between high and low frequency sibilants will be
      evaluated also. Population: Children from 3 to 7 years old. Inclusion criteria: • Children
      included in the WheezSmart study at Robert Debré Hospital • Diagnosis at inclusion of
      bronchiolitis • Telephone numbers of the 2 parents available • Informed parents who do not
      object to participation in research. Population of wheezsmart study: 281 children diagnosed
      with bronchiolitis at Robert Debré Hospital for whom we have a recording of respiratory
      sounds. Statistical analyses: Comparison of the proportions of infant asthma then asthma in
      the groups with and without wheezing (chi-square tests). For the two groups with and without
      wheezing, the SpO2 means and the hospital admission rate will be compared (t and chi-square
      test).
    
  