
    
      Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) grafting can achieve adequate
      coronary artery revascularization in a less invasive manner than conventional coronary artery
      bypass grafting (CABG). Bypass from the internal mammary artery (IMA) to the left anterior
      descending coronary artery (LAD) is an effective technique for the treatment of simple
      anterior descending artery disease. This surgery is especially recommended for patients with
      multiple lesions that are not suitable for stent stenosis . One of the main advantages of
      MIDCAB is that there is no need for cardiac arrest and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) transfer
      during surgery . MIDCAB patients also benefit from the neurological protection associated
      with this minimally invasive procedure . Unlike traditional revascularization techniques,
      which are highly invasive due to the use of a large incision (sternotomy) and cardiopulmonary
      bypass (CPB), MIDCAB limits invasiveness by operating through a small incision (thoracotomy)
      and by operating on the beating heart to avoid the need for CPB . By limiting invasiveness in
      these ways, MIDCAB can reduce the risk of complications such as infection and stroke . In
      comparison to traditional CABG and off-pump CABG (via a sternotomy), MIDCAB can enhance early
      post-operative quality of life and recovery time . Minimally invasive multivessel coronary
      surgery-coronary artery bypass grafting (MICS-CABG) through a small thoracotomy has many
      advantages over minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB). First, MIDCAB is
      limited to a single anastomosis of the left internal mammary artery to the left anterior
      descending artery (LIMA-LAD). The surgical exposure of MICS-CABG is done more laterally,
      leading to reduced risk of costochondral or rib injury. Also, MICS-CABG allows
      revascularization with a similar configuration to that of a traditional sternotomy technique,
      by direct-vision LIMA harvesting and hand-sewn proximal and distal anastomoses . MICS may be
      performed with or without cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) assistance, but the use of
      femorofemoral CPB in multivessel revascularization has shown to be safe, mitigate the
      learning curve, prevent conversions, and allows operative time like that of a sternotomy. ].
      Other advantages include a diminished need for blood transfusion, decreased surgical site
      infection rates, also early return to full physical function .

      On the other hand complications include sternotomy conversion and development of left-sided
      pleural effusion . Postoperative pain can be an issue early, but it is transient,
      controllable, and significantly decreased by the third postoperative day; it is also
      associated with an overall improved postoperative pain picture with improved pulmonary
      functions . However, unlike sternotomy patients, MICS-CABG patients have no physical
      restriction postoperatively, which leads to better independence.

      This study aim to evaluate Safety and efficacy of multivessel minimally invasive coronary
      artery bypass graft surgery through measuring several factors such as

        1. measuring rate of intraoperative complications occurrence

        2. measuring rate of intraoperative conversion to open sternotomy

        3. measuring amount of post operative bleeding

        4. measuring post operative pain

        5. measuring rate of reexploration

        6. measuring rate of wound infection

        7. calculating days of postoperative hospital stay

        8. calculating time to regain normal activity

      The information gathered from the eligible patients will be entered into a data sheet
      containing the variables of interest that will be analyzed later at the end of the study.
      This study will not alter the patients' treatment and follow up at our center, by any means.

      The following variables will be studied whenever applicable and whenever they are available
      in the patients' charts:

        1. Demographic data: (Medical Record Number ,Sex ,Age Other comorbidity)

        2. Preoperative variables : (chest pain , dyspnea ,ECG findings ,Myocardial markers and
           cardiac troponin ,Cardiac Angiography )

        3. Operative variables: (Conversion to sternotomy. , Cardiac arrest ,Operation time ,Need
           for IABP, CPB ,Need for blood transfusion)

        4. Postoperative variables: (Mortality , Bleeding , Pain , Need of reexploration , Hospital
           stay , Wound infection , Regain of normal activity , Relief of symptoms , Need for
           another revascularization within 6 month)
    
  