
    
      Diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause today for end stage renal failure in the western
      world. Multifactorial intervention in patients may slow the rate of albuminuria and renal
      injury; however several new drug trials have failed so far to significantly attenuate its
      progression. Several pathways are identified in the development of diabetic nephropathy,
      however, in recent years many researchers suspect that inflammatory pathways play central
      roles in the progression of diabetic neuropathy . There is compelling evidence that diabetes
      mellitus has an auto-inflammatory component with Nlrp3 inflammasome and interleukin -1 β
      activation. Colchicine is a relatively safe anti-inflammatory drug used to treat and reverse
      albuminuria in familial Mediterranean fever nephropathy, an auto-inflammatory disease. Data
      from one study demonstrated that colchicine diminished proteinuria and inflammation in
      experimental-diabetic animal models.

      Working hypothesis and aims:

      To assess whether colchicine reduces proteinuria in diabetic patients with diabetic
      neuropathy , despite maximal multi-factorial interventions (angiotensin-converting-enzyme
      inhibitors, tight glycemic and hypertensive control, lifestyle intervention, etc.).

      Methods:

      Forty patients with stable diabetes, and diabetic neuropathy with proteinuria of 0.5-6g/24
      hours, despite standard treatment, will receive colchicine (n=20) or placebo (n=20) for 18
      months. Urinary protein and creatinine clearance will be assessed three months before the
      study initiation, at baseline and every three months thereafter. Blood creatinine, complete
      blood count, creatine phosphokinase , liver function tests, fasting Glucose Test, HbA1c, and
      urine protein/creatinine ratio and diabetes mellitus treatment monitoring and follow-up will
      be performed every three months. Oral colchicine treatment will be initiated at 1mg per day,
      and increased gradually to 2 mg, if gastrointestinal or musculoskeletal disturbances are
      absent or tolerated. The participants will be called and evaluated a year after the end of
      treatment for all parameters mentioned. Statistical analysis will be performed by a
      statistician.

      Expected results:

      A significant reduction or stabilization of proteinuria during the 18 month treatment period,
      or at follow up at one year later.

      Importance and Relevance to the call This study may define a new treatment for diabetic
      nephropathy.
    
  