
    
      The Primary Objective of this study is to identify and validate biomarkers that can be used
      for early detection and selection of personalized treatment of pancreatic diseases, including
      adenocarcinoma and pancreatitis. A maximum of 600 subjects will be enrolled in this study,
      including healthy volunteers, subjects with acute and chronic pancreatitis, family members at
      risk for pancreatic cancer (as defined below), and subjects with all stages of pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma who will contribute samples annotated with longitudinal clinical data.
      Biomarkers will be investigated for potential as Theranostic, Prognostic, Diagnostic and
      Therapeutic indicators among subjects with pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer.

      Examples of eligible participants include:

        -  Healthy volunteers without any known pancreatic disease (50 subjects)

        -  Healthy volunteers with no known benign or malignant pancreatic disease, AND with one
           first-degree relative with pancreatic cancer, OR two second-degree relatives with
           pancreatic cancer. These subjects also include those who have undergone surgery for
           suspected pancreatic cancer, and who are found to have a non-pancreatic cancer pathology
           upon final local site or central pathology review. (100 subjects).

        -  Subjects diagnosed acute or chronic pancreatitis (50 subjects).

        -  Subjects diagnosed with early stage pancreatic cancer who undergo surgery as standard of
           care therapy with or without preoperative (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy and/or radiation
           therapy; subjects diagnosed with borderline pancreatic cancer, or subjects diagnosed
           with locally advanced pancreatic cancer (200 subjects). Enrollment of treatment naïve
           subjects with early stage pancreatic cancer is preferred.

        -  Subjects diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic cancer and treated with any standard of
           care therapies, such as gemcitabine/Abraxane or FOLFIRINOX as front-line treatment with
           or without associated radiation treatment (200 subjects). Enrollment of treatment naïve
           subjects with metastatic pancreatic cancer is preferred.

      Consented and enrolled subjects will be asked to participate in this study in the following
      ways:

        -  Subjects will be asked to contribute blood (serum, buffy coat, and plasma), urine, and
           saliva after enrollment, and at clinically-significant timepoints throughout their
           treatment as indicated by their disease state.

        -  Subjects undergoing surgery for pancreatic disease will also be asked to donate diseased
           and adjacent non-diseased pancreatic tissue, defined as "excess" tissue from diagnostic
           or therapeutic biopsy or surgical procedures that is no longer required for standard of
           care purposes.

        -  Examples of "excess" tissue after a standard of care surgical procedures include any/all
           biopsies or resections performed and may include non-diseased pancreatic tissue and
           pancreatic tumor tissue.

        -  These collection procedures will not alter or prolong the conduct of standard of care
           surgical procedures.

      Subsequent liquid non-tissue samples will be collected from all subjects at the following
      clinically-relevant time points related to standard of care treatment for pancreatic disease:

        -  Before, at the time of, and/or after surgery to remove a pancreatic tumor or
           inflammatory mass;

        -  before and after chemotherapy and/or radiation for cancer;

        -  upon local, regional, or distant progression of cancer;

        -  resolution of the disease process.

      Blood (serum, plasma, and buffy coat), urine and saliva will not be collected more than six
      (6) times in a 12 month period per subject.

      Samples will be collected until the subject withdraws or the study has completed enrollment.
    
  