
    
      This protocol is investigating novel pharmaceutical agents (Phenylbutyrate and Genistein),
      which are aimed at improving the physiologic function of mutant Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane
      conductance Regulator (CFTR). CFTR is absent or dysfunctional in cystic fibrosis. Nasal
      epithelial CFTR function will be assessed by the NPD procedure.

      We will test the hypotheses that:

        1. Phenylbutyrate given orally for 4 days will be safe in adult Delta F508- heterozygous
           subjects with CF and will result in small improvements in nasal epithelial CFTR
           function.

        2. Topical administration of Genistein to the nasal epithelia of Phenylbutyrate treated
           Delta F508-heterozygous CF subjects will be safe and lead to augmentation of the
           improved nasal epithelial CFTR function observed during Phenylbutyrate treatment, but
           not during placebo treatment.

      Study Flow If eligibility is confirmed at the screening visit, there will be an additional 3
      outpatient visits over a 1-2 week period, lasting 2-4 hours each.

      Visit 1, all study related safety evaluations will be completed. There will also be a Nasal
      Potential Difference (NPD) measurement performed. To measure nasal potentials, or voltages, a
      small butterfly needle will be placed in the skin of the forearm and connected by a thin
      plastic tube to a monitoring device. A very small soft plastic catheter or tube will be
      placed against the inner surface of the nose. This catheter will pump a very small amount of
      saltwater onto the nose and it will connect to the monitoring machine. This machine senses
      very small electrical voltages that are generated by the body. It does not and cannot send
      electricity or shocks to the subject. A measurement is made and then the fluid pumped into
      the nose is changed to one containing a drug called amiloride. Amiloride changes the makeup
      of salt transported in the nose and reduces the electrical voltage. Then the fluid is changed
      to saltwater that does not contain chloride. The fluid is then changed to one that has the
      drug isoproterenol. Isoproterenol causes the cells in subjects without CF to move chloride.
      The doses of amiloride and isoproterenol used in this study are much lower than those
      typically used in patients for other reasons. Finally, the fluid will be changed to one
      containing the experimental drug Genistein.

      Subject will then be randomized and given a 4-day supply of the study drug.

      Visit 2, subject will have safety evaluations and NPD performed in the same manner as
      previous visit. No more study drug after this visit.

      Visit 3, subject will have safety evaluations and NPD performed without the perfusion of
      Genistein.
    
  