
    
      Patient "no-shows" are especially common in VA gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy units, where
      both open-access endoscopy scheduling and patient dislike of procedures contribute to high
      absenteeism. In this proposal, investigators use endoscopy as a case example to evaluate a
      predictive overbooking model derived using patient-level predictors of absenteeism. The
      no-show overbooking intervention employs a logistic regression model that uses patient data
      to predict the odds of no-showing with 80% accuracy. These projected no-show appointments
      will be overbooked by clerks for patients who agree to join a "fast track" short-call line.
      However, patients scheduled for upper endoscopies in the "fast track" assume a small risk of
      service denial on the day of their overbooking in case of inaccurate predictions. If this
      occurs, the patient is guaranteed service in the next available position and is assured of
      having a shorter wait time. Patients scheduled for colonoscopies will never be turned down
      but may experience delays in the waiting room the day of their "fast track" appointment. By
      rapidly processing endoscopy patients and moving them out of traditional slots, investigators
      predict more scheduling slots would become available for patients awaiting colonoscopy.
      Investigators propose to conduct a prospective, 24-month, interrupted time series (ITS) trial
      in the WLAVA (West Los Angeles Veterans Administration) GI clinic endoscopy unit. During
      intervention periods, investigators will activate the no-show predictive overbooking strategy
      described above. Investigators will compare outcomes between scheduling strategies, including
      differences in percent utilization of capacity (primary outcome), number of Veterans served,
      mean patient lag time between scheduling and procedure, number of unexpected service denials
      ("bumps") from no-show predictive overbooking, and direct costs of care. Investigators will
      analyze differences using both traditional univariate and multivariate approaches, and using
      autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) analyses to adjust for auto-correlations in
      ITS data.
    
  