
    
      Study design Investigators will conduct a vaccination campaign amongst pregnant women in
      different areas of South Africa and monitor the effectiveness of the programme. Investigators
      will then use an unmatched case-control study design.

      Vaccination campaigns will be conducted in clinics with active promotion of influenza
      vaccination. Posters will be placed in clinics recommending influenza vaccination for
      pregnant women and health education material will be provided. Vaccines will be administered
      by clinic staff through routine services as vaccination is the recommended standard of care.
      Dedicated study staff (research assistants) will be placed in each clinic offering
      vaccination. These staff will assist clinic staff with management of influenza vaccine
      supplies and documentation of influenza vaccination status in patient records. Vaccination
      status will be documented in the mother's antenatal records. Investigators will visit all the
      facilities in the area serving the surveillance hospital and conduct staff training in the
      facilities where babies are delivered to enter maternal influenza immunization status on the
      child's vaccination card at the time of administration of the birth dose of polio vaccine.

      Identification and enrolment of cases and controls for the estimation of VE against
      laboratory-confirmed influenza-associated hospitalised illness in infants<6 months of age
      overall and by HIV status Cases and controls will be identified through active sentinel
      surveillance for hospitalised medical illness of any diagnosis amongst children aged <6
      months. Hospitals where surveillance will be conducted will be large hospitals serving the
      communities in which the antenatal TIV campaign will be conducted. Investigators will conduct
      ongoing active surveillance with consecutive patient selection until the required sample size
      is reached.

      Identification and enrolment of cases for monitoring adverse events Dedicated study staff
      will conduct an information session with women selected for enrolment. These women will be
      asked for written informed consent prior to participation and non-participation will not
      affect a woman's eligibility to receive vaccine. Following vaccination administered by the
      nurse, as per the Department of Health schedule, demographic information, medical history,
      obstetric history and contact details will be collected from each participant by structured
      interview. Immediate reactions to the vaccine will be recorded at the time of interview. A
      separate aide de memoire diary will then be given to each participant. This diary will assist
      the women to record symptoms experienced in the seven days following vaccination. The
      symptoms listed will be based on standard collection tool.

      Data collection Hospitalised children <6 months For hospitalised children <6 months of age,
      epidemiologic data will be collected from a parent or caregiver interview, if possible, as
      well as review of medical and vaccination records of mother (antenatal cards, maternal
      in-patient cards and antenatal clinic registers) and baby (Road-to-Health cards and clinic
      registers). Information gathered will include: demographics of mother and baby (age, sex,
      race), medical history of baby (premature birth, congenital illnesses such congenital heart
      or lung disease, immunosuppressive or other chronic illness), recent infections, recent
      antimicrobial use, household characteristics (residence type and number of rooms, number of
      persons and their ages, questions related to socioeconomic status, exposure to tobacco smoke
      and indoor air pollution), child-care centre attendance, breast feeding and vaccination
      history. It will also request educational level of the parent or guardian and if adults or
      other children in the household had received pneumococcal or influenza vaccines. Information
      on HIV status will include whether the mother was tested for HIV during pregnancy and her HIV
      status if tested, whether the patient has been previously tested for HIV and results of such
      tests, history of underlying illness and previous HIV-associated diagnosis. Nutritional
      status of the child will be evaluated measuring weight (in kilograms) and length (in
      centimetres) at the time of admission. If the parent or guardian has a written vaccination
      record for the case or control child, names, batch numbers and dates of vaccines will be
      recorded (see determination of vaccination status below). For issues that may change with
      time (e.g. exposure to cigarette smoke, breastfeeding, day-care attendance), the questions
      will focus on the 4 weeks (as in 30 or 31 days) before illness.

      Adverse birth outcomes For the effectiveness against adverse birth outcomes (prematurity, LBW
      and SGA) epidemiologic data will primarily be collected from birth records and maternal
      antenatal records. Information gathered will include: demographics of mother and baby (age
      (of mother), sex, race), household characteristics (residence type and number of rooms,
      number of persons and their ages, questions related to socioeconomic status. It will also
      request educational level of the parent or guardian. Information on HIV status will include
      whether the mother was tested for HIV during pregnancy and her HIV status if tested. The
      baby's birthweight and gestational age will be evaluated from delivery and antenatal records.
      Birthweight (in kilograms) and length (in centimetres) will be documented.

      Hospitalised pregnant women and postpartum women, ≥18 years Epidemiologic, clinical
      presentation, laboratory data as well as information on hospital course will be collected
      from enrolled patients. A case investigation form will be completed by structured interview.
      Information gathered will include: demographics (age, sex, race), presenting symptoms,
      medical history (lung disease, immunosuppressive or other chronic illness including cardiac
      diseases, chronic renal diseases, diabetes mellitus and similar metabolic disorders),
      previous hospital admissions, recent infections, recent antimicrobial use, household
      characteristics (residence type and number of rooms, number of persons and their ages,
      questions related to socioeconomic status, exposure to tobacco smoke and indoor air
      pollution) and data on current and previous influenza vaccination. Information on HIV status
      will include current HIV status and whether the patient has been previously tested for HIV
      and results of such tests, previous HIV-associated diagnosis, HIV staging. Obesity evaluated
      measuring weight (in kilograms) and length (in centimetres) at the time of admission. Medical
      records will be reviewed for inpatient management (antimicrobial use, influenza antiviral
      therapy and results of investigations conducted) and outcome (admission to ICU, discharged or
      died).

      Monitoring adverse events The diary will be taken home by the participant. Telephone contact
      will be made with the participant by a study staff member on day eight (or day 7, 9 or 10 if
      day 8 falls over a weekend) and the contents of the diary will be recovered telephonically.
      If the study staff are not able to contact the participant on the first attempt, three
      further documented attempts will be made to contact the patient. Participants will also be
      request to return their diaries at their next clinic visit. Participating women will be asked
      to contact the study team if she is hospitalized for any reason in the seven days
      post-vaccination. A member of the study team will visit the woman in hospital and, using a
      predesigned form, collect data on the reason for hospitalization.

      Logs recording the enrolled patients with their contact details will be kept at each site.
      Completed data collection forms will be returned to the data centre at NICD for data capture
      and storage.
    
  