
    
      Objectives Tinnitus is one of the most distressing disabilities and innovative ways of
      managing the related health care burden is required. A cognitive behavioural therapy (CTB)
      based internet intervention (iCBT) has been developed in Europe to improve access to tinnitus
      treatments. This study aims to determine the feasibility and effectiveness of iCBT in
      reducing the impact associated with tinnitus in the United Kingdom (UK). It furthermore, aims
      to establish for which subgroups of tinnitus suffers this iCBT intervention would be a
      suitable intervention.

      Design A two-armed Randomized Control Trial (RCT), with a one year follow-up design will be
      used to evaluate the effectiveness iCBT on tinnitus distress Setting: This will be an
      internet-based study for adults with tinnitus living in the UK

      Participants: Eligible participants will include adults with tinnitus for a minimum period of
      3 months with internet access and no major medical or psychiatric conditions. 70 participants
      will be recruited for each group and will be randomly assigned using a computer generated
      randomization schedule by an independent research assistant after being pre-stratified for
      age and tinnitus severity.

      Intervention: The intervention offered is a CTB-based internet intervention, providing an
      opportunity to learn about new ways of coping with tinnitus during everyday life. It is 8
      week long e-learning intervention, with new modules introduced weekly and assignments given
      to practice techniques learnt.

      Outcome measures: The main outcome measure is the Tinnitus Functional Index. Secondary
      outcome measures are the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory- Screening version and self-reported
      measures for insomnia, hearing disability, cognitive functioning, hyperacusis, anxiety and
      depression and quality of life.

      Hypothesis: If this intervention proves feasible it is and effective, it may have
      implications for the way tinnitus suffers are managed in the UK. It may be that a subset of
      tinnitus suffers can be managed though an e-learning treatment program, freeing up services
      for those with more severe problems that need face to face treatment.
    
  