
    
      This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, prospective
      clinical study, conducted in China (six research centers).

      204 cases of patients with endometriosis-associated infertility confined with Syndrome of qi
      stagnation blood stasis pattern in TCM after conservative surgery will be recruited. Patients
      will be randomly divided into two groups: experimental group (TCM Sequential Treatment) and
      control group (placebo). All the patients are treated for six menstrual cycles, taking
      pre-ovulation decoction before ovulation and post-ovulation decoction after ovulation.
      Pre-ovulation decoction of experimental group is HuoXueXiaoYi decoction, and post-ovulation
      decoction is BuShenZhuYun decoction. The drug of control group is placebo.

      Each menstrual cycle, patient is monitored of antral follicle count (AFC), ovulation,
      endometrial thickness, and endometrial blood flow by ultrasonography, and need fill TCM
      syndrome rating scale, pictorial blood loss assessment chart (PBAC), and the visual analogue
      scale(VAS).The 1st, 3rd, 6th menstrual cycle after surgery, the level of serum female hormone
      (FSH, LH, E2) are detected in menstrual period of 2 to 5 days, and female hormone (E2, P) in
      the middle of the corpus luteum 6-9 days.

      Patient must be security check (blood routine, urine routine, liver and kidney function,
      electrocardiogram) before and after drug treatment. Such as patients find pregnancy during
      medication, adopt the security check in finding pregnancy 7 days.

      Patients after amenorrhea need to be confirmed pregnancy by serum β-HCG detection. According
      to the level of serum HCG, E2 and P and clinical symptoms, corresponding tocolytic treatment
      will be given. At 6～8 weeks of pregnancy, patient need to be confirmed the clinical pregnancy
      by ultrasonography. If confirmed the clinical pregnancy (at least having one heart throb in
      intrauterine gestational sac), patient need to be confirmed ongoing pregnancy by
      ultrasonography at the 12～14 weeks of pregnancy.

      In the process of the entire study, adverse events will be closely observed, and the
      frequency and severity of adverse events will be recorded.
    
  