
    
      This is an open-label (identity of assigned study drug will be known) study of PCI-32765
      (ibrutinib) in approximately 110 patients with chemoimmunotherapy-resistant FL whose disease
      has relapsed from at least 2 prior lines of therapy, including at least 1 rituximab
      combination chemotherapy regimen. Each patient must have resistant disease to the last
      therapy (defined as progression of disease [PD] during or within 12 months of the last dose
      of chemotherapy in a CD20 antibody combination chemotherapy regimen). The study will include
      the following phases: screening (up to 30 days prior to the first dose of study drug),
      treatment (until PD or unacceptable toxicity), and posttreatment follow-up (until death, lost
      to follow up, withdrawal of consent, or study end [defined as 2 years after the last patient
      is enrolled]). Patients will receive 560 mg of PCI-32765 by mouth once daily on a 21-day
      cycle. Treatment will be continuous (without interruption) and self-administered at home. The
      treatment phase will extend from administration of the first dose of study medication until
      PD or unacceptable toxicity. If a patient who had radiological evidence of PD is clinically
      stable or improving or exhibiting signs of tumor flare without confirmation of PD by PET or
      biopsy, they may continue treatment with ibrutinib upon request by the investigator and
      approval by the sponsor. Posttreatment follow-up will extend from the end of treatment until
      death, lost to follow up, withdrawal of consent, or study end. Every patient, except for
      those who explicitly withdraw consent from further site contact, will be followed for
      survival status until the study ends. In addition, data on subsequent antineoplastic therapy
      will also be collected. Serial pharmacokinetic samples will be collected and efficacy and
      safety will be monitored throughout the study. A separate assessment of pharmacokinetics is
      planned for patients who receive a strong or moderate CYP3A4/5 inhibitor while receiving
      treatment with ibrutinib. For patients who have already discontinued ibrutinib due to PD,
      have taken no other anticancer therapy, and now have a radiologically documented delayed
      response, resumption of ibrutinib is permitted on a case-by-case basis, upon request by the
      investigator and approval of the sponsor.
    
  