
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (complete response [CR] and partial response [PR])
      of hairy cell leukemia (HCL) at 32 weeks after beginning therapy with single-agent ibrutinib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the toxicity and tolerability of single-agent ibrutinib when administered
      to patients with HCL.

      II. To characterize the progression-free (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of single-agent
      ibrutinib when administered to patients with HCL.

      III. To determine the rate of molecular remission (minimal residual disease [MRD]-negative
      CR) among all patients, defined as resolution of all detectable disease below the limits of
      detection by immunohistochemistry and/or 4-color flow cytometry assay at 32 weeks after
      beginning ibrutinib therapy.

      IV. To characterize immunologic outcomes during single agent ibrutinib administration.

      V. To explore the effect of ibrutinib (PCI-32765) on traditional and new biomarkers in HCL
      including:

      Va. Confirmation of expression BRAFV600E in leukemia cells Vb. Pharmacodynamic effects of BTK
      inhibition on phosphorylated (phospho) ERK regulation, as well as other potential protein
      kinase targets of ibrutinib (exploratory) Vc. Serum soluble IL-2 receptor correlation with
      response to ibrutinib therapy Vd. Documentation of and quantification of minimal residual
      disease following maximal response, with flow cytometric analysis and immunohistochemical
      stains of the bone marrow, as predictors of remission duration after ibrutinib therapy.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28
      days for up to 8 cycles if lack of response to therapy, up to 12 cycles if failure to achieve
      an objective response (CR/PR), or continually at per physician discretion in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  