
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the overall survival of patients with newly diagnosed, unresectable stage
           IIIA or IIIB non-small cell lung cancer treated with high- versus standard-dose
           conformal radiotherapy with concurrent and consolidation chemotherapy comprising
           carboplatin and paclitaxel.

        -  To compare the overall survival of patients treated with versus without cetuximab in the
           setting of concurrent chemotherapy

      Secondary

        -  To compare progression-free survival and local-regional tumor control in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the toxicity of high- versus standard-dose conformal radiotherapy and
           concurrent chemotherapy with versus without cetuximab in these patients.

        -  To investigate the prognostic and predictive effects of gross tumor volume on overall
           survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To correlate outcomes (i.e., survival, toxicity, or QOL) in these patients with
           biological parameters.

        -  To analyze the predictive value of pre-treatment standardized uptake value (SUV) of
           positron emission tomography (PET) scan in predicting survival, distant metastasis, and
           local-regional control in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To explore biological markers to predict clinical outcome including survival, distant
           metastasis, local-regional control, and QOL (including toxicity) in patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  To prospectively collect and bank tissue, blood, and urine specimens for future
           biomarker analyses in predicting clinical outcome in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  To investigate associations between epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression
           and toxicity, response, overall survival, and progression-free survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to PET staging (yes
      vs no), radiotherapy technique (3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy vs intensity-modulated
      radiotherapy), Zubrod performance status (0 vs 1), and histology (squamous vs non-squamous).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms. (Arms II and IV closed to accrual effective
      6/17/11)

      Patients may undergo tumor tissue, blood, and urine collection periodically during study for
      tissue banking or biomarker correlative studies.

      Patients may undergo quality-of-life assessment at baseline and periodically during study.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 5 years and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  