
    
      Background: The investigators have developed a cognitive model of generalized anxiety
      disorder (GAD) that has intolerance of uncertainty as its central component. Based on this
      model, they have devised a cognitive-behavioural treatment (CBT) for GAD that helps affected
      individuals recognize, accept, and deal with the uncertainty of everyday life. Although the
      treatment leads to positive outcomes in most patients, a significant minority of treated
      individuals do not attain full remission. One potential avenue for improving the treatment of
      GAD is to identify disorder-specific modes of cognitive processing (or information
      processing) and to directly target these modes of processing in therapy. Accordingly, the
      investigators have carried out a series of related studies examining the relationship between
      cognitive processing and GAD. The findings from these studies show that individuals who have
      clinical or subclinical GAD (1) preferentially allocate their attention to
      uncertainty-related stimuli, and (2) make threatening appraisals of ambiguous information.
      Further, the data show that the tendency to make threatening appraisals of ambiguous
      information mediates the relationship between intolerance of uncertainty and the symptoms of
      GAD. This latter finding is consistent with cognitive theory, which asserts that information
      processing mediates the influence of cognitive vulnerability on the expression of symptoms of
      emotional disorders. This study aims to extend this line of research by investigating the
      impact of these cognitive processing biases on treatment outcome for patients with GAD.

      Goals and hypotheses: The main goal of the study is to examine the impact of biases in
      cognitive processing on short- and long-term outcomes of cognitive-behavioural therapy for
      individuals with GAD. The study's main hypotheses are that: (1) preferential allocation of
      attention to uncertainty-related stimuli, assessed at pretreatment, will predict poorer
      response to treatment; (2) the tendency to appraise ambiguous information in a threatening
      manner, assessed at pretreatment, will predict poorer response to treatment; (3) preferential
      allocation of attention to uncertainty-related stimuli, assessed at posttreatment, will
      predict relapse during follow-up; and (4) the tendency to appraise ambiguous information in a
      threatening manner, assessed at posttreatment, will predict relapse during follow-up.

      Method: The final sample consists of 80 adult patients with a principal diagnosis of GAD,
      recruited from the Anxiety Disorders Clinic of Sacré-Cœur Hospital of Montreal. Participants
      are assessed at 9 measurement times: pretreatment, midtreatment, posttreatment, and 3-, 6-,
      9-, 12-, 15- and 18-month follow-up. Assessments include the Anxiety Disorders Interview
      Schedule for DSM-IV, a cognitive processing task (Ambiguous/Unambiguous Situations Diary),
      and a battery of standardized self-report measures. Treatment consists of an empirically
      supported CBT protocol for GAD, which is administered over 16 weekly sessions using a
      session-by-session treatment manual developed in earlier studies. Growth curve analysis with
      multilevel modeling will be the main analytic strategy used to determine the relationships
      between cognitive processing and change in a range of outcome variables while controlling for
      relevant clinical and sociodemographic variables.

      Implications: The study has important theoretical and clinical implications. In terms of
      theory, it begins to bridge the gap between the considerable knowledge of the role of
      cognitive processing in anxiety and the lack of knowledge of the impact of cognitive
      processing on treatment outcomes. Surprisingly, although the role of cognitive processing in
      anxiety has been intensely studied, the impact of cognitive processing on GAD psychotherapy
      outcomes has never been examined. The proposed study also informs clinical practice as to the
      importance of (1) systematically assessing cognitive processing, and (2) integrating
      treatment interventions that specifically target biased cognitive processing into current GAD
      treatment protocols.
    
  