
    
      Severity of allergic reactions are highly variable from one individual to another, they can
      range from absent to life threatening. Allergic manifestations and specifically those of
      anaphylactic reactions are generally attributed to an IgE-dependent activation of mast cells
      and/or basophils followed by the release of histamine. Recently however evidence accumulated
      that other pathways might similarly contribute or even trigger anaphylaxis. Moreover, while
      the variance in human populations is an important subject to scientific research, medical
      practices and public health policies typically take a 'one for all' approach to disease
      management and drug development. Indeed, individual heterogeneity in the immune response can
      have a big impact on the likelihood to respond to therapy. Because of the complexity of
      immune responses in the individual and within the population, it has not been possible thus
      far to define the parameters (genetic or environmental) that define the immune system of
      allergic patients and its natural occurring variability. Thanks to the efforts that have been
      made in the framework of the Labex "Milieu Intérieur" study genetic, immunological and
      environmental factors have been identified that can be linked to the heterogeneity of immune
      responses in healthy individuals. By comparing these already available data to a novel cohort
      of patients with defined severe allergic manifestations, we will be able to identify for the
      first time immunological and environmental parameters that are common to patients with severe
      allergies and identify those parameters that distinguish allergic patients from the healthy
      donor cohort. This analysis will thus open new perspectives on deregulated immune pathways in
      allergic patients allowing to orient future treatment approaches. Furthermore, comparing
      immune responses before and after allergen-specific immunotherapy will help understanding,
      which changes in immune responses are causal to a successful treatment. Importantly, this
      analysis will shed light on the individual differences that may predict the outcome of
      treatment approaches and propose novel markers of its success. Hence, it will give important
      insights for the individually adapted treatment of patients.
    
  