
    
      Hypertrophic scar (HS) is a challenging yet common complication of dermal injuries such as
      burns, surgeries, and trauma. It is characterized as a raised, rigid, hyper-vascular, and
      abnormally pigmented scar confined within the border of the initial injury. The induced
      aesthetic defect and impaired physical function could adversely affect quality of life.1
      Pressure therapy (PT) and silicone therapy are recommended as first-line non-invasive
      treatments HS.

      Recent reviews suggested PT was able to decrease scar height and erythema3,4. The
      inconclusive outcome results from fact that seldom research address the issue of adequate
      pressure dosage, which is essential for the treatment effect of PT. It is recommended that an
      interface pressure of 15-25 mmHg should be given and maintained through a 23 hrs/day wearing
      regime in order to achieve optimal treatment outcomes5. However, maintaining adequate
      pressure dosage through pressure garment alone is usually uncomfortable and sometimes
      impossible, especially over bodily concave area. Therefore, pressure inserts are used in
      conjunction with pressure garment to increase local pressure6. Despite the documented use of
      pressure inserts in various journals, pressure garment alone remains the mainstream treatment
      for hypertrophic scar.

      Cochrane review conducted on silicone gel sheet (SGS) revealed SGS's ability in reducing scar
      thickness and improving scar color, but insufficient data on its effect on scar pliability5.
      SGS are commonly used to occlude and provide hydration to scar tissues.5, 6 They are mainly
      used for small scars or surgical scars. They are generally costly and thin in physical form,
      rendering them incapable of exerting sufficient pressure.

      The joint effectiveness of these two treatment modalities in scar management is always
      drawing the interests from researchers. Various studies reported that enhanced effectiveness
      could be achieved through the combination of PT and SGS especially in terms of scar
      pliability, though all subjectively measured6-8. Therefore, there is an urging need to
      establish the effectiveness of the combination of these two treatments through an RCT.

      In order to address the adequate pressure as well as the silicone gel sheeting effect at the
      same time, a newly invented insert material, the Smart Scar Care Pad (SSCP), is adopted in
      this study as treatment modality. The Smart Scar Care Pad is especially designed with a
      rubbery silicone stiffener layer and medical grade silicone gel lining layer underneath. The
      medical grade silicone gel lining layer underneath serves as the occlusion layer. The rubbery
      silicone stiffener layer is designed with numerous studs. By cutting the individual studs
      into gradient height, the Smart Scar Care Pad (SSCP), creates tailor made localized pressure
      under pressure garment. Studs are also aligned in honey cone style in order to maximize
      conformability over different bodily contours. In that case, the Smart Scar Care Pad (SSCP)
      not only increases local pressure but also provides occlusion to HS tissue.
    
  