
    
      There is a lack of research on the efficacy of psychotherapy and especially EMDR in
      ACS-induced PTSD. In the light of ACS-induced PTSD having different symptoms than traditional
      PTSD, this lack of research is highly problematic. Specifically, the unique symptom profile
      in ACS-induced PTSD related to the enduring somatic threat model was not addressed in any of
      the studies targeting PTSD in cardiac patients. In this regard, EMDR might be most promising:
      The EMDR protocol includes the assessment of body sensations associated with the target
      event, which is followed by reprocessing. The bilateral eye movements during reprocessing
      seem to have de-arousing effects and may thereby interrupt the positive feedback loop between
      cardiovascular sensations and anxiety-induced arousal as explained by the enduring somatic
      threat model. Hence, EMDR might be more suitable in cardiac PTSD patients compared to
      treatment protocols that motivates patients to keep focusing on the traumatic event such as
      Prolonged Exposure, where higher emotional involvement seems to be related to a better
      outcome.

      Therefore, the here proposed study aims at testing EMDR therapy in ACS-induced PTSD in a
      randomized controlled trial.The here proposed study aims at testing EMDR therapy in
      ACS-induced PTSD in a randomized controlled trial. More specifically, the efficacy of the
      standardized trauma-focused procedure in terms of a reduced PTSD symptom level will be tested
      against a passive waitlist control group.

      Intervention group:

      The intervention group consists of 30 patients diagnosed with PTSD induced by ACS. Eight
      individual EMDR sessions lasting for 1 hours will be provided over 8 weeks by licensed EMDR
      therapists from the German-speaking part of Switzerland. Each EMDR session follows a
      standardized 8-phase protocol. As Shapiro posits that it is necessary to adapt the standard
      procedures to the unique needs and characteristics of the patient and to apply different EMDR
      protocols for different pathologies, the therapy for ACS patients was adapted from the
      standard protocol.

      Waiting control group:

      The intervention group consists of 30 patients diagnosed with PTSD induced by ACS. No
      intervention or any other procedure will be conducted during the study period of 36 weeks.
      Afterwards these subjects will be offered an EMDR therapy as provided in the intervention.

      Screening for inclusion and exclusion criteria prior to study inclusion:

      After discharge, survivors of an acute cardiac event will be informed about the study by a
      letter. The Screening will be conducted by phone and/or e-mail. Eligible participants will be
      screened for inclusion and exclusion criteria. Screening for a probable PTSD diagnosis will
      be conducted using Part III of the PCL-5 for DSM-5. Subjects who meet a total sum score of 28
      or more, will be invited for Baseline a.

      Baseline a: Definitive inclusion, baseline measurements, randomization Assessment 1 consists
      of two appointments taking place at the University Hospital Zurich. During the first
      appointment, the CAPS-5 and the M.I.N.I will be administered in order to ascertain a PTSD and
      other psychiatric diagnoses. By means of the CAPS-5, it will be determined whether the
      participants have PTSD (inclusion criterion and baseline assessment of primary outcome).

      As the assessment of the traumatic event during the interview can cause distress (although
      only minimal and transient), which affects biomarkers, the assessment of cardiovascular
      biomarkers and stress sensitization by means of the loud-tone procedure will be carried out
      at a separate appointment.

      The second appointment (Baseline b) will be scheduled within 7 days after the first
      appointment to assess the baseline of all secondary endpoints: 1) saliva and blood samples
      will be collected to obtain, stress hormones, and cardiovascular biomarkers, including blood
      pressure; 2) the loud-tone procedure will be administered; 3) patient's medication will be
      documented. Moreover, the following information will be obtained from the potential
      participants or from hospital charts: Demographic factors, established cardiovascular risk
      factors and life style behavior, objective indices of myocardial damage and severity,
      variables related to patient referral to the coronary care unit, recurrent cardiac symptoms,
      recurrent hospitalizations, cardiac rehabilitation, doctor visits, pharmacological treatment,
      adherence to medication, medical comorbidities.

      Psychometric data will be collected by means of questionnaires. These questionnaires will be
      completed during the second appointment or from home via eCRF (Red Cap).

      Randomization:

      Participants will be randomized into either the intervention group (EMDR treatment) or the
      wait-list control group. Assessors who ascertain the primary outcome variable, i.e. CAPS
      scores, will be blind to the subject's treatment condition. Randomization will be conducted
      by a person outside of the study team.

      Intervention period:

      After randomization, the intervention (EMDR therapy) will be carried.

      Post Treatment and 6-months Follow-up (a/b):

      After the intervention (week 12), procedures of assessment 2 related to primary and secondary
      endpoints (i.e., CAPS, psychophysiological reactivity, psychometry, blood and saliva
      sampling) will be repeated. In order to test whether the effects of EMDR-treatment are
      long-lasting, measurements will be repeated at 6-months follow-up. Assessors who ascertain
      the primary outcome variable, i.e. CAPS scores, will be blind to the subject's treatment
      condition.
    
  