
    
      While considerable knowledge has been accumulated on improving reading for students with
      reading disabilities in the primary grades, reading interventions conducted with
      middle-grades (i.e., grades 3-6) have been rare and have typically evidenced low impacts,
      even when more intensive interventions are provided for increasingly longer durations. One
      hindrance to extant interventions has been the narrow focus on reading problems without
      addressing non-academic (e.g., self-regulation, socioemotional) factors known to also affect
      learning. Thus, investigations of the efficacy derived from integrating additional components
      into standard reading skills interventions are necessary. Anxiety represents a particularly
      salient target for such an approach, as it is among the most commonly reported mental health
      issues of childhood, and significant associations have been found between anxiety and
      academic outcomes. Further, an overwhelming number of children who are struggling to read or
      who fail to respond to reading interventions report elevated anxiety. The purpose of this
      proposal is to evaluate an integrated program designed for middle-grade readers and comprised
      of evidence-based practices for the treatment of anxiety and reading difficulties. A pilot
      study of this program, conducted with 36 students randomized to treatment and control
      conditions, demonstrated its feasibility and positive effects on anxiety outcomes. The RCT
      will extend this work by comparing the combined reading and anxiety intervention with a
      reading-only condition and a control condition. Struggling readers will be included in this
      study and will receive two years of intervention. The study will assess efficacy of the
      interventions at reducing anxiety and improving reading at post-intervention and 6-month
      follow-up (Aim 1). This project significantly enhances extant research on interventions for
      struggling reading by examining mechanisms of action associated with augmented outcomes among
      students who receive the combined intervention (Aim 2), and by determining potential
      moderators of intervention effects (Aim 3). In all, 300 ethnically diverse students will be
      recruited. A multi-informant (student, parent, teacher), multi-method (e.g., survey,
      standardized test, experiential sampling) assessment will be used. Relevance of this project
      lies in the determination of whether the inclusion of anxiety management skills enhances
      existing intervention outcomes for struggling readers in the upper elementary grades
      (concurrently/longitudinally). Examination of contextual and mitigating factors are further
      relevant for understanding the complex etiology of response to intervention among struggling
      readers. This project represents translational research that directly informs the practice
      community (e.g., clinicians, teachers) by identifying novel instructional practices that can
      be aggregated to more effectively influence student outcomes. By providing socioemotional
      skills training with a reading intervention using a school-based delivery model, this work
      has the potential of reducing disparities in mental health outcomes by reaching students of
      diverse backgrounds (e.g., ethnicity, SES) who would be otherwise less likely to receive such
      services.
    
  