
    
      The study will take place in the infectious diseases department of the University Hospitals
      of Strasbourg. All diabetic patients or patients with corticosteroid-induced diabetes
      hospitalized for Covid-19 infection and requiring corticosteroid therapy (Dexamethasone 6mg /
      day IV for 10 days or Solupred 40mg / day per os) can be recruited.

      Subjects meeting the eligibility criteria will be informed of the research orally and by the
      delivery of a written information notice from the start of their hospitalization in the
      department:

      The allocation of the study group will be made according to the patient's hospitalization
      unit in the infectious disease department, unit 1 will benefit from tele-expertise (TE group)
      and patients in unit 2 will belong to the standard group (group S). Unit 1 and Unit 2 of the
      infectious disease department take care of patients in the same way..

      The TE group consists of patients treated from the start of steroid therapy with a basal /
      bolus insulin regimen at a dose of 0.5U / kg / day: 50% in basal insulin Abasaglar and 50% in
      rapid insulin Humalog divided into three prandial injections with adaptation of insulin doses
      on the basis of the MCG. The use of the MCG with a collection of 90 glycemia / day allows the
      establishment of an intensive insulin treatment in complete safety because of the access to
      postprandial glycemia for the adaptation of rapid insulin and glycemia nocturnal for
      adaptation of basal insulin. The implementation of a basal bolus insulin therapy in a
      non-diabetes unit is made possible by continuous glucose measurement. Freestyle libre will
      therefore be implemented as soon as the insulin treatment is carried out. The Freestyle libre
      continuous glucose measurement sensor provides access to 90 interstitial glucose measurements
      / day and the establishment of continuous glucose measurement curves sent by secure computer
      every 48 hours for diabetes advice and dose adjustment insulin It is suggested for the study
      to carry out at least 8 glucose measurements / day per Free style Libre scanner. Therefore,
      there will be no achievement of capillary blood glucose in the TE group

      The standard group (S) consists of patients for whom diabetes management is carried out
      according to the habits of the infectious disease department. This standard care includes the
      initiation of insulin therapy (one to several injections of insulin per day) in a context of
      hyperglycemia according to the habits of the department. The adjustment of the insulin doses
      in the S group will be carried out on the basis of at least 3 capillary blood glucose tests
      per day carried out before each meal. Group S will benefit from the fitting of a Freestyle
      Libre Pro, that is to say a continuous glucose sensor fitted throughout the hospital stay.
      The Freestyle Libre Pro, does not provide access to real-time interstitial glucose readings
      but has the option once removed to be able to analyze all 90 interstitial glucose readings.
      Its interest is to avoid interfering with the standard diabetes management of the infectious
      disease department.
    
  