
    
      Study protocol:

      Topical application of tranexamic acid compared to the intravenous administration in total
      hip arthroplasty with the direct anterior approach A prospective, randomized, clinical trial

      Researchers: B. Jacobs and Dr. S. Ghijselings Supervisors: Dr. R. Driesen, Dr. M. Beran, Dr.
      R. Heylen Coördinerend supervisor: Prof dr. K. Corten

      Background

      The prevalence of total hip arthroplasty (THA) is increasing and the accompanied blood loss
      cannot be overlooked. In 2007, 17,347 patients underwent THA in Belgium and that number grows
      every year by an average of 2.9%. The average amount of blood loss associated with THA was
      ranging from 1000 to 2000mL. Therefore the substantial perioperative blood loss frequently
      necessitates blood transfusion. Although complications have decreased, morbidity and high
      costs due to blood transfusion still exist.

      To avoid blood transfusion after THA, tranexamic acid (TXA) can be administered. TXA, a
      synthetic amino acid that blocks the lysine binding sites on plasminogen in a competitive
      way, is an antifibrinolytic agent. TXA can be administered intravenously or intra-articular.
      The ideal method of providing TXA remains topic of debate. Several studies have proven that
      intravenous application reduces blood loss and the need for blood transfusion in patients
      undergoing THA . In contrast, after intravenous administration only a small percentage of the
      drug reaches the target location, the rest distributes across the whole body. Hence the risk
      of possible side effects after intravenous administration, like thromboembolic events and
      gastrointestinal complaints, theoretically is greater.

      Local application of TXA could get around these possible systemic side effects. The benefit
      of topical application of TXA has been proven for dental surgery, cardiac surgery, spine
      surgery and total knee arthroplasty. In a case-control study, Van Elst et al (20) recently
      proved that local application of TXA after THA reduces total bleeding by 100 to 380 mL in
      comparison to placebo.

      Null - Hypothesis

      In this study, we will compare the efficacy of intra-articular application of TXA to the
      intravenous administration in terms of postoperative blood loss.

      Our hypothesis is that there is no significant difference in postoperative blood loss between
      intra-articular and intravenous administration of TXA.

      Materials and Methods

      What:

        -  Power analysis

        -  RCT, prospective study

        -  Monocentric study

        -  Clinical outcome measurements Each patient will give written consent for inclusion in
           the study. This prospective, single-centered, randomized clinical trial is designed to
           enroll a total of 120 patients who meet the inclusion criteria, with approximate 60
           patients in each group. Patients are allocated to a) intravenous application of TXA or
           b) intra-articular administration of TXA, with use of a computer-generated randomization
           table.

      Inclusion criteria:

      All adults (patients over the age of eighteen years) who were scheduled for a primary
      unilateral total hip arthroplasty due to osteoarthritis at Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg, Genk,
      Belgium are eligible for inclusion in the study.

      Exclusion criteria:

      A patient is excluded from the study if he or she has a history of coagulopathy, allergy to
      tranexamic acid, preoperative anemia, fibrinolytic disorders, history of arterial or venous
      thromboembolic disease, disturbances of color vision, pregnancy, breastfeeding, major
      comorbidities and participation in another clinical trial.

      Preoperative protocol

      With a blood sample, preoperative hemoglobin level will be measured. This hemoglobin level is
      used to calculate postoperative blood loss.

      Surgical procedure

      Spinal anesthesia will be given to all patients and standard monitoring will be used during
      surgery.

      Two orthopedic surgeons (K.C. and R.D.) participated in this study. Both surgeons use the
      same surgical technique, the direct anterior approach (DAA). The type of prosthesis used will
      be based on the surgeon's preference and patient age, activity level and demands. All
      implants are cementless and a surgical drain is placed to collect the postoperative blood
      loss.

      Whenever intraoperative surgical, medical, or anesthetic complications occur, TXA will not be
      administered and the patient will be excluded from the study. Prophylaxis antibiotic, 2g of
      cephalosporin, will be intravenously administered right before the intervention and this is
      repeated three times within 24 hours over a constant time interval.

      Tranexamic acid procedure

      To ensure the double-blinding upset of this study, the 60 patients from the control group
      receive a solution of 1.5g TXA in 100ml 0.9%NaCl, administered intravenously before closure
      of the incision. A dose of 3g TXA is applied intra-articular to the other group of 60
      patients. The intra-articular injection is applied after THA, when the wound already has been
      closed. Two hours after wound closing, the surgical drain will be opened. The two hour wait
      after wound closing is proven most successful.

      Postoperative follow-up

      Postoperative applied prophylaxis and early mobilization will be used to prevent deep-vein
      thrombosis (DVT). The administered prophylaxis include daily low molecular weight heparin
      until six weeks after surgery. While in the hospital, patients will be examined daily for any
      clinical symptoms of DVT. Patients also receive compressive stockings to wear after surgery.

      Postoperative hemoglobin levels are measured at the first and the fourth day postoperative.
      All patients remained in the hospital for a minimum of 5 days.

      Outcome measures

      The primary outcome is the postoperative blood loss. The difference between total blood loss
      and intraoperative blood loss is used to predict the postoperative blood loss for each
      patient.

      The secondary outcomes includes:

        1. The rate of perioperative and postoperative blood transfusion

        2. The number of blood units transfused

        3. The length of hospital stay

        4. Perioperative given intravenous isotonic fluid

      The criterion for the transfusion of blood products is a hemoglobin level of <8.0 g/dL if the
      patient developed intolerable symptoms of anemia or any comorbidities that may have been
      related to anemia and was not attributable to another cause or ongoing blood loss was
      occurring. If transfusion is necessary, the amount of units of packed red blood cells is
      estimated according to the hemoglobin level or the severity of symptoms with the intention to
      increase the hemoglobin level to 8.0 g/dL.

      Statistical analysis

      Each patient will receive a detailed brochure with information concerning the study procedure
      and a written informed consent will be obtained.

      Patients can decline the offer for participation in the study. In that case these patients
      shall get treatment as proposed. Patients that accept to participate are randomized to either
      the group of intravenous administration or intra-articular administration of tranexamic acid.
      These patients will receive a number and will be randomly assigned to either the intravenous
      or intra-articular group by computer.
    
  