
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is an angioproliferative vasculopathy resulting from
      abnormal endothelial and smooth muscle cell interactions. Idiopathic and familial PAH
      (formerly known as primary pulmonary hypertension) occurs more often in women than in men,
      with a median survival of 2.8 years if untreated and a mean age at diagnosis of 35 years. The
      key features of this vasculopathy causes a progressive narrowing of the pulmonary artery and
      their branches, resulting in right heart failure and death. Proliferating endothelial cells
      obliterate medium-sized precapillary arteries, thereby forming the characteristic "plexiform"
      lesions. When combined with the expansion of both vascular smooth muscle cells and
      adventitial cells in pulmonary arteries, these observations evoke comparisons to cancer
      pathobiology. Currently, FDA-approved therapies for PAH such as prostacyclins (epoprostenol,
      treprostinil, and iloprost), endothelin receptor blockers (bosentan) and phosphodiesterase
      inhibitors (sildenafil) all produce functional improvement (6 minute walk distance- 6MW) with
      minimal change in hemodynamic measurements at cardiac catheterization. Only epoprostenol has
      provided survival benefit with the 5-year survival, remaining at 50% without demonstrable
      reversal of the vasculopathy. Clearly there is a critical need for novel targets and
      therapies for PAH.

      In this protocol, the principal investigator (PI) will leverage a large PAH referral practice
      with an established clinical database to assess the potential utility of kinase inhibitors as
      a new class of agents for protease-activated receptor (PAR). These drugs inhibit processes
      important to pathological blood vessel branching and growth and have been a focus for the
      internationally renowned University of Chicago Phase I/II trials unit in oncology led by Dr.
      Mark Ratain (Co-Investigator). The University of Chicago has had a major role in the drug
      development of the recently (12/05) FDA-approved drug, sorafenib, for advanced renal
      carcinoma. Sorafenib inhibits Raf-1 kinase, a regulator of endothelial apoptosis, and
      inhibits angiogenesis growth factor receptors VEGFR-2, PDGFR-B, and VEGFR-3.
    
  