
    
      Employees in developed societies are becoming increasingly sedentary at work and at home due
      to technological advances. Physical inactivity coupled with excess intake of calorie-rich
      foods are responsible for the epidemic of obesity. In population cohorts, physical inactivity
      and obesity increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and death. Because of the impact on
      productivity and health care costs, many businesses and other organizations have initiated
      "wellness" programs, often with facilities at the work site to encourage exercise. Although
      these programs have often resulted in improved fitness for participants, weight loss has been
      more difficult to achieve. In this regard, in our initial study of NIH employees
      participating in NHLBI's Keep the Beat program--two-thirds of whom were overweight or
      obese--we found improved exercise fitness after 3 months of participation, with exercise
      averaging 20 minutes each work day, but no significant weight loss. Associated with greater
      fitness in our participants was improvement in endothelial function, an important biomarker
      of cardiovascular risk. Because level of fitness is a strong predictor of cardiovascular (and
      total) mortality in population studies, some investigators and thought leaders have proposed
      that it is acceptable to be "fat and fit." We found in our study, however, that exercise
      alone has little effect on insulin sensitivity and other biomarkers of risk, including
      C-reactive protein, which could limit further improvement in endothelial function and even
      greater risk reduction. We propose to test in this protocol whether weight loss through
      supervised nutritional counseling and daily exercise at worksite facilities confers health
      benefits beyond those achieved with improved fitness alone, such as improvement in
      endothelial function, arterial compliance, insulin sensitivity, markers of inflammation in
      blood and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) structure and function. Because obesity in a
      sedentary workforce environment is especially prevalent among women, with additional
      contribution of menopause to obesity, our study will be restricted to overweight and obese
      women to allow appropriate analysis in a cohort of manageable size for our testing resources.
      The primary endpoint will be differential improvement in endothelial function, as determined
      by brachial artery reactivity to shear stress, from baseline to 6 months in participants
      randomized to exercise coupled with weight-loss intervention versus subjects randomized to
      exercise alone. Secondary analyses will include comparisons of adiposity, arterial stiffness,
      insulin sensitivity, HDL subparticles and function, and markers of inflammation and
      adipokines in blood, with exploratory analyses of minorities and age/hormonal interactions.
      Demonstration of improved vascular function and other biomarkers of cardiovascular risk with
      improved fitness combined with weight loss may serve as an incentive for greater
      participation in organization-initiated wellness programs with emphasis both on exercise and
      on personalized nutritional counseling.
    
  