
    
      Monocentric and Observational Study

      - Longitudinal Prospective

      The study considers the collection of the following samples:

        -  a single whole blood sample, 3-5 mL in EDTA for Pharmacogenetics,

        -  10 mL whole blood sample in lithium-heparin for Tac quantification in PBMC collected at
           each time-point scheduled for routine follow-up visits: day +15 and month 1, 3, 6, 12
           post transplant

        -  About 1 mg cardiac tissue samples (from cardiac biopsies), collected by standard
           procedure adopted at the Transplant Center of CardiacSurgery at each time-point
           scheduled for routine follow-up visits: day +15 and month 1, 3, 6, 12 post transplant

      Each blood sample and biopsy specimen will be identified and labeled with an alphanumeric
      code, whose decoding matrix will be kept by dedicated personnel at the U.O.C. Cardiac
      Surgery, Department of Intensive Medicine.

      In general, each patient will be defined as "TAC + progressive enrollment number" (example:
      TAC1, TAC2, TAC3 ...).

      Each sample sent to the laboratories for the analyzes in the different matrices and for the
      different activities foreseen by the protocol (measurements of tacrolimus and pharmacogenetic
      concentrations) must always contain the identification code assigned to the patient followed
      by the type of analysis + sampling time. For example, patient collection # 2 for tacrolimus
      assay to be performed in PBMC, whole blood and EMB at month 3, will be identified as:

      TAC2-PBMC-M3 TAC2-WB-M3 TAC2-BEM-M3

      The storage of the codes that will allow the patients' identification will be kept by dr.
      Carlo Pellegrini and dr. Barbara Cattadori (U.O.C. Cardiosurgery).

      All samples will be investigated within the Foundation: blood samples for the quantification
      of Tacrolimus in blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and in whole blood will be transferred to the
      Clinical and Experimental Pharmacokinetic Laboratory. Blood samples for pharmacogenetic
      investigations will be transferred to the Biochemical and Genetic Laboratory of Respiratory
      Diseases.

      The proponents of the study will keep any residual samples at the investigations planned by
      the study in a safe place with limited access, ie in a freezer -80 °C located in a locked
      room (room n.11a, Lab Clinical and Experimental Pharmacokinetics, Pavilion 13). These samples
      can be used for scientific purposes directly related to those of the main study
    
  