
    
      Objective

      The objective of this study was to determine whether intermittent preventative treatment
      (IPTp) with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) reduced the prevalence of anemia and low birth
      weight in Gambian multigravidae.

      Study area

      The study was carried out in 14 mother and child health (MCH) clinics situated on the north
      and south banks of the River Gambia near to the town of Farafenni in the centre of the
      country. In this area, malaria is highly seasonal with an entomological inoculation rate of
      10 -50 infectious bites per year.

      Study population

      All women who attended one of the study clinics during the trial period and who were
      multigravidae were asked if they wished to join the study. If this was the case, an initial
      screening questionnaire was administered to assess their suitability to do so. Eligibility
      criteria were - a pregnancy of more than 15 weeks gestation, a hemoglobin (Hb) concentration
      of more than 7 g/dL, absence of a history of sensitivity to sulfonamides and absence of any
      chronic underlying illness.

      Randomisation

      If a woman met the eligibility criteria, informed written consent was sought and, if this was
      given, the woman was formally recruited to the study and allocated a trial number and
      randomised to receive either SP or placebo. Randomisation was done in blocks of 12; each
      field worker was assigned a number of blocks to ensure balanced recruitment between centers.

      Drug administration

      Women were allocated to receive SP (pyrimethamine 25 mg + sulfadoxine 500 mg)(Cosmos
      Pharmaceuticals, Nairobi) or matching placebo. An initial dose of SP or placebo (three
      tablets) was given at the time of enrolment into the trial and at all subsequent visits to
      the antenatal clinic up to a maximum of four treatments. All women were given iron and folic
      acid supplements as recommended by the Ministry of Health guidelines.

      Surveillance

      Women were visited at home twice per week by a project field worker to assess their health
      and to encourage them to attend the ante-natal clinic at monthly intervals. Women with a high
      risk of obstetric complications were encouraged to deliver in hospital but most women
      delivered at home.

      If a delivery occurred in hospital or a health center a finger prick blood sample was
      obtained and the birth weight was measured. In the case of women who delivered at home, the
      weight of the new born baby was measured within 5 days of delivery and a finger prick blood
      sample obtained for measurement of Hb concentration and preparation of blood films.

      Women were visited at home six weeks after delivery when an additional blood sample was
      obtained and one year later to investigate the health of their child.

      Laboratory methods

      Hemoglobin concentration was measured using a Hemocue (Hemocue AB, Angelholm, Sweden). Thick
      blood films were stained with Giemsa and examined for malaria parasites. Each slide was read
      by two microscopists. If discrepant results were obtained, the slide was read by a third
      microscopist and the majority view accepted.

      Trial end-points

      The co-primary trial end-points were hemoglobin concentration at, or shortly after, birth and
      birthweight or weight of the baby shortly after birth.

      Sample size

      To detect a 20% reduction in the estimated risk of severe anemia (Hb <7 g/dl) among
      multigravidae, estimated to be 30% in the control group, with 80 % power at the 5% level of
      significance and allowing for a 30% loss to follow-up it was calculated that a study with
      1115 women in each arm was required. To show a reduction in the proportion of low birthweight
      babies from the expected 18% in the control group to 12% in the SP group with 80% power it
      was estimated that 2 x 1538 women would be needed. Thus, the target sample size was 3,000.

      Data management and analysis

      All data were double entered and verified. Prior to the breaking of the code the data base
      was locked and a copy given to the chair of the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB).
      Statistical analysis was done using S-plus and STATA. An analytical plan was prepared and
      approved by the DSMB before the code was broken.

      Trial oversight

      The trial was monitored by a DSMB. It was conducted in line with the requirements of Good
      Clinical Practice.
    
  