
    
      This study will address vaccine uptake both for pregnant women and for their children,
      through 20 months of age, to test the hypothesis that exposure to the P3+ intervention
      package will increase the likelihood a pregnant woman gets herself vaccinated against
      influenza and pertussis before delivery and get her child vaccinated on time.

      This study uses a multi-level factorial design which randomizes at both the practice and the
      patient level. Obstetric practices in Georgia and Colorado will be randomized to be either an
      intervention practice or a control practice. The women recruited in the practices and
      enrolled in the study will be randomly assigned to the intervention arm or the control arm.

      Women randomized to the intervention arm will complete a computer-based questionnaire
      (administered via iPad with a preloaded study app) which asks for their basic demographic and
      contact information and asks questions about their vaccine knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs.
      Immediately following the questionnaire, participants will receive the individual level
      intervention (videos providing information on vaccines) on the same iPad. In order to best
      answer their questions and not provide information beyond the scope of what the study
      participants need or want, the videos provided to each participant will be selected based on
      responses to the survey questions. There are 6 videos: one discusses the dangers of the
      diseases prevented by vaccines, and the others address specific vaccine concerns (concerns
      include vaccine ingredients, children receiving simultaneous vaccines (multiple vaccines at
      one time), and the safety of receiving the tdap or flu vaccine during pregnancy). If the
      participant does not have any concerns, they will only see the video about dangers of vaccine
      preventable diseases. Participants expressing concerns in the survey will receive up to two
      videos addressing those concerns, based on an order of priority determined by the study
      researchers.

      Women randomized to the control arm will also complete a computer-based questionnaire which
      includes their personal information and vaccine knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs questions
      but will then continue to receive usual prenatal care rather than view informational videos.

      All enrolled women complete two follow-up surveys when their children are 30 days and 18
      months of age.
    
  