
    
      Purpose: This project is a prospective clinical trial of a home-based high intensity interval
      training (HIIT) exercise program using a novel telemedicine-enabled and video game-linked
      customizable cycle ergometer (MedBIKE™) in the pediatric congenital heart disease (CHD)
      population.

      Hypothesis: The home-based the MedBIKE™ HIIT program will significantly improve exercise
      capacity. The MedBIKE intervention will significantly improve time spent in MVPA and reduce
      sedentary time, improve HRQoL and self-efficacy towards PA, and improve endothelial function.
      Moreover, the investigators hypothesize that the improvements in exercise capacity, along
      with the improvements in the secondary outcomes will remain significantly improved up to
      one-year post- MedBIKE intervention, when compared to pre-intervention values.

      Justification: Exercise intervention studies in the pediatric CHD population have been
      limited by small sample sizes and there is limited data pertaining to the sustained effects
      of exercise interventions on exercise capacity, physical activity, endothelial function, and
      quality of life. This study, using standardized and largely operator-independent measure,
      will be one of the largest exercise intervention clinical trials in the pediatric CHD
      population.

      Primary Objective: Evaluate the impact of an eight-week, home-based HIIT MedBIKE™ program on
      exercise capacity in youth with repaired moderate-complex CHD.

      Secondary Objectives: Evaluate the impact of the MedBIKE™ intervention on 1) PA; 2) HRQoL and
      self-efficacy towards PA; 3) endothelial function; and 4) sustained changes in the primary
      and secondary outcomes.

      Research Method: This will be a single-center, prospective clinical trial. Potential
      participants and families will be approached first by a clinical team member. In addition,
      flyers with key study information will be placed in waiting rooms of the pediatric cardiology
      clinics. Participants and parents expressing interest will meet with a research coordinator
      who, along with one of the investigators and the clinical team will screen for eligibility.
      Written consent and assent (if applicable) will be obtained from participants who are deemed
      eligible.

      Following recruitment, participants will be administered the TACQOL and CSAPPA questionnaires
      and an accelerometer to be worn for 7-days, after which participants will arrive for the
      baseline assessment. As participants must be NPO for EndoPAT testing, they will have a small
      meal following EndoPAT testing and at least two hours prior to CPET testing. A MedBIKE will
      be installed in the participants home within 2-weeks of the baseline CPET at which time an
      orientation session will occur to review the manual, safety procedures and the telemedicine
      component. Participation will consist of a 12-week, 3-times per week (36 sessions in total)
      HIIT program. All sessions will be supervised by an exercise physiologist. Protocol
      completion will be considered a minimum of 27 of the 36 sessions (75%). Following the
      completion of the intervention, the MedBIKE will be removed by the participants home and
      returned to the Stollery Children's Hospital.

      A follow-up assessment, identical to that of the baseline (questionnaires, EndoPAT, CPET,
      interviews and a 7-day week wear of an accelerometer) will occur 3-14 days post-intervention.
      These assessments will be repeated at 6- and 12-months post-intervention.
    
  