
    
      Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) is caused by a GAA repeat expansion in the Frataxin gene causing
      its repression which resembles the archetypal epigenetic phenomenon of Position Effect
      Variegation and hence can be modulated by chromatin modifiers The investigators have now
      confirmed that a similar form of silencing occurs in cells from FRDA patients. Based on these
      findings histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors which can overcome such silencing have been
      identified. The investigators have extended this result by showing that the classical Class
      III HDAC inhibitor, nicotinamide, can relieve silencing in cells from patients. Nicotinamide
      is a vitamin and a registered drug and has been previously administered to humans with no
      significant ill effects.

      In the interventional study, the investigators will perform pharmacodynamic studies on
      nicotinamide in humans with FRDA to investigate whether the investigators can upregulate
      Frataxin and if so, to determine an optimum dosing regimen. Nicotinamide will be administered
      orally following a standard drug escalation regimen and blood samples taken to measure
      Frataxin level and chromatin structure of the Frataxin gene. The end-point of the study is to
      achieve significant upregulation of Frataxin in patients providing a potential therapy for
      this currently untreatable condition.

      In the non-interventional study, we will investigate the use of novel, highly-sensitive
      technology to capture clinical deficit and measure subtle changes in the activities of daily
      living and correlate functional changes to levels of expression of Frataxin protein and the
      epigenetic structure of the Frataxin gene over a 9-12 month period without nicotinamide.
      Healthy volunteers as comparators will be included in this part of the study. HVs will
      undergo the same assessments as participants with Friedreich ataxia once.
    
  