
    
      The usual ablation catheters do not provide direct information on the pressure applied at the
      contact area of the cardiac structures. However, pressure has been shown to play an important
      role on determining the size and the potential efficacy of the ablation lesions. The physical
      contact of the tip of the catheter with the tissue and the force exerted on this tissue are
      indirectly estimated from other parameters such as the signal voltage, the transmitted force
      to the other end of the catheter felt by the operator and, in a lesser extent, the circuit
      impedance.

      A widespread technique for ablation of ventricular tachycardias (VT) in patients with
      cardiomyopathies or ischemic disease consists on the creation of an electroanatomic map to
      delineate scar areas without electric activity and to look for areas of surviving myocardium
      inside, at the borders or between the scars, operating as a slow conduction channel in a
      reentry circuit and playing an essential role in the genesis of VTs. The distinction between
      scar and normal tissue is predominantly based on the voltage of the unipolar or bipolar
      electrograms (EGM) recorded at the tip of the ablation catheter. However, the amplitude of
      the electrogram depends critically on the distance between the electrode and the source of
      the electric field, in this case the myocardial tissue. The lack of contact between the
      catheter and the endocardium will reduce the EGM voltage and may induce to interpret a normal
      EGM point as a low-voltage point, leading to an erroneous delineation of the real scar areas
      and eventually missing electrically active myocardial paths. Thus a good physical contact
      between the catheter and the tissue is a prerequisite to obtain a reliable voltage map and to
      correctly identify scars and areas potentially involved in the VT maintenance. A direct
      information on the force applied at the tip of the catheter may avoid the interpretation of
      areas with no-contact induced low-voltage as scars.

      Hypothesis.

      The hypothesis of the study is that the information on the force exerted by the catheter tip
      obtained from the SmartTouch technology may improve the assessment of the scar areas during
      electroanatomical mapping in patients with VT due to ischemic disease or cardiomyopathy.

      Study objectives and endpoints.

      Two are the main objectives of this study:

        1. To compare the areas of scar (defined as a low-voltage threshold) obtained from the
           conventional voltage map with those obtained after the contact map information is
           available to the operator.

        2. To determine if the availability of the contact information to the operator allows an
           improvement of the electroanatomic map by correcting the points taken in no-contact
           areas.

      Study protocol.

        1. Inclusion criteria.

           Consecutive patients with ventricular arrhythmias due to ischemic heart disease or
           dilated cardiomyopathy undergoing VT ablation will be included in the study.

           Exclusion criteria will be age <18 years, absence of signed informed consent or critical
           clinical status that precludes a detailed mapping procedure.

        2. Study design and duration.

           The study is planned as a prospective, one-center, non-randomized study. As the
           objectives are purely descriptive no formal calculation of the sample size has been
           performed. Considering the inclusion criteria and the frequency of this type of studies
           in our unit a number of 20 to 30 patients is estimated to be included in 12 months. We
           believe that this number of patients is reasonable to estimate the value of the contact
           map to delineate scars from a clinical point of view.

        3. Protocol and procedure.

           Our standard approach to ischemic VT ablation begins with the acquisition of a voltage
           map of the left ventricle during sinus rhythm of fixed pacing from the right ventricular
           apex using the CARTO-3 navigation system and a Navistar irrigated catheter. During the
           acquisition, points with fragmented or delayed potentials are tagged as areas of
           potential interest for ablation. Once the map is completed we adjust the color code of
           the voltage map trying to decide the areas of dense scar and to look for potential
           narrow paths inside or between the areas of scar. After adjusting the map in this way we
           proceed to the ablation, which is performed during induced VT or guided by the
           anatomical and electrical information in case of non-inducible or non-tolerated VTs.
           Pace-mapping is eventually used if a 12-lead ECG of the clinical VT is available.

           For the patients included in the study the voltage map will be acquired in the same way
           using the Thermo-Cool Smart Touch catheter. The force information will be recorded by
           the system but will not be available to the operator during the map acquisition. The
           completed voltage map with the areas defined as dense scar by the operator, the
           isthmuses found inside or between scars and the areas with fragmented or delayed
           potentials will be saved as the control map. Following this step the contact map will be
           available to the operator to be compared with the control map and further mapping and
           point acquisition will be allowed to correct the areas previously acquired with poor or
           no contact. The final map after corrections have been made will be saved as the
           corrected map. The ablation procedure will then be performed as usual.

        4. Map analysis

           The comparison of the maps will be done in a deferred way. First, the control map and
           the contact map will be compared. The area without contact in the pressure map will be
           estimated. Each point inside this area will be classified as dense scar, low-voltage
           point or normal voltage point according to the properties of the point in the control
           map. We will determine in this way how are classified the areas without contact when no
           pressure information is available, and how many non-contact points are falsely assumed
           to be dense scar. The areas of "real" dense scar and "assumed, non-contact" dense scar
           will be estimated as well. This step of the analysis will give information on how many
           low-voltage areas of the standard electroanatomic map may not be reliable due to lack of
           an appropriate contact.

           The control and the corrected map will then be compared. The areas and the number of
           points defined as dense scar by the operator in both maps will be compared and the
           points changing their status as scar, low or normal voltage from the control to the
           corrected map will be annotated as well. Finally, the differences in the potential
           isthmuses depicted in both maps will be analyzed. These comparisons will give
           information on how much the standard electroanatomic map can be improved when the force
           information is added.

        5. Patient consent.

           The study will be presented to the ethics committee of our centre for approval. A
           written, informed consent will be required to be signed by the patient before entering
           the study.

        6. Time schedule

           The recruitment of patients will start as soon as the project is approved by Biosense
           Webster and by the local ethics committee. The inclusion period would be 12 months. Data
           analysis will be performed during the study period, making the final results available
           shortly after the end of the study. An additional 6 month period is expected to report
           and publish the results in international cardiology journals.

        7. Privacy policy

      All the patient's data will remain in the hospital files and will not be transmitted to any
      external subject. A code will be assigned to each patient in order to allow the analysis of
      the data in an anonymous way .
    
  