
    
      The therapeutic management recommendations of patients with metastatic cancer offer standard
      treatment in specific situations. But, there is always a subgroup of patients who do not
      benefit from treatment and which has a very low survival. The risk of death for patients is
      very variable depending on the initial cancer site, tumor aggressiveness and chemosensitivity
      of tumours.

      It's therefore important to have relevant prognostic tools to predict such an excess of
      relative toxicity or drug resistance. Simple prognostic factors for survival as the
      performance status (PS) have already been highlighted in several studies. Thus, the
      possibility to identify a group of patients with a higher risk of mortality could be of major
      interest for clinicians. In fact such stratification will allow:

        -  To limit this risk by adjusting the therapy and/or associated treatments (antibiotic
           prophylaxis, dose reduction ...),

        -  To develop protocols for testing innovative strategies specific to this high risk
           population.

      The objectives of these innovative protocols would be designed to correct lymphodivpenia.

      The main objective is to show that T divpenia (low TCR combinatorial diversity <30%) is a
      risk factor for early death after chemotherapy (early death: any death occurring within 3
      months (lung cancer) or within 6 months (breast cancer) after the start of chemotherapy).

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  To establish that the divpenia factor is independent of clinical and biological
           prognostic factors (PS, LDH, haemoglobin, lymphopenia or ANC) to predict a early death,

        -  To establish that the prognostic score NDL which will combine in a two-dimensional graph
           the CD4 count or total lymphocytes count and TCR repertoire diversity will allow a
           better stratification of lympho-divpenic patients who will benefit from more appropriate
           treatments,

        -  To characterize other circulating markers this could improve the identification of the
           early death risk (phenotypic markers, cytokines ...) in combination with the previous
           settings.

      Prognostic models have been established in many tumor types at the initial stage or at time
      of the relapse (breast and lung cancers ...). It seems necessary to highlight other clinical
      and biological prognostic factors that would estimate a lower survival at 6 months, whatever
      the nature or the original site of the tumour.

      The strong prognostic value of lymphopenia in the early death after chemotherapy or
      hematologic toxicity of chemotherapy has recently been established in several tumor models.
      25% of patients with metastatic solid cancers have a systemic immune dysfunction.

      Further analysis incorporating prior any treatment (D0) a systematic phenotypic analysis of
      lymphocyte subpopulations in the patients' blood showed that a significant reduction in the
      absolute number of peripheral CD4+ T cells (<450/μl) was an independent factor risk of early
      death and febrile neutropenia in patients with solid cancers of different origin (lymphoma,
      myeloma, sarcoma, breast cancer) treated with chemotherapy.

      However, early death remains rare events and a more recent study has established that a
      lymphopenia (<1000 lymphocytes/µl) was an independent prognostic factor for overall survival
      in patients with solid tumours.

      Recent studies have shown the importance of combinatorial diversity of T and B lymphocytes
      repertoire (TCR/BCR) in the efficiency of the immune response against infection.

      A preliminary analysis of TCR repertoire diversity, in a retrospective cohort of patients
      with metastatic breast cancer, demonstrated the independent predictive value of divpenia for
      overall survival in these patients. This research has demonstrated that patients with cancer
      had a very large disparity in immune TCR diversity and that it was not always correlated with
      lymphocyte count.

      These preliminary data show that the discriminating power of TCR diversity is greater than
      the measurement of cell count. The combined analysis of these data in a NDL® graph may help
      to better discriminate patients at risk for which it is necessary to develop new therapeutic
      strategies.
    
  