
    
      Prevalent, morbid, and costly ($61 billion/year in 2012), nocturia is a major problem,
      especially for older adults. It increases the risk of falls, fractures, depression, nursing
      home placement, and death. Yet management of nocturia remains inadequate. Most behavior and
      pharmacotherapies for nocturia focus on bladder-related etiologies, and it's most prevalent
      attribute nocturnal polyuria (NP), or increased urine production during sleep remains poorly
      understood and inadequately treated with little advancement over the last 50 years.
      Disruption of diurnal excretory pattern, with higher nighttime urine production is common in
      older adults. While studies in young adults show that sleep plays a critical role in
      regulating nighttime urine production, among older adults the role of poor sleep in NP is
      under-investigated.

      Urine production follows a circadian pattern in which transition from wake to sleep is
      followed by a pronounced decrease in excretion of water, electrolytes and other osmotically
      active substances. Studies in young population have established that physiological urine
      production follows a circadian rhythm, which is regulated by diurnal variation in secretion
      of hormones controlling water and salt excretion such as arginine vasopressin,
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, and atrial natriuretic peptide. Sleep deprivation
      blunts nocturnal surge of these hormones and consequently alter water and salt excretion
      thereby increase nighttime urine volume leading to NP.

      Recent evidence suggests that poor sleep quality, frequent sleep interruptions especially in
      the first part of the night and shorter duration of first uninterrupted sleep period are
      associated with NP but its pathophysiology is not fully understood. Additionally, among older
      adults with poor sleep, the investigators have shown that a behavioral intervention directed
      solely towards sleep (BBTI- brief behavioral treatment of insomnia an efficacious multimodal
      behavioral treatment for insomnia) not only improves sleep, but also nocturia. Hence, the
      investigators postulate that sleep interruptions in the first part of the sleep impacts the
      hormonal regulation of nighttime urine production causing NP. In addition, the investigators
      postulate that interventions to prolong the first uninterrupted sleep period will decrease NP
      and hence nocturia.

      The, aims of the present proposal are to: 1) examine the impact of BBTI on duration of the
      first of uninterrupted sleep period and NP in elderly with nocturia; and 2) establish NP and
      duration of first uninterrupted sleep as mechanisms by which BBTI impacts nocturia. The
      investigators' hypothesis is that BBTI improves nocturia not only by improving sleep, (and
      specifically, duration of the first uninterrupted sleep period), but also by decreasing NP.

      To accomplish these goals the investigators will recruit 60 community dwelling adults (aged
      >65) with nocturia and NP. Sleep will be assessed subjectively with the Insomnia Severity
      Index and objectively by 7-day sleep diary and wrist actigraph. Concurrently the
      investigators will collect 3-day bladder diary data to document their voiding pattern and
      volume during day and night. Participants will be randomized to receive the 4-week behavioral
      sleep intervention BBTI by a trained therapist or an information control intervention. The
      participants will repeat the study measures post-intervention.

      The study results will provide important insights into shared pathological mechanisms
      underlying poor sleep, nocturia and nighttime urine production.
    
  