
    
      This was a prospective, within-group, feasibility intervention study which took place at the
      Juiz de Fora University Hospital (HU-JF) between June 2016 and June 2017.

      Patients were screened in the Bone Marrow Transplant Unit (BMTU) admission and recruited to
      the study after avaliation in the first-day internation. However, included at study or no,
      all patients that had the indication (at any time during internation) received the
      intervention. This study was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee (protocol:
      2,030,132). All participants provided written informed consent prior to participation.

      The exercise training program was performed once daily during the hospital stay. The program
      included 2- to 5-minute warm-up session which consisted of stretching, coordination and
      balance exercises, followed by 10 to 20 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise using
      a lower limb cycle ergometer (Live up Sports, 1023, Araucária, Paraná, LS9055). Participants
      also performed three sets of five to ten repetitions of sit-to-stand exercises with a
      1-minute rest interval between each set. A cool-down period of 2- to 5-minutes of stretching
      and breathing exercises was delivered at the end of the exercise session. All exercises were
      performed within the participant's room. The aerobic training target zone was set at 50% to
      70% of heart rate (HR) reserve. The HR reserve was estimated using the following equation:
      [(220-age in years) - resting HR] x [50 to 70%] + resting HR.

      The indication, contraindication or interruption criteria of the exercise training program
      were evaluated daily based on the participant's clinical, hemodynamic and hematological
      parameters as described in Table 1. These parameters were recorded at rest and monitored
      during the intervention. The daily clinical assessment for exercise performance is described
      in the flowchart shown in Figure 1. A platelet count of < 10,000 cells/mm3 (cells per cubic
      millimeter), hemoglobin (Hb) < 7 g/dL (grams per deciliter) and/or hematocrit (Ht) < 20% were
      considered contraindications for the exercise program. If participants were clinically
      stable, they were encouraged to perform breathing exercises in bed; maintain Basic Activity
      of Daily Living (BADLs), which consist mostly of self-care tasks including showering,
      dressing and feeding; perform the individualized in-hospital exercise training program,
      including a moderate intensity aerobic training without or with cycle ergometer load, based
      on platelets, hematocrit and hemoglobin count.
    
  