
    
      In 2000 the Norwegian national induction rate was 8.8% of all births, but this increased to
      21.8% in 2016. The regional induction rate varies between counties, varying from 17.7% of all
      births in Nordland to 24.0% in Rogaland. Individual units could have an even wider variation.
      There are reports of a high rate of induction in primiparous women. In some units, local
      audits have noted that in 2016, over 27% of primiparous women had their labour induced.
      Labour inductions in primiparous women (Robson group 2a) may be associated with an increased
      likelihood of caesarean sections and operative vaginal delivery. An increased caesarean rate
      in primiparous women will have implications for subsequent pregnancies. In Hammerfest
      Hospital, the caesarean section rate in Robson group 2a was 37% in 2016.

      In Norway, induction of labour is offered in approximately 50 obstetric units. There are
      national guidelines available for the induction of labour from the Norwegian Gynaecological
      Society and from the Department of Health. , These guidelines are not categorical and leave
      the decision for the specific method, or regimen for labour induction, up to the attending
      gynaecologist or local departments. Thus, the national protocols between departments vary
      considerably and women living in different regions of Norway do not have the same options for
      induction of labour.

      The Norwegian situation reflects the international situation where multiple induction
      protocols exist. There is no consensus regarding the medical criteria for the identification
      of women for induction of labour, nor the induction methods or protocols used.

      Aim

      The overall aim of this study is to identify disparities between delivery departments in
      Norway in regards to:

        1. The overall rate of labour induction

        2. Main indication for the induction of labour.

        3. Induction methods used and protocols followed

        4. Maternal and fetal outcomes in induced births

      Methods:

      Observational study where we perform a prospective registration of induction indication,
      methods and outcomes in induced women on a common internet platform electronic case record
      form (e-CRF) through Service For Sensitive Data/Tjeneste For Sensitive Data (TSD), University
      of Oslo (UiO).

      Participating centres

        1. AHUS

        2. Arendal

        3. Bærum

        4. Drammen

        5. Førde

        6. Gjøvik

        7. Haugesund

        8. Hammerfest

        9. Haukeland

       10. Levanger

       11. Lillehammer

       12. Nordland Sentralsykehus

       13. OUS Ullevål

       14. OUS Rikshospitalet

       15. Sykehuset i Vestfold

       16. Sykehuset i Telemark

       17. Tromsø

       18. Trondheim

       19. Kristiansand

       20. Stavanger

       21. Sykehuset Østfold, Kalnes

       22. Ålesund

      Data registration and project management :

      Establishing an e-CRF at Service For Sensitive Data/Tjeneste For Sensitive Data (TSD)
      University of Oslo (UiO) (which each participating centre can access online to register
      variables. Project leader will apply for ethics permission from the Regional Ethics
      Committee. Each participating centre will apply for database permission from the local
      Protector of Patient Records (Personvernansvarlig).

      Ethical considerations:

      The individual health staff responsible for patient care will provide information about the
      study in Norwegian and English following the medical decision (that is taken independent of
      this study) to induce the patient. The patient has the right to refuse participation in the
      study.

      Project committee:

      Ingvil Krarup Sørbye, Kevin Sunde Oppegaard, Anne Flem Jacobsen

      International advisor: Professor Andrew D. Weeks, Department of Women's and Children's
      Health, Liverpool Women's Hospital, University of Liverpool, Crown Street, Liverpool, L8 7SS,
      UK.
    
  