
    
      Rotational angiography (or three dimensional arteriography or "3DATG") is a new tool used to
      guide atrial fibrillation (AF) ablation. The current approach to imaging for AF ablation
      involves obtaining a computer tomography (CT) angiogram of the atrium pre-procedure and
      combining it with an electro-anatomical map, a process called merging or overlay. The
      investigators propose to investigate the quality of the 3DATG as a replacement for the CT in
      obtaining a left atrial angiogram (to guide AF ablation).

      All imaging modalities to be evaluated in this study are currently used in clinical practice.
      They are not experimental methods. The goal is to compare two modalities that have never been
      directly compared before. The CT angiography utilizes a standard CT scanner and intravenously
      injected contrast agent to visualize the left atrium. While the 3DATG is a method that
      achieves similar results to a CT scanner, the difference is that the 3DATG images are
      acquired by rotating the X-ray source around the patient on a C-arm instead of a dedicated CT
      scanner.

      60 participants will be consented and randomized to either pre-procedure CT or
      intra-procedure 3DATG. Scheduled participants will undergo sedation and catheter
      instrumentation as appropriate. CT anatomy data will then be merged with the live X-ray via
      the EP Navigator system in standard fashion or the patient will be prepped for appropriate
      3DATG anatomy data acquisition and merged with the EP Navigator system. The EP Navigator
      system will then be used to send either data to NavX or CARTO to create the intended
      electro-anatomical map.

      Using the CT or 3DATG acquired electro-anatomical map, the ablation procedure will be
      conducted in the same way as would the local practice and standard of care for any patient
      not participating in the study.

      The ablation procedure and the sites of ablation lesions will be tagged on the 3D overlaid
      anatomy in the same fashion as previously published and all participants will be followed as
      routine at a 1 month and 3 month follow up.
    
  