
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate clinical benefit rate in patients with metastatic HER2 negative breast cancer
      treated with MEDI4736 in combination with tremelimumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients with
      metastatic HER2 negative breast cancer treated with MEDI4736 in combination with
      tremelimumab.

      II. To evaluate safety and tolerability.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if tissue-based immunohistochemical expression of programmed death-ligand
      (PD-L)1; tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs); peripheral T cell subpopulations; changes in
      tissue and peripheral T cell receptor genotype; human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genotype; and
      immune-related candidate gene signatures predict response to MEDI4736 in combination with
      tremelimumab.

      II. To demonstrate the pharmacodynamic effects of MEDI4736 and tremelimumab on tissue and
      serum based biomarkers including PD-L1, TILs, T cell subpopulations, and T cell receptor
      genotype.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive MEDI4736 intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and tremelimumab IV over 1 hour on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Four weeks after the last combination dose, patients continue to
      receive MEDI4736 every 2 weeks for up to 18 additional doses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve clinical benefit (complete
      response [CR], partial response [PR], or stable disease [SD]) until the end of the 52 week
      period will then enter follow-up. During follow-up patients who develop PD may be re-treated
      with MEDI4736 at the dose previously administered IV for an additional 52 weeks using the
      same guidelines as with the initial 52 week period if they meet treatment in the setting of
      PD criteria. Only one 52 week retreatment period will be allowed.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  