
    
      For this study, a proposal of a 8-week intervention program will be carried out with lumbar
      stabilization exercises and back strengthening exercises, in 32 athletes with chronic low
      back, recruited by convenience and voluntaries from the community local and sports centers.
      Before intervention, all participantes will be evaluated by: electromoyography during back
      endurance and strength tests, balance performance, physical capacity, and by clinical
      outcomes such as pain, disability and psychological factors. All baseline testing and
      evaluation will be performed by a blinded evaluator to the study intervention. Afterwards,
      the participants will be randomized in two groups by a blinded evaluator (people not enroled
      to study): G1: exercises for lumbar stabilization; and G2: strengthening exercises. The
      intervention will follow 8 weeks, with 50 minutes of duration each session of therapy
      including measurement of blood pressure, heart rate and the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)
      before and after each session, and the perception of exercise intensity monitored by Borg
      Scale. Within this proposal, the exercise sessions will performed twice a week. The
      intervention will follow the CONSORT recommendations for randomized controlled trials. The
      intervention will start in: G1 (n=16, motor control group), which will perform therapy with
      specific exercises for lumbar stabilization including the Swiss ball as therapeutic resource;
      while G2 (n=16, strength group) will perform back endurance progressive and resisted
      exercises on a Roman chair. The participants will not be blind to the study due to the
      characteristic of the exercises that often reflect to the improvement of the symptoms. In
      case of eventual losses, the intention-to-treat method will be used for the analyses. After
      the intervention, all groups will be invited to come back to the laboratory to proceed the
      same evaluation from baseline (trunk activation during exercises, balance, and clinical
      outcomes). For the analysis two-way ANOVA with repeated measures will be performed to compare
      the effects of the intervention (two groups) and times (baseline vs. end 8-weeks measurement)
      and the effects of interaction (Groups x Times). The size effect also will be computed to
      determine the rate of the changes observed.
    
  