
    
      BACKGROUND Around a quarter of all global pregnancy and child-birth related deaths are due to
      excessive bleeding after the birth of the baby and placenta, or "post-partum haemorrhage"
      (PPH). In the UK, PPH affects approximately 10% of new mothers. PPH can be extremely
      frightening for women and can cause them to need additional treatments including blood
      transfusion and removal of the womb as well as prolonging their hospital stay.

      The most common cause of PPH is an inadequately contracted womb after childbirth. Giving the
      mother an injection of "uterotonic" medicine following the birth of their baby can prevent
      this. It reduces the risk of PPH by 66% and this should routinely be offered to all labouring
      women.

      In the UK, the two medicines most commonly used for this purpose are Syntocinon and
      Syntometrine. Both mimic natural hormones. Syntometrine is longer acting, but a published
      review of trials comparing these two medicines concluded that Syntometrine is no better at
      preventing severe blood loss. Syntometrine is associated with more side effects including
      nausea, vomiting, and high blood pressure, and has been linked with rare, but fatal, cases of
      stroke. All guidelines therefore recommend Syntocinon for preventing PPH.

      Our group conducted a telephone survey of all maternity units in the UK, and found that 71.4%
      of units still routinely use Syntometrine. Investigators estimate that 40,000-70,000 women
      per year are experiencing distressing nausea and vomiting in the emotionally important first
      few hours following childbirth. These women are also receiving a medicine with the potential
      to cause dangerous high blood pressure.

      Carbetocin is a newer medicine, already widely used after caesarean section, but not yet
      after vaginal birth. Other studies have shown that Carbetocin is slightly better at
      preventing bleeding after birth when compared to Syntometrine, that it has fewer side effects
      than Syntometrine, and that it may be just as good as Syntocinon at preventing PPH. No
      studies have directly compared all three medicines or compared their overall cost;
      information vital to the NHS.

      METHOD Investigators propose a trial of 5712 women over 13 months, in four maternity units in
      the South-West to compare the effectiveness, side effects and cost of Syntocinon,
      Syntometrine and Carbetocin, for women having a vaginal birth.

      Women will be randomly allocated to receive one of these drugs. Women and staff will not know
      which drug they receive, so as not to influence the results collected. Staff will collect
      data such as the number of extra drugs and treatments needed and the volume of blood lost.
      Women will be asked to complete a side effects questionnaire. Investigators will perform an
      analysis of cost effectiveness once all results are available.

      AIMS To directly compare the effectiveness, side effects and cost of Syntocinon, Syntometrine
      and Carbetocin given intramuscularly to prevent PPH in the 3rd stage of labour.
    
  