
    
      PAST PRE-CLINICAL AND CLINICAL EXPERIENCE:

      The effect of the electric fields (TTFields, TTF) has demonstrated significant activity in in
      vitro gastric cancer pre-clinical models both as a single modality treatment and in
      combination with chemotherapies. In addition, TTFields have shown to inhibit metastatic
      spread of malignant melanoma in in vivo experiment.

      Prospective, multi-center clinical studies of TTFields have shown the safety of the treatment
      when administered to the abdomen for pancreatic cancer and ovarian cancer.

      In addition, a phase III trial of Optune® (200 kHz) as monotherapy compared to active
      chemotherapy in recurrent glioblastoma patients showed TTFields to be equivalent to active
      chemotherapy in extending survival, associated with minimal toxicity, good quality of life,
      and activity within the brain (14% response rate). Finally, a phase III trial of Optune®
      combined with maintenance temozolomide compared to maintenance temozolomide alone has shown
      that combined therapy led to a significant improvement in both progression free survival and
      overall survival in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma without the addition of high
      grade toxicity and without decline in quality of life.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE TRIAL:

      All patients included in this trial are patients with unresectable Gastric Adenocarcinoma or
      Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma. In addition, all patients must meet all eligibility
      criteria.

      All eligible patients will receive continuous Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields) - NovoTTF-100L
      (P) treatment at 150 KHz frequency, and XELOX regimen (combination of oxaliplatin +
      capecitabine). Patients will be assessed once every 9 weeks according to RECIST v1.1. Study
      treatment should be continued until disease progression, intolerable toxicity or withdrawal
      of informed consent.
    
  