
    
      Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a debilitating disease that affects both the pulmonary
      vasculature and the heart. It is associated with increased mortality and hospitalization and
      impairs daily life for the affected patients. Despite substantial advances in treatment
      within the past decade the prognosis remains poor with an 1-year mortality of more than 10%.1
      The pathophysiology of PH is multifactorial and can be caused by left sided cardiac disease,
      pulmonary pathophysiological changes in the pulmonary vessels, respiratory diseases and
      pulmonary embolism.The treatment is targeted at the underlying cause. Hence, left sided heart
      disease is treated with anticongestive medications4 and respiratory disease by pulmonary
      medications. However, pulmonary vascular diseases such as chronic thromboembolic pulmonary
      hypertension (CTEPH) and idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) are treated with
      pulmonary endarterectomy and vasodilators targeting the pulmonary vasculature, respectively.
      However, not all patients have an optimal pulmonary hemodynamic response on treatment. If
      patients are left with persistent pulmonary hypertension the disease may progress further and
      cause right heart failure which worsens the prognosis.

      Data from a recent study conducted at the investigator's institution demonstrated 40%
      increase in cardiac output during infusion of the ketone body 3-hydroxybutyrate (3-OHB).
      Intriguingly, this was associated with an increase in RV function and a decrease in the
      pulmonary vascular resistance of approximately 20%.

      In the present study, 10 patients with IPAH and 10 patients with CETPH will be subjected to
      placebo and 3-OHB infusion in a randomized cross-over design. Each of the infusions will be
      given for 2.5 hours and cross-over will be carried out on the same day. Echocardiography and
      right sided heart catheterization will be applied and blood will be sampled.
    
  