
    
      The pilot study was conducted in a primary health centre (population ~33000) in Faridabad
      district of the state of Haryana in India. Formative research identified perceptions of
      caregivers regarding childhood diarrhea, causation and management, care seeking sources and
      caregivers expectations from healthcare providers. Caregivers in households with children
      under 5 years old were interviewed in a cross sectional survey to ascertain family
      characteristics, ORS prescription and use rates, drug prescription rates by healthcare
      providers and other variables of interest.

      In partnership with the local government, channels for distribution of zinc and ORS packets
      were defined. The channels included physicians (at PHC and private practitioners), auxiliary
      nurse midwives (ANMs) and Anganwadi workers (AWWs)of the Integrated Child Development
      Services (ICDS) scheme. Recommendations were developed and translated into local vernacular.
      A poster, which incorporated the recommendations and pictures of zinc strip and ORS packets,
      was designed. These posters were put up at different places in the study area. All channels
      were trained and provided with the supplies of zinc strips and ORS packets except the private
      practitioners who received only zinc strips and advised caregivers to take ORS packets from
      government channels. Effectiveness of this pilot program was assessed through 2 cross
      sectional surveys, 3 and 6 months post training.

      The cross sectional surveys revealed that the prescription of syrups, tablets, powders and
      injections during diarrhea and cost of treatment decreased significantly. Prescription and
      use of ORS increased markedly. Zinc tablets were prescribed and used in about half the
      episodes 6 months after start of intervention. It was feasible to train various government
      and community channels to promote zinc as treatment of acute diarrhea through the primary
      health care system.
    
  