
    
      Obesity is a multifactorial disease characterized by genetic, social, cultural and
      psychological factors. Its complex nature requires a multidisciplinary intervention in order
      to guarantee an optimal outcome. Currently, laparoscopic bariatric surgery represents the
      gold standard intervention to treat morbid obesity and related comorbidities, as well as to
      improve quality of life. The expected Excess Weight Loss (%EWL) after the most popular
      bariatric procedures ranges between 60% and 70%, respectively at 1 and 2 years after surgery.
      However, literature shows that more than 30% of bariatric patients do not reach the expected
      weight loss and up to one third regain substantial weight in the long term period. Several
      studies showed correlation between post-surgery weight loss or %EWL and personality
      disorders, eating disorders, mood disorders and anxiety disorder. Also childhood traumatic
      experiences, that could be associated to the development of obesity, had a role in weight
      loss after surgery and in affecting emotional regulation. Recent studies also showed the role
      of emotional regulation and in particular as the difficulty in identifying and describing
      emotions, known as "alexithymia", was associated respectively to lower %Total Weight Loss at
      3 and 6 months after gastric bypass and at 12 months after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy.

      Considering the influence of alexithymia on people living with obesity seeking a weight loss
      program, it is conceivable that an intervention focused on emotional state could improve
      outcome after surgery in term of weight loss.

      The expressive writing is a form of writing therapy developed primarily by James W.
      Pennebaker in the late 1980s consisting of writing about stressful and difficult experience
      for 15-20 min for 3-5 consecutive days, including one's thoughts and feelings. The expressive
      writing allows people to express and process emotions, feelings, and thoughts related to the
      life events and consequent changes and this may favor a mental reorganization of the negative
      events, a greater expression and regulation of the emotions related to them. This
      intervention could provoke social, emotional, and consequently, psychophysical changes as is
      showed in patients with chronic diseases and cancer. It is conceivable that the
      externalization and the processing of the traumatic events linked to the disease, can favor
      an improvement of the ability of express emotions and the reduction of the negative thoughts
      associated.

      Recruitment: all patients, considered eligible after a multidisciplinary assessment, will be
      contacted to request participation in the study. Those who accepted the participation, will
      be randomized in two groups: the expressive writing group that will perform the psychological
      intervention focused on expressive writing, and the control group that will not perform the
      psychological intervention. The randomization will be carried out leaving each participant
      free to blindly choose one of the two sealed envelopes containing the writing instruction
      sheet and an empty sheet, respectively. Then all the participants of both groups will
      complete the informed consent and the questionnaires 3 days before surgery (T0).

      According to the randomized recruitment all patients of the expressive writing group will be
      scheduled for 3 consecutive days (20 minutes each day) on which they will complete the
      writing task. The procedure for the writing group will be as follow:

      on day 1 the researcher will call the participant at designed time and will provide a brief
      introduction to the writing task. Participant will be asked to go a quiet place in their
      house where they would have no interruptions but can still be close to the phone. Next,
      participants were given standardized instructions. Then participants will ask to start
      writing immediately after hanging up the phone and to write for 20 minutes. The researcher
      will call the participants after 20 minutes. The procedure for the second and third writing
      days will be identical.

      The above method was previously tested by Zakowski et al., 2004. The control group (no
      expressive writing) will just complete the above mentioned questionnaires.

      Both groups will fill the same questionnaires also at 3 months follow up (T1). In order to
      assess the adherence level with a non self - report measure, the serum levels of 25(OH)D,
      B12, sideraemia and iron at T1 will be collected according to the blood analysis provided for
      the hospital protocol of bariatric surgery.

      Moreover, the adherence to follow up visits (surgical and nutritional) at 1 and 3 months will
      be assessed.

      The weight measures at T0, and T1 will be collected in order to test the EWL% reached in both
      groups.

      The present study has been approved by the Ethics Committee of the Department of Dynamic and
      Clinical Psychology "Sapienza" University of Rome on April 3rd, 2019.
    
  