
    
      METHODOLOGY AND STUDY DESIGN A prospective, parallel-group, double-blind, randomized
      placebo-controlled clinical trial will be conducted with an estimated 72 primary open-angle
      glaucoma patients. A double blind RCT was chosen to minimize bias and yield similar groups
      with the same prognostic at baseline to avoid compromising the validity of the study results.
      The primary efficacy endpoint of the study will be IOP and the secondary endpoint will be the
      safety analysis. Qualifying participants will be evaluated for inclusion and exclusion
      criteria by their ophthalmologist (Dr. Marino Blasini) and informed about the study
      objectives. If they agree to participate, relevant baseline clinical data will be collected
      for each participant and they will be assigned to a treatment or a control group by
      stratified randomization based on their age, intraocular pressure and cup-to-disk ratio. This
      stratified randomization will allow comparability of randomized study groups at baseline.
      Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to treatment group (bimatoprost 0.01% and
      Mirtogenol®) or control group (bimatoprost 0.01% and placebo) and be assigned a participant
      ID number. Once the randomization process has concluded, participants will be notified to
      pass by the office to receive the product and to start using the Mirtogenol® or placebo the
      next day. Both Mirtogenol® and placebo bottles will label drug of study and be registered
      with a number identification for each patient. Mirtogenol and the placebo will be stored in a
      destinated area in the primary investigator's pharmacy under a cool, dry environment that
      protects them from extreme temperature changes and light. Oral and written instructions on
      drug regimen, including route of administration, frequency, proper storage and mode of
      administer will be provided. The groups will self-instill one drop of bimatoprost 0.01% in
      the affected eye(s) once daily as instructed by the ophthalmologist. In addition,
      participants will use one (1) capsule of Mirtogenol® or one (1) placebo capsule orally daily
      in the morning with food. Mirtogenol® will be funded by Life Extension Clinical Research,
      Inc. Placebo capsules will be similar in appearance, size, and route of administration to
      Mirtogenol®. The study will have five visits: screening and baseline, week 4, week 8, week 12
      and week 24 of approximate 30-60 minutes of duration and an addition visit for pickup of the
      product after the randomization process. An ophthalmological evaluation will be conducted by
      a glaucoma specialist at each visit. At the baseline visit, the following tests will be
      performed: visual acuity, visual field evaluation, applanation tonometry, optical coherence
      tomography (OCT), and pachymetry. At week 4, and week 8 the following tests will be
      performed: visual acuity and applanation tonometry. At week 12, the following tests will be
      performed: visual acuity, visual field evaluation and applanation tonometry. At week 24,
      assessments will include the following: visual acuity, visual field evaluation, applanation
      tonometry, optical coherence tomography and pachymetry. The same equipment will be used
      throughout the study for measurement consistency. Each test will be measured in the morning
      and the patient will be resting, sitting for at least 10 minutes before measurement. The
      tests will always be performed by the same person to rule out variations. At each visit, the
      IOP will be measured twice, with 10-minute intermissions between measurements, and mean
      values will be recorded. If only one eye is determined eligible as trial eye (meeting the
      diagnostic criteria for glaucoma), then all assessments will be performed only for the trial
      eye. If both eyes are eligible, only the eye with highest baseline mean IOP will be included
      in the statistical analysis. Patients will be instructed not to take any medications within
      two hours before measurements. Any therapy considered necessary for the patient's welfare
      will be given at the discretion of the treating physician and will be documented. Safety
      measures include non-invasive techniques, standard of care treatment during the duration of
      the study, ophthalmological evaluations and assessment tests. Side effects or adverse effects
      will be reported and evaluated by the ophthalmologist at each visit and if deemed necessary
      the trial medication (Mirtogenol® or matching placebo) will be discontinued and therapy
      adjusted as appropriate by the clinician. Adverse effects will be recorded at each study
      visit as well as the probability of possible association of the adverse effects to the
      treatment. Compliance will be reinforced with daily reminder for a month by email or text
      messages and then weekly reminders until the termination of the study. A monthly calendar
      will be provided to keep track of doses and possible miss doses. Patient must bring their
      supplement or placebo bottles and monthly track calendar to each visit and a pill count will
      be performed. Participants will be contacted one month after discontinuing the trial
      medication to assess for any prior changes or side effects.
    
  