
    
      Objectives:

      The short-term objectives of this project are:

        1. To evaluate the effectiveness of two adjunctive treatments (mood-focused exposure-based
           treatment, Mood Tolerance, with Nicotine Replacement Therapy [MT-NRT] and mood-focused
           affect-management treatment, Mood Management, with NRT [MM-NRT] aimed at reduction and
           cessation of smoking behavior among veterans who were previously non-responders to
           smoking cessation treatment.

        2. To examine specific variables that may serve as mechanisms of action for successful
           treatment (i.e., mood and coping variables).

      The long-term objectives of this research program are:

        1. To advance the mission of the VA to deliver comprehensive quality healthcare that meets
           the needs of patients who have been unresponsive to standard smoking cessation
           treatment, through research and clinical care.

        2. To reduce the exorbitant healthcare costs of nicotine dependence (ND) to the VA, and to
           improve veterans' physical and psychological well-being, healthcare utilization, and
           mortality rates.

        3. To evaluate effectiveness of common treatments for ND.

        4. To explore mechanisms of action related to efficacy of treatment for ND among veterans
           (i.e., changes in mood and coping.)

      Research Design:

      This is a two-cell, single-blind, randomized, treatment outcome study.

      Methodology:

      One hundred and twenty-eight smoking outpatients who have previously participated in standard
      group smoking cessation treatment (treatment non-responders, with NRT) will be recruited
      through the VA Boston Outpatient Health Psychology Clinic. Advertising flyers posted
      throughout the Boston VA Medical Center and Outpatient Clinic will be used to supplement this
      recruitment.

      Baseline Assessment:

      Interested and eligible patients will sign an informed consent form, which will be thoroughly
      reviewed with each participant and co-signed by the investigators. Baseline evaluation of the
      participants will take approximately 90 minutes. This evaluation will include assessment of
      smoking-related variables, moods, and affect-regulation and coping strategies, as well as
      carbon monoxide (CO) levels in expired breath.

      Treatment:

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two treatments. This will involve
      meeting with a pharmacist, primary care physician, psychiatrist, or nurse practitioner to be
      screened for use of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT; transdermal patch) and to initiate NRT
      use. A member of the research team will continue to monitor the participant's physical health
      during the course of the treatment. In addition, the participant will attend treatment groups
      once a week for 15 weeks. These treatment groups will be conducted by a member of the
      research team or clinical students supervised by the PI. Each of these groups will last 90
      minutes.

      Follow-Up:

      The first follow-up appointment will take place in the week after completion of the
      treatment. Additional follow-up assessments will take place at 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-months
      subsequent to the first follow-up appointment. These assessments will be almost identical to
      the baseline assessment, and will last approximately 90 minutes.

      Findings:

      Thirty-four participants have been enrolled in this study; 12 of whom are currently actively
      involved in the protocol. No data have been analyzed or presented yet.
    
  