
    
      For people with early Alzheimer's disease (AD), treatment options to prevent declined
      function are extremely limited, because AD affects many areas of function. In early AD,
      people may have trouble physically doing things while also thinking, which is necessary for
      many activities in daily life. This problem might be helped by doing activities that
      challenge the mind and the body at the same time. Partnered rhythmic rehabilitation (PRR),
      which targets fitness, cognition, mobility and social engagement and may prevent future
      functional problems in AD.

      This is a phase II single-blind randomized clinical trial to assess the safety, tolerability,
      and efficacy of PRR in individuals in the early stages of AD, also called prodromal AD (pAD)
      . Participants will be randomly assigned to 90-minute PRR or WALK classes. Both interventions
      will receive equal contact and monitoring from study staff. Participants will have two phases
      of intervention. In the three-month Training phase, participants will be assigned to 20,
      biweekly (90-minute) lessons over 12 weeks. In the nine-month Maintenance phase, participants
      will attend weekly lessons at least 3 times per month. Participants will undergo either PRR
      or Walking Exercise (WALK) interventions for one year, which will use de-escalating doses:
      two times per week for three months (Training) and weekly for nine months (Maintenance).

      The first study aim is to determine acceptability, safety, tolerability and satisfaction with
      PRR in pAD. The second aim is to determine a) efficacy of PRR vs. WALK for improving
      motor-cognitive integration in pAD; b) to identify sensitive endpoints to power a future
      phase III trial. The researchers will also explore potential mechanisms by which PRR affects
      pAD. These mechanisms include functional brain measures, vascular, and inflammation measures
      (arterial stiffness; cerebral perfusion, task functional magnetic resonance imaging [fMRI];
      inflammatory markers: cytokines and chemokines, endothelial adhesion markers.
    
  