
    
      Participants were recruited from a Spanish hospital between November 2011 and May 2013.
      Through their pre-operative visit to the clinical psychologist, patients were asked if they
      wanted to participate in a follow-up intervention to measure their physical activity (PA)
      levels and various psychological variables related to exercise. Participants who showed
      interest after this interview were subsequently contacted by phone to arrange a baseline
      visit to the sport research center, during which they were informed about the aims and
      procedure of the study, provided written consent, and completed questionnaires to assess
      different variables related to psychosocial aspects. Moreover, participants were asked to
      wear an accelerometer at their right hip for one week, warning them to take it off just to
      sleep, shower, or to perform activities that could damage the device (e.g. swimming). When
      they returned, they were assigned to a motivational PA intervention (MPAI) or control (CG)
      group.

      At post-intervention measurements, patients again completed all questionnaires and wore an
      accelerometer during another week.

      Regarding the MPAI, it was carried out during 6 consecutive months and took place in a public
      fitness center. The sessions were directed by exercise and sport sciences professionals
      (Degree in sport sciences, Master's degree in PA and health), who were trained in the
      application of motivational strategies based on self-determination theory (SDT). According
      with the postulates of SDT, these motivational strategies would help to enhance the
      satisfaction of basic psychological needs that are necessary for optimal development and
      functioning, such as competence, autonomy, relatedness and novelty. So, in the context of
      exercise, intrinsic forms of motivation will appear in people if basic psychological needs
      are satisfied, which will lead to positive consequences related to enjoyment, adherence, and
      positive attitudes towards PA.
    
  