
    
      Distal radius fracture is defined as a fracture within 3 cm of the distal articular surface.
      When radius fracture and ulnar styloid process fracture occur together, internal fixation is
      generally not pursued; however, adverse events may occur after reduction with external
      fixation, including unstable fracture fragments, malalignment, and loss of radial inclination
      and ulnar deviation, leading to wrist function impairment.

      The commonly used treatment methods for distal radius fracture include internal fixation with
      steel plate, internal fixation with Kirschner wire, and external fixation. Open reduction and
      internal fixation (ORIF) has disadvantages. For example, the pronator teres is incised in
      palmar ORIF and in situ suturing of the muscle is not possible in most patients after
      implantation of the titanium plate. Even when suturing is possible, the strength of the
      pronator teres will decrease after surgery, and a second surgery is needed to remove the
      titanium plate. Dorsal ORIF is also disadvantageous because more tendons and thin soft tissue
      may be encountered during surgery. In addition, tendon sheath injury is inevitable, leading
      to myotenositis, tendon adhesion, and even tendon rupture. Thus, internal fixators should be
      taken out as early as possible. Satisfactory wrist function outcomes have been achieved with
      external fixators, in particular with dynamic external fixators. However, although external
      fixation has good fixing effects, it provides poor lateral stability, resulting in injury to
      the superficial branch of the radial nerve, screw channel infection, screw channel fracture,
      screw loosening, and even Sudeck's atrophy. Internal fixation with Kirschner wire generates
      minimal surgical trauma, but this technique does not provide sufficient strength for fixation
      and is therefore rarely used at present. There is an urgent need to develop a more stable
      fixation method for distal radius fracture. Minimally invasive surgery avoids the tissue
      damage and impairment of physiological function caused by open surgery because of its precise
      location techniques. Brachial plexus anesthesia allows surgeons to avoid large incisions and
      excessive bleeding. There are no palmar or dorsal incisions in minimally invasive surgery for
      distal radius fractures, so the structures surrounding the wrist joint are not iatrogenically
      damaged, which theoretically improves wrist function recovery.

      During C-arm fluoroscopy-assisted minimally invasive closed reduction, either no surgical
      incision or an incision only 0.5 cm in length is made at the wrist joint; the fracture
      fragments are reduced with fully threaded headless cannulated compression screws. Repair
      stability is assessed with the C-arm fluoroscopic X-ray system. This method is theoretically
      feasible for distal radius fractures. The fracture fragments are fixed with fully threaded,
      cannulated, variable-pitch, headless compression screws, which can increase fragment
      stability. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that C-arm fluoroscopy-assisted minimally
      invasive closed reduction will fix distal radius fractures and allow patients to perform
      wrist function exercises as early as possible.

      Our previous studies have confirmed that minimally invasive closed reduction and internal
      fixation with fully threaded headless cannulated compression screws has precise therapeutic
      effects for distal radius fractures. This method can improve wrist function, and has
      therapeutic effects similar to those of conventional open reduction and internal fixation
      with titanium plates. The results of these previous studies are shown in Table 1. However, it
      is not clear whether minimally invasive closed reduction and internal fixation with fully
      threaded headless cannulated compression screws has advantages over conventional open
      reduction and internal fixation with titanium plates for distal radius fracture repair.

      In this study, the investigators hypothesized that minimally invasive closed reduction and
      internal fixation with fully threaded headless cannulated compression screws provides better
      stability than conventional methods, and can effectively promote the early recovery of wrist
      function. Under conditions of no cutting of fracture fragments, no blood supply compromise in
      the fracture fragments, and no destruction of the local microenvironment, and with C-arm
      fluoroscopy assistance, the investigators will perform minimally invasive closed reduction,
      pressurizing the fracture fragments with fully threaded headless cannulated compression
      screws, and will investigate whether this method of distal radius fracture repair provides
      satisfactory stability and allows early wrist function recovery.

      Safety assessment Adverse events should be accurately recorded, including time of onset,
      severity, duration, and measures taken. The known possible adverse events include bone
      nonunion, displaced fracture, wrist joint pain, Sudeck's syndrome, primary or secondary
      tendon injury, shoulder-hand syndrome, traumatic arthritis of the wrist joint, implant
      failure, malunion, infection, septicemia, and thrombosis.

      Any of the following will be considered a severe adverse event: death, prolonged hospital
      stay, mutilation, fatal reaction, or teratogenicity. Any adverse event occurring during the
      trial will be reported to the researchers in charge and to the ethics committee within 24
      hours.

      Data management Data from the trial will be kept in a secure, locked storage area with
      limited access for later review by a biostatistician, a researcher in charge.

      Statistical analysis All data will be statistically processed with SPSS 11.0 software (SPSS,
      Chicago, IL, USA). Normally distributed measurement data will be expressed as mean and SD.
      Non-normally distributed measurement data will be expressed as lower quartile (q1), median,
      and upper quartile (q3). The numeration data will be expressed as constituent ratios. The
      Mann-Whitney U non-parametric test will be used to compare age and course of disease between
      the experimental and control groups. The chi-square test will be used to compare sex
      differences between the two groups. The Mann-Whitney U non-parametric test will also be used
      to compare imaging parameters (for example, angle, height, and length), PRWE scores, healing
      time of fracture, and VAS scores. The chi-square test will also be used to compare the
      effective rate between the two groups. An alpha level of 0.05 (two-sided) will be considered
      statistically significant.
    
  