
    
      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded crossover study to test the
      following hypothesis: In mid- to late pubertal girls with hyperandrogenism (HA), acute
      progesterone suppression of waking LH pulse frequency is greater after 2 weeks of
      spironolactone pretreatment compared to after 2 weeks of placebo pretreatment. We will only
      study mid- to late pubertal girls with HA (i.e., girls who would be candidates for
      therapeutic spironolactone use). Subjects will complete two 18-hour Clinical Research Unit
      (CRU) admissions in separate menstrual cycles. Subjects will be randomized to be pretreated
      for 2 weeks with either oral spironolactone (50 mg twice daily) or placebo prior to the first
      CRU admission. Immediately before and during each CRU admission, oral micronized progesterone
      (0.8 mg/kg/dose) will be given at 0700, 1500, 2300, and 0700 h. During each CRU admission,
      blood will be obtained every 10 minutes through an indwelling iv catheter from 1800 to 1200
      h. This will allow full characterization of pulsatile LH secretion in addition to other
      hormone measurements. Formal polysomnography will be performed during CRU admissions. A
      second CRU admission (performed at least 2 months later given blood withdrawal limits) will
      be identical to the first except that placebo pretreatment will exchanged for spironolactone
      pretreatment or vice versa (treatment crossover). The primary endpoint is LH pulse frequency
      while awake. (LH pulse frequency while asleep is an important secondary endpoint.) The wake
      LH pulse frequency data from the spironolactone and placebo admissions will be analyzed via a
      hierarchical linear mixed model (HLMM). The admission (spironolactone vs. placebo) will
      represent the fixed effect factor of the HLMM. Random effects will be utilized to account for
      the hierarchical variance-covariance structure of the two-period cross-over design. Wake LH
      pulse frequency in response to exogenous progesterone will be compared between the
      spironolactone admission and the placebo admission via a linear contrast of the HLMM least
      squares LH pulse frequency means. A similar analysis will be performed for sleep-related LH
      pulse frequency. Using published and preliminary data, we determined that, if 16 mid- to late
      pubertal girls with HA complete both admissions, we should have at least an 80% chance of
      detecting a 0.35 pulse/hour mean within-subject difference in wake LH pulse frequency between
      the spironolactone and placebo admissions with a two-sided false positive rejection rate of
      no more than 0.05.
    
  