
    
      The goal is to use PDXovos, which are chick embryos cultivated in an ex ovo fashion that will
      act as a xenograft host, for drug paneling. Chick embryos as a PDX host model system offer
      multiple advantages, such as increased tumor take rates, rapid drug testing, a short
      evaluation timeframe, and an undeveloped adaptive immune system. Collectively, these
      advantages allow for implantation of tumor xenografts, subsequent growth in vivo, subsequent
      drug challenge, and subsequent evaluation for anti-tumor effects.

      Patients with metastatic forms of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) will be enrolled regardless of
      subtype (chromophobe, clear cell, oncocytoma, papillary 1/2, etc.). Metastates will be
      provided either via metastasectomy or needle core biopsy of metastatic deposits. Spinal and
      intracranial metastases will be included.

      Tissue will be processed and briefly cultured in vitro. Upon authentication and expansion to
      a suitable number of cells, xenografts will be formed in the chick embryo pre-clinical model.
      After implantation (2 days later), drug treatments will be applied topically to each
      xenograft's surface. Drug treatments are: sunitinib, pazopanib, axitinib, temsirolimus,
      cabozantinib, gemcitabine (N>18/treatment group).

      Evaluation of xenografts for anti-tumor effects will be performed via ultrasound imaging
      (changes in tumor volume and tumor vascularity) and confirmed by histology (H&E, TUNEL, CD31+
      microvessel density). Treatments will be compared to vehicle control (5% DMSO in saline)
      treated xenografts. ANOVA (2-way, p<0.01, bon ferroni alpha corrected) analysis will be
      performed to identify treatments that lead to the greatest decrease in tumor volume and tumor
      vascularity (ultrasound imaging metrics). Agents identified will not be used to intervene in
      clinical care. Objective response rates with clinically chosen drug in each patient will be
      compared to the corresponding PDX drug panel results using kappa analysis.
    
  