
    
      2.1 MULTIDISCIPLINARY TEAM APPROACH As defined by World Health Organization, Curriculum
      Contents and International Practice Patterns, physical therapy is an autonomous profession
      where clinical make clinical decisions based on clinical reasoning, differentially diagnose,
      determine prognosis, and make plan of care including discharge planning and outcome
      assessment.

      Orthotics and Prosthetics are important areas where physiotherapist order variety of
      assistive aids to restore, compensate or prevent physical ailments and disorders, such as
      here, Knee Osteoarthritis.

      This study will be helpful not only establishing role of foot wear modification as adjunct
      treatment protocol for knee osteoarthritis but also elicit a multidisciplinary team approach
      which is a much needed area especially in emergency rehabilitation area.

      2.2 LITERATURE GAP Although, there is work on performance of modified foot wears, which have
      been studied mostly alone or as adjunct with pharmacology. There is less literature on
      conservative treatment of osteoarthritis with foot wear modification coupled with
      physiotherapy treatment. This study will create a unique impact paying ways for type of
      preferable footwear that should be used, based on results, and combining treatment with
      physiotherapy care.

      2.3 UNSETTLED DEBATE OVER TYPE OF FOOTWEAR The debate is still underway, worldwide, regarding
      which shoe type or foot wear should be preferred over other. The study results will come up
      with a contribution towards determining right foot wear for osteoarthritis.

      2.4 COST EFFECTIVENESS The knee osteoarthritis is a problem that degenerative in nature and
      is triggered due to posture and abnormal force distribution. Right shoes are proven to alter
      walk posture, step length and degree of ease in walk. This simple remedy can be integral for
      reduction in care cost by minimizing disability and pain.

      2.5 NOVEL SHOE MAKING APPROACH Although, advising foot wears and its modification is
      technical phenomenon, yet, this study can impact formulation of a shoe pattern that can help
      the arthritis patients. This can open new shoe making approach on public shoe outlets, from
      where old age individuals can directly buy the shoes that be the potential healer and disease
      modifier.
    
  