
    
      The increasing resistance of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA),
      vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE), and penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae
      (PRSP) has caused significant medical issue. With limited antimicrobial agents available, it
      has been an increasing challenge in infection control and disease treatment. Linezolid is the
      second line antibiotics in the treatment of MRSA and PRSP infections, and it is also the drug
      of choice for VRE infections. It can be an alternative against multidrug resistant
      tuberculosis and non-tuberculosis mycobacterium. Linezolid has almost 100% of
      bioavailability. It has excellent tissue penetration. It metabolized via non-enzymatic
      oxidation. Two major metabolites, aminoethoxyacetic acid (chemical name) and hydroxyethyl
      glycine (chemical name), are final forms before excreted through kidneys. Even though the
      manufacturer does not recommend dosing adjustment for patients with renal or hepatic
      dysfunction, recent studies demonstrated accumulation of linezolid and 2 metabolites in the
      body. Patients who receive more than 2 weeks of treatment duration and who have renal
      dysfunction or severe cirrhosis may present higher plasma linezolid concentration. Patients
      may experience anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia under long-term use of linezolid.
      However, there is lack of study on lactic acidosis, peripheral neuropathy, and optic
      neuropathy due to mitochondrial toxicity.

      This study has two parts. This study will analysis the medical charts in NTUH from 2011 to
      2016 to get the population demographics who use linezolid and the occurrence rate of
      myelosuppression, neuropathy and lactic acidosis. Then, followed by a prospective study which
      aim is to monitor the plasma peak and trough concentration of linezolid (total and free drug)
      and 2 metabolites by different sample collecting method (plasma, dry blood spot; DBS). If
      clinical necessity, the investigators may also monitor tissue fluid concentration. Clinical
      response and toxicity were monitored by liquid chromatography (LC) analysis. The
      investigators plan to evaluate the association between plasma concentration and toxicity
      including bone marrow suppression, peripheral neuropathy, and lactic acidosis. It is
      important to determine if dose adjustment in patients with renal and/or hepatic dysfunction
      is required. Simultaneously, the investigators want to develop DBS method which can ease
      patients' uncomfortable sense and simplify the drug monitor process. The result of this study
      will provide physicians more information to prevent concentration-dependent adverse effects.
    
  