
    
      Primary Objective(s)

        1. To estimate progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with BRCA-mutated advanced
           ovarian cancer treated with olaparib tablets in real-world first line maintenance
           setting.

        2. To describe olaparib treatment patterns (dosage; frequency of: dosage changes, dose
           interruptions, treatment cessation) in patients with BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian
           cancer treated in real-world first line maintenance setting.

      Secondary Objective(s)

        1. To estimate overall survival (OS) in patients with BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer
           treated with olaparib tablets in real-world first line maintenance setting.

        2. To describe reasons for olaparib dosage changes, dose interruptions and treatment
           cessation in patients with BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer treated in real-world
           first line maintenance setting

        3. To describe surgical and chemotherapy outcomes (PR/CR) in patients with BRCA-mutated
           advanced ovarian cancer before initiation of real-world first line maintenance olaparib
           tablets

        4. To describe response rate (RR) to olaparib tablets in patients with BRCA-mutated ovarian
           cancer with partial response to real-world first line chemotherapy.

        5. To describe treatment patterns and clinical outcomes in patients with BRCA-mutated
           advanced ovarian cancer who progressed during olaparib real-world first line maintenance
           therapy (including frequency of treatment interruptions, dosage reductions and treatment
           discontinuations and reasons associated with patterns)

        6. To estimate second progression-free survival (PFS2) in patients with BRCA-mutated
           ovarian cancer who progress while on olaparib real-world first line maintenance therapy.

        7. To describe healthcare resource utilisation in patients with BRCA-mutated advanced
           ovarian cancer treated with olaparib in real-world first line setting.
    
  