
    
      Protective mechanical ventilation during anesthesia aims at minimizing lung injury and has
      been associated to a decrease in postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs). Conventional
      protective ventilation strategy is consisted of the use of a low tidal volume (VT) and fixed
      moderate positive end expiratory pressure (peep). However, low-VT may result in the reduction
      of the functional volume of the lung manifested as lung collapse. Another potential
      consequence of lung collapse is the impairment in ventilatory efficiency.

      Bariatric surgery is proven to achieve significant and sustained weight loss in the morbidly
      obese. Major weight loss can lead to partial/complete resolution of a range of conditions
      including, diabetes mellitus, ischemic heart disease, and hypertension.

      Obese patients undergoing general anesthesia and mechanical ventilation during abdominal and
      bariatric surgeries commonly have a higher incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications
      (PPCs), due to factors such as decreasing oxygen reserve, declining functional residual
      capacity, and reducing lung compliance. And also pneumoperitoneum aggravates pulmonary
      atelectasis caused by mechanical ventilation, especially in obese patients.

      Driving pressure (DP) which is the difference between the airway pressure at the end of
      inspiration (plateau pressure, (Ppl) and PEEP was first introduced by Amato et al in 2015 in
      their meta-analy¬sis study for ARDS patients. The authors suggested that driving pressure is
      the stronger predictor of mortality as compared with low VT and Ppl.

      Several retrospec¬tive and prospective studies confirmed the importance of driving pressure
      in ARDS pa¬tients and during general anesthesia without differentiation between obese and
      nonobese patients .only one retrospective study showed that driving pressure was not
      associated with mortality in obese-ARDS patients. we hypothesize that these results may be
      different in obese patients having healthy lungs.
    
  