
    
      This was a randomized, open-label study designed to assess the safety and efficacy of
      AQUAVAN® Injection (hereafter referred to as AQUAVAN) versus the reference drug, midazolam
      HCl (hereafter referred to as midazolam) following pretreatment with fentanyl citrate
      injection (hereafter referred to as fentanyl) in producing sedation in male and female
      patients undergoing single PC procedures.

      Screening assessments were done within 2 weeks of scheduled procedures. After completion of
      preprocedural sedation assessments, patients were randomly assigned to 1 of the 2 treatment
      groups at a 3:1 (AQUAVAN: midazolam) allocation ratio on the day of the scheduled procedure
      (Day 0) via an Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS). Randomization was stratified by
      site.

      All patients, regardless of treatment group assignment, received fentanyl as an analgesic
      pretreatment. Supplemental doses of fentanyl could be administered if the patient reported
      pain or if analgesia was inadequate, as demonstrated by increased heart rate and/or blood
      pressure in the presence of adequate sedation. At no time was fentanyl to be administered to
      increase sedation levels.

      AQUAVAN or midazolam was administered by intravenous (i.v.) bolus to induce a state of
      minimal-to-moderate (procedural) s sedation, defined as a score of ≤4 on the Modified
      Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation (OAA/S) scale. Supplemental doses were
      administered, if necessary, to increase the depth or duration of sedation. Supplemental doses
      were not administered if the Modified OAA/S score was ≤2 or if there was no purposeful
      response to stimulation. Patient and Investigator assessments were used to confirm that the
      depth of sedation met the goals of sedation, reduced anxiety, and awareness.

      Follow-up patient assessments were conducted in a telephone interview 24 hours following
      treatment and during a clinic visit 2 to 5 days following treatment.
    
  