
    
      The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a large protein that plays an important role
      in tumor growth. When EGFR is stimulated or "overexpressed," a series of chemical reactions
      happen that result in a tumor being "told" to grow. Researchers know that EGFR is
      overexpressed in many types of endometrial cancer. Cetuximab is designed to block this
      receptor, which may help to stop or slow the growth of tumors in those patients whose
      endometrial cancer has come back.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the study. If you have had
      some of the tests done recently, they may not need to be repeated. Your complete medical
      history will be recorded. You will have a physical exam, including a pelvic exam and
      measurement of vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate).
      Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests, tests of your kidney and liver
      function, and a pregnancy test for women who are able to have children. The pregnancy test
      must be negative for you to be allowed to take part in this study. You will have a chest
      x-ray and computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of the abdomen
      and pelvis (stomach and hip area) to measure the tumor.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive cetuximab once a
      week through a needle in a vein. Each treatment cycle is 4 weeks long. In the first week of
      your first treatment cycle only, you will receive cetuximab over 120 minutes (2 hours). For
      all additional treatments, you will receive cetuximab over 60 minutes. During the infusion
      and for 60 minutes after the infusion ends, you will be closely watched for signs of an
      allergic reaction.

      You will receive diphenhydramine (or a similar antihistamine) by vein, about 30-60 minutes
      before receiving each cetuximab infusion. This is in order to lower the risk of side effects
      that the study drug may cause. Your doctor may decide to lower the dose of diphenhydramine in
      later doses.

      Before each cycle of therapy and 1 month after treatment ends, you will have a physical exam.
      Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. CT scans or MRI will be repeated
      every 2-3 cycles and at the end of treatment. If you have any tumors in your chest, a chest
      x-ray will be repeated every 2-3 cycles and at the end of treatment. If you have a partial or
      complete response (the tumor shrinks or disappears completely) or the disease is stable
      (where the tumor has neither grown nor shrunk), the CT or MRI will be repeated 4 weeks later
      to check the response.

      You will be able to keep receiving additional treatment cycles as long as you are
      benefitting. If the disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side effects, you
      will be taken off the study.

      After you have completed treatment on the study, the status of your health and the disease
      will be checked. Your doctor will decide how often these check-ups will occur. You may return
      to M. D. Anderson for these follow-up exams, or if you choose not to come in to the clinic,
      you will be contacted by phone to see how you are doing.

      This is an investigational study. Cetuximab is commercially available and FDA approved for
      the treatment of colorectal cancer. Its use in the treatment of endometrial cancer in this
      study is experimental. Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. Up to 30 patients will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  