
    
      Conversion disorder, also called "functional neurological disorder" (DSM-5), refers to
      impaired voluntary motor or sensory functions that are not compatible with a well-known
      neurological condition. This disorder affects up to 30% of hospitalized patients in neurology
      departments (Carson et al. 2000) and the symptoms persist in 35% of patients after 12 years
      of evolution (Stone et al. 2003). Despite a poor prognosis, no treatments have been validated
      to date.

      The development of non-invasive brain stimulation techniques has allowed the creation of
      focused treatments on dysfunctional brain regions associated with motor conversion disorder.
      A hypoactivation of prefrontal dorso-lateral cortex (PFDLC) underlies the course of
      functional motor symptoms (Spence et al. 2000); (Voon et al.2011); (Conejero et al. 2017).
      Results of the HYCORE study that the investigators conducted at Nîmes University Hospital
      (including 20 patients, clinicaltrial.gov NCT02329626) confirmed these results and related
      hypoactivation of PFDLC to persistent motor disability at 3 months and 6 months follow-up.
      Activation of the PFDLC could restore executive control and thus promote the recovery of
      motor symptoms.

      However, in the majority of repeated Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) the primary
      motor areas were targeted (Pollak et al. 2014) and the clinical improvement was related to
      self-suggestion induced by the motor response produced.

      Among the different techniques, transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) is a medical
      neuromodulation device that delivers a direct, low-intensity electric current to cortical
      areas, facilitating neuronal activity. Recently, PFDLC stimulation via tDCS has been used to
      treat several neuropsychiatric disorders and shown to be effective in depression. In
      addition, this technique has several advantages compared to rTMS: its use is simpler and
      costs 5 to 8 times less, the device is portable and there is no titration procedure. The
      tolerance of the tDCS is also better with no risk of epileptic seizure, neuronal
      depolarization being absent.
    
  