
    
      Research has yet to determine how regular physical activity in different environments
      influences physical and cognitive performance. Studies show exposure to natural environments
      can improve cognitive performance, increase creative thinking, and decrease stress-related
      responses. According to the theory of attention restoration, exposure to natural environments
      restores attentional resources because nature contains specific qualities that allow for
      directed attention to replenish and endorses health-related behaviors such as walking,
      running, and biking. Nature exposure is hypothesized to decrease activation of neural
      networks involved in cognitive control, therefore allowing for restoration of resources to
      occur. Activation of the cognitive control network is reflected through increased power of
      theta frequency (4-8 Hz) at the midfrontal regions (measured using electroencephalography;
      EEG), which reflects cognitive fatigue during rest. Previous research shows spending time in
      nature decreases midfrontal theta power, therefore reducing rumination and cognitive fatigue.
      Likewise, event-related potentials, such as higher P3 amplitude and shorter P3 latency during
      tasks, indicate better attentional allocation and processing speed, indicating better
      cognitive processing. These neurophysiological measurements are indicative of cognitive
      restoration and can determine changes in cognitive functioning over time.

      The investigators propose to collect measurements of electroencephalography (spectral EEG,
      task-evoked event-related potentials), behavioral cognitive assessments (cognitive control,
      working memory performance), and health factors (VO2max) using a 2 (nature or urban physical
      activity intervention) x 2 (baseline and post-intervention sessions) design to determine
      changes in cognitive functioning across time. As part of an ongoing investigation in the
      cognitive and physical influence of intervention strategies, physical activity interventions
      will take place for a 6-week period, and participants will be recruited across three
      intervals of testing. Trained fitness instructors will lead participants in regularly
      scheduled 45-minute aerobic-based physical activity sessions three times a week. Each session
      will involve a combination of walking and running that progressively increases the duration
      of intensity throughout the 6-week period, starting at 20-minutes of moderate-to-vigorous
      training during the first week, and increasing duration by 5-minute intervals. Intervention
      groups will differ based on the location of the intervention. The nature-based intervention
      sessions will occur outdoors in a local public park in the Boston area. The urban-based
      intervention sessions will occur indoors in the Center for Cognitive & Brain Health
      intervention activity rooms.
    
  