
    
      Background: The smoke generated by electrosurgical devices in the process of dissection of
      tissues during laparoscopy can obscure the surgical visual field. Laparoscopic hysterectomy
      and laparoscopic myomectomy are procedures that produce a considerable amount of smoke, which
      impedes the operating surgeon. It is often necessary to suspend the surgery to allow the
      smoke to dissipate, or more commonly open a laparoscopic port to vent the smoke into the
      room, adding to the operating time. It is also common to remove the laparoscope to clean the
      lens because it can be soiled by the smoke as well. In order to enhance the dissipation of
      smoke and maintain an adequate pneumoperitoneum it is often necessary to increase the flow of
      carbon dioxide (CO2) from the insufflator. Surgical smoke handling during laparoscopic
      surgery results in an increase of the known risks to the patient of using excessive CO2; as
      well exposing the operating room staff to the smoke which may create a potential health
      concern. The electrostatic-precipitation of laparoscopic smoke is a new technique, marketed
      under the name Ultravision©, making it possible to precipitate the smoke as it is created,
      thereby actively eliminating it from the field of view. Safety and feasibility studies have
      been carried out allowing it to be placed on the market in Europe, Japan and the United
      States. A randomized study of its clinical effectiveness (ref: Ansell J. Surg, Endosc. (2014)
      28: 2057-2065) showed that electrostatic-precipitation significantly improved visibility
      (reduction of visual impairment) and reduced surgery time in laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
      Ultravision is cleared for use in all laparoscopic surgery i.e. including laparoscopic
      hysterectomy and myomectomy, in the United States. However, the clinical benefits arising
      from its use in gynecology have not yet been quantitatively assessed and published in an
      independent medical journal.

      Study Purpose: here are three main study objectives;

        1. To evaluate the impact of use of Ultravision device during laparoscopic hysterectomy and
           myomectomy on the quality of visualization in the laparoscopic field

        2. To evaluate the impact of use of Ultravision device during laparoscopic hysterectomy and
           myomectomy on procedural characteristics

        3. To evaluate the impact of use of Ultravision device during laparoscopic hysterectomy and
           myomectomy on clinical outcomes.

      Primary Hypothesis: The primary hypothesis being tested in this study is that using
      Ultravision during laparoscopic hysterectomy and myomectomy improves visualization similar to
      that reported when used in laparoscopic cholecystectomy without the need for CO2 exchange and
      that, by doing so, the amount of CO2 that the patient is exposed to is reduced compared to
      the current standard of care.

      Secondary hypothesis: There are two aspects to CO2 exposure during laparoscopic surgery: the
      amount of gas used and the intra-abdominal pressure of the pneumoperitoneum. Ultravision has
      already been shown in laparoscopic cholecystectomy to minimize the amount of CO2 that a
      patient is exposed to during laparoscopic surgery because it does not rely on the process of
      dilution using ongoing CO2 supply from the insufflator. Decreasing the intra-abdominal
      pressure below the conventional 12-15 mmHg during laparoscopic surgery has been shown by
      others to lead to improved clinical outcomes in other laparoscopic procedures.

      In this study the target abdominal pressure for all procedures conducted will be 10mmHg. The
      ability to maintain that pressure during the procedure in the different study arms will be
      reported and compared. In addition to this secondary endpoint other procedure data will be
      collected to assess the potential impact of the Ultravision technology on procedure
      characteristics such as adverse events, procedure time, patient temperature, patient end
      tidal CO2 level, post-op medications for pain etc.

      INTENDED USE: The Ultravision™ System is indicated for the clearance of smoke and other
      particulate matter that is created during laparoscopic surgery.

      DEVICE DESCRIPTION: The Ultravision™ System is an accessory to electrosurgical instruments
      that is used to clear the surgical smoke generated during their use and as such will only be
      used when such devices are in use. An example of the effect of the Ultravision™ System during
      use to improve the visualization of the field of view.

      The system includes the following elements: Standalone battery-operated generator unit
      Ionwand™, which is introduced into the abdomen of the patient through either the Ultravision™
      5mm Trocar or a 2.5mm percutaneous catheter and provides the source of the electrons that
      create the negative ions that transiently charge the surgical smoke particles. Other
      accessories include a patient return adaptor and battery recharging station.

      US REGULATORY STATUS: The Ultravision™ System obtained regulatory clearance through US FDA's
      De Novo Classification Process (DEN 150022). The system has been in distribution in Europe
      since January 2014 and in the US since December of 2016, over 250 systems are currently in
      use. To date there have been no incident or medical device reports (patient injury reports)
      and there have been no product recalls.

      SUBJECT IDENTIFICATION & SELECTION: Potential subjects will be identified from the clinical
      practice of the participating investigator or by their respective research staff. Each new
      subject presenting for evaluation or inclusion is to be assessed for adherence to the
      following inclusion/exclusion criteria. Patients are considered enrolled once it has been
      demonstrated that the inclusion/exclusion criteria have been met and the patient signs the
      informed consent.

      SUBJECT INFORMED CONSENT: Referred patients presenting for diagnosis or treatment consistent
      with the inclusion criteria will undergo the informed consent process.

      PREOPERATIVE PROTOCOL: Patients will be assessed preoperatively in accordance with the
      current standard of care. The Ultravision™ System will be set up in the OR for all cases. For
      randomized study arms 1 and 2, the system will be covered such that the electronic display is
      not visible to the investigator. The system will be turned off for all non-Ultravision
      procedures. For all procedures, the Ionwand will be inserted/introduced as described in the
      Instructions for Use.

      SURGEON VISUALIZATION SURVEY: Immediately post procedure the investigator will be asked three
      questions:

        1. Proportion of operating time with effective visibility? A 1-100 visual analog scale will
           be used to estimate the time proportion.

        2. What is the overall rating of visibility?

        3. For randomized study arms do you know if the patient was in the Ultravision group? A yes
           or no, or don't know answer and the information that influenced the answer is recorded.

      POST PROCEDURE FOLLOW-UP PROTOCOL: Post procedure follow-up assessments include discharge and
      2-week follow-up, which is the current standard of care.

      ADVERSE EVENT CATEGORIES: For purposes of this protocol the adverse event definitions are
      derived from Good Clinical Practice (GCP) standards and FDA Guidance.

      The signs, symptoms, and sequelae of an underlying adverse event (linked pathophysiologically
      to the AE) should not be reported as separate adverse events. All adverse events, of any
      type, are to be recorded on an "Adverse Event Form". Adverse events are to be characterized
      by their severity, relatedness the implant procedure, need for therapy, and resolution
      status.

      Adverse events will initially be characterized as "serious" or "non-serious" by the study
      investigator.

      ADVERSE EVENT ADJUDICATION: Events are to be initially judged by the investigator as to their
      relatedness to the study device, implant procedure, or "other etiology". The classifications
      will be "not related", "probably not related", "undetermined", "probably related", or
      "related".

      REPORTING OF ADVERSE EVENTS AND UNANTICIPATED PROBLEMS Serious adverse events and
      Unanticipated Problems related to the research will be reported to the Mercy Institutional
      Review Board.

      SUBSEQUENT SURGICAL INTERVENTIONS: Some complications may lead to a subsequent surgical
      intervention. The reason for each subsequent surgical intervention and the action taken is
      recorded on the case report form, along with the identification of the type subsequent
      surgical interventions according. The exact type of intervention must be specified.

      PATIENT WITHDRAWAL: A patient may choose to withdraw from participation in the study at any
      time without penalty. If a patient chooses to withdraw they will still receive medical care
      consistent with the standard of care. The investigator may at their discretion withdraw a
      patient from participation. Examples include if the procedure necessitates conversion from
      laparoscopic to open technique, lack of adherence to visit schedule, adverse events, or
      safety concerns. For all withdrawals the date, point in the study, and reason for withdrawal
      will be recorded.

      STUDY SUSPENSION/TERMINATION: If for any reason the principle investigator chooses to suspend
      or terminate the study, the IRB shall be informed of the decision and the basis of the
      decision.

      PROVISION AND INVENTORY OF STUDY DEVICES: The device and required materials will be provided
      to the Investigator by Alesi Surgical Ltd.

      DATA COLLECTION AND MANAGEMENT: The investigators are responsible for collecting the data
      from the study.

      IMAGING DIAGNOSTICS: All imaging performed for patients is considered consistent with
      standard of care.

      SAMPLE SIZE JUSTIFICATION: The sample size selected (15) per group is considered to be a
      number to allow for a meaningful comparison between the study arms conducted by a single
      investigator. As a post-market study intended to evaluate user satisfaction and relative
      impact the Ultravision™ System has on the procedure as opposed to demonstrating safety and
      efficacy, the sample size is considered to be sufficient for that purpose. This essential
      information is identified in the primary and secondary endpoints.

      DATA ANALYSIS; Data collected will be summarized using descriptive statistics. For study
      success results must demonstrate a clinical benefit for the randomized Ultravision group
      compared to the no Ultravision group based upon the primary endpoint analysis. Additional
      exploratory analysis may be conducted during data analysis. Because the study is not
      statistically powered, analysis for primary and secondary endpoints will be conducted using
      comparative statistics with the caveat understood regarding the relatively small sample sizes
      for each group.

      ADMINISTRATION: This study is being conducted as an "Investigator Sponsored" post-market
      study. The Investigator holds ultimate responsibility for the design, conduct, analysis, and
      reporting of the results from this study and is the primary contact for all matters related
      to this investigational plan. The Primary Investigator is also accountable for monitoring
      this investigation and performing those actions necessary to protect the scientific
      credibility of the way this study is conducted.

      REGULATORY COMPLIANCE: The investigators and all research staff participating in this
      investigation are expected to adhere to this investigational plan, Good Clinical Practices,
      applicable privacy laws, the Declaration of Helsinki, and any approval requirements imposed
      by an Institutional Review Board. The study will be submitted for review and approval by the
      Mercy Institutional Review Board.

      PRIVACY AND CONFIDENTIALITY: This study is to be performed in accordance with all applicable
      privacy laws. All data and information concerning subjects and their participation in this
      trial are considered confidential. Only authorized investigators and approved study personnel
      will have access to some portions of these confidential files. Institutional Review Boards
      and other regulatory authorities also have the right to inspect and copy records pertinent to
      this trial. All public reporting of the results of this study will eliminate identifiable
      references to the subjects.

      RISK/BENEFIT ASSESSMENT: As a surgical accessory device, the Ultravision™ System does not
      administer any medical treatment. The risks associated with its use are consistent with other
      surgical accessories used in laparoscopic surgery. The device has been tested for sterility,
      biocompatibility, and electrical safety demonstrating that such risks have been mitigated to
      acceptable levels.The benefits that are being evaluated in this study are improved
      visualization, lower pressure of pneumoperitoneum, and CO2 consumption have the potential to
      favorably impact patient outcomes.
    
  