
    
      Research problem:

      Internationally, cryotherapy for docetaxel-induced nail and skin toxicities of the hand has
      become a popular primary treatment. Yet there is little evidence beyond one Phase II,
      non-randomised, (n=45) study to support such widespread use. There are also unanswered
      concerns relating to the potential of this treatment to cross-infect patients at risk of
      immunocompromise. This phase II case-control study extends previous work to address sample
      size concerns, enhance methodological rigour and add new evidence with respect to infection
      control, prior to its possible implementation at Princess Alexandra Hospital (PAH).

      Hypothesis/questions/outcomes:

      Aim: This study will investigate the utility, efficacy and safety of cryotherapy, in the form
      of frozen gel gloves, with respect to the prevention of docetaxel-induced nail and skin
      toxicities in cancer patients.

      Hypotheses:

      H1: Cryotherapy reduces the incidence and severity of docetaxel-induced nail and skin
      toxicities.

      H2: Cryotherapy to prevent docetaxel-induced nail and skin toxicities is tolerated by cancer
      patients.

      H3: A standardised decontamination protocol prevents healthcare-acquired infections
      potentially associated with cryotherapy.

      Anticipated results: The primary endpoint is a decrease in the incidence and severity of nail
      and skin toxicities over the course of treatment, as measured by the CTCAE scores. Secondary
      endpoints include delayed time to occurrence of any nail or skin toxicity; patient comfort;
      and a successful glove decontamination protocol as evidenced by the absence of
      epidemiologically significant organisms on frozen gloves.

      Research design:

      Population and sampling: Approximately 300 new breast, prostate and lung cancer patients are
      diagnosed per year at PAH. Not all of these are treated with docetaxel, and some are placed
      on clinical trials, so will not be available for enrolment in the study. Data from PAH Human
      Information Management Services indicates that approximately 120 patients will therefore be
      eligible to enrol in the study. Accounting for a 50% rate of refusal or failure to meet the
      study criteria, it is anticipated that approximately 60 patients will enrol in the study in
      12 months. This amounts to 60 control and 60 intervention hands for comparison.

      Withdrawal criteria: severe cold intolerance or withdrawal of consent.

      Procedure: Standard cryotherapy comprises a disposable cotton glove overlaid with a glycerine
      gel-filled glove, which cover the hand to the wrist and separate the thumb from the rest of
      the hand. The gel glove is frozen for at least 3 hours at -0.25 to -0.30°C prior to use. Each
      patient's hands will be randomly allocated to intervention or control. Each patient will wear
      the triple glove set on their intervention hand. No glove set will be used on the other hand,
      which acts as the case control. During each docetaxel infusion, the patient will wear the
      gloves for a total of 90 minutes (15 minutes before the administration of docetaxel, during
      the 1-hour docetaxel infusion, and 15 minutes after the end of infusion). This is a standard
      procedure during cryotherapy that will ensure the patients' peripheries are vasoconstricted
      on commencement of the infusion and for enough time afterwards to ensure circulating drug
      does not reach the target area. Because of the duration of the infusion, more than one gel
      glove will be used successively (for 45 minutes each) to maintain a consistently low
      temperature on the hand and nails. Using this method, the study will determine the
      comparative incidence of skin and nail disorders with and without cold protection.

      The additional infection control measure in this study incorporates (1) insertion of a
      disposable surgical glove (which exceeds the length of the cotton and gel gloves) between the
      cotton and gel gloves to minimise the risk of cross-contamination and (2) surface
      decontamination using a standard cleaning protocol. The term 'cleaning' refers to the use of
      mechanical action, detergent and warm water, followed by rinsing and drying. It aims to
      remove organic matter, visible soils and salts from the glove surface. Cleaning removes the
      bulk of micro-organisms from surfaces and they are also unable to multiply on inanimate
      surfaces cleaned and dried in this manner. In accordance with the Spaulding Classification
      System the glove cleaning protocol will incorporate 1) cleaning all internal and external
      surfaces with neutral detergent and warm water; 2) rinsing with clean water; 3) cleaning all
      internal and external surfaces with a 70% alcohol-based solution; and 4) complete air drying
      of the glove.

      Data collection: Patients receive docetaxel once every 21 days for 126 - 189 days (i.e. on 6
      to 9 separate occasions each; docetaxel is administered on day 1 of each cycle). Nail and
      skin toxicity appear between days 36 to 72 in untreated patients, and increases in severity
      until the end of treatment2-6,8. Cryotherapy will commence on day 1; will occur every 21 days
      with docetaxel administration thereafter, and cease after the final dose of docetaxel.
      Patients' toxicities will be assessed independently prior to the commencement of each of the
      docetaxel infusions, and three-weekly thereafter, by 2 blinded clinical nurse assessors using
      the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events1. The assessors will be trained by a
      dermatologist in the rating of these toxicities prior to study commencement. The training
      will also establish inter-rater reliability ratings between assessors, using digital
      photographs of skin and nail toxicities already available from clinical trials records at
      Princess Alexandra Hospital. In addition to blinded in-clinic assessment, digital photography
      of each hand will be undertaken under standardised lighting conditions prior to the
      commencement of each infusion. This will enable the nurses' assessment to be regularly
      compared with the dermatologist's assessment to ensure inter-rater reliability.

      Because the final infusion may also affect the nails beyond treatment cessation, nail
      assessment will also be undertaken 3 weeks after the last infusion during routine OPD
      follow-up. Patients' comfort level with cryotherapy will also be assessed during each of the
      infusions, using a 4-point rating system to determine whether patients are dissatisfied (0),
      not very satisfied (1), satisfied (2), or very satisfied (3) with the treatment in terms of
      glove contact, temperature tolerance and immobilisation constraints.

      A pre-post assessment of the decontamination protocol of the gel glove at each of the
      treatment sessions will also be undertaken. Microbial Cultural and Sensitivity (MC&S) and
      antibiograms will be undertaken on swabs taken from glove surfaces at T1
      (pre-decontamination) and T2 (post- decontamination). Sites for swabbing of all gloves will
      be standardised to 1) the internal glove surface of the back of the hand; 2) the internal
      glove surface of the palm of the hand; 3) the internal glove surface at the tip of the second
      index finger; and 4) the internal glove surface at tip of the thumb. These sites are
      well-established as being problematic for cleaning and decontamination in hand hygiene, where
      carriage of microbial organisms is high31. MC&S and antibiograms will test for
      non-multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (nmMRSA); multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus
      Aureus (MRSA), and vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus, extended spectrum (VRE).

      A client record form will record and update relevant demographic, disease- and
      treatment-related data at each time point.

      Data analysis:

      Analyses of skin and nail toxicity will replicate the method used in the original study, and
      will be undertaken on an intention-to-treat basis. Matched-pair t-tests will be used to
      determine the statistical significance of any differences in the incidence and severity of
      nail and skin toxicities between protected and unprotected hands. Because time-to-event
      endpoints will be used, Kaplan-Meier and log-rank methods will estimate differences in time
      to toxicity occurrence. The impact of nail and skin toxicity occurrence for confounders and
      covariates will be determined via multivariate Cox regression analyses. Frozen glove
      contamination will be analysed by determining frequencies and types of micro-organisms.
    
  