
    
      Data on the specific effects and bioequivalency of the different forms of estrogen are
      lacking, and in the young adolescent age group in particular, virtually non-existent. This
      has been complicated further by the difficulty in accurately interpreting estradiol assay
      results as the conventional radioimmunoassays (RIA) for estradiol are inaccurate and
      insensitive measuring very small concentrations in plasma. There is wide variation in the
      types of estrogens used for estrogen replacement, as well as doses and route of
      administration. Girls with Turner syndrome (TS) represent an important case study for these
      issues as they have early primary gonadal insufficiency or failure many years before the
      achievement of peak bone mass. Hence, a study of the effects of different estrogen compounds
      in this patient population offers a unique model that eliminates the confounding effects of
      other products produced by the intact gonad. Since in this condition it is imperative that
      estrogen replacement is started during the adolescent years and continued for several
      decades, this issue becomes highly relevant to these young women's health.Our specific aims
      are to: 1. to characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) and relative
      biological potency of different oral vs. transdermal preparations of estradiol using
      state-of-the-art tandem mass spectrometry assays and recombinant cell bioassays; 2. to
      investigate the differential, long term metabolic effects of oral vs. transdermal estrogen
      replacement, specifically the effects on lipid and protein metabolism as well as body
      composition in this patient population; 3. to determine feasibility of estrogen
      concentration-based dosing in puberty and 4. To characterize the metabolic profile of TS
      girls previously treated with GH. To accomplish this we will study girls/young woman between
      ages 13 to 20 with TS in 2 protocols. Protocol #1 will be a study of the
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) of 3 different preparations of estrogen in different
      doses. Protocol #2 will be a one year longitudinal study of the effects of oral vs.
      transdermal (TD) estrogen on body composition, hormones and growth factors.
    
  