
    
      Preeclampsia remains a significant cause of neonatal and maternal morbidity and mortality.
      This disorder is found in 5-7% of pregnancies and its incidence is increased in gravid
      patients with multiple gestations, chronic hypertension, renal disease, autoimmune disease,
      and at extremes of maternal age. It is responsible for 15% of preterm births which is
      accompanied by a resultant increase in neonatal morbidity and mortality. In developing
      countries, it is responsible for approximately 50,000 maternal deaths each year. No
      widespread intervention to prevent this disease has been found effective and the only
      effective treatment remains delivery of the fetus.

      To date, the cause of preeclampsia is not known although many agree that preeclampsia is a
      two-stage disease as described by Roberts et al. with the placenta of central importance. The
      first stage involves poor placental perfusion usually a result of impaired vascular
      remodeling in early pregnancy or from maternal disease. This leads to the second stage, which
      is the maternal syndrome of preeclampsia and involves both endothelial and leukocyte
      activation.

      Preeclampsia is associated with an increased maternal cardiovascular risk later in life.
      Women with a history of preeclampsia demonstrate altered expression of angiogenesis-related
      proteins and increased insulin resistance as measured by the homeostasis model of insulin
      resistance. Additionally, preeclampsia is associated with an increase in future
      cardiovascular risk in the fetus.

      Endothelial dysfunction and abnormal regulation of vascular tone that is present in
      preeclampsia suggests abnormal development of vascular cells such as endothelial progenitor
      cells. The increased cardiovascular risk of neonates born in the setting of IUGR and
      preeclampsia also suggests the possibility of abnormal development of endothelial progenitor
      cells in the fetal compartment in these disease states. The purpose of this pilot project is
      to determine the effects of preeclampsia/IUGR on endothelial progenitor cells derived from
      fresh umbilical cord blood.
    
  