
    
      Over the past few years, connective tissue graft (CTG) is considered as a gold standard and
      reliable treatment modality in periodontal aesthetic surgeries.Various CTG harvesting
      techniques have been described which differ in the number of the incisions, flap design, and
      the technique for gaining access to the graft. Among the numerous techniques for CTG harvest,
      single incision technique (SIT) proposed by Hurzeler is described as more conservative and
      least traumatic for the patient. However, there are few limitations of SIT.

      To overcome these difficulties, Kumar proposed a special instrument, Barraquer cataract knife
      and AVS blade to harvest CTG using modified SIT. The Barraquer cataract knife is an
      ophthalmic blade which is extremely thin and useful in giving mesial and distal incisions of
      CTG within the limited space under partial thickness flap without tearing it. AVS blade has a
      terminal shank angled at 100 degrees, with the smooth outer surface and the cutting edge at
      terminal end perpendicular to the long axis of the instrument which enables placement of
      medial incision easily without damaging the overlying flap. However, their proposed
      instrument too had limitations like need for two instruments to, and the straight angulation
      of the shank makes the adaptation difficult to the palatal vault.

      A new instrument KPM blade has been envisaged eliminating these limitations. It has a long
      thin handle with two contra-angulations of 45degrees and 90degrees on the shank and a
      terminal shank of ten mm length.This makes the shank easily adapt to any form of the palatal
      vault, offsets the interference of palatal surfaces of molars and provides a depth control of
      ten mm in apico-coronal direction without causing any vascular troubles. From the terminal
      shank blade has a perpendicular projection of two mm which is curved and bevelled which
      enables it to be used in multidirection with better visibility and good clinical control on
      incision.

      However, till date, this novel KPM blade has not been explored in harvesting CTG using SIT.
      Thus, the purpose of the present study is to compare KPM blade v/s standard 15c blade to
      harvest CTG in SIT in terms of ease of harvesting (time), early healing in palatal donor area
      and patient morbidity.
    
  