
    
      At this moment, the world is experiencing an unprecedented population aging at a global
      scale. In 2050, the number of people over 65 years old will more than double from 617 million
      to 1,6 billion and the percentage of people over 65 years old will grow from 9% to 16%.
      Portugal is one of the fastest aging countries in the world, 22% of its population is over 65
      years of age.

      With the increase of the elderly population, new challenges arise such as the increased
      prevalence of neurocognitive disorders. According with estimates from OCDE, Portugal is the
      fourth country with the highest number of dementia diagnosis. This brings many social, health
      and economic costs to our country.

      There is evidence that in the earlier stages of neurocognitive disorders, people can learn
      and improve their cognitive function through interventions, such as cognitive stimulation
      (CS). There are three types of cognitive intervention to improve cognitive performance: CS,
      cognitive rehabilitation and cognitive training. Cognitive rehabilitation is an
      individualized approach to improve cognitive impairment and enhance everyday functioning.
      Cognitive training is designed for the patient to perform a set of tasks to improve or
      maintain cognitive function through guided practice.

      CS is an intervention where cognitive domains are not used in isolation but in an integrated
      manner. CS can be structured in an individual or group format. Individual CS therapy includes
      activities designed to stimulate cognition, conducted only with the therapist and the
      patient.

      On the other hand, group CS is the "engagement in a range of group activities and discussions
      aimed at general enhancement of cognitive and social functioning".

      In a study that applied individual CS therapy in institutionalized Portuguese patients with
      mild neurocognitive disorder, over the course of one year, it was found a significant
      improvement in the intervention group on cognitive performance and a significant reduction of
      depressive symptoms, with medium to large effect sizes, showing that CS therapy is effective
      in the individual format.

      However, CS is also effective when conducted in groups. The results of a group CS therapy
      program conducted in a multicenter, single blind, randomized controlled trial, showed
      significant improvements on cognitive performance in the intervention group, specifically in
      the scores of Mini Mental State Examination and the cognitive subscale of the Alzheimer's
      Disease Assessment Scale.

      Following this evidence, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence has
      recommended structured Group CS as a non-pharmacological therapy for people with mild to
      moderate neurocognitive disorder.

      In a systematic review about CS, studies showed strong evidence that CS has a positive impact
      on cognitive performance, depression, activities of daily living and behavior for people with
      neurocognitive disorders.

      In a multicenter study conducted with a one-group design and 14 group CS sessions over the
      course of 7 weeks, in patients with mild to moderate dementia, results showed an improvement
      on cognitive domains, such as memory, language comprehension and orientation, but did not
      show significant changes on attention/working memory, executive function or praxis.

      In another study, which involved conducting a 10 session cognitive stimulation program, each
      session lasting 2 hours, 3 times per week, with elderly living in social protection centers,
      it was also found a statistically significant improvement in the participants' cognitive
      functioning after the intervention.

      Another study involved a multicenter investigation where a group CS program was applied to
      people with diagnosis of mild to moderate dementia. The program was based on the Making a
      Difference program of Spector et al. which has 14 bi-weekly sessions, over the course of 7
      weeks. Results showed a significant improvement on cognitive functions and also in depressive
      symptomatology.

      In a study carried out in Portugal, a group CS program for people with mild cognitive
      impairment, composed by 1 weekly session, lasting 90 minutes, for 8 weeks, obtained positive
      results. It concluded that short term memory, orientation, language and visuospatial
      orientation improved significantly in the intervention group in comparison with the control
      group.

      Other portuguese authors also applied a group CS program, which was based on the Making a
      Difference Program, with 14 twice a week sessions, each lasting 45-60 minutes. This study
      found a significant improvement on cognitive functions in the participants of the
      intervention group.

      Considering the previous information, this research proposition's goal is to evaluate the
      effect of group CS on cognitive performance and depressive symptomatology in
      institutionalized people with mild to major neurocognitive disorder.
    
  