
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of PR-104 in combination with docetaxel or
           gemcitabine hydrochloride in patients with solid tumors.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the safety of PR-104 in combination with docetaxel or gemcitabine
           hydrochloride in these patients.

        -  Determine the antitumor activity of these regimens using disease-specific parameters,
           such as exams, scans, and tumor markers, in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of PR-104 and its alcohol metabolite in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel and gemcitabine hydrochloride when
           administered with PR-104.

        -  Collect plasma samples for assessment of potential biomarkers of tumor hypoxia from
           these patients.

        -  Examine metabolic changes in tumors using fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission
           tomography (PET) and PET imaging with fluoromisonidazole F 18 (a hypoxia-targeted
           radiopharmaceutical) in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label, uncontrolled, multicenter, dose-escalation
      study of PR-104. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups according to patient's
      malignancy and prior treatment history.

        -  Group 1: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 60 minutes and PR-104 IV over 60 minutes on
           day 1.

        -  Group 2: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes and PR-104 IV
           over 60 minutes on days 1 and 8.

      In both groups, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of
      unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients in each group receive escalating doses of PR-104 until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Blood is collected at baseline and periodically during course 1 for pharmacokinetic analysis.
      Plasma samples are analyzed for biomarkers of tumor hypoxia at baseline and on days 2 and 8.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  