
    
      Brown adipose tissue is a form of fat that is able to metabolize glucose in order to generate
      heat. When active, it can convert a great deal of glucose into thermal energy. Activation of
      brown fat could potentially help to combat obesity by increasing the basal metabolic rate.
      However, activation and signaling of brown fat is poorly understood. In a mouse model, we
      have recently shown that there is significant circadian variation in brown fat activation and
      have also discovered the gene that is responsible for the circadian changes (Gerhart-Hines et
      al, Nature 2013). Specifically, we have shown that in wild type mice, brown fat activation is
      high at night and low during the day. Whether human brown fat activation has a circadian
      component is currently unknown. Showing that brown fat activation in humans is subject to
      similar circadian rhythms as in mice would be an important step in understanding the
      signaling of activation and may help to elucidate potential strategies to control activation.
      Positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) is a hybrid imaging modality that
      allows imaging positron emitting isotopes such as fluorine-18 (F-18) along with anatomic
      imaging using x-rays. The physiologic information from the PET component is co-registered
      with the anatomic information from the CT component, permitting accurate localization and
      quantification of physiologic processes. The most common clinically used positron emitting
      radiopharmaceutical is F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG). It is a glucose analog which is taken
      up by glucose transporters and phosphorylated to FDG-6P by hexokinase. However, isomerase,
      the next enzyme in the glycolytic pathway, is inactive on FDG-6P and so it is largely trapped
      in the cell. Therefore, FDG PET/CT gives a map of relative amount of glucose uptake and
      phosphorylation over the interval from injection to scan. Activated brown fat has robust FDG
      uptake with very intense signal seen. Therefore, FDG PET/CT can be used both to determine
      whether a person has activated brown fat at the time of the scan as well as to quantify the
      overall level of metabolism in the fat. Our primary objective is to gather pilot data on the
      potential presence of circadian variations in brown fat uptake in young, healthy, lean male
      volunteers. We plan to do this by performing two FDG PET/CT scans 12 hours apart while the
      patient remains in a temperature and diet controlled environment leading up to both scans.
      Our primary hypothesis is that brown fat activity will be higher during the day than at night
      (as human and mouse circadian rhythms are reversed). We will also pair measurement of
      cortisol with the FDG injections as cortisol levels provide valuable independent information
      on the circadian rhythm.
    
  