
    
      Retinal detachment is a separation of the neurosensory retina from the retinal pigment
      epithelium. The most common form is rhegmatogenous retinal detachment, which occurs as the
      result of a full-thickness retinal break. There are three major techniques available to
      repair the detachment: scleral buckling, primary vitrectomy, and pneumatic retinopexy. At our
      institution, pneumatic retinopexy is the technique most commonly employed for primary repair.
      Pneumatic retinopexy is a minimally invasive surgery that involves injection of an
      intravitreal gas bubble to tamponade the causative retinal tear(s) and cryotherapy or laser
      photocoagulation to create a permanent chorioretinal adhesion.

      Endothelial cells pumping function is essential to keep the cornea in a relatively dehydrated
      state that allows optical clarity. Corneal endothelial damage has been associated with almost
      all types of intraocular surgery. Cell loss due to vitrectomy in phakic eyes varies between
      0.4 and 2.8%. , , , , During pars plana vitrectomy, all manipulation take place in the
      vitreous cavity; a certain distance from the corneal endothelium. Cataract extraction by
      phacoemulsification results in greater endothelial cell loss (4-18%), because of the greater
      proximity to the corneal endothelium during manipulation and direct damage from the use of
      ultrasound. To our knowledge, corneal endothelial cell loss after pneumatic retinopexy has
      never been studied. Corneal endothelium can be damaged during pneumatic retinopexy because an
      anterior paracentesis is performed before the gas injection. A 5/8-in 25-gauge needle is used
      to withdraw 0.3 to 0.35 ml of aqueous fluid form the anterior chamber. The procedure is
      invariably accompanied by a certain degree of shallowing of the anterior chamber. We
      postulate that endothelial cell damage can result from the direct contact of the needle tip
      with the corneal endothelium during wound creation and by inadvertent contact during
      shallowing of the anterior chamber.

      A standard method of endothelial cell analysis used worldwide is specular microscopy.
      Specular microscopy is a non-invasive technique to access the structure and function of the
      corneal endothelium by permitting visualization of the corneal endothelial mosaic. From the
      areas of the cornea measured with specular microscopy, an estimate of endothelial cell
      density can be made.
    
  