
    
      Mortality and morbidity among hemodialysis (HD) patients remain unacceptably high, thus there
      is a compelling need to improve clinical outcomes. Accordingly, the National Kidney
      Foundation's Kidney Disease Outcome Quality Improvement program (KDOQI) has published a
      guideline calling for a pre-dialysis systolic blood pressure (SBP) <140 mmHg in HD patients.
      However, the evidence supporting this guideline was graded as weak since it was largely
      extrapolated from the general population. Studies in the general population have demonstrated
      a continuous reduction in cardiovascular risk with each mmHg drop in systolic blood pressure
      (SBP), extending below levels that were in past considered "normal". The Systolic Blood
      Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT) study has showed a decrease in the composite outcome of
      CV events and CV mortality among non-diabetic patients at high risk for cardiovascular events
      by targeting a SBP of <120 mmHg. It is reasonable to postulate that intensive control of BP
      may be beneficial in HD patients, who in many ways resemble patients in SPRINT except that
      they have progressed to end stage renal disease. Thus, it is timely to propose conducting a
      RCT of intensive versus standard control of blood pressure in HD patients.

      The investigators recognize that from observational studies suggest that mortality among HD
      patients may be increased among patients who meet the current KDOQI guideline. Unidentified
      confounders may have contributed to these surprising findings. The conclusions reached by
      observational studies in HD patients have often been refuted by randomized controlled trials
      (RCTs). Therefore, a RCT is needed to determine if a pre-dialysis SBP <140 mmHg specified by
      KDOQI is an appropriate target. Prior to beginning a full-scale-RCT, it is imperative to
      conduct a pilot study to demonstrate safety and efficacy and to inform the design of the
      full-scale study. The pilot study is designed to answer the following questions:

        1. What are the estimated recruitment, accrual and retention rates?

        2. What proportions of patients in each arm will achieve and maintain SBP within the
           assigned target and will the investigators achieve equal or greater than 10mmHg
           separation in the average SBP between the two arms?

        3. What are the anticipated adverse and serious adverse events rates within the intensive
           and standard arms?

        4. What end points should be used in the full-scale trial?

        5. What blood pressure (BP) measurements e.g., routine dialysis unit BP (RDUBPM),
           standardized dialysis unit BP (SDUBPM), standardized home BP (HBPM) or ambulatory BP
           monitoring (ABPM) to guide therapy? Although SDUBPM, HBPM and ABPM may be more powerful
           than RDUBP in predicting clinical outcomes,long term adherence with these techniques has
           not been demonstrated.

      Specific Aims

        1. Establish procedures for SDUBPM, HBPM and ABPM and web-based data entry.

        2. Recruit and randomize patients into two treatment arms with target pre-dialysis SDUSBPM
           values <140 and < 160 mmHg and measure recruitment, accrual, and dropout rates in each
           arm.

        3. Assess the feasibility of attaining and maintaining these targets and the degree of SBP
           separation achieved during a one year intervention.

        4. Measure adherence rates for obtaining protocol SDUBPM, HBPM and ABPM over the one-year
           intervention.

        5. Assess the safety of treating participants to the study's SBP targets by measuring
           occurrence rates of CVD and non-CVD morbidity and mortality and other adverse and
           serious adverse events in each arm.

        6. Compare the differences in changes in left ventricular mass index (LVMI), aortic pulse
           wave velocity(APWV), and aortic distensibility, respectively, between the two study
           arms.

        7. Conduct statistical analyses to inform the design of the full-scale study.
    
  