
    
      Objective: The aim of the study was to evaluate the validity and reliability of the
      six-minute pegboard and ring test in patients with controlled and partially controlled
      asthma.

        -  Demographic information: Name, age, diagnosis, occupation, body weight, height, The
           symptoms of the dominant and affected side, CV, family history, obstructive pulmonary
           diseases (dyspnoea, cough, incontinence frequency), clinical findings and respiratory
           function test parameters will be recorded.

        -  Assessment of Respiratory Muscle Strength: With intraoral pressure measurement
           instrument will be measured.

        -  Evaluation of Hand Grip Force: It will be measured by hand dynamometer.

        -  Unarmed Arm Exercise Capacity and Arm Function / Endurance Evaluation: '6 minute
           Pegboard and Ring Test-6PRT'. During the test, the patient is asked to sit in front of a
           perforated panel and to carry as many rings as possible for six minutes to the two upper
           holes using two hands at the same time. Participants are attached to the test by
           installing a few rings before the test. Standardized encouragement is given every minute
           during the test. The number of rings carried for 6 minutes constitutes the final score.
           Before and after the test, pulse oximetry and heart rate and oxygen saturation, modified
           Borg scale, dyspnea, general fatigue and arm fatigue are questioned. For the validity of
           the test, the test will be repeated in the same patient under the same conditions every
           one week.

           -Evaluation of Maximal Arm Exercise Capacity: With arm ergometer limited exercise test
           with maximal symptoms will be evaluated and used as a criterion for the reliability of
           6PRT test.

        -  Daily life activities of dyspnea and breathlessness Evaluation of its Effect: The
           Modified Medical Research Council Scale will be evaluated with an objective measurement
           of 3 minutes breathing exercise test and London Chest Daily Living Activities Scale.

        -  Evaluation of Postural Awareness: The validity of the Turkish version developed by
           Shields, Mallory & Simon in 1989 will be evaluated by the Body Awareness Survey (VFA).

        -  Evaluation of Daily Living Activities: London Chest GYA Scale (25) and Milliken GYA
           Scale will be evaluated.

        -  Assessment of Quality of Life: Disease-specific Asthma Quality of Life Scale and Health
           Assessment Questionnaire.

        -  Asthma Control Assessment: Asthma Control Test will be evaluated.
    
  