
    
      Engagement in advance care planning (ACP) has been linked across several studies to improving
      quality of care at the end of life and is a national priority as indicated by the Oncology
      Care Model requiring completion of advanced directives for all cancer patients. The goal of
      this Kellen Fellowship Award study is to develop and pilot test a theoretically-grounded,
      communication-based intervention designed to promote engagement in ACP and improve rates of
      completion of advance directives [living will, health care proxy (HCP), do-not-resuscitate
      (DNR) order]. Despite the need for improved knowledge of ACP and engagement in ACP, a 2014
      systematic review indicates that only 55% of prior ACP interventions successfully improved
      knowledge of ACP.5 These findings highlight the need to develop an ACP intervention that
      communicates ACP in an engaging, easy-to-use format designed to increase knowledge of and
      engagement in ACP.

      The proposed intervention will address these limitations of prior interventions by developing
      a communication tool designed to engage cancer patients in ACP using a novel, empirically
      grounded communication tool animated videos. Prior research highlights the use of animated
      videos more effectively delivering medical information than written instructional materials,
      which have been traditionally used in previously developed ACP interventions. One prior study
      using a randomized controlled trial (RCT) found that animated videos were one of the most
      effective mediums for improving knowledge around patients' informed consent for medical
      procedures, being significantly higher than the use of text or no materials. Most notably,
      animated messages have been shown to significantly improve attitudes towards colorectal
      cancer screening among those with low health literacy as well as recall of information such
      that participants' recall of information matched those with high health literacy. Patients
      with low health literacy represent a disadvantaged group in regard to ACP as they have the
      lowest rates of advance directive completion (12% vs. 49.5% of those with adequate
      literacy).9 In summary, the use of animated videos to communicate the essential pieces of
      information around ACP and completion of advance directives holds great promise for improving
      patient knowledge and engagement in ACP among cancer patients, including those with low
      health literacy.

      In the proposed study, a series of animated videos will be developed which will discuss: 1)
      what ACP is; 2) why patients should complete ACP now; 3) the importance of communicating
      wishes to loved ones, health care proxies, and medical team members; and 4) how to
      communicate these wishes and complete advance directives. These topics were selected based on
      Dr. Shen's preliminary data and prior research10 highlighting that the greatest barriers to
      engaging in ACP include: 1) lack of knowledge or awareness, 2) not viewing ACP as relevant to
      one's current situation, and 3) concerns around designating a health care proxy and
      communicating one's wishes. This study has three specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1: To identify usability and acceptability and obtain feedback for modifications
      of preliminary animated video content explaining ACP and advance directives using qualitative
      interviews with cancer patients.

      Specific Aim 2: To develop animated videos on specific components of ACP (description of ACP;
      importance of engaging in ACP now; importance of communicating ACP to loved ones, health care
      proxies, and providers; and how to communicate wishes and complete advance directives) and
      evaluate the feasibility, usability, and acceptability of the intervention.

      Specific Aim 3: To evaluate patients' perceived ability to use the animated videos and their
      knowledge of and confidence in completing advance directives after viewing the videos.

      First, this study will recruit n=15 patients with solid or liquid tumor cancer from oncology
      clinics at Weill Cornell Medicine to assess animated videos through initial sketches of
      content (called storyboards) using semi-structured interviews. Second, this study will
      develop and finalize the animated videos and field-test the intervention in an open trial
      among a new sample of cancer patients (n=30) to determine the feasibility, usability,
      acceptability, and potential efficacy of the intervention. We will assess outcomes at
      baseline and post-intervention.
    
  