
    
      BACKGROUND:

      As AIDS reached epidemic proportions it became apparent that heart disease contributed to
      morbidity in this disease. By 1988, survival following diagnosis with AIDS had improved, and
      the impact of heart disease on quality of life and survival in these patients had increased
      in parallel. The spectrum of pathology which comprised AIDS heart disease was diverse and the
      contribution of cardiac disease to mortality was quite unclear. Unanswered questions
      included: which seropositive individuals would develop heart disease; what was the spectrum
      of heart disease in these patients; were there any useful parameters for risk stratification;
      what was the clinical course; was the etiology due to HIV or other infectious agents or
      immunologic; did anti-viral agents or immunosuppressive treatment affect the disease course?

      This project was part of an Institute-initiated study on AIDS-Associated Heart Disease in
      Adults. The concept was approved by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council in
      September 1987. The Request for Applications was also released in September 1987. Awards were
      made in July 1988.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Asymptomatic patients were recruited from the azidothymidine (AZT) versus placebo trial, open
      label AZT trial, isoprinosine versus placebo trial, and Ampligen versus placebo trial at
      George Washington University Medical Center. Symptomatic patients were referred from nearby
      clinics. Baseline information collected included age, sex, weight, HIV risk factors, dates of
      seroconversion, total CD4 lymphocyte count, clinical symptoms, symptoms of AIDS-related
      complex, first opportunistic infection, development of tumors or neurologic symptoms,
      anti-viral therapy, chest pain, symptoms of and treatment for congestive heart failure,
      evidence of arrhythmia, and initiation of anti-arrhythmic therapy. Date and cause of death
      were recorded along with autopsy findings. Non-invasive serial electrocardiograms and
      echocardiograms were performed in all participants at baseline and every four months.
      Endomyocardial biopsy was performed in patients with congestive cardiomyopathy, those with
      echocardiographic evidence of left ventricular dysfunction or large pericardial effusions,
      and those with significant arrhythmias. Endomyocardial biopsies were obtained from ten
      asymptomatic individuals, five of whom had lymphadenopathy, and five of whom had no
      lymphadenopathy. Percutaneous pericardiocentesis was performed in patients with large
      pericardial effusions to obtain samples for bacterial, mycobacterial, HIV and cytomegalovirus
      cultures. The fact that the majority of these patients were participating in clinical trials
      of various anti-viral agents allowed evaluation of their effects on the development of heart
      disease. The second part of the project was a study of the pathogenesis of HIV-associated
      heart disease. Light and electron microscopic findings were examined in the heart at various
      clinical stages of HIV infection. Cardiocytes were examined for presence of HIV and other
      infectious agents.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record
    
  