
    
      Hepatitis B vaccine is very effective at preventing infection with the hepatitis B virus
      (HBV). Several studies have reported on the long-term efficacy of the HBV vaccine and
      indicate a decline in titers of antibody against hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) over
      time. However, most of these studies were performed in persons vaccinated as infants or
      children. This protocol is designed to examine the long-term immune status of HIV positive
      and negative individuals who were vaccinated during adulthood, and to compare it to the
      immune status of individuals who acquired natural immunity by recovering from acute hepatitis
      B during adulthood. Individuals who lost the vaccine-induced humoral immune response, will be
      offered a booster vaccination and their immune response to the booster vaccination will be
      assessed. In this study, we will recruit 150 subjects who were vaccinated secondary to their
      job-related risk of acquiring HBV infection. An additional 50 subjects who had spontaneously
      recovered from acute hepatitis B (Bullet) 10 years ago, 50 patients with well-compensated HIV
      infection who received HBV vaccine (Bullet) 10 years ago and 10 subjects who were never
      vaccinated and never infected with the hepatitis B virus will be enrolled as comparison
      groups. All subjects will be asked to complete a questionnaire to assess their HBV exposure
      risk as well as factors that may affect their immune response. Immunological assays include
      the quantitation of HBV-specific antibodies and the qualitative and quantitative assessment
      of HBV-specific memory B cells and T cells at the indicated time intervals after vaccination
      or after recovery from acute hepatitis B. Additional immunological assays include testing for
      antibody to measles, mumps and rubella (German measles) viruses to compare the longevity of
      antibody response to these vaccines or natural infection to the antibody response to the
      hepatitis B vaccine or natural infection. The results of this study will help to answer the
      question whether a booster vaccination is required and at which time after the primary
      vaccination course it should be considered.
    
  