
    
      This study examines the feasibility, process, and impacts of implementing an
      evidence-informed framework for interventions to enhance the capacity of Emergency
      Departments to provide high-quality care to people at greatest risk of experiencing health
      and health care inequities. The framework integrates evidence-based strategies to mitigate
      discrimination and racism experienced by Indigenous people, and stigma and discrimination
      faced by people of all ethnicities related to substance use, housing instability, sex work,
      gender, or mental illnesses. The study tests organizational interventions that incorporate
      principles of equity-oriented care, trauma- and violence-informed care, harm reduction, and
      cultural safety to optimize care first for Indigenous people, and then for a range of people
      who commonly face stigma and discrimination.

      Approaching EDs as complex adaptive systems, the study aims to:

        1. Engage EDs in a participatory process to enhance capacity for equity-oriented care

        2. Examine impacts of equity-oriented interventions on processes of care, patient
           experiences of care and short-term outcomes, staff attitudes, confidence, behaviours and
           job satisfaction, and cost

        3. Analyze the cost-effectiveness and feasibility of implementing the interventions and
           scale-up potential in other contexts.

      This mixed-methods study incorporates administrative data, survey data with standardized
      tools, in-depth interviews, analysis of policy and organizational structures, and
      observational data. The study is divided into multiple phases of data collection. This phase
      focuses on surveys of ED staff members, patients and the people who accompany them to the ED.
      The structured surveys use standardized tools and measures, and aim to capture staff,
      patient, and accompanying persons' experiences of ED care. Surveys will be conducted at five
      time points.

      PATIENT SURVEYS will draw on patient self-reports to measure changes over time in processes
      of care and perceived quality of care. These indicators will be measured through structured,
      researcher-facilitated surveys conducted with a sample of 250-300 patients at each site at
      five points in time, providing pre- and post-intervention comparisons.

      At each data collection point (5 waves), all patients who are able to provide informed
      consent (in the languages available - see below) will be invited to participate as they
      present for care or during the course of their visit at each emergency unit. Triage staff
      and/or unit clerks and/or clinical staff will hand information about the study to patients
      and/or their accompanying persons, depending on the urgency of their presentation. Those who
      indicate interest will be directed to one of the researchers (investigator or research
      assistant) who will be stationed in the emergency department throughout data collection.

      Recruitment will occur over a period of 1-2 weeks in 1-2 sessions of 3 days of continuous 6
      hour blocks. The blocks will span all shifts and as many days of the week as possible.

      Surveys will not delay or interrupt provision of care.

      Section 1 of the survey can be completed at any time during the patient's Emergency visit;
      Section 2 will be completed after the patient has been cleared for discharge from the
      Emergency (discharged to community or admitted). The system for notifying the researchers of
      discharge status will align with the usual procedures at each ED. If at all possible, Section
      2 will be completed before the patient leaves the hospital, in a private space close to the
      ED. If the patient is unable or prefers not to complete Section 2 in hospital, then a phone
      follow up will be offered; if the patient does not have a phone and is willing and able to do
      so, they will be invited to drop in at a specified outpatient or community clinic in the
      following 5 days.

      Recruitment and data collection will continue until target samples of 250-300 completed
      surveys per site per time point are achieved. Every effort will be made to recruit
      participation of people from diverse ethnocultural groups. Given the research objectives of
      this study, recruitment will be prioritized for people who self-identify as Indigenous as
      well as individuals who are at risk of experiencing stigma and discrimination (e.g., those
      with diagnoses related to mental illness, HIV, substance use).

      Researchers will work in pairs during each time block conducting recruitment and interviewing
      simultaneously. Following processes already in use at one of the partnering ED sites and
      prior practices, researchers will collect data directly on tablets using structured survey
      instruments.

      A team of trained researchers will work with ED staff members (e.g., triage staff, unit
      clerk, charge nurse, etc.), to invite participation by those patients who meet the
      established eligibility criteria. In less urgent cases, triage staff or unit clerks will hand
      patients information about the study. In urgent cases, participants will be told about the
      study by staff after their immediate/urgent health concerns have been addressed. Researchers
      will approach potential participants to explain the study and seek consent to participate.
      Once consent is obtained, the researcher will enroll the participant in the study, complete
      Section 1 of the survey, and collect minimal contact information (i.e., name and phone number
      - see Patient Survey Guide) to be used for follow up in the event that patients elect to be
      interviewed by phone or off-site at a later time.

      The brief structured survey (10-15 minutes per section) will be facilitated by a researcher
      with patients who consent. Both sections will be completed within a maximum of 5 days of the
      ED visit in a private area close to the ED, where participants' responses cannot be overheard
      by others and confidentiality can be maintained, or by phone or at an affiliated health
      service, outpatient or community clinic. Patients will be provided with an honorarium for
      completing each section of the survey. Transportation and childcare expenses will be
      reimbursed for those who choose an in-person follow up to complete the survey. A detailed
      safety protocol, adapted from previous studies, will be used to guide all interactions.

      Structured surveys conducted in all five waves will be facilitated by a trained researcher,
      following an established Patient Survey Guide and using a computer-assisted data platform
      (UBC Survey Tool) on a tablet device. This tablet interface will allow the participant and
      researcher to view questions and select responses together on the screen.

      ACCOMPANYING PERSON SURVEYS Self-reported ED experiences from APs will add another layer to
      analysis of changes over time in processes of care and perceived quality of care. These
      indicators will be measured through structured, researcher-facilitated surveys conducted with
      a sample of up to 250-300 participants at each site at five points in time, providing pre-
      and post-intervention comparisons.

      At each data collection point (5 waves), individuals accompanying patients in the Emergency
      Department will be surveyed. Recruitment of APs will occur simultaneously with recruitment of
      patients (as detailed above). Interested APs will either be interviewed immediately following
      discharge or admission in a private space close to the ED, or interviewed by phone or at an
      affiliated health service, outpatient or community clinic within a maximum of 5 days of the
      ED visit. Surveys will not delay or interrupt provision of care.

      As with patients, recruitment will occur over a period of 1-2 weeks in 1-2 sessions of 3 days
      of continuous 6 hour blocks. The blocks will span all shifts and as many days of the week as
      possible. The first sessions will be Thursday, Friday, Saturday. The second sessions will be
      Sunday, Monday, Tuesday.

      Researchers will work in pairs during each time block conducting recruitment and interviewing
      simultaneously. Following processes currently in use at one of the partnering ED sites (where
      patient exit interviews are conducted) and prior practices, researchers will collect data
      directly on tablets using structured survey instruments.

      A team of trained researchers will work with ED staff members (e.g., triage staff, unit
      clerk, charge nurse, etc.), to be designated by local advisories at each emergency unit, to
      invite participation by those APs who meet the established eligibility criteria. Recruitment
      of APs will be done in parallel to recruitment of patient participants. That is, patients who
      consent to participate will be asked if anyone accompanied them to the ED, and if yes, if
      they would like one accompanying person to receive a short questionnaire about the
      experience. Researchers would then approach APs to invite their participation.

      Once consent is obtained, the researcher will enroll the participant in the study, and
      collect minimal contact information (i.e., name and preferred contact information - see
      Accompanying Person Survey Guide) to be used for follow up in the event that the survey needs
      to be completed at a later time (i.e., once the patient's ED visit is complete).

      The AP survey consists of a single section, which will be completed after the patient has
      been cleared for discharge from the Emergency (discharged or admitted). If at all possible,
      the survey will be completed before the accompanying person leaves the hospital, in a private
      area close to the ED, where participants' responses cannot be overheard by others and
      confidentiality can be maintained. If the AP is unable to complete the survey in hospital,
      then a phone follow up will be offered; if the participant does not have a phone and is
      willing and able, the AP will be invited to drop in at a specified outpatient or community
      clinic in the following 5 days.

      A researcher will facilitate completion of the brief structured survey (5-7 minutes total)
      with APs who consent, once the ED visit is complete (i.e., upon discharge or hospital
      admission of the patient). In an effort to avoid coercion of patients by accompanying
      persons, APs will not be provided with an honorarium.

      Structured surveys conducted in all five waves will be facilitated by a trained researcher,
      following an established Accompanying Person Survey Guide and using a computer-assisted data
      platform (UBC Survey Tool) on a tablet device. This tablet interface will allow the
      participant and researcher to view questions and select responses together on the screen.

      STAFF SURVEYS All staff members at each partnering ED site will be invited to complete a
      survey questionnaire, which will include measures aligned with the theoretical principles
      underlying the equity-oriented framework being tested (i.e., cultural safety, trauma- and
      violence-informed care, and harm reduction).

      Staff members will be invited to complete a structured questionnaire (see Staff Survey
      Guide), to be administered online or completed on paper. To facilitate this, copies of the
      survey will be available within each emergency department, along with self-addressed stamped
      envelopes that participants may use to return the surveys to the research team. In addition,
      in-person sessions will be held at each emergency department. Light refreshments will be
      provided and researchers will be on-hand to answer any questions about the study and the
      survey itself. Participants will be encouraged to attend these sessions on their break or at
      shift-end, and can choose to complete the surveys independently on paper or directly on a
      study tablet.

      A preamble to the survey will explain the study and include the consent form. Completion of
      the survey - either online or on paper - will imply consent.

      Staff assessments will be conducted at four time points, to coincide with milestones in the
      implementation of the intervention being tested. When possible, staff will be encouraged to
      complete the survey outside of work hours, during breaks, or at the start or end of their
      shifts.
    
  