
    
      Background: Currently, early diagnosis of invasive breast cancer relies on the combined use
      of mammogram and ultrasound. These approaches are still suboptimal in terms of accuracy, and
      confirmation biopsy or recall tests are needed in case of radiological suspect. Recently, the
      study of noninvasive biomarkers in cancer has received enormous interest, fostered by the
      advancement of technologies and the potential for early detection of malignancies. However,
      no study has so far tried to apply the simultaneous assessment of biologically different
      analytes and data-characterization algorithms (radiomics approaches) to increase the accuracy
      of early breast cancer diagnosis.

      Hypothesis: Multiple biological analytes must be combined with the refinement of radiomics
      algorithms to overcome the current limitations of early breast cancer diagnosis. The overall
      goal of the project is to develop a horizontal data integration (HDI) classifier enabling
      early noninvasive diagnosis of invasive breast cancer with high accuracy.

      Objectives: Aim 1: To test the performance for the diagnosis of small invasive breast cancers
      of a) ultrasensitive next-generation sequencing on circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA); b)
      aptamer-base proteomics arrays on plasmatic proteins; c) radiomics machine-learning
      algorithms. Aim 2: To develop an HDI classifier based on the aforementioned methods with the
      aim of reducing the needs for invasive procedures in early breast cancer diagnosis. Aim 3: To
      improve the performance of the HDI classifier by integrating other potentially transformative
      methods of noninvasive diagnosis.

      Experimental Design: Peripheral blood samples and urine samples will be collected from a
      prospective cohort of 750 patients with radiologically suspect small breast lesions
      undergoing diagnostic biopsy at the Diagnostics Senology Unit of San Martino Hospital.
      Ultrasensitive Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) on plasma ctDNA will be performed using a
      custom tagged-amplicon panel designed by us on a cohort of 3,269 sequenced breast cancer
      cases from the GENIE initiative. We also will be applied a new protocol termed cell-free
      methylated DNA immunoprecipitation and high-throughput sequencing (cfMeDIP-seq) in
      collaboration with Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston for methylome analysis of small
      quantities of ctDNA from plasma and urine. Potential cancer-related plasma proteins will be
      analyzed using SomaScan aptamer-base protein arrays in collaboration with the Sidra Medical
      Center, Doha, Qatar. A radiomics classifier developed by the Senology team on an exploratory
      subgroup of the ASTOUND trial, sponsored by the University of Genoa, will be trained and
      tested on the same cohort. Other noninvasive diagnostics methods will be assessed as well. An
      HDI classifier will be generated on ctDNA, proteomics, and radiomics results, using advanced
      machine learning methods. Our HDI classifier will finally be integrated as needed with other
      predictors and validated on our cohort.

      Expected Results: 1. Assessment of the performance of cutting-edge noninvasive methodologies
      in the context of early breast cancer diagnosis. 2. Development of a noninvasive HDI
      classifier for early breast cancer. 3. Novel biological insights on small breast cancers.

      Impact On Cancer: 1. Increase in early breast diagnosis accuracy over current methods. 2.
      Reduction in the need for recall and invasive tests in breast cancer diagnosis. 3. Long-term
      impact on breast cancer mortality.
    
  