
    
      Pain after bladder surgery is typically controlled with narcotics, non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory medications, acetaminophen, regional anesthesia (caudal or epidural) and/or
      bladder muscle (detrusor) antispasmodic medication. It is often difficult to distinguish
      bladder pain from a sensation of urinary urgency and most likely patients are experiencing
      both sensations despite the bladder being empty from the indwelling catheter.

      Prior studies on adults have demonstrated the efficacy of preoperative oxybutynin and other
      antimuscarinics on decreasing catheter-related bladder discomfort in the postoperative
      period. For pediatric bladder surgery very few studies have been published. Intravenous
      ketorolac, epidural and caudal analgesia and intravesical ropivacaine have been shown to
      decrease postoperative bladder spasms. Intravesical oxybutynin has been used in the operating
      room in adults to decrease post-operative ureteral stent pain.

      For open bladder surgery the current pain management standard is intra- and postoperative
      ketorolac (Q6hrs) and acetaminophen and narcotic as needed. Oral oxybutynin is started
      pre-operatively and then continued post-operatively every 8 hours. Unfortunately, the
      bioavailability of oral oxybutynin is poor due to first pass (liver) metabolism of the
      absorbed medication and a subsequent high level of desethyloxybutynin (DEO) produced by the
      liver. DEO, responsible for most of the side effects such as dry mouth, dizziness,
      over-heating, drowsiness and constipation. This metabolite and side effects are less with the
      transdermal route.

      A prior retrospective analysis of children by the investigators did not show a difference in
      pain between starting oral oxybutynin pre-operatively or initiating medication
      post-operatively. Whether this was due to no difference, insufficient patient numbers or
      inability to distinguish bladder spasms from pain is unknown. That study employed the
      Wong-Baker-Facies scale for pain measurement in children. At the time of that study there was
      no valid scale for objective measurement of bladder urgency in adults or children. Over the
      last five years the investigators have developed a validated scale (IRB 647657, 638967) that
      will allow for a better measure and distinguish bladder and incisional pain from bladder
      spasms/urgency.

      The objective is to determine if transdermal administration is superior to oral
      administration in alleviating pain and urgency after bladder surgery in children. Oral
      oxybutynin is a commonly used treatment in children with neuropathic bladder dysfunction and
      for adults with overactive bladder (OAB) and incontinence. As mentioned, transdermal
      administration has higher bioavailability and a lower adverse event profile. Transdermal
      administration has been shown to be safe and efficacious in children with neuropathic bladder
      disease. The hypothesis is that the transdermal route will decrease bladder pain and urgency
      if applied prior to surgery with a lower side effect profile.

      Based upon the power analysis by Blythe Durbin-Johnson, Ph. D. The investigators plan to
      evaluate up to 100 patients with early termination if endpoints are reached before 100
      subjects.

      Outcomes will be compared between groups using two-sample t-tests if the outcome is
      sufficiently normally distributed, and Wilcoxon-rank sum tests otherwise. With 60 subjects
      divided among two groups, the two-sample t-test will have 80% power to detect a 0.74 standard
      deviation difference in outcomes.
    
  