
    
      Lower limb amputation (LLA) results in the loss of the biological joint structures such as
      the ankle and knee, along with the associated musculature. This reduces joint mobility and
      strength and thus adversely affects amputees' ability to maintain balance. As a result,
      individuals with a LLA have been shown to fall more often when compared to age-matched and
      otherwise healthy individuals. In addition, individuals with LLA also have an increased fear
      of falling and reduced social participation because of this fear. Improving balance ability,
      reducing falls and fear of falling in this patient group through effective balance training
      interventions would have a number of socio-economic benefits. Such benefits may include but
      are not limited to reduced care costs, reduced burden on healthcare services and an improved
      sense of patient well-being. Therefore, the main aim of the current randomised control trial
      (RCT) is to investigate whether taking part in a games console based-balance intervention,
      improves experienced LLAs balance ability. The RCT also aims to assess how this intervention
      affects an amputee's falls rate, fear of falling and quality of life. After providing
      informed consent, unilateral lower limb amputees will be randomly allocated to one of two
      groups; an experimental group (12-week balance training intervention) or a control group (no
      intervention). Amputees in the experimental group will be loaned the use of a games console
      for the duration of the home-based intervention. Balance ability, falls rate, fear of falling
      and quality of life will be assessed prior to and post the intervention period as well as
      after three months following the end of the intervention period. Falls rate will also
      assessed one year post the intervention period. Results from the current study will provide
      evidence for the use of games-console based balance interventions in improving balance and
      falls outcomes for LLA.
    
  