
    
      1. Preliminary Testing Prior to the study start, participants will be weighed and body
           composition will be determined using bioimpedance analysis. Then participants will
           undergo a 5RM barbell back squat exercise testing procedure.

        2. Randomization

           Participants will proceed through each of the following conditions lasting 3 days:

           CON: Participants will be in energy balance and consume 1.2 g protein/kg BW/day.
           Participants will be provided 30 g maltodextrin post-exercise.

           CR+C: Participants will be restricted to 15 kcal/kg FFM/day and consume 1.2 g protein/kg
           BW/day. Participants will be provided 30 g maltodextrin post-exercise.

           CR+P: Participants will be restricted to 15 kcal/kg FFM/day and consume 1.2 g protein/kg
           BW/day. Participants will be provided 30 g whey protein post-exercise.

        3. Diet Prescription Dietary energy intake will be controlled using clinical products,
           maltodextrin and whey protein isolate to meet target energy intakes. Participants will
           receive calcium and Vitamin D supplementation throughout the study.

        4. Exercise Prescription Participants will perform one bout of 5 sets of 5 repetitions of
           barbell back squat exercise on the morning of Day 3 each condition. Additional exercise
           and intense physical activity will be prohibited.

        5. Assessments Body weight and composition (DXA + BIA), fasting blood draws for assessment
           of metabolic and anabolic hormones and questionnaires will be conducted before and after
           each condition. A 24-hour serial blood draw procedure will be conducted following each
           workout session on each Day 3.

        6. Washout Once a participant completes a study condition, participants will continue to
           take daily body weights at home for up to one week. Then participants will be required
           to wait one more week before completing their next condition during which they will
           resume regular diet and physical activity.
    
  