
    
      This is an open-label, noncontrolled, single center prospective study to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of rituximab combined with omalizumab in patients with active
      moderate-to-severe BP refractory to rituximab treatment alone. Patients must have a confirmed
      diagnosis of BP and evidence of refractory disease after initiation of rituximab treatment at
      least 8 weeks prior.

      Refractory disease will be defined as a failure of therapy (development of new non-transient
      lesions or continued extension of old lesions, or failure of established lesions to begin to
      heal or continued pruritus) or evidence of a relapse/flare (Appearance of ≥3 new
      lesions/month (blisters, eczematous lesions, or urticarial plaques) or at least one large
      (>10 cm diameter) eczematous lesion or urticarial plaques that do not heal within 1 week, or
      extension of established lesions or daily pruritus in patient who have achieved disease
      control) based on the outcome measures defined for BP from an international panel of
      experts.41

      This study will be conducted at the University of California, Davis Department of
      Dermatology's investigational site.

      The study will consist of 3 periods: a screening period, 24-week treatment period, and a
      28-week follow-up period. During the treatment period, patient visits will be monthly. After
      the primary endpoint at Week 24, follow up assessments will be scheduled every 3 months.

      Rituximab 1000 mg will be administered by IV infusion 6 months after the patient's initial
      cycle of rituximab (received in the screening period). In order to reduce the frequency and
      severity of infusion-related reactions, all patients will be pre-medicated per the infusion
      center's therapy beacon protocol. Omalizumab (300 mg) will be administered subcutaneously
      every 2 weeks starting on Day 1.

      All patients will be provided topical clobetasol 0.05% ointment or equivalent strength
      potency topical corticosteroid. Topical steroid application will be used 40 grams twice daily
      as needed for itch.

      Patients can be discontinued from study treatment at any time during the study. Patients who
      withdraw from the treatment period will return to the clinic for an early withdrawal visit.
      After the withdrawal visit, the patient will be asked to enter the follow up period of the
      study.

      From Week 1 through Week 52, patients who do not experience 50% improvement in their BPDAI at
      week 16 are eligible to receive rescue therapy with prednisone, another immunosuppressive
      medication (e.g. cellcept), IV Ig, or another treatment or procedure as per the
      investigator's best medical judgment. Patients who receive rescue therapy will be withdrawn
      from the study.
    
  