
    
      Fetal heart rate (FHR) monitoring is commonly used in order to reduce fetal intrapartum
      asphyxia or any associated long-term disabilities. The electronic fetal monitoring (EFM) was
      first described by Hon and others during the 1960s (1) (2) and introduced into clinical
      practice before any clear evidence of benefits had been demonstrated.

      The EFM records the fetal heart rate, and characteristics such as baseline, accelerations,
      decelerations and variability are constantly evaluated in order to assess the hypoxic
      condition of the fetus and to identify fetal distress.

      Nevertheless, most of the studies (3-5) demonstrated that abnormal patterns of the fetal
      heart rate are of low predictive value for intrapartum fetal hypoxia or metabolic acidosis.
      Among high-risk pregnant woman, the probability of fetal metabolic acidosis in the presence
      of repeated, variable decelerations is 25%, and 48% in the presence of late decelerations
      (6). According to the Cochrane review (7) EFM didn't decrease the rates of cerebral palsy
      (CP), asphyxias complications or perinatal morbidity. The positive predictive value of
      non-reassuring FHR patterns for the prediction of CP among singleton newborns with birth
      weight of 2500 grams or more is only 0.14% (8).

      Hypoperfusion to a certain brain areas involves the rapid loss of brain function due to
      disturbances in brain blood supply. EEG shows typical changes in brain ischemia. These
      changes include: attenuation of faster waves, particularly in the beta and alpha frequency
      bands; enhancement of slower waves, mainly in the delta frequency band; regional attenuation
      without delta enhancement (RAWOD) and reduction of variability in the EEG signal (9).
      However, reaching effective sensitivity and specificity in immediate brain ischemia detection
      on the basis of EEG changes is still considered a challenge, as it depends on the presence of
      a skilled expert in neurophysiology to analyses raw EEG data in real-time.

      The investigators developed a unique platform algorithm, which analyses EEG data, and
      recognizes patients suffering from brain ischemia (stroke), based on the phenomena of
      interhemispheric decreased synchronization. Interhemispheric synchronization is the measure
      of correlation in EEG activity between ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres, where
      values range between 1 (complete synchronization) and 0 (no synchronization). Increased
      synchronization means greater correlation between related ipsilateral and contralateral
      activities and vice versa for decreased synchronization. Normal brains should have a high
      correlation/ synchronization. Once brain ischemia occurs and the hemisphere is damaged, the
      interhemispheric synchronization decreases. In a recent study, we have shown the decrease in
      synchronization when a certain part of the brain is anaesthetized, causing a lesion similar
      to brain ischemia, and the recovery of synchronization, when the anesthesia recovered2. In
      another study, the investigators have tested the reliability of the algorithm in patients
      undergoing mechanical thrombectomy for acute stroke. In the study patients with acute stroke
      admitted to neuro angio intervention undergone short EEG test for 5 minutes. At the end of
      the procedure patients underwent a second short EEG test. In the test the interhemispheric
      synchronization were analyzed. It was shown that patients admitted to the neuro-angio
      intervention, who had brain tissue that might be salvable, had an average synchronization of
      0.8. If the procedure succeeded and there was a clinical improvement - the synchronization
      remained high. If the procedure did not succeed, or succeed without clinical improvement, the
      synchronization decreased to an average of 0.65. Importantly, patients who were not
      candidates for neuro intervention, because they didn't have salvable brain, their index of
      synchronization was low to begin with (figure 1a and 1b). This preliminary assay proves the
      ability of the synchronization index to detect brain hypoperfusion that occurs, for example,
      in stroke.

      The objective of this proof of concept study is to test whether there is a correlation
      between the EEG index of interhemispheric synchronization, to the umbilical PH of the newborn
      and to the gold standard fetal heart rate monitor.
    
  