
    
      Proper control of elevated blood pressure (BP) is complex due to the large number of factors
      associated with therapy such as patient lifestyle, therapeutic adherence and access to health
      care, especially in low and middle income countries. More recently another obstacle has been
      described; clinical inertia, defined as the failure of clinicians to initiate or intensify
      antihypertensive therapy despite elevated BP levels not at goal. Suboptimal therapy is the
      most clinically important modifiable factor known to be associated with poor BP control.
      Reducing clinical inertia is of significant relevance, since a proper control of hypertension
      can reduce mortality from coronary heart disease and mortality from cerebrovascular disease.

      Our hypothesis is that a multimodality strategy that includes an on-line course on updated
      guidelines on hypertension management and feedback performance reports is effective to reduce
      clinical inertia in the management of hypertension in rural primary care clinics in the
      Dominican Republic.

      To test this hypothesis, this study will enroll eight clinics in rural neighborhoods of the
      Peravia province. These are government-funded small clinics that provide primary care and
      preventive services and are staffed with 2-3 primary care physicians. Eight clinics will be
      randomized at a 1:1 ratio into a control group and and intervention group. We anticipate over
      500 patients from these clinics will be included.

      The primary care physicians in the intervention group will be provided with an on-line course
      and weekly performance feedback reports, based on the new American College of
      Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) and European Society of Cardiology/European
      Society of Hypertension (ESC/ESH) hypertension guidelines. The performance feedback reports
      will include percent of patients with uncontrolled hypertension and among this group percent
      of visits where intensification in anti-hypertensive therapy was made. It will also include a
      comparative assessment of the performance of the physicians compared to their colleagues. The
      control group will continue to follow the current usual care without intervention. The total
      intervention and follow-up time will be 16 weeks.
    
  