
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the complete response rate in patients with refractory or relapsed B-cell
           chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with fludarabine and alemtuzumab vs fludarabine and
           rituximab.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the overall response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare 1-year survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare time to progression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare duration of response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the adverse event profile of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the molecular response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare lymphocyte and lymphocyte subset recovery (CD3, CD3/CD4, CD3/CD8, CD20) in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the time to complete response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the rate of cytomegalovirus reactivation and time to reactivation in patients
           treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to prior treatment with fludarabine (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5. At least 30 minutes
           before fludarabine administration, patients receive alemtuzumab subcutaneously (SC) on
           days 1-5.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive fludarabine as in arm I. At least 30 minutes before fludarabine
           administration, patients receive rituximab IV on days 1 and 4 of course 1 and on day 1
           only in subsequent courses.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for 4-6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. An interim assessment is performed during course 4.
      Patients achieving a partial response or stable disease receive 2 additional courses of
      therapy (for a total of 6 courses). Patients achieving a complete response (CR) do not
      receive further treatment beyond CR.

      Patients are followed weekly for 2 months, monthly for 6 months, every 2 months for 6 months,
      and then every 6 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 150 patients (75 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  