
    
      Patients with chronic pain (PWCP) typically have multiple chronic conditions, and many points
      of contact with the health system. They can feel disempowered, and experience fragmented care
      and poor outcomes. PWCP report concerns about under-treatment of pain, difficulties in
      obtaining medication, and stigma. Prescription opioids are a very common, and controversial,
      pain treatment. PWCP often lack the skills and knowledge to talk to their physicians about
      their pain and opioid use, and to navigate the health care system. The study's aims compare
      the effectiveness of an innovative behavioral Patient Activation plus Usual Care (PA+UC)
      intervention to Usual Care (UC) only on patient-centered outcomes among PWCP. While most
      studies have focused on chronic opioid users, this takes an upstream approach, focusing on
      patients as they start regular opioid use. The overarching research question is: Can
      patients' increased activation improve their quality of life? With our stakeholder group of
      patient, clinical, and operational advisors, we propose a pragmatic, randomized trial to
      examine the comparative effectiveness of a group-based PA intervention in two large primary
      care clinics in Kaiser Permanente Northern California (KPNC). We will randomize 324 PWCP to
      either the PA+UC arm or UC only arm. The curriculum will cover patient activation and
      empowerment, how to talk to doctors about prescription opioid use, and self-management of
      chronic pain, including how to navigate the health care system and a patient portal. We will
      further develop the study questions, intervention curriculum, outcome measures, and
      dissemination plan with our stakeholder groups. We will examine effects over 12 months using
      follow-up patient interviews combined with electronic health records and a mixed effects
      modeling approach. Patient outcomes include patient-reported activation, quality of life,
      prescription opioid use, pain severity and function, patient-provider communication, patient
      satisfaction, knowledge of opioid use risks and benefits, self-care, including use of health
      information technology, and service utilization.
    
  