
    
      FoG is a disabling and distressing symptom strictly associated to falls. The little or no
      pharmacological responsiveness of FoG has led to an increasing interest in rehabilitation
      interventions aimed at functional recovery and autonomy. Currently, standard protocols
      employed for rehabilitation are based on the use of external (visual and auditory) sensory
      cues. However, cued strategies generate an important dependence on the environment. Teaching
      motor strategies without cues (i.e. action observation - AO) can be an alternative/innovative
      approach to rehabilitation, that matters most on appropriate allocation of attention and
      lightening cognitive load. One way to increase the effectiveness of AO, is the use of a
      multisensory learning mode (visual and auditory) to facilitate the recovery of motor gestures
      thanks to enhanced perceptual processes, which is known to be reduced in PD with FoG.
      Sonification could be an important method to enhance therapeutical effects in action
      observation rehabilitation process. Sonification of movements amplifies the activity of the
      human action observation system including subcortical structures of the motor loop.

      Methods. We compared the effects of two different therapeutic protocols. The experimental
      protocol was based on action observation plus sonification; patients of the experimental
      group re-learned 8 motor gestures watching video-clips showing an actor performing the same
      gestures, and then tried to repeat the gesture. Each video-clip was composed by images and
      sounds of the gestures. The sounds of gestures were obtained with the sonification technique,
      by transforming kinematic data (velocity) recorded during the execution of gesture, into
      pitch variations (for an example see: bit.ly/sonif_example). The same 8 motor gestures were
      re-learned in the standard protocol, with a common sensory stimulation method (active
      comparator group). We evaluated all patients of the two groups with functional and clinical
      scales before, immediately after, at 1 month, and 3 months after each treatment.The duration
      of each protocol will be about 2 months, 15 sessions, 2 times a week.

      Data Safety Monitoring Plan. The patients' assignment to the two groups was as follow: a list
      of 20 patients (10 patients for each group) was created and the order fully randomized. The
      list was filled with the patients following the order of arrival from the Neurology Clinic
      (Cattinara Hospital, Trieste). All the evaluations (neuropsychological, neurological, and
      physiotherapy) are blind respect to the patient's group assignment. The person in charge to
      make assignment patient-treatment will not be the PI.

      Sample size calculation. The dependent variable (the primary outcome measure) is the score of
      the N-FOG Questionnaire. Sample size has been calculated considering a repeated measures
      mixed ANOVA of the primary outcome measure, with the software G*Power 3. The result gives a
      sample size of 20 patients: 10 for each group (experimental and active comparator group). The
      sizing of the sample is justified by similar protocols evaluations that with an identical
      sample size (n = 10 per group) found statistically significant results.
    
  