
    
      The objectives of this study are to obtain human blood samples from asymptomatic subjects who
      have never been diagnosed with cancer, but who may be at increased risk for cancer due to
      heredity, exposures, age, or family history to assess the validity of screening healthy but
      at risk patients for cancer via analysis of ctDNA.

      Specifically, the blood specimens will be collected from individuals who have responded to a
      self-administered health questionnaire that screens for higher risk of contracting cancer.
      Each participant will be asked to provide a 30 ml blood sample to be drawn by a primary care
      provider (PCP) or licensed phlebotomist. The specimens collected during the study may also be
      used in the research and development of new or modified molecular genetics assays. The
      results of these studies will be used to further the understanding of the use of ctDNA for
      the detection and monitoring of cancer in humans.

      The blood samples are collected in blood collection tubes (BCT) called Cell-Free DNA BCT®
      manufactured by Streck and intended for collection, stabilization and transportation of
      cell-free plasma DNA. This device also stabilizes and preserves cellular genomic DNA present
      in nucleated blood cells and circulating epithelial cells (tumor cells) found in whole blood.
      This product has not been cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for In Vitro
      Diagnostic use and is labeled by Streck for research use only. Under the Clinical Laboratory
      Improvement Amendments (CLIA) regulations, laboratories are authorized to validate and use,
      as part of a laboratory-developed test (LDT), devices that have not been cleared or approved
      by the FDA. Pathway Genomics validated the CancerInterceptTM Detect molecular analysis system
      with the Streck tubes, in accordance with CLIA.

      Once the specimen has been collected and sent to Pathway by the physician or the phlebotomist
      who collects the samples, all other processing and testing are conducted by Pathway
      laboratory personnel. The analysis begins with the separation of the plasma from the rest of
      the blood sample. cfDNA will then be isolated from each sample. The quantity of cfDNA is
      measured and then the sample is amplified via PCR for next generation sequencing. The results
      of the sequencing will then be analyzed for the presence of one or more of the 96 mutations
      analyzed in this assay. The data are then reviewed and a report will be generated.
    
  