
    
      This is a preclinical research project and no patient intervention is planned. The project
      makes use of anonymised human tissue samples discarded during radical surgery. The spleen
      organ samples included in this project will be from patients undergoing elective surgery for
      a lesion in the pancreas in the HPB Unit of the Leicester General Hospital. The sample size
      of 24 spleens has been determined by power calculations and is in line with the number of
      spleens actually removed by elective pancreas surgery over the past years. No change in the
      surgical procedure or recruiting results from this study and the use of the samples. All the
      experimental work carried out on the spleen samples will have no effect on the patient.

      Experiments include ex vivo organ perfusion and infection with bacteria or viruses. Biopsies
      of the perfused 24 spleens are processed for in vitro tissue slice and macrophage cell
      culture. The resulting primary cell cultures and tissue slices will be stored frozen for
      future research. All in vitro studies on the 24 organs, and the tissues and cells derived
      from them, will evaluate the effect of therapeutic interventions (antibodies, receptor
      antagonists, antibiotics and other molecules) on the capacity of splenic cells to clear
      invasive bacteria or viruses. The experiments will be carried out each time a spleen sample
      will be available.

      The detailed technical description of the experimental strategy including the strategy for
      storage and discarding of the human tissue will be as follows:

        1. Whole organ ex vivo perfusion: This work is done to stabilise the organ, infect the
           organ and then to derive from it tissue slices and cells for primary cell culture. We
           have successfully set up a normo-thermic ex vivo porcine spleen perfusion model. This
           expertise allowed us to define the parameters for organ collection, transport and
           perfusion of porcine spleens for up to six hours and importantly develop and infection
           model. Infection showed conservation of capacity to remove bacteria from blood and good
           filtering capacity and, essential for this application, that also in the whole organ
           model specific subsets of macrophages are permissive to bacterial intracellular
           replication. In this experimental series we propose to perfuse whole explanted human
           spleens. In contrast to pigs, we will use for perfusion of the human organ synthetic
           medium in order to neutralise or minimise acquired immunity. Histology, confocal
           microscopy, FACS analysis and bacterial and viral enumeration will be the main
           methodologies to analyse the perfused organ. The aim of this part of the work is to
           demonstrate that at the whole organ level bacteria and viruses are able to replicate in
           splenic tissue macrophages pinpointing attention of anti-infective treatments to the
           prevention of these early steps potentially preventing invasive bacterial and viral
           disease. Samples from the 24 whole perfused organs will be the source of tissue slice
           cultures and primary cell cultures.

        2. Primary cell cultures: From the 24 human spleens we will derive samples for primary
           culture of human tissue macrophages and other immune cells. Using the methodology in use
           for cells from mice and pigs, we will set up primary cultures of human splenic immune
           cells and in particular macrophages. Immune cells including macrophages and neutrophils
           will be purified by different methodologies including by percoll gradient
           centrifugation, FACS and magnetic separation and cultured for up to seven days. Cultures
           will be tested for multiple parameters including cytokines, surface markers, anybody
           production and gene expression. To test interaction with bacteria or viruses, the
           cultured cells will be infected with a panel of bacterial and viral pathogens. Upon
           other methodology, confocal microscopy, FACS and RNAseq will be used monitor behaviour
           of bacterial and viral pathogens and host cells. Interventions with cytokines,
           chemokines, drugs, antibiotics and other compounds will be carried out to test
           tractability of the system. With the aim in mind to identify targets for intervention,
           the cell culture models are intended to provide detailed quantifiable parameters of the
           interaction of bacteria or viruses and immune cells in particular tissue macrophages in
           a controlled in vitro culture system. This is intended to allow the design of
           medium-throughput assays to test strategies modifying initiation of invasive disease.
           Cells will be stored in liquid nitrogen for further research.

        3. Organotypic slice cultures: From the 24 human spleens we will derive, in addition to
           cells, also tissue samples for organotypic slice cultures. With the methodology well set
           up for brain slices and described for spleen, we will culture organotypic human spleen
           slice cultures. These organ slices are superior to cell cultures, as they maintain the
           multicellular spatial microarchitecture of the organ, which is particularly important
           when analysing tissue macrophages. As for brain slice cultures, we will infect the
           slices with bacterial or viral pathogens and monitor their migration within the tissue,
           the infection of cells and the reaction of the single host cells. The use of tissue
           slice culture should allow to specifically study the targeting and
           replication-permissive nature of specific subsets of immune cells including macrophages.
           A goal of the objective is to allow for detailed development of infectious foci in the
           spleen including time laps confocal microscopy of infected spleen slices. Testing in
           this model cytokines and other host derived molecules are expected to show the potential
           of interventions targeting specific subsets of immune cells including macrophages.
           Tissue slices will be stored in liquid nitrogen for further research.

      Sample transfer between units: The 24 planned organ perfusion will be performed at the
      laboratories of the HBP unit of the Leicester General Hospital. In selected cases organ
      perfusion might be performed at the Department of Genetics and Genome Biology of the
      University of Leicester. The relative HBA form has been obtained (Hazardous Biological Agents
      form GEN/45 Cell lines and primary human cell and tissue culture, date 02/10/2017). During
      and after perfusion, tissue samples for tissue slice culture and primary cell culture will be
      taken. These tissue samples will be transferred to the Department of Genetics and Genome
      Biology or Dept. of Infection and Immunity and Inflammation for the scheduled research work
      and will be stored there in accordance with regulations relative to the Human Tissue Act.
      Stored tissue slices and primary cell cultures may then be transferred for immunological
      studies to the University of Nottingham for experimental work detailed above for cell
      cultures. Conditions for handling, storage and transport are defined by the HBA form GEN45
      and transfer will be regulated by an MTA.
    
  