
    
      Prostate cancer (PC) is the most common male malignancy in the western world. In the U.S.
      there are approximately 230,000 new diagnoses annually. Each year, 40,000 men with
      established disease die from PC.

      Early detection is possible using prostate specific antigen (PSA) and/or DRE, followed by
      biopsy if PC is suspected. Biopsy is generally carried out under transrectal ultrasound
      (TRUS) guidance through the rectum wall. Typically, 6-13 samples from different areas of the
      prostate are taken in order to cover the entire gland area. Since TRUS cannot accurately
      detect PC, prostate biopsies, to date, are in fact random biopsies. Furthermore, PSA may be
      elevated, in patients without PC, leading to as many as 75% of patients undergoing
      unnecessary TRUS guided biopsy [1,2].

      The need for accurate preoperative evaluation of PC, as well as early detection of the tumor
      has lead to numerous applications of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the prostate.1 The
      sensitivity and specificity of whole body MRI with pelvic phased-array coils is as low as
      ~70%. Improved sensitivity is obtained using an endorectal coil where efficacies of ~85% are
      reported due to the improved signal to noise ratio (SNR) of such coils.2

      One of the major limitations of conventional MRI scanners is their cost and limited
      availability. A portable, hand-held MR scanner capable of detecting PC is thus, of interest.
      TopSpin has developed a novel MRI based system for prostate imaging in Urology. The primary
      use of the prostate MRI probe will be diagnosis, staging and guidance of minimally invasive
      therapy for PC.

      The system consists of a miniaturized transrectal MRI probe, incorporating all magnetic field
      sources and coils. The MRI probe is integrated with and used in conjunction with a TRUS
      system. The TRUS probe provides prostate gross anatomy and allows the Urologist to select the
      cross-section(s) of interest within the prostate. The MRI probe provides MRI images of the
      selected cross-section(s) with improved tissue characterization that enable localizing tumors
      within the prostate. Fusion of both images has promise of significantly improving the ability
      to direct biopsies to regions of a much higher likelihood for being malignant. In addition,
      the system is capable of guiding local treatment such as Cryotherapy or Brachytherapy.

      The integrated MRI-TRUS system resembles a state-of-the-art, high-end ultrasound system. The
      MR-TRUS probe is connected to a cart based console, which houses the electronics hardware
      required for both MR and ultrasound activation. An investigational device will be
      manufactured, handled, and stored in accordance with applicable good manufacturing practice
      (GMP). It will be used in accordance with the approved protocol. Procedures that assure the
      quality of every aspect of the trial will be implemented.
    
  