
    
      Every year, about 15 million of the world's infants are born at <37 weeks gestation
      (preterm). In Alberta, the preterm birth rate was 8.43% in 2015, representing 4,749 infants.
      Alberta has the highest rate of preterm birth in Canada, which can be attributed, in part, to
      delayed child bearing and assisted reproductive technology. Approximately 20% of the earliest
      (< 32 weeks gestation) and usually the sickest preterm infants require care in a Level III
      neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Approximately 80% are moderate to late preterm (32 weeks
      and zero days [32 0/7] and 36 weeks and six days [36 6/7] gestation; comprising 6.6% of all
      live births) and require care in a Level II NICU. Compared to their full term counterparts,
      moderate and late preterm infants are at higher risk for poor health (e.g., increased
      hospitalizations, respiratory morbidities, and growth and feeding problems) and developmental
      outcomes, including neurodevelopmental disabilities and cognitive delays, communication and
      language impairments,] and school-related problems. As gestational age (GA) decreases, the
      risk of chronic health problems and developmental delays increases. In 2010, care of preterm
      infants represented the largest category of Alberta's expenditures for pediatric health care
      at 8.45%, with a total cost of approximately $35 million. The costs associated with preterm
      infants are greater than for term infants because of increased hospital length of stay (LOS),
      resource utilization, readmissions, and need for health, education, and social services.
      Financial consequences for parents of preterm infants are associated with reduced workforce
      participation and lost earnings, and developmental supports for the infant. Unquantifiable
      costs are associated with psychological distress, marital distress, and social isolation.
      Although effective interventions for parents of preterm infants exist, evidence is generally
      limited to the earliest preterm infants, and cost effectiveness data is lacking. Implementing
      a new model of care, Family Integrated Care (FICare), in Level II NICUs for moderate to late
      preterm infants has great potential to improve outcomes of infants and parents, and reduce
      costs to the health care system and families.

      Level II NICUs are a highly technological, critical care environment where healthcare
      providers (i.e., nurses, physicians, trainees, respiratory therapists, social workers, and
      others) often unintentionally marginalize parents in the pursuit of optimal care of preterm
      infants. The unexpected birth of a tiny infant leaves parents in shock, feeling anxious,
      depressed, isolated, and unprepared to interact with, and care for, their infant. Preterm
      birth and experiences in the NICU disrupt breastfeeding and the early parent-infant
      relationship, which is critical for early brain and biological development. The goal of
      FICare is a change in culture and practice that permits, encourages, and supports parents in
      their parenting role while their infant is in a Level II NICU. FICare is, in essence, a
      dynamic educational intervention, with learners (parents), coaches (healthcare providers and
      veteran NICU parents), curriculum content, and implementation strategies. Veteran parents are
      those who have had previous experience with their own preterm infant in a Level II NICU.
      Underpinned by adult learning and change theories, FICare empowers parents to build their
      knowledge, skill, and confidence so that the family is well-prepared to care for their infant
      long before discharge. This model is dynamic, whereby parents and healthcare providers openly
      and mutually negotiate equitable roles during the infant's NICU stay. Thus, roles will change
      as parents learn to care for their infant.

      Philosophically, efforts to keep parents closer to their infant in NICU started in the 1950s
      with parental presence that permitted visitation in the NICU. Later, family-centred care
      articulated respect for family in decisions about care. Despite a comprehensive understanding
      of family-centred care and recognition of its importance, family-centred approaches remain
      fraught with challenges, including non-facilitative physical space, restrictive access,
      limited parental involvement in direct infant care, and lack of consistent information. These
      challenges result in confusion about the parental role in NICU, and leave parents feeling
      dissatisfied and more like detached visitors than parents. Integrating parents as central to
      the care of their infant is the next logical step in the evolution of approaches to NICU
      care.

      Existing interventions include skin-to-skin care, psychological support for the parent
      (primarily mothers), education about the care of a preterm infant, and education of parents
      as providers of supportive therapy for their infant. A systematic review suggested that
      psychological support and parenting education showed the greatest effect over the short- (<1
      year) and longer- (≥1 year) term. While parenting education can take many forms from simple
      leaflets with information to self-modeled video interaction guidance, parenting education
      that actively engages parents with their infant had the greatest impact on parental and
      infant outcomes. Education that is consistent across care providers is critical to ensure
      parental belief in the competence of care providers. A positive relationship between parents
      and providers contributes to increased satisfaction with care, and greater willingness by
      parents to seek further support for the care of their infant. Further, health care should be
      individualized to accommodate sequential clinical phases from admission to post-discharge
      care of the infant.

      Adapted from existing family-centred care interventions, the Family Integrated Care (FICare)
      model was developed and pilot tested with preterm infants ≤ 35 weeks GA in a Level III NICU
      at Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto. The pilot study indicates that FICare is feasible and safe
      in Canada. Compared to 31 matched controls, the 42 infants who received FICare showed
      increased weight gain and breastfeeding at discharge. FICare reduced LOS by approximately 10%
      (personal communication, Dr. S. Lee) and mothers reported less stress. Based on these
      promising results, FICare in Level III NICUs is currently being evaluated in a 19-centre,
      cRCT; Calgary is a control site. With success in Level III NICUs, Dr. V. Shah
      (co-investigator) is implementing FICare in four Ontario Level II NICUs. However, the Ontario
      study is limited by a pre-test/post-test design. Without a randomized controlled train (RCT),
      evidence of the effectiveness of FICare in Level II NICUs will continue to be plagued by
      methodological and contextual limitations. The aim of this study is to refine and implement
      FICare in Level II NICUs across Alberta and evaluate it using a cluster RCT (cRCT).

      The investigators hypothesize that compared with standard care, FICare will: (1) decrease LOS
      (primary outcome); (2) decrease the incidence of nosocomial infections; (3) decrease adverse
      events (e.g., medication and donor breast milk errors); (4) reduce the number of times
      infants have feeding suspended (NPO) with concomitant intravenous therapy and/or sepsis
      workups; (5) reduce readmission and unplanned emergency room and physician visits up to 2
      months corrected age (CA); (6) increase parental knowledge, skills, and confidence in caring
      for their infant at discharge and 2 months CA; (7) increase rates of feeding breast milk and
      breastfeeding self-efficacy at discharge and 2 months CA; (8) decrease parental psychosocial
      distress (stress, anxiety, depression) at discharge and 2 months CA, (9) improve healthcare
      provider satisfaction; and (10) decrease direct and indirect costs because of reduced LOS and
      readmission.

      The FICare Alberta research study was co-developed in collaboration with Alberta Health
      Services operational leaders and clinicians. Nursing and medical directors at the ten Level
      II NICUs across Alberta embraced the idea of FICare. Buy-in is particularly notable given
      that sites were aware that they could be randomized to either FICare or control condition.
      The investigators addressed the potential for unanticipated compensatory reactions (i.e.,
      demoralization) by offering delayed implementation of FICare at control sites. The
      investigators discussed development, testing, and execution of the FICare implementation
      plan, as well as how we can integrate changes for the new model into routine care. The
      investigators learned that several sites were already using some elements of FICare, albeit
      in an unstructured and unintegrated way. If results of FICare show improved outcomes and/or
      reduced costs, we will assist with implementation and provide training to staff at the
      control sites.
    
  