
    
      I. Intervention for Study Group

      Structured Chest Wall Mobilization Program

      Chest Wall Mobilization Chest wall mobilization is one of the important techniques in chest
      physical therapy for increasing chest wall mobility and improving ventilation. Either passive
      or active chest mobilizations help to increase chest wall mobility, flexibility, and thoracic
      compliance. The mechanism of this technique increases the length of the intercostal muscles
      and therefore helps in performing effective muscle contraction. It improves the biomechanics
      of chest movement by enhancing direction of anterior-upward movement of lower costal and
      downward movement of diaphragm. Maximal relaxed recoiling of the chest wall helps in
      achieving effective contraction of intercostal muscle. Chest wall mobilization with breathing
      exercise was showed to effect clinical benefit in chronic lung disease especially COPD with
      lung hyperinflation or barrel-shaped chest. The technique of chest wall mobilization helps in
      chest wall flexibility, respiratory muscle function and ventilatory pumping, which helps to
      reduce dyspnoea and respiratory accessory muscle use.

      The chest wall mobilization techniques include:

        1. Lateral flexion of chest wall

        2. Chest wall extension

        3. Lateral gliding of thoracic spine

        4. Pectoralis major muscle stretching

      There is no standard of practice found on the current studied chest wall mobilization. As
      good practice for quality and safety assurance, the studied program was evaluated by two
      independent Physiotherapists expert with post-graduate qualification in Manual Therapy
      recognised by Physiotherapists Board of Hong Kong Government and the International Federation
      of Orthopaedic Manipulative Physical Therapists of World Confederation of Physical Therapy.
      Chest wall mobilization will be performed in a therapist-assisted manner by a single trained
      and certified American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) Clinical Exercise Physiologist with
      more than 10 years' experience working in the speciality with chronic respiratory patients in
      respiratory medicine.

      Subjects will be placed in the sitting position, lying on the back or sidelying position with
      knees bent to correct the lumbar curve, repositioning of the scapular waist as well as
      scapular and arm abduction in order to prevent postural compensations. Stretching was
      performed bilaterally as follows:

        1. Lateral flexion of chest wall Patient in supine and lateral position on a foam roller in
           the infra-axillary region, forearms flexed and hands resting on the occipital region;
           the therapist used both palmar region hand's to mobilize the ribs in the cranial and
           caudal direction.

        2. Chest wall extension Patient in supine lying on a foam roller in the mid-thoracic
           region, raise the arm over the head and grasp hold on a fixed wall bar about 10 inches
           from the surface of the plinth.

        3. Lateral gliding of thoracic spine It is a non-thrust transverse vertebral pressure as
           described by Maitland et al 2005. Patients in prone lying, arms to the side and head in
           a 'forehead rest position'. Mobilization was applied to the whole thoracic spine. The
           spinous process of T1 was identified by first locating C6 using the cervical extension
           method and then counting caudally. The therapist stood at the level of the vertebra to
           be mobilized on one side of the subject. The pad of the therapist's non-dominant thumb
           was placed in contact with the lateral aspect of the spinous process of T1, whereas the
           dominant thumb was placed on the dorsal side of the other thumb. Pressure was applied to
           the spinous process to produce small amplitude, low velocity oscillations into
           resistance to the end-range of the vertebra (Grades IV). This procedure was performed
           for 30 seconds, and then sequentially applied to the next caudal level. The same pattern
           of application was used on the patient's contralateral side.

        4. Pectoralis major stretching Patient in supine position, on the side to be stretched, the
           patient´s arm was abducted, forearm flexed and hand resting on the occipital region. The
           displacement was performed with one of the therapist's hands on the upper third of the
           arm and the other on the lateral region of the upper chest, following the direction of
           muscle fibres.

      The therapist-assisted chest wall mobilization for stretching follow the guidelines of
      general stretching for skeletal muscles. Static stretching will be performed with the
      therapist assisted the movement to the available range and hold in that position with the
      muscle on tension to a point of a stretching sensation. The stretching will be carried out
      during the expiratory phase with two sets of ten consecutive incursions for each position and
      a one-minute rest between the series. The holding of the stretching sensation should last for
      10 seconds. The intervention will be around 20 minutes in total.

      For the participants in the Control group, they will be asked to stay in supine, sidelying
      and prone positions for around 20 minutes to standardize the treatment time and effect of
      positioning.

      Intervention Group Home Exercise Program For maintenance of the intervention effect and
      further improvement of chest wall mobility as well as soft tissues elasticity.
      Self-stretching exercises of trunk extension, rotation, side flexion as well as stretching of
      the pectoralis major muscle will be taught to the patients as home exercise program.
      Participants will be asked to perform the home exercise program for 15 minutes, 3 days /week
      for 6 weeks. An individual exercise log-book with the diagram of the stretching exercises
      will be given to the subjects to follow the exercises and record down their participation.
      Weekly telephone contact to participant will be given for motivation and encouragement of
      program adherence and completing the log books.

      II. Intervention for Control Group Subjects in the control group will be asked to maintain
      their physical activity level as usual. A 15-minute simple stretching exercise on large
      muscle group will be taught for standardization as a home exercise program. Five stretching
      exercises for arms and legs will be taught to the patient as a home exercise program.
      Participants will be asked to perform the home exercise program for 15 minutes, 3 days /week
      for 6 weeks. An individual exercise log-book with the diagram of the stretching exercises
      will be given to the subjects to follow the exercises and record down their participation.
      Same weekly telephone contact to participant will be given for motivation and encouragement
      of program adherence and completing the log books as that in intervention group.

      III. Common Program for Both Groups Standardized Walking Exercise Exercise will be performed
      on a Gaitkeeper Mobility Research 2000T electronic treadmill (Cortland, New York) set at zero
      inclination during subject's follow-up visit at Physiotherapy Department of Kowloon Hospital.
      Each participant will perform 15 minutes supervised walking exercise at a speed maintain with
      the participant's target heart rate zone of 60-80% Heart Rate Maximum for cardiovascular
      training. Besides, the oxygen saturation during walking will be kept above 88%. An oximeter
      will be used to adjust walking speed and monitoring of HR and oxygen saturation.

      Standardized Educational Session Three educational sessions (30 minutes for each session)
      will be included for both intervention group and control group at Physiotherapy Department of
      Kowloon Hospital. The content of the education include self-management of bronchial hygiene,
      breathing re-training, relaxation techniques and the importance of exercise. Education
      pamphlets will be given to both groups of patients.
    
  