
    
      Hypothesis: The hypothesis is that, for each of the four ILA size categories, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0 &
      2.5:

      H0: Mean oropharyngeal leak pressure with Air-Q® ILA= mean oropharyngeal leak pressure with
      PLMA.

      H1: Mean oropharyngeal leak pressure with Air-Q® ILA≠ mean oropharyngeal leak pressure with
      PLMA.

      Background: The laryngeal mask airway (LMA) is used during pediatric anesthesia for routine
      and difficult airway management. The ideal pediatric LMA device would provide excellent
      sealing at low pressure; facilitate easy endotracheal intubation; and be available in
      pediatric sizes. Such a device would be an invaluable addition to difficult pediatric airway
      management plans and, by increasing the likelihood of quickly and effectively securing the
      difficult airway, and decreasing the risk of catastrophic hypoxemia, would increase
      perioperative safety for children. The Air-Q® ILA is a modified LMA device whose features
      encompass the characteristics of the ideal LMA. Our objective is to determine whether or not
      this new airway device is an improvement over the current standard of care.

      Specific Objectives:

      The objective of this study is to compare the Air-Q® ILA's performance to the current best
      option, the PLMA.

      Methods:

      Recruitment of subjects: With ethical and institutional review board approval, and with
      written parental informed consent, we will recruit children undergoing elective surgery.
      Children with ASA status IV-V, abnormal or contraindicated cervical spine
      flexion/extension/rotation, contraindication to LMA placement, or requiring emergency surgery
      will be excluded. All children will undergo intravenous induction of anesthesia, as per our
      routine institutional practice.

      Administration of Air-Q® ILA: In phase 2, either a PLMA or an Air-Q® ILA will be inserted and
      assessed. The first LMA will then be removed and the other device inserted and assessed. The
      order of insertion will be determined by block randomization.

      Data analysis: In phase 2, we will compare OLP values using paired t- tests. We will conduct
      appropriate statistical analysis of the data on the other assessment variables, which are all
      secondary outcome measures. Descriptive data will be presented as mean ± SD, median (range),
      counts (percentages or proportions) as appropriate.
    
  