
    
      Endotracheal tubes (ETT) are secured during surgery and ICU care so that they are not
      accidentally removed from the airway. The position of the tip of the ETT is important and
      must not vary much within the trachea. The standard technique for securing an ETT is to use
      tape to attach it to the upper lip and face. The technique is cheap and simple, but suffers
      from certain drawbacks. First, the upper lip is mobile and thus even when well secured, the
      tube can move within the trachea due to this mobility. Second, conditions on the face such as
      sweating, drooling, facial hair, skin flaking or breakdown, all interfere with the ability of
      the tape to adhere, thus reducing its efficacy. Furthermore, the tape itself can irritate and
      or injure the facial skin. The adhesive irritates skin and certain patients are allergic to
      these substances. Also, removing the tape can physically damage the skin, especially if the
      skin is vulnerable to sheer forces (such as elderly patients or patients on systemic
      steroids).

      Patients that are intubated often need a bite block or bite guard inserted into their mouths.
      This serves two main purposes: 1) to prevent the patient from biting the ETT and occluding
      airflow, 2) to prevent the patient from biting their tongue, cheek, or lips causing injury.
      Furthermore, endoscopic procedures are often performed on intubated patients and thus a bite
      block is needed to protect the delicate instrument from being bitten and damaged. For these
      reasons, many providers will insert bite blocks into the mouths of intubated patients. Many
      such devices exist on the market, but the most commonly used is the Guedel oral airway. This
      device is actually designed to increase airway patency during mask ventilation, and long term
      use of this device as a bite block has been linked to numerous complications including:
      1)tongue swelling, often compromising the airway patency, 2) tooth damage, and 3)lip injury.
      Because of these shortcomings, specific ETT bite blocks have been developed, and some of
      these even double as an ETT securing device. However, these are usually made of hard, stiff
      materials that in and of themselves can injure the delicate oral structures. In summation, no
      single device that both serves as an ergonomic ETT holder and bite block has been
      successfully developed and marketed, and therefore the standard of care remains tape plus an
      oral airway.

      The Haider airway is a combination ETT holder-securing device and bite block. Made of soft
      silicone rubber, the device was engineered from the ground up to serve those purposes with
      safety and comfort in mind. The device is FDA approved and in a pre-marketing trials phase to
      determine the efficacy of the product in specific clinical scenarios. Our institution has
      been tasked with testing the device in clinical scenarios where tape + oral airway has been
      historically problematic. We plan to compare this new device to tape + oral airway, the
      current standard of care in neurosurgical patients in the supine position. We hypothesize the
      device will be superior to the standard of care in both efficacy and patient comfort.
    
  