
    
      Rationale: Application of long-term non-invasive ventilation (NIV) in chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD) patients with chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure (CHRF) has
      recently been shown to improve outcomes when applied with sufficiently high inspiratory
      pressures and adequate backup breathing frequencies (high-intensity NIV). Interestingly, it
      has been demonstrated that nocturnal NIV improves not only clinical but also physiological
      parameters like arterial carbon dioxide pressure (PaCO¬2¬) and forced expiratory volume in 1
      second (FEV1) in patients with stable COPD. However, the mechanism behind these improvements
      are unknown. Furthermore, it is unclear whether this improvement in lung function influences
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL), the utmost goal of chronic NIV in COPD, or that other
      baseline patient- and ventilatory characteristics are more important in predicting a
      long-term beneficial effect.

      We hypothesize that NIV stabilizes FEV1 via beneficial effects on inflammation and repair
      pathways in the airways of patients with COPD. We aim to study this hypothesis and to
      investigate the regulation of lung function, markers of inflammation and repair pathways in
      airway biopsies, bronchial wash and bronchial and nasal epithelium in response to home
      mechanical ventilation. The second goal of this study is to define a phenotype of patients
      with COPD, based on baseline characteristics and biomarkers, such as markers of inflammation,
      who will respond to NIV therapy with improvements in lung function and HRQoL.

      Objectives:

        1. To investigate change in FEV1 after 3 months nocturnal NIV in stable hypercapnic COPd
           patients as compared to standard care

        2. To investigate the relationship between FEV1 change and modification of systemic and
           airway inflammation and remodelling, lung hyperinflation, and airway morphology.

        3. To investigate predictors of a favourable response to chronic NIV in COPD patients with
           CHRF.

      Study design: The study is multicentre randomised controlled study investigating the effects
      of NIV on airway morphology, airway inflammation and remodelling in hypercapnic COPD patients
      including a control group that will postpone the initiation of NIV for 3 months. To measure
      these parameters a bronchoscopy with a bronchial wash and bronchial biopsies and
      high-resolution CT-scanning we be done at baseline and after 3 months. In a addition we will
      investigate how patient demographics, patient and disease characteristics and systemic and
      airway inflammation predict the response to chronic NIV in severe stable COPD. To do this,
      all COPD patients initiated on NIV in our centre will be followed for 6 months after NIV
      initiation as part of the present study.

      Study population: Patients who have an indication for NIV (COPD Global Initiative of
      Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) III or IV and a PaCO2 > 6.0 kilopascal (kPa) in stable
      disease) in the Netherlands will be asked to participate.

      For investigating airway inflammation, to ensure safety during the bronchoscopies, patients
      with severe gas exchange derangements (i.e. PaCO2 > 8.0 kPa and /or partial arterial oxygen
      pressure (PaO2)<6.5 kPa at rest during spontaneous breathing), and instable cardiac
      comorbidities will be excluded. These patients will be included to be followed for 6 months
      prospectively after NIV initiation, according to the same protocol, however, without
      CT-scanning and bronchoscopies.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main endpoint is the change FEV1 after 3 months. Several
      markers of blood and airway inflammation and remodeling will be assessed to analyse
      mechanisms of FEV1 improvements.

      Furthermore, as we recognise that FEV1 might not be the most important patient-related
      outcome, we will assess which parameters affect health-related quality of life after 3 and 6
      months. For this, parameters of the total group of patients will be used.
    
  