
    
      Although non-communicable chronic disease is the leading cause of death in Canada, many
      patients with chronic diseases do not receive guideline-recommended therapy for a variety of
      reasons. Lack of awareness of publicly funded programs, financial constraints, personal
      circumstances, language and cultural barriers make it challenging for patients to follow
      recommendations. ENCOMPASS is a patient navigation intervention, delivered by community
      health navigators (CHNs), that will improve patient-centred care and outcomes by: helping
      patients navigate the health system, facilitating communication between patients and
      providers, improving patient understanding of their conditions and treatment plans,
      connecting patients with community resources and supporting patient self-management.

      The ENCOMPASS intervention is based on an extensive literature review, and was refined in
      consultation with patients, operational partners, front-line care providers, and local and
      provincial policy makers. A pilot study has informed implementation, recruitment and data
      collection methods. This study will implement and test the intervention using a pragmatic
      cluster-randomized trial with a concurrent qualitative study. The objectives of this study
      are to determine the effectiveness of patient navigation, delivered by CHNs, in patients with
      multiple chronic diseases on: a) emergency department visits and hospital admissions over 12
      months (primary outcome), b) patient-reported outcome and experience measures, and c)
      disease-specific clinical outcomes, compared with usual care. Additional objectives focus on
      practical aspects including understanding the experience of care from the patient and CHN
      perspective and factors influencing the intervention's ability to improve care and outcomes.

      The effectiveness of ENCOMPASS will be studied using a parallel, two-arm, pragmatic,
      wait-list control, cluster-randomized trial (cRCT) in 16 clusters, with a target size of 1600
      patients with chronic disease. If additional funding is realized the trial will be expanded
      to include additional clusters. Primary care practices with ~5 full-time physicians will be
      the cluster units and small practices of 2-3 physicians may be combined into one cluster.
      Half of the clusters will be randomized to receive the program immediately (Early Phase
      clusters), while the other half will be required to wait 6 months (Late Phase clusters).
      Randomization will be concealed, computer-generated and stratified by practice size. Although
      patients and providers cannot be blinded to the intervention, end-point evaluation will be
      blinded. The primary outcome will be assessed using administrative health data, eliminating
      risk of assessor bias. Control patients will receive usual care until the intervention is
      implemented in their clinic, at which time they will be eligible for the ENCOMPASS program.

      Patients will meet with a research assistant at baseline, 6 and 12 months, with an additional
      18 month follow-up for control patients, to assess clinical data, including weight, blood
      pressure, and patient-reported measures. Other endpoints (i.e., through administrative and
      laboratory data) will be assessed at 6, 12, and 24 months. Once implemented, the ENCOMPASS
      program will remain available to clinic patients until the end of the program funding period,
      which may be extended subject to budget decisions and preliminary results. A concurrent
      qualitative study will provide contextual information and will be used to make program
      refinements in the Late Phase, the impacts of which will be explored in a comparative
      analysis.
    
  