
    
      Since 2004 the American Association for the Study of Liver Disease (AASLD) has
      well-established guidelines for management of liver failure patients that is based on expert
      review of current literature. These guidelines address the initial evaluation of patients
      admitted to the hospital with complications of their liver disease, including patients with
      abdominal distention from fluid accumulation. In many cases, evaluation of this
      intraabdominal fluid, or ascites, performed using paracentesis, a procedure in which fluid is
      withdrawn from the abdomen and sent for laboratory analysis, is indicated, and the results of
      which will guide further treatment. Despite these guidelines, there remains significant
      variability in practice among inpatient providers.

      The study will begin with a chart review to identify compliance with, and barriers to,
      evidence-based recommendations. A baseline survey of house-staff in the internal medicine
      department will be used to identify knowledge base and perceived barriers to implementation
      of best practices as defined by AASLD. The house-staff will subsequently be divided into
      three intervention groups for administration and evaluation of different teaching tools. A
      control group will have internet access to AASLD guidelines and undergo teaching that is
      already provided by the residency program. The second group will receive the baseline
      teaching, but also receive a pocket-card outlining recommendations and participate in a
      short, dedicated lecture to reinforce the guidelines. The third group will receive the pocket
      card, lecture, and a pager number to call for individual education at the time that cases
      arise. The groups will be followed for a period of six months, after which they will
      participate in an exit survey for reassessment of knowledge and perceived barriers, and a
      chart review will be conducted for comparison of data.

      The primary outcome will be subjective improvement in practice based on survey results.
      Secondary outcomes will be measurement of actual and perceived benefit of pocket card,
      lecture, and individual education, determined by knowledge based questions on the survey, and
      improvement in patient clinical outcomes based on chart review noting particularly 30-day
      readmission rate and 90-day mortality.
    
  