
    
      Eligible patients for this study must have either (1) progressive disease whilst receiving an
      endocrine therapy (AI or a SERM), and/or a CDK4/6 inhibitor for locally advanced or
      metastatic disease; or (2) relapsed with metastatic disease whilst receiving an ET (AI or
      SERM), and/or a CDK4/6 inhibitor, and/or chemotherapy in adjuvant setting. No more than 2
      prior lines of systemic treatments for locally advanced or metastatic disease are allowed for
      this study, including 1-2 prior lines of endocrine therapy, and/or CDK4/6 inhibitor (up to 1
      therapy), and/or chemotherapy (up to 1 therapy).

      The Phase Ib part is a single-arm, open-label, "proof-of-concept" study to evaluate
      anti-tumor efficacy, safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of the combination therapy
      with afuresertib plus fulvestrant. Twenty patients will be enrolled in this part. There will
      be a safety run-in period during the first 28-days of treatment (Cycle 1) of the first 6
      enrolled patients to evaluate the safety of the initial treatment doses of the combination
      therapy, and to make dose modification if severe treatment-related toxicities occur. Patients
      will receive afuresertib 125 mg PO, QD in combination with fulvestrant 500 mg IM, D1, 15 in
      Cycle 1, and fulvestrant 500 mg IM, D1 Q4W in the subsequent cycles. If no severe
      treatment-related toxicity is observed during the safety-run-in period, based on
      investigator's clinical judgements, the enrollment will resume for the remaining 14 patients.
      If any treatment-related toxicity (≥ grade 3) is observed in 1 of the 6 patients (e.g.,
      thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, hyperglycemia, rash, diarrhea, fatigue, etc.), and is not
      resolved within 7 days in spite of active management per institutional standard of care, the
      dose of afuresertib for all patients participating in the safety run-in will be reduced to
      125 mg, D1-21, Q4W (if afuresertib alone or both afuresertib and fulvestrant are the
      potential causal agents) or the dose of fulvestrant reduced to 250 mg IM D1,15 in Cycle 1,
      and 250 mg IM D1 Q4W (if fulvestrant is the potential causal agent) in the subsequent cycles.
      In the event that the causal relationship between study drugs and the observed AE could not
      be reasonably established, reduction of afuresertib should take precedence based on the
      Safety Review Committee (SRC) decision. For the primary efficacy objective of the Phase Ib
      part, the primary endpoint is the investigator-assessed ORR based on RECIST 1.1 of the
      afuresertib plus fulvestrant combination therapy in HR+/HER2- BC. The PK parameters of the
      afuresertib in the combination treatment (e.g., Cmax, AUC(0-t), AUC(0-inf), Tmax, t1/2, etc.)
      will be assessed in all patients in the Phase Ib part based on plasma levels of afuresertib,
      obtained at different timepoints as described in the tables of Schedule of Activities (SoA).
      The efficacy and safety data analysis will be conducted after the completion of the Phase Ib
      part. If the efficacy and safety data of the afuresertib plus fulvestrant combination therapy
      support a positive benefit/risk ratio, this combination regimen will be further evaluated for
      its efficacy and safety in the Phase III part. If there is insufficient evidence of efficacy
      for the study treatment at the end of the Phase Ib part, the sponsor and the investigators
      must reach a consensus on whether to expand patient enrollment to continue the Phase Ib
      study.

      The Phase III part is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pivotal
      study with two parallel treatment arms to further assess the anti-tumor efficacy and safety
      of afuresertib combined with fulvestrant (experimental arm) versus placebo combined with
      fulvestrant (control arm) in patients with HR+/HER2- BC who have failed 1 to 2 prior lines of
      ET, and/or CDK4/6 inhibitor (up to 1 therapy), and/or chemotherapy (up to 1 chemotherapy). A
      total of 252 patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to the two parallel treatment arms,
      afuresertib plus fulvestrant and placebo plus fulvestrant. Randomization will be based on
      stratification factors, including prior chemotherapy (yes or no), prior CDK4/6 inhibitor
      therapy (yes or no). The doses of the study treatment will be based on doses and schedule
      established in the Phase Ib part. The primary endpoint is the investigator-assessed PFS based
      on RECIST 1.1 of the experimental arm and control arm. The major secondary endpoints include
      the OS, ORR, DOR, DCR and safety.
    
  