
    
      The long-term goal of this project is to develop strategies for the prevention of
      osteoporotic fractures in African Americans. Most intervention studies have excluded African
      Americans because of the erroneous belief that osteoporosis is not a major health problem in
      this population. In fact, the incidence rate of hip fracture in blacks is 50% of the rate in
      whites. Since longevity is increasing in the black population, osteoporotic fractures will
      become an even greater problem for this ethnic minority in the future. Furthermore, morbidity
      and mortality from osteoporotic fractures is greater in blacks. The elderly require higher
      intake of vitamin D to prevent bone loss resulting from secondary hyperparathyroidism.
      Calcium with sufficient vitamin D supplementation may decrease fractures in elderly white
      populations as a result of reduction in bone loss and falls (improved physical performance).
      The only fracture intervention study to include African Americans-the Women's Health
      Initiative-used an inadequate dose of vitamin D (400 IU), a dose unlikely to achieve the
      vitamin D status proposed by U.S. experts: serum 25 hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentration
      above 75 nmol/L. No calcium/vitamin D intervention studies on fall prevention or physical
      performance have included African Americans.

      As a result of increased skin pigmentation, blacks synthesize less vitamin D from sun
      exposure. As a result, serum 25(OH)D levels are often in the "insufficient" range. This is
      accompanied by secondary hyperparathyroidism, but adult blacks have a relative skeletal
      resistance to PTH, so that they have lower bone turnover. They also have more efficient renal
      conservation of calcium starting in childhood. Addition of vitamin D3 to a calcium-sufficient
      African American postmenopausal population does not prevent bone loss. The calcium/vitamin D
      requirements of black adults may be lower than white adults through midlife. However, the
      elderly require more vitamin D to produce the higher 25(OH)D levels required to overcome the
      hyperparathyroidism associated with aging. The skeleton of elderly African Americans appears
      to be susceptible to the increasing parathyroid hormone levels of old age. Bone loss
      accelerates and bone turnover markers increase in elderly African Americans just as in
      whites. The specific aims of this project are to determine if dietary supplementation with
      calcium/vitamin D will safely reduce bone loss and bone turnover and improve physical
      performance in elderly African Americans. We will enroll 250 African American women in a
      four-year vitamin D3 intervention trial where serum 25(OH)D will be maintained at an optimum
      level above 75 nmol/L. Adequate calcium intake will be ensured. Functional markers of vitamin
      D including bone density, serum PTH, and bone turnover will be measured. The NIH Conference
      on Vitamin D and Health in the 21st Century, September 5-6, 2007 concluded that research in
      this population is a high priority.
    
  