
    
      Introduction

      The 'Core Muscles' are defined as '29 pairs of muscles that support the lumbo-pelvic hip
      complex in order to stabilize the spine, pelvis and kinetic chain during functional
      movement'.

      Core stability refers to the control, co-ordination and synergism required by the core
      muscles for the maintenance of functional stability and balance. The role the core
      musculature plays in movement and postural control is long established. The understanding
      that our core muscles work in a feed-forward manner, laying the foundation of distal limb
      movement, formed the basis for studies into the use of core stability training programmes,
      such as pilates, core control training and spinal stability training, for improved postural
      control and balance.

      Literature is replete with studies investigating the use of core stability programmes for
      varied populations from the adult population for chronic back pain to elite athletes for
      injury prevention and performance.

      Studies investigating its use in adults with postural control impairment due to upper motor
      neuron lesions (UMN) from Multiple Sclerosis and Stroke showed positive effects on balance
      and mobility. The randomised controlled trial, by Chung et al, looked at the effects of a 4
      week core stability exercise class on Dynamic Balance and Gait Function of 16 stroke
      patients. It showed a significant improvement of Timed-Up-And-Go (TUG) scores from 33.06
      +-18.39sec to 27.64+- 13.73 sec (p=0.057) in the intervention group. Gait velocity (from
      44.83+- 18.83 cm/s to 58.91 +- 18.21 ; p=0.024) and cadence ( from 74.55+- 13.85 steps/min to
      84.07 +- 14.00 steps/min ; p=0.041) also showed significant improvement in the intervention
      group. To date there are no studies investigating the use or potential benefit of specific
      core stability intervention in the Cerebral Palsy (CP) population.

      CP describes a group of permanent disorders of the development of movement and posture,
      causing activity limitation, that are attributed to non- progressive disturbances that
      occurred in the developing fetal or infant brain. It has been suggested that poor postural
      control may underlie delays and deviations in motor skill acquisition and development
      observed in children with CP. Therefore, it is important that treatment of children with CP
      tries to improve postural control and the evidence suggesting postural control mechanisms in
      school-age children with CP are modifiable signifies that this goal is achievable.

      Young children with CP have been shown to use excessive, non-reciprocal trunk and hip muscle
      activation during walking. It has been hypothesized that one reason for this may be their
      need to compensate for poor control of their core deep stabilising muscles, thus limiting
      their ability to control changes in their body's centre of mass (COM) during dynamic
      movements. To understand this further we must look closer at the different functions of the
      core muscles.

      The core muscles can be separated into large-lever, superficial global muscles, including the
      rectus abdominis and psoas major, that function as primary movers and smaller, deep, local
      muscles, including the Transverse Abdominis and Internal oblique, that function as primary
      stabilisers. It is postulated that if the deep stabilisers are not adequately functioning,
      then postural control is assisted by secondary compensatory activation of other muscles that
      typically function as primary movers like the hip flexors, knee flexors and spinal extensors.
      When a primary mover is being used to compensate for deep stabilisers, it becomes less
      efficient in its role in mobilizing and posturally adjusting.

      An ineffective deep stabilizing system also limits the ability of the body to maintain the
      joints in a position where muscles are at a mechanical advantage. This can have an added
      'weakening' effect on muscles that are essential for postural control, like the gluteus
      medius, as it reduces their force-generating capacity.

      The objectives of the study are:

        1. To measure changes in performance on a series of static, anticipatory and reactive
           balance tasks using three dimensional motion analysis in children who participate in
           core stability (intervention group) compared to children who continue their usual care
           (control group).

        2. To compare changes in functional balance tests of the intervention group to the control
           group

        3. To analyse qualitative data from a post intervention questionnaire to determine the
           broader effects of the 'Core stability' group intervention on the child's real life
           function, participation and quality of life.

      Selection Criteria

      The study aims to investigate the effects of a treatment intervention on children with
      Cerebral Palsy (CP). It is best research practice to choose a homogenous group of
      participants for meaningful results. It has been shown that in relation to balance of
      ambulatory children with spastic CP, a functional classification system (Gross motor Function
      Classification System-GMFCS level) can be used to group children more homogenously than
      traditional classification by diagnosis. On this basis, it was decided to include children
      with GMFCS levels I and II. Ambulatory children with a GMFCS classification level III were
      excluded as most studies showed a large gap in balance abilities between levels II to III.
      This would lead to a much greater variance in the participant sample.The Central Remedial
      Clinic (CRC) database of clients attending Clondalkin or Clontarf physiotherapy services will
      be used to generate a list of clients aged 7 to 17, with spastic CP diplegia or hemiplegia
      GMFCs level I or II for each centre.

      The study inclusion/exclusion criteria will then be applied to this list. The clients not
      meeting the inclusion criteria or those meeting the exclusion criteria will be removed. The
      remaining clients will be invited to participate in the study and a list will be generated of
      participants who agree.

      The resulting list will be split into 2 separate age groups (Age 7-12 years and Age 13-17
      years) and unique identifying numbers will be assigned to each client on the day of their
      initial baseline assessment.

      The clients will be assessed in groups of a minimum of 6 and maximum of 12 and will be
      randomised according to the procedure detailed below.

      Sample Size

      The sample size was calculated in Stata IC 13 (StataCorp, Texas, USA) using step length as
      the primary outcome measure. A previous study comparing gait in CP and typically developing
      children over level and uneven ground found a mean difference of 9cm (standard deviation 9cm)
      in step length between groups (Malone et al 2014, submitted for publication). With a power of
      0.9 and significance level of 0.05, a sample size of 22 in each group was derived, giving a
      total of 44. To allow for a 10% drop out, it was decided to enroll 48 participants to the
      study.

      Randomisation

      A randomisation procedure will be carried out by an individual blinded to both the treatment
      and assessment procedure. The unique identifying number of the individual and their group
      will be in-putted into an electronic randomisation tool. Group assignment will be known to
      the treating therapists but not to the assessing therapist to ensure a single-blind design.

      The participants will be allocated based on randomisation to either Intervention (I) or
      control (C).

      Statistical analysis

      The primary research question is whether core stability classes improve movement and function
      in the intervention group (I) compared to the control group (C). Data will be plotted
      graphically and described in the first instance using means, medians, standard deviations.
      Normality will be assessed using the Shapiro Wilk test. Groups will be inspected for baseline
      comparability. Quantitative parametric data from movement analysis assessment will be
      compared for (I) and (C) groups using analysis of co-variance including baseline levels of
      the outcome and adjusting for any baseline imbalances. Non-normally distributed data, e.g.
      Functional Walk Test, will be compared using Poisson regression.

      Statistical analysis will be performed with Stata IC 13. Statistical assistance will be
      available from the Department of Epidemiology in RCSI.

      Ethical Approval

      Ethical approval has been obtained from the CRC Ethics committee

      Informed Consent A written explanation of the study and core control group will be provided
      for the parent/guardian and participant. The information will be presented in a manner that
      is easy to understand and outline the risks and benefits of the study clearly. Each parent
      and participant will be given the opportunity to ask questions in writing or verbally and the
      parent/guardian will then sign a consent form. Refusal to participate in the study will not
      affect the client's general physiotherapy care from the CRC in any way.

      Participants The control group will not work on focused balance specific core stability work
      in physiotherapy over the four-week control period. They will receive all other usual
      physiotherapy care during this period. Participants who are initially assigned to the control
      group will then be offered to participate in a Core Stability group after the control period
      assessments are completed. Therefore, all study participants (intervention and Control
      groups) will be given the opportunity to avail of the 'Core Stability' physiotherapy group
      programme. Each group will have to attend the same number of assessments (1 pre assessment
      and 1 post assessment)

      Data Collection and Protection All data collected from the study will be restricted to the
      circumstances listed on the signed consent form. The procedures in place in relation to data
      storage and processing in the Gait Laboratory and the Physiotherapy Department in the CRC
      will be followed. Identifying information will only be stored in the CRC secure server.

      Potential Risks During the Balance assessment in the gait laboratory, markers will be placed
      on the skin with adhesive tape. Taking these off may cause very slight discomfort. To
      alleviate this adhesive removal spray can be used.

      The gait lab balance assessment is designed to be a measure of dynamic balance. Therefore,
      participants will be asked to do some tasks that may be challenging to them. They will be
      supervised at all times when carrying out the assessment by the independent assessor. Stand
      by assistance will be provided if required for safety.

      The 'Core Stability' physiotherapy group intervention programme may be both mentally and
      physically challenging for the participants. It will involve concentration and repetition of
      activities. The group will be carried out under the supervision of two paediatric senior
      physiotherapists who work regularly with this CP population. These physiotherapists will have
      a strong knowledge base of this population's physical limitations. They are also experienced
      in how to encourage and motivate paediatric clients to carry out challenging activities.
    
  