
    
      NVP is the NNRTI of choice to prevent MTCT of HIV, especially in resource-limited settings.
      However, prolonged use of NVP may result in drug resistance, decreasing the efficacy of
      future anti-HIV regimens containing NVP. PIs are more expensive and cause different adverse
      effects than NNRTIs, but PI-containing regimens may be more effective than NNRTI-containing
      regimens in treating HIV infected women who previously took NVP for MTCT prophylaxis. This
      study will compare the efficacy of NNRTI- and PI-containing anti-HIV regimens in women who
      have previously taken NVP for MTCT of HIV and in women who have never taken NVP.

      The study will last a minimum of 48 weeks. Participants will be grouped by previous NVP
      exposure: participants who have previously taken NVP as MTCT prophylaxis (Trial 1
      participants), and participants who have never taken NVP (Trial 2 participants). Participants
      in each trial will be randomly assigned to one of two arms, NVP-containing arm(NVP/NVP for
      trial 1 participants and NoNVP/NVP for trial 2 participants) or PI-containing arm(NVP/LPV_r
      for Trial 1 participants and NoNVP/LPV_r for Trial 2 participants). At the start of the
      study, Arm NVP/NVP and NoNVP/NVP participants will receive emtricitabine (FTC) daily,
      tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) daily, and NVP daily for the first 14 days and then twice
      daily. Arm NVP/LPV_r and NoNVP/LPV_r participants will receive both FTC and TDF daily and
      lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/RTV) twice daily. FTC and TDF may be replaced in either arm with the
      combination drug FTC/TDF.

      If participants experience virologic failure, toxicity, or otherwise cannot tolerate their
      regimens, they will switch to a different regimen. Arm NVP/NVP and NoNVP/NVP participants
      will switch to a regimen of two or more nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)
      and LPV/RTV; Arm NVP/LPV_r and NoNVP/LPV_r participants will switch to a regimen of two or
      more NRTIs and NVP. Study visits will occur at entry and at Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 24, and
      then every 12 weeks thereafter. Visits will consist of a physical exam, medication
      assessment, and blood collection. Participants will be asked to complete adherence
      questionnaires at Weeks 4, 12, 24, and every 24 weeks thereafter, and quality of life
      questionnaires at Weeks 24 and ever 24 weeks thereafter. Study drugs will be provided for all
      participants through 48 weeks after the final participant is randomized.

      As per an amendment (dated April 13, 2009), participants will be asked to take part in an
      extension of this study. Enrollment in the extension is completely voluntary. The purpose of
      the extension is to monitor, in greater extent, the participants' health as they transition
      from study treatment to local, clinical care. During the study extension participants will
      not receive any medications through the study; it is expected that participants will receive
      their treatments through a local clinic.

      Participants enrolling in the extension will enter the extension at the same time as their
      last visit in the current study. For the extension, participants will be asked to come back
      to the clinic two times for study visits: at 12 and 72 weeks after entry into the extension.
      Because there will be a long time between these study visits, participants will also be
      contacted by phone (or through some other means) close to 48 weeks after entry into the
      extension.

      At each of these visits, participants will be asked about their health and medications,
      including current anti-HIV drugs. Participants will also be asked about any HIV care received
      outside of the study. As part of this study, investigators may need to review participants'
      non-study medical records and speak with their non-study care providers, to find out more
      about their HIV care and medical problems, and also to check results of lab tests.

      During the study extension period, participants will have blood drawn and also be tested for
      pregnancy.
    
  