
    
      Objectives The objectives of the study are as described in the below points.

        1. To develop a questionnaire (Q'SHY) for the identification and screening of subjects with
           suspected hypothyroidism.

        2. To assess the validity of the designed questionnaire by comparing the outcomes of the
           responses between General population subjects and treatment naïve subjects group with
           hypothyroidism.

        3. The study aims to establish a valid questionnaire with a robust sensitivity and
           specificity to detect signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism.

      Inclusion criteria for Subjects The criteria based on which, subjects in each Arm will be
      chosen to take part in the survey. Arm1: Subjects from the general population who are naïve
      to their hypothyroid status.

        -  Male and female subjects between the age of 18 years and 65 years

        -  Willing to sign the Subject Authorization Form (SAF) Arm 2: Subjects who are newly
           diagnosed patients of Hypothyroidism and are treatment naïve*.

        -  Male and female subjects between the ages 18 years and 65 years.

        -  Subjects who had symptoms of hypothyroidism were seen by a physician and diagnosed with
           hypothyroidism after laboratory testing of Thyroid Stimulating Hormone > 4.5 Milli
           international units per litre(mIU/L) within 2 weeks from the date of the survey

        -  Willing to sign the SAF

        -  Willing to provide their Thyroid Function Test report that was used to diagnose
           Hypothyroidism. * Treatment naive diagnosed on basis lab and clinical diagnosis within
           last 2 weeks

      Exclusion criteria for subjects Arm 1: Subjects from the general population who are naïve to
      their hypothyroid status

        -  Individuals less than 18 years of age and more than 65 years of age.

        -  Pregnant or lactating females Subjects previously diagnosed with and received treatment
           for thyroid diseases.

        -  Subjects not willing to sign the SAF.

      Arm 2: Subjects who are newly diagnosed patients of Hypothyroidism and are treatment naïve

        -  Individuals less than 18 years of age and more than 65 years of age.

        -  Pregnant or lactating females

        -  Subjects previously diagnosed with and received treatment for thyroid diseases.

        -  Patients on treatment for Thyroid diseases Subjects not willing to sign the SAF.

      The above-mentioned criteria will be applicable to both Face validation and Pilot survey.

        1. Subjects are divided into 2 arms, with 100 subjects in each arm.

        2. Phase -1

             -  Arm 1: Sixteen subjects from the general population who are naïve to their
                hypothyroid status with equal distribution of males and females.

             -  Arm 2: Sixteen subjects who are newly diagnosed patients of Hypothyroidism are
                treatment naïve with equal distribution of males and females

        3. Phase -2

             -  Arm 1: One hundred subjects from the general population who are naïve to their
                hypothyroid status with equal distribution of males and females

             -  Arm 2: One hundred subjects who are newly diagnosed patients of Hypothyroidism are
                treatment naïve with equal distribution of males and females
    
  