
    
      Induction therapy, using polyclonal or monoclonal antibody preparations as an adjunct
      immunosuppressive agent during the initial transplant period, has helped to decrease the
      incidence of acute rejection significantly. In the 1980's acute rejection occurred in
      approximately 50% of renal transplant recipients. In the current era of transplantation, the
      combination of potent induction agents and newly available maintenance immunosuppressive
      agents has reduced the acute rejection rate to less than 20% at most transplant centers. Our
      center has routinely achieved acute rejection rates of approximately 5% using a standard
      induction protocol with the polyclonal antibody agent Thymoglobulin.

      Preventing acute rejection significantly decreases the requirement for re-hospitalization,
      the need for diagnostic renal allograft biopsy and subsequent exposure to high dose
      corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive agents. The threat of early allograft loss
      secondary to rejection refractory to treatment or permanent injury and shortened graft
      survival following treatment of a severe rejection is also circumvented.

      Polyclonal antibody preparations are produced by immunizing animals with human lymphocytes or
      thymocytes. Polyclonal antibody preparations are approved for treatment of acute renal
      allograft rejection, but are routinely used as induction agents and for prevention of
      rejection in all solid organ allografts. Commercially available preparations in the United
      States are equine/thymocyte derived (Atgam, Pharmacia & Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI) and
      rabbit/thymocyte derived (Thymoglobulin, Genzyme, Cambridge, MA).

      Rabbit derived preparations are thought to be potentially more efficacious than equine
      derived products. Studies performed at this renal transplant center demonstrated that
      Thymoglobulin has superior efficacy compared to Atgam in the prevention of rejection (1). Not
      only was the acute rejection rate lower, but graft survival was also better at 1 and 5-years
      (1). [Hardinger, 2004 #18]. This result has been attributed in part to a more pronounced and
      prolonged lymphopenia induced by Thymoglobulin (2).

      The broad specificity of polyclonal agents to multiple cell signaling and adhesion molecules
      provides a theoretic advantage compared to monoclonal antibodies. In addition to inducing a
      profound and prolonged lymphopenia through complement-dependent lysis or by opsonization and
      phagocytosis, the broad specificity of polyclonal antibody agents affects multiple
      costimulatory and adhesion molecules involved in cellular and antibody mediated immune
      processes. The effects on adhesion molecules, cytokines, chemokines and platelets may be
      critical to the noted decrease in the incidence of delayed renal allograft function
      associated with initiation of Thymoglobulin therapy intraoperatively (3). Prevention of
      delayed graft function may also subsequently decrease the incidence of acute rejection and
      prolong allograft survival.

      The use of a potent induction agent such as Thymoglobulin also allows for a delayed
      introduction of maintenance immunosuppression with calcineurin inhibitors in the immediate
      post-transplant setting. The ability to delay the introduction of therapeutic doses of
      calcineurin inhibitors, when necessary, can also assist in decreasing the incidence of
      delayed graft function and simplifies patient management in this time period.

      Thymoglobulin has now become the preferred polyclonal agent used for induction in renal
      transplantation. The most recent complete yearly data from the Scientific Registry of
      Transplant Recipients in 2003 indicated that 70% of all renal transplant recipients in that
      calendar year received some form of induction therapy. Thymoglobulin (34% of patients) was
      the most commonly administered agent, while one of two available monoclonal antibody
      preparations directed against the interleukin-2 receptor (IL2-R) was administered to
      approximately 35% of renal transplant recipients (4).

      When Thymoglobulin is used in the treatment of acute rejection, a total dose of 10-12mg/kg is
      often administered over the course of several days (5). The optimal dose of Thymoglobulin
      that should be administered for induction is unclear, although a primate model suggests a
      total human equivalent dose of approximately 6mg/kg may be appropriate (6). Most transplant
      centers using Thymoglobulin for induction have administered a total dose of 6-10mg/kg, given
      at varying intervals (usually daily or every other day) with each individual dose usually
      given as 1 to 1.5mg/kg/day over approximately six hours. Our standard induction protocol has
      been 1.5mg/kg/day for a total of four doses (total dose 6mg/kg).

      The ability to administer Thymoglobulin as a single, large dose has several potential
      pharmacoeconomic benefits. This administration protocol would simplify post-transplant care
      in the hospital and allow for earlier patient discharge. Cost savings would result from both
      a shorter hospital stay and decreased administration costs associated with fewer intravenous
      administrations.

      The administration of a single, large dose infusion of Thymoglobulin has been used in an
      attempt to induce "prope´" (Latin for almost) allograft tolerance (7). In this study, that
      included 50 renal allograft recipients, a single dose infusion of Thymoglobulin (5mg/kg) was
      used in conjunction with a marked minimization of maintenance immunosuppression. The
      induction protocol was well tolerated, and maintenance immunosuppression consisted of
      monotherapy with tacrolimus.

      Another study described the administration of Thymoglobulin 5mg/kg/day given as two separate
      doses (10mg/kg total) in 39 renal allograft recipients (8). One dose was administered on the
      day of transplantation and the subsequent dose on post-transplant day number one. No patients
      in this study were withdrawn secondary to adverse events and the acute rejection rate was 6%
      with a patient and graft survival of 95% at a mean follow-up of 14.5 months.

      We have previously performed a short course Thymoglobulin induction study using an initial
      dose of 3mg/kg with subsequent doses of 1.5mg/kg on post-transplant days one and two (9).
      This regimen was well tolerated and resulted in a low acute rejection rate of 5%, a one year
      graft survival of 95% and earlier hospital discharge compared to a previously standard seven
      day Thymoglobulin induction protocol.

      Thus, we hypothesize that a single dose of Thymoglobulin (6mg/kg), initiated intraoperatively
      and administered over the course of 24 hours, will have comparable safety and efficacy as
      compared to our current standard induction protocol of four separate doses of Thymoglobulin
      1.5mg/kg (total dose 6mg/kg). Single dose administration of Thymoglobulin should provide a
      low rate of acute rejection, a low rate of delayed graft function, allow for delayed
      introduction of calcineurin inhibitors if indicated, and potentially allow for earlier
      patient discharge while consuming fewer resources. If this single dose induction protocol
      demonstrates similar safety and efficacy to our current standard four dose induction
      protocol, it may become our standard of care. This study may also be a bridge to subsequent
      dose finding studies for single dose Thymoglobulin administration and subsequent comparative
      studies of single-dose Thymoglobulin to other induction agents.

        1. Brennan DC, Flavin K, Lowell JA, et al. A randomized, double-blinded comparison of
           Thymoglobulin versus Atgam for induction immunosuppressive therapy in adult renal
           transplant recipients. Transplantation 1999;67(7):1011-1018.

        2. Hardinger KL, Schnitzler MA, Miller B, et al. Five-year follow up of thymoglobulin
           versus ATGAM induction in adult renal transplantation. Transplantation
           2004;78(1):136-141.

        3. Goggins WC, Pascual MA, Powelson JA, et al. A prospective, randomized, clinical trial of
           intraoperative versus postoperative Thymoglobulin in adult cadaveric renal transplant
           recipients. Transplantation 2003;76(5):798-802.

        4. Shapiro R, Young JB, Milford EL, et al. Immunosuppression: evolution in practice and
           trends, 1993-2003. Am J Transplant 2005;5(4 Pt 2):874-886.

        5. Gaber AO, First MR, Tesi RJ, et al. Results of the double-blind, randomized,
           multicenter, phase III clinical trial of Thymoglobulin versus Atgam in the treatment of
           acute graft rejection episodes after renal transplantation. Transplantation
           1998;66(1):29-37.

        6. Preville X, Flacher M, LeMauff B, et al. Mechanisms involved in antithymocyte globulin
           immunosuppressive activity in a nonhuman primate model. Transplantation
           2001;71(3):460-468.

        7. Starzl TE, Murase N, Abu-Elmagd K, et al. Tolerogenic immunosuppression for organ
           transplantation. Lancet 2003;361(9368):1502-1510.

        8. Uslu A, Nart A, Coker I, et al. Two-day induction with thymoglobulin in kidney
           transplantation: risks and benefits. Transplant Proc 2004;36(1):76-79.

        9. Agha IA, Rueda J, Alvarez A, et al. Short course induction immunosuppression with
           thymoglobulin for renal transplant recipients. Transplantation 2002;73(3):473-475.
    
  