
    
      Morbidity and Mortality among Dialysis Patients after Treating Depression

      Objectives

      Our investigation has two objectives:

        1. To assess whether treatment and recovery from depression decreases adverse clinical
           events in chronic hemodialysis patients. Significant morbidity is associated with
           depression in dialysis patients, but subsequent impact on outcome after treatment of
           depression has not been reported.

        2. To examine the rates of recovery from depression over a 6-month and 12-month period
           among prevalent dialysis patients. Rates of recovery among dialysis patients with
           depression are unclear. The natural history of depression among dialysis patients may
           help long-term management.

      Plan and Methods

      This project is a longitudinal prospective cohort study comprised of dialysis patients from
      outpatient dialysis units in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area. Patients must be aged 18
      or older and have started dialysis at least 90 days prior to enrollment. Patients are
      excluded if they are delirious, demented, cannot speak English, or have a prior psychiatric
      diagnosis other than depression. Baseline data collection includes patient demographics,
      etiology of renal disease, nutritional status, past medical and psychiatric history and
      baseline health status. Social support and quality of life assessments are obtained from
      direct interview. All patients are assessed for depression by the Beck Depression Index, a
      depression scale particularly useful in those with chronic illness, and the Diagnostic
      Interview Scale, a gold standard for depression assessment.

      Those that are depressed will undergo pharmacologic treatment with an SSRI, if they agree,
      and be reassessed at 2 and 6 months for improvement. Patients who do not respond are referred
      for psychiatric therapy. The primary outcome of our study is the combined rate of
      prespecified morbidity and mortality at 18 months between two groups: depressed subjects
      agreeing to treatment and depressed subjects not agreeing to treatment. Prespecified
      morbidities include rates of 1) cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events, 2) infections, 3)
      vascular access complications, and 4) death. These were selected based on prior studies
      suggesting that depression increases cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events, suppresses
      the immune system, and up-regulates coagulation factors and platelet aggregation. , , , , , ,

      Chi-square tests and T-tests will be used to compare baseline variables among those who are
      and are not depressed. A multivariable Cox proportional hazards model will compare survival
      among groups, with adjustments for baseline variables. Calculations derived from the
      Neyman-Pearson equation determined a sample size of 120 subjects.

      Findings to date

      We have enrolled 134 subjects to date, including 47 from the PVAMC, and 87 from outside
      dialysis units. Twenty-percent of them have been depressed. (We need to enroll 120 depressed
      patients.) No further results have been obtained this year. No further characteristics have
      been analyzed to date. All adverse events have been reported, none were unexpected.

      Significance

      We hope to demonstrate a reduction in adverse clinical outcomes with treatment of depression.
      If so, we would advocate that depression is a modifiable risk factor that warrants therapy
      for well-being in dialysis patients.
    
  