
    
      Currently, five percent of individuals over the age of 65 suffer from Alzheimer's disease
      (AD) or a related dementia. Given that hearing loss affects approximately one third of
      individuals over the age of 65, it is likely that many persons with AD will also suffer from
      co-morbid hearing loss. Following this logic, a small proportion of the patients treated in a
      geriatric audiology clinic most likely have both AD and hearing loss. Little research has
      examined the use of hearing aids by persons with AD, and whether current audiologic
      rehabilitation can provide benefits for their cognitive, social, and communication
      functioning. In addition, given that caregiver burden is a huge issue for caregivers of
      persons with AD, this study will examine whether providing hearing aids to those with AD has
      concomitant benefits for their family caregivers (e.g., spouse, adult child).

      The main research question in this study is: Will persons with AD demonstrate benefit from
      the use of hearing aids, where benefit is measured through questionnaires assessing
      activities of daily living, communication, and social functioning. We hypothesize that
      participants with AD in the intervention group (i.e., those who receive hearing aids) will
      have a larger improvement in overall functioning at the end of a one-month and three-month
      period than participants with AD in two control groups. Furthermore, we hypothesize that a
      group of cognitively normal control participants will demonstrate similar gains in
      functioning to those participants with AD. Finally, we hypothesize that a similar disparity
      in benefit between the intervention and control groups will be seen for the participants'
      caregivers. The specific objectives for this project are to determine, for people with AD if
      … a) they can benefit from hearing aids based on common audiologic outcome measures, as well
      as measures of communication function and activities of daily living, and if such benefits
      depend on variations in current audiologic practice; b) they can benefit from hearing aids
      with regard to measures of severity of cognitive, behavioural and psychological symptoms of
      dementia and related caregiver burden; c) hearing aids can bolster their family caregivers'
      psychological well-being, relationship with, and perceived burden related to caring for and
      communicating with someone who suffers from both AD and hearing loss, and if specific issues
      related to communication and audiologic rehabilitation are identified as important by
      caregivers; and d) the beneficial effects of the hearing aid intervention on the person and
      their caregiver can be maintained at three months post-fitting.

      A randomized control design will be used with three groups of AD patients randomly assigned
      to 1) intervention (immediate hearing aid fitting), 2) wait-list control (no hearing aid
      intervention) or 3) active control (no hearing aid intervention + using a new form of fitness
      technology). A final group of controls with normal cognition will also be tested. All
      participants will undergo an assessment of their cognition. They and their family caregivers
      will complete a battery of measures on at least three occasions: once right before the
      hearing aid fitting is completed to provide a baseline (1), as well as one-month (2) and
      three-months (3) post-fitting. Participants in the control groups will also complete a set of
      additional assessments corresponding to the timeline for the hearing aid fitting of
      participants in the interventions groups (i.e., they will complete 5 assessments rather than
      3). In addition to the study sessions, all participants will also complete standard audiology
      appointments including hearing testing, hearing aid evaluation, hearing aid fitting, and
      hearing aid checking.
    
  