
    
      This is a double-blind (neither physician nor participant knows the treatment that the
      participant receives), placebo-controlled (study in which an inactive substance is given to
      one group of participants, while the study medication is given to another group), multicenter
      (study conducted at multiple sites), 2-arm (two groups), parallel-group (each group of
      participants will be treated at the same time), randomized-withdrawal (participants receiving
      study medication for a specified time will be later randomized to receive either study
      medication or placebo.) study, including an open-label (all people know the identity of the
      intervention) induction phase. Approximately 200 participants will participate in this study.
      This study will consist of an induction phase, a maintenance phase, and a follow-up phase.
      During the induction phase (lasting 6 weeks) participants will receive 200 mg subcutaneous
      (SC) (under the skin) golimumab at Week 0 and 100 mg SC golimumab at Week 2. During the
      maintenance phase (up to Week 52) all participants who show a clinical response (measure of
      therapeutic effect of study medication) to golimumab during the induction phase will be
      randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to receive either SC administration of placebo (Group 1) or
      100 mg golimumab (Group 2) every 4 weeks from Week 0 to Week 52. Participants who do not show
      clinical response to golimumab will also receive 100 mg SC administration of golimumab until
      Week 4 and if, by Week 8 of the maintenance phase, these participant's disease activity does
      not appear to be improving, participants will be discontinued from further study medication
      administration and will be followed up for safety evaluations 16 weeks after the last
      administration of study medication. However, if disease activity of these participants
      improves at Week 8, they will continue to receive golimumab (100 mg every 4 weeks) through
      Week 52 of the maintenance phase. The follow-up phase will be of 16 weeks duration. During
      this study, any participant who have a clinical response during the induction phase but lose
      clinical response at any time will be eligible for dose adjustment only once as follows: 1)
      participants receiving placebo (Group 1) will receive golimumab 100 mg; 2) participants
      receiving golimumab 100 mg (Group 2) will continue to receive golimumab 100 mg. Safety
      evaluations will include assessment of adverse events, laboratory measurements, antinuclear
      antibodies/anti-double-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid antibodies, and vital signs. The
      maximum study duration for a participant will be 68 weeks.
    
  