
    
      Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating motor neuron disease that typically
      causes rapidly progressive muscle weakness, disability and premature death. In spite of a
      large number of attempted ALS trials, there are no significant disease-modifying therapies
      for this condition to-date.

      There exists a small group of patients who meet diagnostic criteria for ALS or progressive
      muscular atrophy (PMA), progress for a period of time, and then significantly improve. Some
      of these "ALS reversals" even make a complete recovery back to normal neurological function.
      The investigator has independently verified 34 of these cases so far through review of
      medical records and peer-reviewed literature. These patients are different in their
      demographics and disease characteristics as compared to patients with more typically
      progressive ALS. One possible explanation for these cases is that these patients are
      genetically different than most patients with ALS and that these differences confer a form of
      disease "resistance". Study of these selected reversal patients may yield valuable clues to
      endogenous mechanisms of ALS resistance. The concept of genetic conferred ability to resist a
      disease is not novel. A group of patients who could unexpectedly "control" HIV due to a
      mutant allele has led to an improved understanding of HIV pathophysiology and a new treatment

      This is a pilot case-control study attempting to discover genetic correlates to ALS
      reversals. The investigator will collect demographics, disease characteristics, pedigree
      information and saliva samples from ALS reversals. Whole genome DNA will be extracted and
      sequenced from these saliva samples. The genomes of ALS reversals will then be compared with
      whole genome sequencing previously completed from a biorepository of de-identified samples of
      more typically progressive patients with ALS. The study will not save any saliva samples
      collected as a part of this new protocol for future research.
    
  