
    
      Stoma has serious psychosocial effects on patients. Stoma prehabilitation has a potential to
      overcome these problems. Patients in prehabilitation group were attached with a water-filled
      stoma pouch (250 ml) 48 hours before surgery. These pouches were not removed until surgery,
      and enterostomal therapy nurse preoperatively taught the patients how to manage the stoma
      pouch with similar standards as the usual postoperative stoma-care.

      This study aims to measure the effects of prehabilitation on stoma self-care, quality of
      life, anxiety and depression levels.

      A total of 240 patients met the inclusion criteria and were randomly assigned into three
      groups with the use of a prepared computerized block design by the biostatistician.
      Twenty-two patients were excluded and 218 patients were included in the analysis.

      Each group had a different protocol:

      Group A - Postoperative Group received stoma education and stoma care after surgery beginning
      from the postoperative day-1; Group B - Pre- and Postoperative Group received stoma education
      both before surgery and on the postoperative day-1. They received stoma care postoperatively
      as usual; Group C - Prehabilitation Group received the same protocol as Group B, however in
      addition they were prehabilitated with a water-filled stoma pouch (250 ml) 48 hours before
      surgery. These pouches were not removed until surgery, and enterostomal therapy (EST) nurse
      preoperatively taught the patients how to manage the stoma pouch with similar standards as
      the usual postoperative stoma-care.

      Stoma site marking: Preoperative stoma site marking improves patients' QoL and independence
      in the postoperative period and decreases postoperative complications. In elective cases this
      should be considered as a must. In the current study all the patients' stoma sites were
      marked preoperatively by an EST nurse according to some important rules. Patients' abdominal
      surfaces were observed carefully for folds, scars, and creases in lying and standing
      positions. Bilateral points were chosen by paying attention to the planned incision line and
      the borders of the rectus muscle. At the end we had all the patients confirm they can see the
      marked sites.

      Stoma education: A consultation period for stoma education by an EST nurse was approximately
      45 minutes. Patients were shown pictures of a stoma. The stoma-care equipments and a pouch
      were also shown to the patients and they were informed about these equipments. They were also
      provided information about daily living with a stoma.

      Stoma prehabilitation: A stoma pouch was attached to the marked stoma site on the patient's
      abdominal surface after stoma education (only in group C). EST nurse filled 250 ml water into
      the pouch. Patients lived with these pouches until surgery. They experienced walking,
      sitting, sleeping, changing clothes with a pouch. They learned how to empty it. When a leak
      occurred, the pouch was changed by the nurse.
    
  