
    
      The study involved adult T2D, hypertensive and those with the two diseases attending the
      cardiology and endocrinology out-patient clinics of the two tertiary hospitals [University
      College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan and Federal Medica Centre (FMC), Abeokuta, Nigeria].

      Sample size determination

      For the prospective phase, an average of 25 patients regularly attend the weekly medical
      out-patient endocrinology clinic of the two hospitals. This gives a total of 100 patients per
      month in each hospital, and for the 6-months study period gave an estimated population of 600
      T2D per hospital. However, a maximum of 2 to 6 months clinic appointment is usually given to
      T2D in UCH, and a maximum of 3 months appointment in FMC, the appointment schedule was based
      on the extent of glycaemic control. Based on this information, an estimated T2D population
      for 4-months and 3-months was used to calculate the target sample size for UCH and FMC,
      respectively. Thus, considering the regular attendee of 100 patients per month in each of the
      hospital, a total of 700 T2D was used as estimated population to guide sample size
      determination using the Raosoft® sample size calculator at 95% confidence level and 5% margin
      of error (http://www.raosoft.com/samplesize.html). This gave a target sample size of 249 T2D
      participants to be enrolled for the study. Similarly, Average of 20 hypertensive patients
      regularly attend the weekly medical out-patient cardiology clinic of the two hospitals. This
      gives a total of 80 patients per month in each hospital, and for the 6-months study period
      gave an estimated population of 320 hypertensive patients per hospital. However, a maximum of
      2 to 6 months clinic appointment is usually given to hypertensive patients in UCH, and a
      maximum of 3 months appointment in FMC, depending on the extent of control of the blood
      pressure. Based on this information, an estimated hypertensive patients population for
      4-months and 3-months was used to calculate the target sample size for UCH and FMC,
      respectively. Thus, considering the regular attendee of 80 patients per month in each of the
      hospital, a total of 560 was used as estimated population to guide sample size determination
      using the Raosoft® sample size calculator at 95% confidence level and 5% margin of error.
      This gave a target sample size of 229 hypertensive participants to be enrolled.

      Instrument descriptions The baseline questionnaire comprised sections A to F. Section A
      captured demographic data, section B contained modified International Physical Activity
      Questionnaire short-form (IPAQ-SF) (IPAQ-SF, 2002) and individual physical activity was
      calculated as metabolic equivalent task (MET) per week (http://www.ipaq.ki.se). IPAQ -SF
      instrument measures duration, frequency, intensity of physical activity in leisure-time,
      work, and doing household tasks in the past seven days. This short version consists of seven
      items including time spent in walking, vigorous activity, moderate activity, and sedentary
      activity weekly. Metabolic Equivalent Tasks (MET) values reported by patients were computed.
      To interpret the modified IPAQ-SF, according to WHO, an adult is expected to have minimum of
      600 Metabolic Equivalents (MET) physical activities weekly. Participants were classified as
      non-adherent and adherent to exercise if he/she has less than 600 and above 600METs per week
      respectively.

      Section C consisted of modified Perceived Dietary Adherence Questionnaire (PDAQ) developed by
      Assad et al., (2015), to measure patients' perception of dietary adherence. For these items,
      higher scores reflected higher level of adherence (Assad et al., 2015). However, items four
      and nine, indicated unhealthy choices (foods high in sugar or fat). For these items, higher
      scores reflected lower adherence. In computing the total PDAQ score, the scores for these two
      items were inverted. Although based on a weekly timeframe, it was anticipated that the PDAQ
      would reflect usual dietary patterns based on knowledge that most people consume similar
      foods from week to week (Assad et al., 2015). In this study, PDAQ was interpreted by
      classifying participants as adherent to dietary recommendations if they scored 51 (80%) and
      above, out of the 63 maximum obtainable score, while those who scored less than 51 (80%) were
      classified as non-adherent to dietary recommendations. Section D of the instrument contained
      the 4-items Medication Adherence Questions (MAQ) while section E explored reason(s) for
      non-adherence to medications, physical activity and dietary recommendations. Section F of the
      instrument contained the components of educational intervention to resolve non-adherence
      problems that were identified from the responses to questions in MAQ, IPAQ-SF and PDAQ among
      patients in the intervention groups. Where necessary, at least one to two clinic appointment
      was rescheduled to follow-up of the participants in the intervention group. The 6-months
      post-baseline evaluation employed the same questions in sections B, C, D and E to re-assessed
      participants in both control and intervention groups, to ascertain the possible change in
      adherence status to recommended medications, physical activity and dietary management.

      Validation and Pre-test of Data Collection Instrument

      The questionnaire was assessed for content validity by an endocrinologist and cardiologist in
      UCH and three pharmacists in the academia in University of Ibadan who were knowledgeable
      about diabetes mellitus and hypertension. A pre-test was caaried out among twenty-five T2D
      and hypertensive patients in UCH who were subsequently excluded from the main study. The
      pre-test was aimed at ascertaining the appropriateness of the data collection procedure as
      well as the study design. Feedback from the pre-test was used to modified. Some questions on
      physical activity which were rephrased as open-ended questions. In addition, some food items
      in the PDAQ that are not native food of the studied population were replaced with their
      indigenous food with similar calorie in accordance with official recommendations (Atkinson et
      al., 2008; Evert et al., 2014) for better understanding of the partiicpants. Internal
      consistency of the question-items in PDAQ and MAQ were determined using Cronbach alpha test
      with values of 0.87 and 0.76, respectively.

      Participants enrollment procedure

      Only eligible patients were approached while waiting to consult the attending physicians on
      endocrinology clinic day of each hospital. At baseline, a total of 249 T2D and 262
      hypertensive patients were approached, while 227 (91.2%) T2D and 248 (94.6%) hypertensive
      patients consented to partake in the study from both hospitals within the study period. Every
      participant had individualized baseline, and once the 6-months duration of enrolment into the
      study is completed, then individual participation is terminated. At baseline, participants
      were administered the questionnaire, while glycaemic status (HbA1c) and blood pressure (BP)
      were also assessed. However, at the end of the study period, a total of 201 (88.5%) T2D and
      200 hypertensive patients completed the study and were those considered for data analysis, 26
      (11.5%) T2D and 48 (19.3%) hypertensive patients were lost to follow-up. Of the 201 and 200
      who competed the study, a total of 95 T2D patients had HbA1c <7%, 120 hypertensive patients
      had blood pressure <140/90mmHg and were classified as control group, while 106 T2D patients
      had HbA1c ≥7% and 80 hypertensive patients had blood pressure ≥140/90mmHg and were classified
      as uncontrolled/intervention group using the ADA target for diabetes control (ADA, 2018) and
      according to JNC-7 (Chobanian et al., 2003) respectively. Finger pin-prick blood assay of
      glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) was done using the clover A1C automated analyser ® (PTS
      Diagnostics, IN, USA) point-of-care kit, while BP measurements using Omron® digital monitor
      were taken on two separate occasions at few minutes interval and the average was recorded.
      Patients' BP and HbA1c were also rechecked after 6-months of interaction to assess the extent
      of change in the diabetes-specific clinical parameters and hypertension-clinical parameters.

      Data collection procedure participants were approached on their clinic days while waiting to
      meet the physician at each clinic. the structured questionnaire was used to collected
      baseline information from the participants. Reasons for non-adherence to medication (s) were
      obtained if any of the questions in the MAQ was answered in affirmative. IPAQ -SF instrument
      measures duration, frequency, intensity of physical activity in leisure-time, work, and doing
      household tasks in the past seven days. Participants were classified as non-adherent and
      adherent to recommended physical activity if he/she has less than 600 and above 600METs per
      week respectively. Reasons for non-adherence/inability to achieve recommended MET per week
      were obtained from such participant. Before recommending an increase in physical activity to
      patients in the intervention group, the participant's current health status was put into
      consideration based on the information provided by participant on the disease and other
      comorbid condition(s) been managed for, such as arthritis, heart disease.

      Similarly, participants were further evaluated for adherence to dietary recommendation for
      their disease state using the modified Perceived Dietary Adherence Questionnaire (PDAQ)
      (Appendix II). The cut off of 51 points of the total of 63 points indicated that the patient
      have 80% adherence to dietary recommendation. Similarly, participants reason(s) for
      non-adherence to recommended dietary management was also obtained.

      HbA1c/B.P measurement was carried out to assess their clinical outcome at baseline and 6month
      post-baseline to evaluate their clinical outcome.

      Post-baseline individualized education (Intervention) Phase The individualized educational
      intervention was check using Template for Intervention Description Replication (TIDiER) check
      list

      The individualized intervention was aimed at improving treatment adherence among patients in
      the intervention group.

      The individualized educational intervention was aimed at resolving non-adherence to therapy
      (medication, diet and physical activity) deficit identified during the face-to-face interview
      at the baseline. The hospital information leaflets provided for each patient at the hospital
      clinics during registration which focused on recommended diet and physical activities was
      employed to further explained the recommended therapy for the patients. Pharmacist who was
      knowledgeable on the disease state by the virtue of training and several seminars and
      workshops on diabetes and hypertension management carried out the face-to-face individualize
      educational intervention. This was done at the clinics while the participants were waiting
      for their turn to meet with the physician. At least participants were seen twice to ensure
      their understanding of information provided for them and resolve any for of misunderstanding
      that might have taken place. During the pretest, the project supervisor assessed the
      intervention to ensure it was carried out as planned.

      Post-intervention phase This phase of the study re-assessed the treatment adherence of all
      the participants (both control and intervention group). Sections B, C, D, E and F of Appendix
      II were re-assessed for both control and the intervention group, six months after the
      educational intervention of the intervention group. This was done to assess if there is any
      change in the measured parameters from what was obtained at baseline.

      Cost estimation The direct medical costs associated with the treatment of diabetes and/or
      hypertension for six months prior baseline and six months post-baseline were estimated. The
      direct medical cost items included; cost of all outpatient clinic visit (consultation fee),
      cost of medications, and cost of laboratory investigations associated with the disease state.
      Cost of medication(s) was calculated using the daily dose for medications prescribed with
      reference to the hospital pharmacy department tariff for the study year. Consultation fee is
      the amount charged by the hospital for a consulting encounter with a physician. Other direct
      non-medical costs included are; transportation cost to the hospital for patients based on
      patient's residence and this was estimated using the NURTW tariff for the year of study.
      Conversion of Nigeria Naira to US Dollar: ₦303 to 1 USD for the year 2017 was based on
      conversion rate on currency converter (oando.com).

      Data Analysis All data was sorted, coded and entered into SPSS version 23.0 for analysis.
      Descriptive and inferential statistics were employed for analysis. Descriptive a statistics
      including frequencies, percentages, and means ± standard deviation were used to summarized
      data.

      significance of change in continuous variables, especially the clinical parameters (such as
      HbA1c, systolic and diastolic blood pressure), physical activity performed weekly, adherence
      to recommended diet at baseline and six month post-baseline were compared using paired sample
      t-test and significance was set at P <0.05. Cost of each cost items 6months prior baseline
      and at 6months post-baseline for each disease state within and between the two facilities
      were also compared using paired sample t-test. Total cost of management (including all direct
      cost associated with the disease state) for each group in each disease state before and after
      the intervention was evaluated with paired sample t-test.

      McNemar test was used to evaluate for significant change in responses to MAQ items at
      baseline and 6-months post-baseline. Chi-square (χ2) was used to test for association between
      categorical variables (gender, age, educational qualifications and adherence status) at
      p<0.05.
    
  