
    
      History and current studies Aging-induced degenerative diseases are the leading cause of
      senile cataract. Phacoemulsification with intraocular lens (IOL) implantation is a commonly
      employed surgical technique for the treatment of cataract. A traditional IOL is spherical and
      monofocal. Traditional monofocal IOL implantation allows cataract patients to obtain good
      postoperative distance vision but loss of accommodation results in poor near vision.
      Following monofocal IOL implantation, most patients still require the use of glasses.
      Fortunately, the presence of multifocal IOLs solves this problem. Studies have shown that
      aspheric IOLs with zero or negative spherical aberration can eliminate or reduce the
      spherical aberration of the whole eye and can improve contrast sensitivity and night vision
      compared with a spherical IOL.

      As first reported in 1987 by Keatea et al., multifocal IOLs were introduced to provide
      improved visual acuity, thus eliminating the need to wear glasses and improving the patient's
      quality of life. Increasing evidence-based medicine evidences have shown that multifocal IOLs
      are more adept to improving near vision than single-focus IOLs. To date, various types of
      multifocal IOLs have been developed and according to different design principles, clinically
      used multifocal IOLs have been divided into refraction type, diffraction type and
      refraction/diffraction type. Introduced in 2002, the Tecnis Z9001 diffractive multifocal
      aspherical IOL (Abbott Medical Optics, CA, USA) is clinically proven to give patients
      improved contrast vision and visual quality when compared with the common IOL, although
      deficiencies include postoperative glare and reduced contrast sensitivity. Emerging designs
      for multifocal IOLs aim to provide improvements in postoperative visual quality. The
      Acri.LISA 366D multifocal aspheric IOL is a relatively novel refractive/diffractive
      multifocal IOL that is different from traditional IOLs. Its unique optical design improves
      the patient's full vision and reduces the incidence of light scattering, glare and halo,
      which is expected to deliver better clinical outcomes. However, its long-term clinical
      performance and the potential incidence of complications still need further evaluation.

      It is worth noting that as age increases, the increase in presbyopia, aberrations and lens
      scattering reduces the compensation for corneal aberrations, thereby resulting in a decrease
      in visual acuity and contrast sensitivity. Given this, ideal IOLs should have good
      biocompatibility and good resolution with no spherical aberration.

      Data collection, management, analysis, and open access Data collection Clinical data will be
      collected and managed using an electronic data capture system. All data relevant to the trial
      will be recorded in electronic case report forms that will be provided by the sponsor
      personnel. The case report will be completed after the interview.

      Data management After completion of follow-up and data confirmation, only the project manager
      will lock the database. The locked data will be unable to be altered and will be preserved
      for future reference by the Affiliated Hospital of Qinghai University in China.

      Data analysis All data will be statistically analyzed by professional statisticians.

      Open data Published data will be released at http://www.medresman.org.

      Statistical analysis All data will be statistically analyzed by statisticians using SPSS
      v19.0 software. Normally distributed measurement data will be expressed as mean ± standard
      deviation, while non-normally distributed data will be expressed as quartiles and medians.
      Categorical variables will be expressed as counts and percentages. Two-sample t-test or
      Mann-Whitney U-test will be used for intergroup comparison of visual acuity and diopter. The
      chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test will be used for intergroup comparison of incidence
      of histocompatibility reactions between the implant and host tissues and the percentage of
      complications. A value of P < O.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  