
    
      According to the World Health Organization, lung cancer is the most common cause of
      cancer-related death in men and women, and is responsible for 1.5 million deaths worldwide
      annually as of 2012. Surgery remains the best option for patients presenting with operable
      Stage I or II cancers, however the five year survival rate for these candidates remains at a
      dismal 73% for Stage I and 53% for Stage II. The high rates of local recurrence suggest that
      surgeons are unable to completely detect and remove primary tumor nodules in a satisfactory
      manner as well as lingering metastases in sentinel lymph nodes. By ensuring a negative margin
      through imaging during surgery it would be possible for the investigators to improve the
      rates of recurrence free patients and thus overall survival.

      Thoracic malignancies are the ideal disease to investigate intra-operative imaging. Over 85%
      of lung and pleural malignancies express folate receptor alpha (FRA), therefore making folate
      receptors (FR) the ideal targets for imaging agents. While folate will initially distribute
      to all cells, redistribution, metabolism, and excretion will eliminate most of this agent
      from healthy tissues within hours. Tumor cells that over express FRα will retain folate and
      any fluorescent labeled folate conjugate and internalize this. It is important to note that
      FRA is expressed only in the proximal tubules of the kidneys, activated macrophages, and in
      the choroidal plexus. However, the fluorescence signal in the kidneys is expected to be
      significantly lower than the tumor tissues. Thus, the false positive detection rate is
      expected to be extremely low.

      The investigators have conducted a Phase I clinical trial with folate-FITC in 50 patients
      with lung cancer. In the study at UPenn, the investigators had no adverse events. The
      investigators had excellent sensitivity and specificity with this technique with only grade 1
      side effects (allergic reaction). All side effects reversed when the injection was halted.
      This study confirmed that FRA is a reasonable target for lung cancer.

      On Target Laboratories, LLC has developed OTL38. Compared with some of the existing
      fluorescent imaging agents, OTL38 is associated with less auto-fluorescence due to its
      near-IR excitation wavelength and can be seen through blood and tissues up to 1.5 cm
      thickness. Thus, in this study, the investigator's goal has changed from the folate-FITC
      formulation to the OTL38 formulation. The fluorophore component of the drug is new, whereas
      the target and design of the study remain unchanged.
    
  