
    
      Although engaging in regular physical activity (PA) plays a critical role in reducing one's
      risk for numerous health problems, 4 out of 5 U.S. adults fail to meet national PA
      guidelines, with underserved groups (low income and racial/ethnic minority groups) having the
      highest rates of physical inactivity. Developing innovative strategies to motivate
      underserved groups to initiate PA has become an increasing national priority, but many
      implementation challenges remain, as evidenced by relatively low levels of program engagement
      among underserved groups. Increasingly, researchers have begun to show that rather than using
      a "one-size-fits all" intervention approach, developing interventions that target specific
      individual differences in cultural or social-cognitive factors is a highly effective approach
      for increasing engagement among underserved groups. Broadening this approach in a novel
      domain, the proposed research tests whether developing interventions that target differences
      in autonomous (internally-driven) vs. controlled (externally-driven) motivation is a feasible
      and useful approach for engaging African American women in PA initiation. The proposed study
      is a randomized pilot study comparing two intervention programs: a Challenge-focused program
      targeted toward high autonomous motivation and a Rewards-focused program targeted toward high
      controlled motivation. The Challenge-focused program targets greater PA enjoyment, PA
      valuation, and relatedness, and the Rewards-focused program targets greater PA competence and
      structured social support for PA. It is hypothesized that baseline motivation (measured with
      the Behavioral Regulation in Exercise questionnaire) will moderate treatment effects.
      Specifically, participants with relatively higher autonomous motivation will demonstrate
      greater improvements from baseline to post- in total physical activity when they receive the
      "matched" intervention (Challenge-Focused program) relative to the non-matched intervention
      (Rewards-Focused Program). Additionally, participants with relatively higher controlled
      motivation will demonstrate greater improvements from baseline to post- in total physical
      activity when they receive the "matched" intervention (Rewards-Focused program) relative to
      the non-matched intervention (Challenge-Focused Program). The results of this study will
      provide support of the feasibility and proof-of-concept for conducting a large scale
      randomized controlled trial.
    
  