
    
      This is a non-randomized prospective study. Patients undergoing upper extremity and shoulder
      surgical procedures after trauma at SJHC and LHSC will be divided in to two groups. The first
      group will include those who receive a single shot brachial plexus (interscalene,
      supraclavicular, infraclavicular and axillary) block with or without general anesthesia. The
      second group will be the control group and include those patients who receive general
      anesthesia only, without any block whether due to the preference of patient or the surgeon.
      Patients will not be randomized for this study because regional anesthesia is proven to
      reduce acute postoperative pain and reduce the need for opioids. However, investigators will
      involve all patients who meet the inclusion criteria and give consent to participate in this
      study within the period of study between September 1st 2015 and February 28th 2017 (18
      months). The block is usually performed with ultrasound guidance by the block Room team at
      both sites (consultant, fellow and resident). Block success will be checked and documented.
      Ropivacaine is the standard local anesthetic used in the block room at LHSC (University
      Hospital) and SJHC. However, the type of local anesthetics and the total volume are difficult
      to be standardized for all patients in this study, so it will be neglected during analysis.
      The block room at SJHC and LHSC perform around 100 blocks per month. Thirty percent of these
      blocks are for upper limb procedures. The same number of patients undergoes these procedures
      with no blocks at both SJHC and LHSC. Investigators expect to involve around 100 patients in
      each arm during the study period. All patients will be followed up for 6 months through
      filling a questionnaire and Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), which assess pain score and pain
      interference scale. The follow up will be through mail and /or phone call. Sample Size There
      is no previous study data provided the prevalence of CPSP in similar surgical procedure.
    
  