
    
      1. Study Design This is a prospective, randomized study. Our primary objective will be to
           test the hypothesis that early discharge and outpatient monitoring of late preterm to
           term infants with apnea of prematurity results in decreased length of hospital stay, is
           safe and cost effective, and results in improved patient satisfaction, as assessed by
           the PedsQL questionnaire and Impact on Family Scale.

        2. Patient Selection and Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria

        3. Description of Study Treatments or Exposures/Predictors The investigators will identify
           all qualified infants who meet eligibility criteria for enrollment, and will obtain
           informed consent at that time. Infants will not be randomized until their apnea,
           bradycardia, and/or oxygen desaturation has been the sole remaining discharge criteria
           for at least 7 days. Prior to randomization, but after the receipt of written informed
           consent, the investigators will confirm that the primary clinical team has determined
           that there are no alternate etiologies for the apnea/bradycardia/desaturation events,
           based on diagnostic testing or clinical judgment.

           Randomization will be stratified according to gestational age at birth to include two
           broad categories as follows: 1) late preterm infants who are born between 34 0/7 and 36
           6/7 weeks gestation (late preterm infants) and 2) term infants who are born at or
           greater than 37 0/7 weeks gestation. Our aim will be to recruit at least 5 infants in
           each treatment arm for both late preterm and full term infants.

           Arm A will include continued inpatient monitoring of apnea, bradycardia, and/or
           desaturation until an event free period of time (5 days per the current standard of care
           at each participating institution) has been established and deemed appropriate for
           discharge home per the discretion of the responsible provider. The protocol described in
           Arm A is currently utilized as a standard of care for many infants locally and
           nationally and is the first management option utilized at all participating
           institutions. Arm B will include the initiation of caffeine treatment once randomization
           has been established. Per current dosing guideline, patients will receive a one-time
           loading dose of 20 milligrams per kilogram on day 1 with a daily maintenance dose
           thereafter of 10 milligrams per kilogram. Monitoring of caffeine drug levels will not be
           included in our protocol as the safety of caffeine treatment in neonates without
           laboratory monitoring has been well established. After receiving the loading dose of
           caffeine, infants will receive continued inpatient monitoring of
           apnea/bradycardia/desaturation until an event free period of time (3 days per the
           current standard of care at each participating institution) has been established and
           deemed appropriate for discharge home per the discretion of the responsible provider.
           Infants discharged home on caffeine therapy will receive instructions regarding use of a
           home monitor, with alarms set to alarm for heart rate <80 or > 200 beats per minute, or
           for oxygen saturation level < 90%. The protocol described in Arm B is currently utilized
           as a standard of care for many infants locally and nationally as a secondary option
           after observation alone has resulted in a prolonged inpatient stay due to persistent
           apnea with all other discharge criteria having been met. In a recent retrospective
           analysis of home monitor use, the investigators found that 1 in 20 infants with apnea of
           prematurity were discharge home with a monitor.

           Following discharge home, infants in Arm B will be contacted via telephone within 2 days
           to answer any questions or address any concerns pertaining to apneic events, home pulse
           oximeter use, or caffeine therapy. Follow up in the pulmonary clinic will be arranged at
           42-43 weeks gestational age at which time caregivers will be taught to determine the
           baseline frequency of monitor alarms on caffeine. At 43 weeks corrected gestational age,
           caregivers will be instructed to discontinue caffeine therapy and advised to contact the
           pulmonary clinic should alarm frequency increase. An outpatient recorded oximetry study
           will be arranged at least 1 week after discontinuation of caffeine therapy. Home pulse
           oximetry monitoring will be discontinued if no significant events, as previously
           defined, are recorded.

           Follow up after discharge in both treatment arms will otherwise proceed per unit
           protocol and typically consists of a home visiting nurse within 2-3 days of hospital
           discharge and a primary care provider appointment within 2-3 days of hospital discharge.

        4. Data Collection Methods, Assessments, Interventions and Schedule (what assessments
           performed, how often) For infants in both arms, parents will participate in a structured
           questionnaire at enrollment, and 1 month after hospital discharge for patients in Arm A
           and 1 month after discontinuation of home monitor use for patients in Arm B. The
           investigators will also contact families at 6 months of age to determine
           rehospitalization rates, and frequency of emergency department visits related to
           respiratory issues.
    
  