
    
      According to a 2001 report by the U.S. Census Bureau, African Americans and Latinos make up
      65% of all AIDS cases reported in the United States, yet they make up only 25% of the
      population in the United States. In addition, the number of women living with HIV/AIDS, many
      of whom are minorities, is rapidly increasing. ACTs are research studies designed to evaluate
      new therapies to fight HIV infection and prevent and treat opportunistic infections and
      cancers associated with AIDS. Preliminary research suggests that intensive intervention
      efforts are needed to improve rates of screening and to enroll more racial/ethnic minorities
      and women in ACTs. The purpose of this study is to identify effective intervention strategies
      to increase the low number of HIV infected racial/ethnic minorities and women who are
      screened for and enrolled into ACTs.

      Each participant will be enrolled in the study for 12 months. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to either the intervention or control arm. Initial "seed" participants in the
      intervention arm will complete a peer-driven intervention consisting of four structured
      intervention sessions lasting 6 hours in total (occurring every week for 4 weeks), three peer
      education/recruitment experiences, and brief liaison contacts by an intervention facilitator
      during AIDS clinical trial screening. Participants in the control arm will complete a
      time-matched health education intervention lasting 6 hours. Participants in the control arm
      will also receive the community standard of care and be referred to their local ACT unit.
      Peer participants will be recruited by either a seed or through general recruitment; those
      recruited by an initial seed will participate in the same arm as the see d who recruited
      them. Study visits will occur throughout the study. Participants in the intervention arm will
      complete an interview at Week 30. At Weeks 8, 16 and 52, all participants will complete
      social impact assessments. At Weeks 16 and 52, all participants will complete follow-up
      visits.
    
  