
    
      The aim of this study is to improve the current first-trimester screening regimes for early
      detection of late-onset preeclampsia (PE) using maternal serum biomarkers in combination with
      maternal history, uterine artery flow, and mean arterial blood pressure.

      Hypothesis: Matrix metalloproteinase 7 (MMP-7) in combination with maternal history, uterine
      artery flow and mean arterial blood pressure can improve the detection rate of late onset PE.

      The Fetal Medicine Foundation (FMF) algorithm is developed with the objective of identifying
      women at high risk of PE in the first trimester of pregnancy, allowing for effective
      prophylactic use of low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) started before 16 weeks of pregnancy.
      The algorithm utilizes Bayes' theorem by combining maternal characteristics and medical
      history with uterine artery pulsatility index (PI), mean arterial pressure (MAP), maternal
      serum pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A), and placental growth factor (PlGF) and
      has been validated in several populations. It has been shown to identify up to 90% of
      early-onset PE (EO-PE) cases, however, the detection rate of late-onset PE (LO-PE) remains
      low and the biomarkers PAPP-A and PlGF do not appear to significantly improve performance of
      screening for these cases compared to screening by maternal characteristics and medical
      history alone.

      An abundance of biomarkers have been suggested and researched for the prediction of LO-PE and
      of these, matrix metalloproteinase 7 (MMP-7) has shown to be a potentially useful predictor
      with a sensitivity of 69% at a false positive rate (FPR) 20% at 8-16 weeks of pregnancy.
      Additionally, MAP appears to be a relatively good predictor for LO-PE at the same gestational
      age (GA). Ultimately, the search for more accurate biomarkers and prediction models for PE
      and especially for LO-PE remains relevant and necessary, both with regards to improving
      antenatal care and taking the necessary precautions for PE mothers, researching potential
      treatments, and gaining a better understanding of PE pathophysiology altogether.

      This study will be a nested case-control study carried out as a sub-study of the larger
      multicenter study "Preeclampsia Screening in Denmark" (PRESIDE) comprising six major
      hospitals in Denmark, including Odense University Hospital (OUH). Throughout the time period
      September 2019 to March 2020, 1400 participants are expected to enroll in PRESIDE through OUH
      with the goal of validating the FMF screening algorithm in a Danish population. These women
      will be giving birth from March to June 2020. In our sub-study, the case group will consist
      of women diagnosed with PE after 34 weeks of gestation. With an expected late-onset PE
      incidence of 2,5%, the sample size of the case group will be n=35. The control group will
      include 165 participants who were not diagnosed with PE in their pregnancies.

      All information regarding maternal characteristics and medical history are collected as part
      of standard procedure during first trimester screening for chromosomal abnormalities and is
      stored in theOUH fetal medicine database Astraia. Uterine artery flow values will be entered
      in Astraia along with these data. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) measurements will be
      automatically transferred to a REDCap database where all study data, including consent forms
      and outcome data, will be stored. For all participants, information regarding pregnancy and
      neonatal outcome will be collected from registers and individual patient files. The collected
      blood samples will be stored and analyzed after the child is born and hence, the PE risk will
      only be calculated after delivery. Venous blood will be sampled, and aliquots will be stored
      as part of a research biobank and a biobank for future research at the Department of Clinical
      Biochemistry and Pharmacology (KBF), OUH. The samples for measurement of MMP-7 will be taken
      from the biobank for future research and will be performed in the Biomarker Laboratory at the
      KBF research unit by an automated immunoassay analyzer system (Tritius) using a Human Total
      MMP-7 Quantikine ELISA Kit.

      The cohort consists of pregnant women assigned to the Department of Obstetrics at Odense
      University Hospital for their first trimester nuchal translucency between September 2019 and
      March 2020; who are included/excluded according to the criteria; and who agree to enroll in
      the study. The potential participants will receive information about the study by e-boks
      (online communication platform) when they book their appointment for the first trimester scan
      and will be approached by project staff upon arrival to the department on the day of the
      scan. Those who agree to receive more information will be orally informed by project staff
      about the project and its implications. Each participant will provide written consent
      followed by blood sampling, MAP measurements, and ultrasound procedures.
    
  