
    
      The proposed study will examine the efficacy of a newly developed intervention program, the
      Optimizing Participation after Stroke through Strategy-training (OPASS) program on improving
      participation in productivity, social activities, and community among community-dwelling
      people with cognitive impairments after stroke. The OPASS program were developed based on the
      theoretical tenets of strategy training, with the goal of helping participants to set their
      participation goals, identify barriers to their performance, develop strategies to address
      these barriers, and generalize their learning through iterative practice. To examine the
      efficacy of OPASS, the following objectives will be addressed in this study:

        1. To examine whether, compared to a control group, participating in the OPASS program will
           improve participation in productivity, social, and community domains in stroke survivors
           with cognitive impairments;

        2. To determine whether the changes in participation after the intervention is correlated
           with changes in applied cognition, daily activities, executive functioning, and
           self-efficacy.

        3. To examine whether the intervention effect sustains at 3-, 6-, and 12-month following
           the intervention.

      To address this purpose, parallel-group randomized controlled trial will be implemented to
      assess the efficacy of the OPASS program in comparison to the control group. An expected
      sample of 210 adults with stroke-related cognitive impairments and are undergoing outpatient
      rehabilitation services will be recruited from our collaborative sites in Northern Taiwan.
      These participants will be randomly assigned to the intervention group and the attention
      control group at a 1:1 ratio.

      Outcome measures including the Participation Measure- 3 Domains, 4 Dimensions (PM-3D4D),
      Canadian Occupational Performance Measure(COPM), Activity Measure for Post-Acute Care (AMPAC)
      Outpatient Short Forms, Wisconsin Card Sorting Task (WCST), Stroop Test, Montreal Cognitive
      Assessment (MoCA), Trail-Making Test (TMT A and B), The National Institutes of Health Stroke
      scale (NIHSS), modified Rankin Scale (MRS), Euro-QoL-5-Dimension (EQ-5D) and Participation
      Strategies Self Efficacy Scale (PS-SES) will be administered at baseline (T1),
      post-intervention (T2), 3-month follow-up (T3), 6-month follow-up (T4), and 12-month
      follow-up (T5). Data will be analyzed using multiple linear regression models and
      mixed-effects regression models. Of the recruited participants, 100 will recieve the fMRI
      tests (including the resting-state scan, the fMRI scan with Stroop Test and TMT tasks, and
      the anatomical structure scan) at baseline(T1), post-intervention(T2), and 12-month follow-up
      (T5). Data will be analyzed using multiple linear regression models and mixed-effects
      regression models.

      Qualitative in-depth interviews with participants, caregivers, and therapists will be
      conducted following the intervention. Data regarding the interviewees' experiences,
      satisfaction, and their perceived effectiveness of the intervention will be collected.
      Transcribed data will be coded by two independent coders and analyzed with thematic analysis
      method.
    
  