
    
      Eligibility criteria:

        -  18 to 85 years.

        -  Evidence of myocardial ischemia without raised troponin (e.g. stable or unstable angina,
           silent ischemia demonstrated by positive territorial functional study).

        -  The patient has a planned intervention of up to two de novo lesions in different
           epicardial vessels

        -  Lesion(s) must have a visually estimated diameter stenosis of ≥50% and <100%.

        -  Lesion length must be <18mm

        -  RVD must be between 2.5-4.0 mm

        -  Written informed consent.

        -  The patient and the patient's physician agree to the follow-up visits including
           angiographic follow-up and OCT assessment at 3 months.

      Design details and outcomes This is a prospective, multicentre, single arm, open- label
      study, which will enroll a total of 45 patients in 5 European investigational sites. All
      patients will be treated with the Nano+ Polymer-free Sirolimus Coronary Stent System. All
      patients will undergo angiographic (QCA) investigation at baseline (pre- and post-procedure)
      and at 3 months follow-up. All patients will undergo OCT investigation at 3 months follow-up.
      OCT investigation will be performed at 6 months follow-up in those patients where the OCT
      criteria (coverage and stent apposition) were not met at 3 months OCT. Off-line OCT and
      angiographic data analysis will be undertaken by an independent core laboratory (Cardialysis
      BV, Rotterdam, The Netherlands) blinded to clinical and procedural characteristics of the
      patients and according to pre-set Standard Operating Procedures. All patients will be
      evaluated clinically at 3, 4, 5 months (for patients with 6 months OCT follow-up evaluation
      will be at 8 months) and at 1 and 2 years. Clinical data will be adjudicated by an
      independent Clinical Event Committee. An independent Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB)
      will monitor the individual and collective safety of the patients in the study on an ongoing
      basis. This is a hypothesis generating study, because no evidence about the expected
      magnitude of the effect is available at present. Data generated from this study will be
      compared (historical control) against historical figures of other drug eluting stents
      available at Cardialysis, for published data.
    
  