
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability of ibrutinib and rituximab (R)-dose adjusted
      (da)-etoposide, prednisone, vincristine sulfate, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin
      hydrochloride (EPOCH) in participants with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related
      lymphomas (ARL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the complete response (CR) rates of ARL to ibrutinib and R-da-EPOCH.

      II. To measure the 1-year and 2-year overall and progression-free survival of participants
      with ARL treated with combination ibrutinib and R-da-EPOCH, including preliminary comparison
      of non-germinal center B-cell (GCB) with historical controls treated with R-da-EPOCH.

      III. To categorize and compare the cell-of-origin by gene expression profiling (GEP) gene
      expression-based classification (GCB, activated B-cell-like, unclassifiable) to
      immunohistochemistry (IHC) classification (GCB, non-GCB), estimate the discordant
      classification, and correlate each biological classification (IHC and GEP) with treatment
      response rates and survival.

      IV. To calculate the percentage of participants who receive two or more cycles of R-da-EPOCH,
      and are able to continue on a minimum dose level of cyclophosphamide of -1 and above after
      dose adjustments for hematologic toxicities.

      V. To determine the average number of days per cycle participants are able to stay on planned
      dose of ibrutinib at the recommended phase II dose (RP2D).

      VI. To assess the effect of ibrutinib and R-da-EPOCH on the human immunodeficiency virus
      (HIV) long-term latency reservoir.

      VII. To assess the effect and degree of ibrutinib and R-da-EPOCH on T-cell receptor signaling
      via ITK inhibition.

      VIII. To assess the effect of ibrutinib and R-da-EPOCH on B-cell receptor signaling pathway
      including BTK activity in ARL.

      IX. To evaluate the soluble cytokine response to ibrutinib and R-da-EPOCH. X. To characterize
      the pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin, etoposide, and vincristine in the presence of ibrutinib,
      and vice versa, and assess the clinical relevance of any drug-drug interaction and correlate
      with pharmacodynamics outcomes.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of ibrutinib.

      Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1 (for CD20 positive patients only),
      etoposide IV over 96 hours on days 1-4, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 96 hours on days
      1-4, vincristine sulfate IV over 96 hours on days 1-4, prednisone orally (PO) daily on days
      1-5, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 5, and ibrutinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) from 1
      calendar day up to 48 hours or filgrastim SC beginning on day 6 for up to 10 days until
      absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is satisfactory.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, and
      then every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  