
    
      Positron emission tomography (PET) molecular imaging provides a valuable tool for the
      diagnosis and differential diagnosis, staging of various tumors. The most commonly used
      imaging agent is [F-18] fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG), known as the "molecule of the century".
      However, in some low-grade gliomas, mucinous adenocarcinoma, bronchoalveolar carcinoma,
      primary hepatocellular carcinoma, renal clear cell carcinoma and some prostate cancers,
      factors such as the low expression level of tumor glucose transporter but high level of
      dephosphorylation, and the low number of tumor cells in tumor tissues can also be manifested
      as low absorption of 18F-FDG; in addition, 18F-FDG PET has limited ability to detect small
      lesions in some organs such as brain, liver, and kidneys that have physiological uptake or
      excretion of FDG with the relatively high background signal; moreover, the distribution of
      FDG in the body is easily affected by blood sugar. These factors limit the application value
      of 18F-FDG PET/CT in the differential diagnosis and staging of some malignant tumors.

      A malignant tumor is composed of tumor cells and tumor stroma, which occupies the vast
      majority of the tumor. Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) are an important part of the tumor
      stroma. Fibroblast activation protein (FAP) is over-expressed in CAF, which is closely
      related to tumor growth, invasion, metastasis, immunosuppression and prognosis; and the
      expression level of FAP in normal tissues and organs is very low, so it becomes an excellent
      target for cancer diagnosis and treatment. The use of radionuclide-labeled fibroblast
      activation protein inhibitors (FAPI) that specifically bind to FAP as a tracer for PET
      imaging can be applied for targeted diagnosis and treatment of cancer. Recently, some studies
      have found that gallium-68 (68Ga) -FAPI as a new novel positron tracer has shown to be with
      good application potential. The probe has very low background uptake in different types of
      cancer, so it can obtain high image contrast and clear tumor boundary. And it has good
      stability in serum and can be quickly removed from normal organs in vivo. In this project, we
      plan to apply the integrated PET / MR imaging of fibroblast activating protein (FAP) in the
      diagnosis and staging of malignant tumors, and compare it with 18F-FDG PET / CT imaging, so
      as to make up for the deficiency in FDG PET imaging in the diagnosis and staging of some
      tumors.
    
  