
    
      Psoriasis is a common, chronic inflammatory disease that has a major impact on patients'
      quality of life. Patients' response to treatment is variable. Poor adherence to topical, oral
      and biologic psoriasis treatments is common and may account for poor responses.1, 2 Many
      psoriasis patients do not even fill their prescriptions.3 Electronic monitoring of adherence
      provides the most detailed and accurate way to assess adherence. While studies using
      electronic monitors have assessed adherence to topical psoriasis treatments and to biologics,
      adherence to oral psoriasis treatments is not as well characterized. Understanding adherence
      to oral psoriasis treatments is critical, as the therapeutic windows for these treatments are
      narrower than for other psoriasis treatment options, making adherence to recommended dosing
      all the more critical.

      Developing methods to improve psoriasis patients' adherence has the potential to provide an
      immediate, practical means to improve patients' treatment outcomes. Return visits improve
      patients' use of medication & treatment outcomes but are not practical and add additional
      costs to the patient and medical system. Having patients report on their treatment experience
      without an office visit offers promise for improving adherence but has not been tested in a
      psoriasis population.

      The primary hypothesis of the investigators study is that adherence to oral psoriasis
      treatment is poor and that a reporting intervention may improve adherence to oral psoriasis
      treatment.

      The Specific Aims of this study are:

        1. To determine adherence to oral psoriasis treatments (methotrexate) with electronic
           monitors.

        2. To assess the relationship between adherence and psoriasis outcomes (measured by body
           surface area [BSA], Physician Global Assessment [PGA] and [BSA]x[PGA]).

        3. To identify factors that are associated with adherence to oral psoriasis treatment,
           including physician trust, confidence in the treatment plan, and depression which will
           be measured with the Wake Forest University Physician Trust Scale (WFUPTS),4-6 the
           Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM),7 and the Hamilton Depression
           Rating Scale (HAM-D).

        4. To test obtain preliminary data on the impact of an Internet-reporting measure on
           patients' adherence to oral psoriasis treatment.

      The investigators propose an investigator-blinded, 6-month prospective study of 40 patients
      aged 12 and older who have been prescribed oral psoriasis treatment. Adherence will be
      assessed using Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS®) caps, electronic monitors affixed
      to the medication containers. Investigators and subjects will be blinded to the adherence
      data until the final (Month 6) treatment visit.

      This study is of high significance, providing critically important information on how
      patients use oral psoriasis treatments, as well as a foundation to develop and implement
      intervention trials to improve adherence and outcomes in patients treated with oral psoriasis
      treatments. Innovations in this study include seeking to change the paradigm of the
      investigators understanding of the role of adherence in oral psoriasis treatment, including
      effects on treatment failures and side effects, developing a new understanding of the roles
      of physician and medication trust in adherence, and potentially changing the timing and
      methods of clinical assessments in psoriasis (and other) patients in light of the effects of
      the timing and methods of clinical assessments on treatment adherence and outcomes. The use
      of objective electronic adherence monitors and well-validated assessment tools adds strength
      to the approach of this study; another strength of the approach is careful attention to
      research ethics of adherence monitoring. The environment of this study is particularly
      strong, with facilities for and extensive experience in all aspects of adherence monitoring
      research.

      The overall goal of this study is to better understand and improve adherence behaviors in
      patients with psoriasis, a common, chronic, relapsing, inflammatory disease. Psoriasis
      reduces patients' quality of life, yet patients with psoriasis, as with other chronic
      diseases, frequently misuse medicine, impairing effectiveness of prescribed therapies (when
      underused) and increasing the risks of treatment (when overused or mistimed).8 Poor adherence
      to treatment can be misconstrued as poor response, which can lead to unnecessary treatment
      escalation resulting in exposing patients to more toxic or costly medications.9 In many
      cases, non-adherence, rather than non-response, is the underlying precursor of treatment
      failure.10, 11

      Adherence issues with oral psoriasis treatment are largely unexplored and are of critical
      importance. Oral methotrexate is widely used (encouraged by payors), yet it is risky, with a
      more narrow therapeutic window than biologics. Other oral agents approved for psoriasis
      include cyclosporine (with a risk of renal disease) and apremilast (which is associated with
      gastrointestinal tolerability issues). While large database studies find that oral psoriasis
      treatment is underused, the variation in use of oral psoriasis treatments among patients is
      critically important and has not been defined.

      Traditional methods for measuring medical adherence tend to be unreliable. Assessment methods
      such as patient interviews, questionnaires, surveys, and diaries deliver inconsistent data
      that depend upon the patient's willingness to accurately record medication use and ability to
      remember what they did. Electronic monitoring devices offer an effective means for objective
      adherence monitoring. Medication Event Monitoring System caps (MEMS®, AARDEX Corp., Fremont,
      CA) include microprocessors in the bottle cap of a standard medication bottle that record
      each time and date the bottle is opened and the interval since the last bottle opening.12

      The availability of accurate electronic adherence measurement provides a foundation to study
      novel ways to improve adherence. In several studies of psoriasis and other inflammatory skin
      diseases, a clear pattern of improved adherence around the time of office visits is evident.
      The tendency for patients to be more adherent around the time of office visits may be a form
      of a more general tendency to be adherent when interacting with the healthcare system to
      assess their treatment outcomes, a form of "white coat compliance" or Hawthorne effect. A
      pilot study of adolescents with acne vulgaris tested whether adherence to topical benzoyl
      peroxide could be improved by weekly online-reporting of their treatment experience.
    
  