
    
      Purpose: To quantitatively compare glucose-enhanced MRI with the current standard GBCA
      enhanced MRI in participants with metastatic brain tumours prior to receiving radiotherapy
      from British Columbia Cancer Agency at Vancouver Cancer Centre.

      Hypotheses: 1) Glucose enhanced MRI will highlight malignant metastatic brain tumours with
      comparable contrast to noise compared to GBCA and 2) Glucose enhancements in brain tumours
      will offer unique and complementary information, when compared to GBCA enhanced MRIs.

      Justification: The current standard MRI contrast agent for metastatic brain tumours, GBCA, is
      limited by low specificity since GBCA accumulates in regions with disrupted blood brain
      barrier due to cancer as well as radiation necrosis and pseudo-progression after
      radiotherapy. It is important for radiation oncologists to reliably identify recurrent
      cancer, necrosis and post-treatment inflammation; and GBCA does not allow this. Therefore, a
      clinical need exists for an MRI technique that offers improved specificity for
      characterization of metastatic brain tumours before and after therapy. Glucose enhanced MRI
      represents a new technique that could offer improved specificity for detecting metastatic
      brain tumours.

      Justification for number of participants included: The magnitude of signal enhancement is
      expected to vary between participants because 1) metastatic brain tumours exhibit a variety
      of enhancements patterns including ring, solid and nodular and 2) metastatic brain tumours
      will range in size. Therefore, 20 participants is considered sufficient to provide a
      reasonably accurate estimation of the expected mean tumour contrast as well as the expected
      variance in tumour contrast for future clinical trials. One additional healthy participant
      will be included in the study to perform a 'test-run' for the complicated MRI and infusion
      protocol.

      Objectives:

        1. Compare area under curve (AUC) maps calculated with glucose and GBCA in tumour and
           contralateral brain areas over different time intervals.

        2. Compare post-injection contrast enhanced MRIs displaying maximum tumour contrast for
           single images to compare the 'instantaneous' contrast from both glucose enhanced and
           GBCA enhanced MRI.

      Research Design and Statistical Analysis:

      Participant recruitment: Recruitment will begin with collaborating radiation oncologists
      asking suitable patients if they are interested in participating in a MRI research study. The
      study will be described and if patients are still interested, consent will be taken and the
      screening forms will be completed. Participants will be scheduled for routine blood work to
      screen for eligibility (blood glucose status and renal function). Participants will also be
      scheduled for an MRI appointment at UBC MRI research centre.

      Participants will be asked to fast the night before the MRI scan. They will be suggested
      to:"Eat a normal dinner and then not eat and only drink water from midnight until after the
      MRI scan, which will be scheduled in the morning to minimize the fasting duration."

      MRI study details: To be performed at the UBC MRI research centre using a 3T Philips Achieva
      MRI.

      Intravenous catheter preparation: Patients will arrive and an intravenous catheter will be
      placed in one arm by a qualified nurse or physician. Fasting glucose levels will be measured
      with a glucometer using a 1-2 mL sample of blood. Only participants with normal fasting blood
      glucose levels (70-125 mg/dL) will proceed with the study. The first intravenous catheter
      will be used to monitor blood glucose every 10 minutes after bolus injection until it returns
      to normal. A second intravenous catheter is placed on the opposite arm for glucose infusion
      and GBCA (gadobutrol) infusion.

      Glucose infusion protocol: This will occur when the participant is lying in the MRI. The
      protocol mimics the intravenous glucose tolerance test. Bolus injection of hospital grade 25g
      of 50% dextrose solution over 1 minute is used to increase blood glucose concentrations to
      approximately 3-4 times the normal level. Blood glucose levels should return to normal levels
      within 30 to 60 minutes according to previous studies.

      GBCA infusion protocol: This will also occur when the participant is lying in the MRI and
      approximately 20 minutes after glucose infusion. Standard intravenous bolus injection of
      0.1mM/kg of gadobutrol (Gadovist) at an injection rate of 5 mL/sec.

      MRI timeline: Metastatic tumours will be initially detected using standard 3D T2-weighted
      MRI. Then a slice of interest containing maximum tumour coverage will be selected for the
      remainder of the study. In participants with multiple metastases, the largest untreated
      lesion will be the focus and multiple lesions will be included if feasible.

      MRI scans will include: 1) Scouts and magnetic field shimming; 2) 3D T2 weighted MRI; 3)
      Magnetic field maps (B0 & B1); 4) Pre- glucose injection Z-spectrum; 5) Begin serial glucose
      enhanced MRI; [glucose infusion after 3 minutes]; 6) Post- glucose injection Z-spectrum after
      10 minutes; 7) Begin serial T1-weighted gadobutrol enhanced MRI; [gadobutrol infusion after 3
      minutes]; 8) Continue Gd-enhanced MRI scans until 10 minutes post-injection.

      MRI data analysis will be performed using well documented, standard techniques using
      custom-built Matlab software.

      Statistics: Mean and standard deviation statistics will be calculated for both glucose
      enhanced and gadobutrol enhanced data. Tumour contrast to noise will be calculated using AUC
      curves as well as single MR images. These metrics will help to quantify the tumour detection
      sensitivity of glucose enhanced MRI relative to GBCA enhanced MRI. The investigators expect
      that both techniques will offer similar contrast to noise in metastatic tumours, based on
      previously reported results in human participants with glioma tumours.
    
  