
    
      OBJECTIVE

      Portable neural imaging during functional tasks is now possible utilizing noninvasive
      near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) which identifies areas of brain activity by measuring blood
      flow dynamics and electroencephalography (EEG) which measures electrical activity on the
      cortical surface. Use of these technologies for studying movement is rapidly increasing;
      however, investigations in children and those with neurological disorders such as cerebral
      palsy (CP) or autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are still in the early stages with few reports
      in the literature. The objectives of this protocol are to systematically compare cortical
      activation patterns during specified sensorimotor tasks in infants and young children with
      typical development (TD) to those with and at high-risk for CP and ASD, examine developmental
      changes in brain activation patterns that underlie the emergence of early functional or
      dysfunctional motor control and explore the neural and biomechanical effects of different
      devices that make movement easier for infants and toddlers with CR and ASD. The results are
      expected to increase knowledge of brain activation patterns across tasks in groups with and
      without neurological disorders and to suggest potential mechanisms or strategies for future
      clinical intervention trials.

      STUDY POPULATION

      The group with CP (including all infants less than 18 months who are identified as being at
      high-risk for CP) will consist of up to 100 children ages 3 months up to 5 years of age. The
      group with ASD (including all infants less than 3 years of age who are identified as being at
      high-risk for ASD) will consist of up to 100 children ages 3 months up to 5 years of age. The
      control group will consist of up to 100 children with TD within the same age range.

      DESIGN

      This is an observational study that will include cross-sectional and longitudinal data
      collection. NIRS and/or EEG responses, and kinematic and/or kinetic, force plate, wearable
      sensors, and/or electromyography (EMG) recordings will be collected on all participants
      during the performance of self-initiated motor tasks. Additionally, we will evaluate brain
      and motor responses to devices that aim to make movement easier for infants and children who
      may have difficulty initiating or performing these movements without assistance.

      OUTCOME MEASURES

      Primary outcomes are the magnitude, extent and location of brain activity recorded by NIRS
      and/or EEG within tasks across subject groups. We will also quantify changes in brain
      activation across ages (cross-sectional) and time (longitudinal). Secondary outcomes may
      include motion, force plate, wearable sensors, and EMG data to help interpret task and group
      differences and measures of motor abilities. The same outcome measures will be compared
      across ages to examine the development of cortical activation patterns and motor abilities
      and how these change over time and across groups with and without neurological disorders.
    
  