
    
      Male academy soccer players, included in a trial, received two types of solutions (compound
      of 150 cc dextrose 10% + 20 mM sodium or single 150 cc dextrose 10%) interchangeably,
      separated within 120 minutes were completed in a counterbalanced, randomized, double-blind,
      crossover design. The study was approved by the Faculty of Medicine Hasanuddin University
      Research Ethics Committee. This trial was conducted at UNM Banta-Bantaeng, Makassar,
      Indonesia, from April 2019 to May 2019. All participants were within the last meal four hours
      prior to the test. Exclusion criteria were the use of amylase supplement, suffering from
      fever and diarrhea, using laxative agents within 24 h, consuming CHO absorption inhibitors,
      caffeine, creatinine, beta alanine, sodium bicarbonate supplement within 24 h, mean arterial
      pressure <65mmHg, knee or muscle injuries, history of diabetes mellitus and heart disease,
      going through ketogenic diet program, history of gastrointestinal surgery, and total body fat
      percentages > 30%.

      Dietary intake was collected using two days food recall. BG were measured using portable
      glucometer (Aviva; Accucheck, Roche Diagnostics, Indiana, U.S.A), blood pressure were
      measured using aneroid sphygmomanometer (R1 shock-proof; Riester, Jungingen, Germany), heart
      rate were measured with wrist band pulse monitor (Bluetooth 4.0 wireless sport heart rate
      monitor WP290; Egoman, Shenzen, China), body weight, muscle, fat, water, metabolic rate were
      measured using body composition analyzer (BC-545N; Tanita, Tokyo, Japan), body height were
      measured using stadiometer (HR-200, Tanita, Tokyo, Japan), sprint speed were measured using
      digital stopwatch (S23589 S23589P1; Seiko, Tokyo, Japan) Participants were instructed to
      refrain from strenuous physical activity in the 2 days preceding trial sessions and recorded
      all food consumed in the 2 days before the trial. Food records subsequently were analyzed
      using professional German nutrition software (EBISpro, Nutrisurvey 2007). On arrival at the
      field, pre supplementation capillary blood samples were collected, and then all players run
      for 2x100 m and calculated the VO2max using Uth-Sorenen-Overgaard-Pedersen Formula and sprint
      speed was recorded. After doing the baseline measurement, each player waited for 15 minutes
      in order to consume either dextrose or sodium dextrose solution, and then waited for 15
      minutes to had another subsequent capillary blood samples measurement. After that, the
      players run for 2x100 m, recorded the VO2max and sprint speed. The players remained in a
      rested state for 120 minutes as a crossover washed-out period, and then did the same protocol
      with different solution.

      All data are expressed as mean ± SD unless otherwise stated, with 95% confidence interval,
      and significance was accepted at p < 0.05. Data were checked for normality as indicated by
      the Shapiro-Wilk test. Paired t tests were used to compare before and after condition in
      blood sugar, VO2max and sprint speed. Data was analysed using IBM SPSS Statistics software,
      version 25; IBM Corp., Chicago, IL. To interpret the magnitude of effect, Cohen's d effect
      sizes (±95% confidence limits) were estimated using a purpose built spreadsheet, with effect
      size thresholds set at <0.20, >0.50, and >0.80 for small, moderate, large, effects
      respectively.
    
  