
    
      Background: COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2 is an unprecedented global public health challenge
      which as at 06 May 2020 has spread to over 210 with over 3.6 million cases including 250,000
      deaths. More than 1500 clinical trials are currently ongoing in an unprecedented global
      search for potential therapeutics and vaccines. Certain clinical features of SARS-CoV-2
      infection provide potential treatment strategies involving antioxidation therapy, including
      overproduction of reactive oxygen species which induces oxidative stress responses and
      contribute to acute lung injury.

      Primary Outcome Measure: (1) the proportion of patients with clinical improvement (defined as
      live discharge from hospital, decrease of at least 2 points from baseline on a 7-point
      ordinal scale, or both), and (2) the proportion of patients with negative SARS-CoV-2 test by
      PCR on days 3, 7, and 14.

      Study Design: Individuals within 18-75 years of age who receive a PCR positive test for
      COVID-19 and admitted at participating COVID-19 isolation and treatment centres will be
      invited to participate. Consenting individuals will be randomised 1:1 to receive either
      standard of care alone (control group) or standard of care plus daily antioxidant
      supplementation (intervention group). A total of 90 participants will be recruited in the
      Pilot Stage (n = 45 per arm). The Pivotal Stage will include 300 participants. Antioxidant
      therapy will be a formulation composed of reduced GSH, N-acetylcysteine, superoxide dismutase
      and bovine lactoferrin and immunoglobulin as in whey protein isolate. Clinical improvement
      will be evaluated daily using a 7-category ordinal scale. SARS-CoV-2 PCR test will be
      repeated on days 3, 7, 14 and 28.

      Analysis: An interim analysis of data from the Pilot Stage will be conducted after the first
      45 participants have completed days 1-14 of the study period. These data will provide
      valuable insights regarding possible revision of the design, conduct and analysis of the
      Pivotal Stage. Analysis of clinical improvement based on the 7-category ordinal scale will be
      performed using time-to-event data (patients will censored at 28-days of follow-up).
      Categorical variables will be analysed using the log-rank test and continuous variables will
      be assessed using a univariable Cox proportional hazard regression analysis. Proportion of
      participants with SARS-CoV-2 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) negative result at days 3, 7, 14
      and 28 will be compared between the intervention and control groups.

      Ethics: This trial will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, the principles of ICH
      Guideline E6 for Good Clinical Practice, the Declaration of Helsinki, and all applicable
      regulatory requirements.
    
  