
    
      Obesity is increasing exponentially in the United States (US), and over 160 million Americans
      are either overweight or obese. A combined diet and exercise program is the most
      cost-effective alternative for weight management, but there is a considerable
      inter-individual variability in losing weight via this method, which leaves many individuals
      frustrated and unable to adhere to programs throughout the lifespan. Therefore, the inability
      to identify the individuals who will likely succeed with diet and exercise for weight
      management is a critical roadblock to treating obesity. Recent studies have shown that
      significant variability in weight loss response to diet and exercise could be attributed in
      part to individual epigenetic makeup. One potential approach for monitoring the epigenetic
      response during weight-loss interventions is small non-coding circulating RNAs, called
      microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs), in the circulating blood. Studies have shown that miR-140 and 935
      could be used as blood biomarkers to identify individuals who will succeed in managing their
      weight through diet and exercise. Moreover, during a short diet and exercise intervention,
      fluctuations of expression levels of biomarker miRNAs pre- and post-intervention have
      produced unique signature changes only in the individuals who continued the intervention for
      an extended period of time and attained a healthy body weight. Thus, if implemented early in
      a medical weight loss program it could allow for the patient to have a focused individualized
      treatment.

      A major barrier that prevents the use of miRNAs in weight loss interventions is the inability
      of accurately quantifying miR-140 and 935 levels in blood samples. To minimize the miRNA
      contamination from red-blood cell lysis, miRNA analysis must be performed within 30 minutes
      of blood draw. Current miRNA detection and quantification technologies take hours/days to
      quantify miRNAs, require bulky equipment, and are expensive. In addition, current miRNA
      detection methods do not have sufficient sensitivity, detection span and specificity for
      clinical sample analysis. To address this need, PI. Nawarathna has recently developed a
      highly sensitive disposable miRNA sensor that can quantify miRNAs in point-of-care settings
      within 15 minutes with an assay cost of $50 per test. However, the effectiveness of the
      developed miRNA sensor to accurately quantify the variations of target miRNA levels (miR-140
      and 935) pre- and post-diet and exercise intervention is unknown.

      The objective of the proposed work is to investigate the efficacy of this miRNA sensor as a
      potential diagnostic device in weight management. If successful, the impact of proposed the
      research is two-fold: first, development of a point-of-care diagnostic device (miRNA sensor)
      for providing a personalized strategy for weight management (diet and exercise or bariatric
      surgery) and second, ability to immediately expand miRNA detection to measure other factors
      that can impact overall well-being (e.g.: mental and emotional health, stress, and fatigue)
      and diseases (e.g.: cancer, cardiovascular diseases, and others). The objective of the
      proposed research will be achieved through following this specific aim:

      Aim: To investigate if the miRNA sensor is capable of identifying individuals who will
      consistently lose weight with energy restricted diet and exercise intervention.

      The proposed research will develop a pilot study with overweight individuals as participants.
      Subjects will participate in the diet and exercise intervention for 12 weeks and miRNA
      analysis will be performed at 3 time points during the intervention (pre-mid-post). We will
      then investigate the effectiveness of the sensor.

      The miRNA sensor technology, once fully developed, will be similar to a finger prick glucose
      monitor. Once commercially available, miRNA sensors can be purchased and used for diagnostic
      applications in clinics or self-testing at home or remote and rural area clinics and
      hospitals. Therefore, the outcomes will fundamentally advance how the individualized weight
      management method is selected. For this reason, this research has a positive translational
      impact on human health.
    
  