
    
      The secondary objectives in this study are aimed at answering further questions regarding
      symptom assessments, dosing strategies, and safety. The specific secondary objectives are
      listed below:

        1. Response rate: In previous studies using the ZAN-BPD, response was defined as a 50%
           reduction of ZAN-BPD scores. Response rates will be compared between Seroquel XR and
           placebo.

        2. Other Symptom Measures: Over the last twenty years, other rating scales of a general
           nature have been used to assess BPD patients in clinical trials. To fully assess the
           patients as they progress through the study, the following scales will be administered:
           Symptom Checklist 90 - Revised (SCL-90 R), Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale
           (MADRS), Barratt Impulsivity Scale (BIS), Schedule for Interviewing Borderlines (SIB),
           Overt Aggression Scale - Modified (OAS-M), Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), the
           Borderline Evaluation of Severity over Time (BEST), and the Global Assessment of
           Function (GAF).

        3. Side-Effects: To be able to report the safety of Seroquel XR for BPD, a combination of
           objective and subjective measures will be employed. Objectively, weight, height (and
           Body Mass Index (BMI)), prolactin, glucose, cholesterol and triglycerides will be
           assessed at baseline and endpoint. Objective ratings of movement side effects will be
           performed using Simpson Angus Scale (SAS) (Simpson and Angus 1970), Barnes Akathisia
           Scale (BAS) (Barnes 1989), and Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) (Guy 1976),
           and at baseline and endpoint. Regarding possible side effects reported by patients,
           their reports of headache, somnolence, and other experiences will be tabulated.

      Secondary objective data will be analyzed as continuous variable data over the time of the
      study or, when appropriate, comparisons of baseline to endpoint will be made.
    
  