
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Everolimus is designed to stop cells from multiplying. It may also stop the growth of new
      blood vessels that help tumor growth, which may cause the tumor cells to die.

      Sunitinib is designed to block pathways that control important events (such as the growth of
      blood vessels) that are essential for the growth of cancer.

      Study Groups and Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 1, you will take 2 everolimus tablets by mouth once every
           day.

        -  If you are assigned to Group 2, you will take sunitinib capsules by mouth every day for
           4 weeks, followed by 2 weeks off.

      If you have any side effects from any of the drugs, tell the study doctor right away. The
      study doctor may then lower the dose or keep the dose level the same.

      Every 6 weeks on this study is called a study "cycle."

      If the disease gets worse or you have intolerable side effects while you are on study, you
      will have the chance to receive the study drug that you did not receive at first. The dosing
      and follow-up will be the same as for all participants in that group.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of every cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs or treatments you may be receiving.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests and a fasting
           blood sugar test. Blood or urine will also be used for a pregnancy test for women who
           are able to have children. If you are in Group 1, you will have an additional 1 teaspoon
           of blood drawn to test your cholesterol.

      On Day 15 and 29 of Cycle 1:

        -  Your vital signs and weight will be measured.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. If you are in Group 1, an
           additional 1 teaspoon of blood will be drawn to measure your cholesterol.

      The Day 15 and Day 29 tests may be done at your local doctor's office.

      On Day 1 of Cycles 2 and 3, and every other cycle after that (Day 1 of Cycle 5, 7, 9 and so
      on):

      °You will have a CT scan of the chest and a CT scan or MRI of the abdomen to check the status
      of the disease.

      Every 4 cycles (24 weeks):

      °If you are in Group 2, you will have an echocardiogram or MUGA scan to check your heart's
      health.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as you are benefiting. You will be taken
      off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      If you have stopped taking the study drug because of intolerable side effects, the treating
      physician will make every effort to check the status of the disease before you are taken off
      of study.

      Long-Term Follow-up:

      Once you are no longer on this study, the research staff will check up on you about every 6
      months. This update will consist of a phone call or a review of your medical and/or other
      records. You will not have any extra tests, procedures, or study visits. If contacted by
      phone, the call would only last about 5 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Sunitinib and everolimus are both FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer.

      Up to 108 patients will be enrolled in this multicenter trial. Up to 108 patients will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  