
    
      Developing expert performance requires assessment of the thought processes underlying
      performance and continued refinement of skills in order to obtain automaticity and intuition.
      Therefore, developing expert surgical skill is a process likely to take longer than the
      length of residency, thereby diminishing the quality of care delivered to patients.

      The proposed study will implement novel neuroscience techniques of transcranial direct
      current stimulation to determine if it has the capacity to accelerate technical surgical
      skill learning in order to achieve competency and expertise in an earlier timeframe. tDCS is
      a non-invasive brain stimulation technique that delivers constant, low current stimulation
      via electrodes placed on the scalp to modify cortical excitability in an area of interest.
      When applied to the motor cortex, promising data indicates that tDCS-induced changes lead to
      expedited recovery in stroke patients as well as enhanced learning in healthy individuals.

      This technique has never been applied in the training of surgical residents making this
      project an innovative approach to enhance skill development.

      Experiment 1: Determine if tDCS can accelerate the learning of laparoscopic skills.

      In this experiment the investigators will compare behavioral learning curves from FLS modules
      1 and 5 in three cohorts who undergo either active tDCS to the bilateral motor cortex
      (bilateral configuration), active tDCS to the supplementary motor cortex (SMA configuration),
      or sham tDCS (half in each configuration). This will be tested in groups of 20 participants
      who train for 40-minutes in each of 6 sessions that occur within 3 weeks. The investigators
      hypothesize that both active bilateral and SMA tDCS will lead to faster skill acquisition as
      measured by trials required to gain proficient completion scores (calculated as time plus
      errors), relative to sham.

      The investigators hypothesize that both bilateral and vertex tDCS will lead to faster skill
      acquisition, with bilateral greater than vertex as measured by trials required to gain
      proficient module completion scores, relative to the group of participants who practice
      without active tDCS.
    
  