
    
      Introduction: Many complications in liver resection surgery, such as post-operative hepatic
      insufficiency, sepsis, and multi-organ liver failure, have been attributed to
      ischemia-reperfusion injury and the release of pro-inflammatory agents. Previous studies had
      shown that ketamine inhibited the synthesis of interleukin 6 (IL-6) in some cardiac
      surgeries, and that IL-6 levels had a direct correlation with mortality in critically ill
      patients.

      Goal: The purpose of our study was to determine the effect of ketamine on IL-6 levels in
      patients undergoing liver resections with temporary porto-arterial occlusion (Pringle
      maneuver).

      Material and Methods: Our prospective, controlled, randomized, and blinded study was approved
      by the Research Ethics Committee of the Hospital Italiano of Buenos Aires (CEPI). All
      procedures were carried out according to the Declaration of Helsinski. All patients
      voluntarily consented to the study and signed the appropriate informed consent approved by
      the CEPI.

      Inclusion criteria were age of 21 years or older and planned liver resection with Pringle
      maneuver lasting 30-60 minutes. Those with chronic illness requiring corticosteroids,
      cirrhosis, hemodynamic instability prior to the surgery, diabetes, sepsis, surgical
      interventions or chemotherapy treatments within the past 30 days, pregnancy, illnesses that
      could potentially affect the hepatic circulation, arterial or ocular hypertension
      (contraindications for the use of ketamine), ketamine allergy, preoperative portal
      embolization / radiofrequency ablation, or requiring emergency surgeries were not considered.
      From March 2002 to June 2008, 44 consecutive patients agreed to participate and were enrolled
      in the study. Those who did not require the Pringle maneuver during the resection, who did
      not undergo the planned procedure, or whose hematocrit was less than 20% for over 30 minutes
      were excluded.

      Patients were assigned to one of two groups according to a computer generated randomization.

      The study group received ketamine 0.25 mg/kg, while the control group was administered an
      identical volume of saline. Syringes containing 10 ml of either ketamine or saline were
      delivered by the hospital pharmacy personnel to the corresponding anesthesiologist, who was
      blinded to their contents. In order to calculate the correct dose that was administered
      immediately after induction of anesthesia, the ketamine and placebo concentration was
      established at 10 mg/ml. Both anesthesia and surgical teams were the same in all cases.
      Members of both teams, as well as all personnel involved with blood collection remained
      blinded at all times.

      All patients were transported to the operating room with an intravenous line in place and
      premedicated with midazolam 0.04 mg/Kg. Once in the operating room, they received intravenous
      antibiotics, non-invasive cardiac monitoring, blood pressure monitoring, and pulse oxymetry.

      Remifentanil 0.25 micrograms/kg/min was administered prior to induction with sodium
      thiopental 2-2.5 mg/Kg. Vecuronium 0.1 mg/Kg was used for muscle relaxation. After waiting
      approximately 3 minutes, patients were intubated endotracheally and a nasogastric tube was
      placed. Remifentanil 0.5 micrograms/kg/min, ibuprofen 10 mg/Kg, and morphine 0.15 mg/kg were
      administered during the case.

      Anesthesia was maintained with Sevorane in the setting of an FiO2 of 0.70. Mechanical
      ventilation was adjusted to allow an EtCO2 of 25-30 mmHg and a plateau pressure < 30 cmH2O.
      An arterial line was placed after induction of anesthesia to serve for invasive monitoring as
      well as for blood sampling. A central line was placed in the right internal jugular vein to
      monitor intra-operative central venous pressure (CVP). All patients received body warmers and
      warmed fluids. We aimed for a CVP < 5 cm H2O at the time of resection to diminish bleeding.
      Intravenous fursemide at doses of 10-20 mg as well as fluid restriction were employed when
      necessary in order to reach the desired value. Potassium levels were kept at or above 3.5
      mmol/lt. Phenylephrine was used when necessary to maintain a median arterial pressure of at
      least 70 mmHg.

      Patients who underwent extensive resections were admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU)
      and maintained on mechanical ventilation for 6-8 hours prior to extubation. In all other
      cases patients were extubated at the end of the procedure, observed in the post anesthesia
      care unit (PACU) for at least 8 hours, and subsequently transferred to the floor if
      hemodynamically stable. Pain management in patients extubated intraoperatively was with
      synthetic opioids (dextropropoxifen 1 mg/kg and dipyrone 2.5 mg. In cases of persistent pain
      (4 or more in a visual scale of 10), analgesia was supplemented with 2 mg of morphine every
      20 minutes until relief of symptoms, somnolence, or a respiratory rate of 8 or less per
      minute was observed.

      Blood samples for IL-6 levels were obtained prior to surgery upon placement of the first
      intravenous line, and at 4, 12, 24, 72 and 120 hours after the Pringle maneuver, on the
      postoperative period. In all cases peripheral venous blood was sampled at a site where no
      contamination with any of the infused fluids could occur. Immediately after obtaining the
      sample, the blood was centrifuged, the plasma isolated, and frozen to -70 degrees centigrade.
      In all cases, two plasma tubes of each sample were individually labeled and stored.

      IL 6 was quantified by means of the IL 6 EASIA (BIOSOURCE, Europe Belgium) based on
      oligoclonal antibodies coupled with monoclonal antibodies to various IL 6 epitopes. This
      method showed sensitivity for both low and standard IL 6 ranges. The results expressed in our
      manuscript represent the mean of both samples obtained for each time point of the study.

      Statistical analysis Based on previous studies that reported a > 100 picograms/mL difference
      among both groups with a SD < 50 picograms/mL, we based our calculations on a predicted
      difference among both groups of 50 picograms/mL with a SD of 50 picograms/mL (17). Based on
      the fact that since sixteen patients in each group would allow rejection of the null
      hypothesis with an 80% confidence in the setting of a difference >50 picograms/mL among both
      groups, a total of 36 patients were randomized. P<0.05 was considered significant.
    
  