
    
      The use of DNA plasmids containing genes that express viral antigens may be a promising way
      to formulate a vaccine that can effectively prevent infection and disease caused by the H1N1
      influenza virus. Plasmid vectors are simple to construct and are easy to manufacture at a
      relatively low cost. Vaccination with plasmids that express influenza proteins should induce
      the development of serum antibodies and might also induce significant quantities of secretory
      IgA antibodies and/or CMI. The DNA sequences included in the vaccine could also result in the
      proliferation of T lymphocytes that could broaden the effectiveness of the vaccine to include
      variant strains of H1N1 with antigenically modified HA (i.e., drifted strains).

      Electroporation (EP) is a technology in which a transmembrane electrical field is applied to
      increase the permeability of cell membranes to create microscopic pathways (pores) and
      thereby enhance the uptake of drugs, vaccines, or other agents into target cells. Their
      presence allows macromolecules, ions, and water to pass from one side of the membrane to the
      other. The presence of a constant field influences the kinetics of directional translocation
      of the macromolecular plasmid, such that the plasmid delivery in vivo has been sufficient to
      achieve physiological levels of secreted proteins. ID injection of a plasmid followed by EP
      has been used very successfully to deliver therapeutic genes that encode for a variety of
      hormones, cytokines, or enzymes in a variety of species. EP is currently being used in humans
      to deliver cancer vaccines and therapeutics as well as in gene therapy. The expression levels
      are increased by as much as 3 orders of magnitude over plasmid injection alone.

      The use of EP via the CELLECTRA® device should increase the expression of H1N1 influenza
      virus genes in the study vaccine.
    
  