
    
      Every type of cancer is associated with changes in genes and protein structure or function in
      the body known as "biomarkers". These biomarkers can help diagnose cancer, as well as to
      track the disease and response to treatment. Over the last 10 years, technology has led to
      the identification of many cancer biomarkers; the use of cancer biomarkers has become an
      important part in the treatment and management of cancer.

      For solid tumors, biomarker testing is usually done on the tumor tissue from a biopsy or
      surgery. Although testing tumor tissue provides a lot of information, there are some
      challenges with the process. First, tumor cells can be different even within small tumors. To
      overcome this, the pathologist (doctor that examines tumor tissue) needs to test cells from
      different parts of the tumor. Often, there may not be enough of the tissue to test for
      biomarkers. In addition, tumor cells change when the patient undergoes treatment and there
      might be a need to repeat biopsies. Sometimes it may not be possible to repeat a biopsy to
      study the changes in biomarkers because some patients cannot have a repeat biopsy done
      safely.

      There are many advantages to tracking biomarkers in the blood instead of on tissue. We can
      study changes in biomarkers more often (because it is a blood draw), and therefore will be
      able to determine how your treatment is working, learn if the cancer is coming back, or find
      drugs that may target the changed tumor cells.

      The purpose of this research study is to learn more about changes in cell-free tumor DNA in
      blood samples, also known as a liquid biopsy, as they relate to treatment and response to
      treatment. Cell-free tumor DNA is genetic material that is released into your bloodstream
      from tumor cells as they die. Genes are a unique combination of molecules (called DNA) that
      are found in all human cells. In some cases, these genes may be changed in cancer and tumor
      cells. These changes, or tumor markers are substances produced by cancer cells that are found
      in the blood, body fluids or tissues, and may be made of DNA, RNA, proteins, cells or
      components of cells. In the future, the "markers" may help doctors decide which treatments
      could be most beneficial for NSCLC. Tumor markers may be used to help predict a response to
      certain cancer treatments and to check how the patiet's type of cancer responds to the
      treatment.
    
  