
    
      Total joint arthroplasty can result in significant blood loss. Minimizing blood loss has led
      to multiple blood conservation strategies in orthopaedic procedures. The use of unipolar
      electrocautery or the saline-coupled bipolar sealer are methods used to reduce intraoperative
      bleeding. Saline-coupled bipolar sealer technology initially demonstrated promising results
      in the literature when it was reported that this technology had superior efficacy by reducing
      blood loss and transfusion requirements in orthopaedic surgery. However, the saline-coupled
      bipolar sealer technology comes at a significantly higher cost when compared to the unipolar
      electrocautery. A bipolar electrode costs an additional $450.00 per case, whereas, the
      unipolar electrocautery catheter is included in all the pre-packaged orthopedic surgical
      trays. The added cost of the saline-coupled bipolar sealer was offset by the potential
      savings in the reduced need for blood transfusions. A single blood transfusion is estimated
      to be $750-$1200. This cost includes both the direct cost of the blood and the additional
      nursing time needed. Recent publications have challenged the superiority of the
      saline-coupled bipolar sealer in hemostasis. These randomized clinical trials (RCT) have not
      supported superiority of this method when compared to standard unipolar electrocautery and
      the continued use of the saline-coupled bipolar sealer has been questioned. The purpose of
      this study is to investigate whether the saline-coupled bipolar sealer compared to the
      unipolar electrocautery provides superior hemostasis in patients undergoing primary
      unilateral total knee arthroplasty. This will be a prospective, randomized, single-blinded,
      non-inferiority study in patients scheduled for a primary unilateral TKA with Dr. Eugene
      Krauss or Dr. Ayal Segal. The restriction of this study to two surgeons will limit variations
      in the outcomes being measured due to differences in surgical technique.
    
  