
    
      Patients diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes (T2D) are initially provided with lifestyle advice in
      order to manage the condition by diet, exercise and weight reduction, followed by treatment
      with metformin. However, many patients do not gain adequate control of fasting glucose by
      these methods and other anti-diabetic agents are needed. Furthermore, these patients have an
      increased cardiovascular risk compared with the general population. Approximately one half of
      patients with T2D die prematurely of a cardiovascular cause and approximately 10% die of
      renal failure.

      Atherogenic dyslipidemia, which is defined as the triad of elevated triglycerides, low
      high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and small low-density lipoprotein cholesterol
      (LDL-C) particles, is commonly found in individuals with T2D. In diabetic patients, the LDL
      particles tend to be smaller, denser, and more atherogenic than in the general population. As
      a result, in patients with diabetes, lowering LDL-C levels may lead to a greater benefit in
      terms of Cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk reduction than in patients without diabetes.
      Multiple clinical trials have demonstrated significant benefits of lipid-lowering (primarily
      statin) therapy on CVD outcomes for primary and secondary prevention, irrespective of
      baseline lipid levels. Hence, clinical treatment guidelines recommend that patients with T2D
      should be treated with both an anti-diabetic agent and a statin.

      Glimepiride is an established once-daily sulphonylurea for use as first-line therapy, and is
      often used in patients who are metformin intolerant, or in those who are failing to achieve
      glucose control on metformin monotherapy. Atorvastatin is an established statin that is
      indicated for reducing the risk of cardiovascular events in diabetic patients, without
      clinically evident coronary heart disease (CHD), irrespective of whether cholesterol is
      raised. The risk:benefit of both glimepiride and atorvastatin is well established and
      described in the approved product labels. There is widespread use of both glimepiride and
      atorvastatin, prescribed separately, in the T2D population. The available literature
      indicates that there is no drug-drug interaction risk associated with this combination
      therapy and no clinical PK interactions between atorvastatin and glimepiride have been
      recorded. A once-daily combination product which combines both glimepiride and atorvastatin
      will fulfil an unmet clinical need in simplifying patient treatment regimens in a patient
      population who have a significant disease burden. Providing concurrent access to a statin in
      patients with T2D, in addition to medication to manage glucose levels, is a critical
      requirement for ensuring appropriate management of cardio-metabolic risk.

      In this study, subjects already on a stable dose of metformin will be randomised to either to
      receive the glimepiride/atorvastatin fixed dose combination treatment or atorvastatin +
      glimepiride combination taken as separate tablets. The starting dose for all subjects will be
      1mg glimepiride and 10mg atorvastatin. The glimepiride dose will be titrated up if the
      average fasting glucose is >7.0mmol/L. The atorvastatin dose will be titrated up if LDL is
      >2.6mmol/L.

      The purpose of the study is to demonstrate non-inferiority of the glimepiride/atorvastatin
      fixed dose combination compared with glimepiride +atorvastatin taken as separate tablets in
      reducing HbA1c and LDL.
    
  