
    
      This investigation will utilize a single session of data collection, which should last no
      longer than 10 minutes per participant. During this session, the investigators will obtain
      informed consent, and then the participant will complete a balance test comprised of five,
      20-second trials.

      The testing procedures are as follows. All participants will perform the mBESS protocol as
      outlined by the Sway Balance Application. This protocol consists of a total of 5 balance
      trials, each being 20 seconds in duration. Every balance trial is completed with the eyes
      closed. Each trial has a different stance configuration: eyes closed feet together, eyes
      closed right tandem stance (one foot in front of the other, touching the toe to the heel),
      eyes closed left tandem stance, eyes closed right foot balance, eyes closed left foot
      balance.

      During the test, the participant will hold an iPad mini to their torso, right in front of
      their sternum and follow the audio prompts to begin balancing and when the balance trial is
      over. The participant will be given instructions that they can change their stance if they
      lose their balance, and take a compensatory step if they need it to catch their balance. The
      participant will be standing on a Balance Tracking Systems force platform for each test, in
      order to capture an additional objective measurement of their balance. The participant will
      be asked to ensure they have at least one foot in contact with the plate during each trial.

      If a participant should step off of the force platform during an individual trial, the
      participant will re-do that balance condition to ensure that each participant has one
      complete 20-second trial that has a score from the Sway app, as well as a full 20-second
      dataset from the force platform.

      The PI will also perform BESS scoring during each trial, and count errors during the testing
      session. An error is defined as a participant meeting one of the following criteria: moving
      the hands from the iPad, opening the eyes, step stumble or fall, abduction or flexion of the
      hip beyond 30°, lifting the forefoot or heel off of the testing surface, remaining out of the
      proper testing position for greater than 5 seconds. Each trial, or condition can have a
      maximum of 10 errors. If a subject commits multiple errors simultaneously, only one error is
      recorded. For example, if an individual steps or stumbles, opens their eyes, and removes
      their hands from their hips simultaneously, then they are credited with only one error.
    
  