
    
      Objective: Depression in the elderly is difficult to treat and is often of chronic or
      recurrent nature. There is little knowledge about the course and the risk factors for
      recurrence of depression among elderly people in Norway. The aim of the PRODE-study is to
      examine the short- and long-term prognosis of elderly depressed patients who are referred for
      treatment in departments of old age psychiatry.

      Method: PRODE is a multicentre case-control and longitudinal study of elderly (>60 years)
      depressed and non-depressed patients with a one and three year follow-up. Nine participating
      departments of old age psychiatry used the same standardized instruments to collect data of
      the patients on depression and other mental health issues, cognition, physical health,
      medications, functions in activities of daily living, quality of life and family carers'
      situation. The included patients and controls underwent an MRI scan of the brain according to
      a comprehensive protocol developed for this project. Furthermore, blood and saliva from the
      included patients are stored in a Biobank for analyses of pro- and anti-inflammatory
      cytokines and cortisol.

      The study included 169 patients (December 2009-January 2013) and will include the same number
      of non-depressed controls.

      Outcome Measures (short-term):

        -  Depression as measured with the Montgomery and Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS),
           Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia (CSDD) and Hospital Anxiety and Depression
           Scale (HADS), trajectories and clinical assessments.

        -  Function in activities of daily living

      Outcome measures (long-term):

        -  Cognition as measured by Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and diagnosis of dementia.

        -  Depression, recurrence of depression and as measured wtih the MADRS and CSDD.

        -  Use of health care facilities; nursing home.

        -  Mortality

        -  Function in activities of daily living
    
  