
    
      This study includes a three-phase design in which HIV-positive pregnant women are followed
      during the antenatal and postnatal periods. Throughout, participants will attend study
      measurement visits conducted separately from routine ART service appointments.

      Phase 1 is a cross-sectional evaluation of consecutive HIV-infected pregnant women attending
      their first antenatal clinic visit seeking care at the study clinic. This phase of the study
      will allow characterization of the health status of the population of HIV-positive pregnant
      women seeking care at the Gugulethu (Midwife Obstetric Unit)MOU and the services they
      receive. At their first antenatal clinic visit, women will be approached to complete Informed
      Consent #1, including consent for abstraction of routine clinic data on obstetric and
      HIV-related care. As part of this cross-sectional study, participating women will complete a
      short questionnaire and undergo phlebotomy.

      Phase 2 of the study is an observational cohort of all women who are eligible for initiation
      of lifelong antiretroviral therapy (following SA guidelines), from their second antenatal
      clinic visit until their first postpartum clinic visit (conducted within 7 days postpartum).
      This phase of the study will provide detailed description of ART initiation and antenatal
      follow-up in the population of women who will be involved in the postnatal component of the
      study, and be used to measure potential predictors of the primary outcome. At the second
      antenatal clinic visit, women from Phase 1 who are ART-eligible or who initiated ART during
      the pregnancy will be approached to complete Informed Consent #2, be interviewed with
      questionnaire on behavioral and psychosocial measures, and undergo phlebotomy. Women will
      complete another study measurement visit during the third trimester and again within 1 week
      postpartum (with study measurement visits timed to coincide with routine care appointments).
      At these visits, additional questionnaires and phlebotomy will be used to collect study
      measures.

      Phase 3 of the study is a randomised trial of strategies for delivering ART to women during
      the postpartum period (the primary objective) with measurement of secondary outcomes during
      the postnatal period. Women enrolled in Phase 2 who are breastfeeding their infants will be
      approached to participate in the trial at the routine postpartum clinic visit (this takes
      place within 7 days of birth and is the only standard postpartum care for women). After
      completing Informed Consent #3, women will be interviewed with behavioral and psychosocial
      questionnaires and undergo phlebotomy for study measurements before randomization.

      Randomization will be to one of two approaches to providing ART during the postpartum period
      to HIV-infected mothers who are breastfeeding:

        -  Arm A: referral to general adult ART services from approximately 4-8 weeks postpartum
           (the local standard of care)

        -  Arm B: continued receipt of ART in the antenatal clinic, as part of a MCH-focused ART
           service that includes primary care for HIV-exposed infants. This service only refers
           women to general adult ART services after the end of breastfeeding and once infants'
           final HIV status is determined

      Women randomized to Arm A or Arm B will be asked to return for four additional study visits
      during the postpartum period at approximately 6 weeks, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months
      postpartum. Details of study measurement visits conducted in both the antenatal and postnatal
      periods are described below in Section 8.

      For women enrolled in Phases 1 and 2 of the study, participation will not impact on any
      aspect of routine antenatal and obstetric care during pregnancy. Similarly, throughout the
      antenatal period women's HIV-related care (including PMTCT services and ART) will not be
      affected in any way by participation, with ART initiated according to the current standard of
      care. For women enrolled in Phase 3 of the study, participation will only impact on the
      setting and approach to providing ART services to mothers during the postpartum period,
      comparing immediate referral to general adult ART services versus ongoing care in MCH-focused
      ART services within the Gugulethu MOU.

      Overall, a total of approximately 1600 HIV+ pregnant women will participate in Phase 1 of the
      study over 12 months. From this group, it is anticipated that approximately 400-500 HIV+
      pregnant women eligible for ART will be identified as eligible for Phase 2 participation. We
      estimate that of the approximately 600 women on ART followed in Phase 2, approximately 480
      will be eligible for and enrolled into Phase 3 and randomized to one of two postpartum ART
      delivery strategies.

      Follow-up of all participants in Phase 3 will end at 12 months postpartum. The total length
      of participation will vary based on gestational age at enrollment into Phase 2, ranging from
      a minimum of approximately 52 weeks to a maximum of approximately 80 weeks.
    
  