
    
      This study aims to assess the efficacy of a novel intervention for advanced colorectal
      cancers with peritoneal metastases (i.e. cancers of the colon or rectum which have spread to
      the internal lining of the abdomen).

      Patients diagnosed with peritoneal metastases usually first undertake a period of neoadjuvant
      systemic chemotherapy prior to consideration of cytoreductive surgery and subsequent
      hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (CRS-HIPEC). If the extent of peritoneal disease
      remains too significant then CRS-HIPEC is contraindicated.

      Not all patients are suitable for cytoreductive surgery and subsequent hyperthermic
      intraperitoneal chemotherapy (CRS-HIPEC). CRS-HIPEC involves a large cut down the length of
      the abdomen, surgery to cut away as many of the structures affected by cancer as possible
      then the bathing the abdomen in heated chemotherapy. This is associated with a considerable
      risk of complications and a not insignificant risk of death. As such there is a significant
      unmet need for less invasive effective treatments for patients with extensive colorectal
      peritoneal metastases (CPM).

      This study would like to assess the efficacy of pressurised intraperitoneal aerosol
      chemotherapy (PIPAC). This technique delivers chemotherapy directly into the abdomen via a
      less invasive laparoscopic or 'keyhole' form of surgery. This type of chemotherapy takes the
      form of an aerosol, similar to the spray of a deodorant for example. The aerosol is
      administered into the abdomen under pressure, pushing the chemotherapy deeper into the
      tissues and cancer. This approach does not involve any surgical removal of the cancer.

      It is an additional treatment to the standard intravenous or oral chemotherapy which would
      otherwise be administered in isolation for the selected patients. PIPAC would be administered
      across multiple sessions assuming no disease progression was identified. It can be used in
      patients undertaking neo-adjuvant systemic chemotherapy before CRS- HIPEC or used throughout
      treatment for those patients deemed not suitable for CRS-HIPEC.
    
  