
    
      This study will be a randomized control trial where patients will be randomized to receive
      intramuscular olanzapine or oral clonidine as the first intervention given for treatment of
      opiate withdrawal. This study will not be blinded.

      Screening and enrollment: Research Associates will screen patients by review of the
      electronic medical record. When these patients are identified, the RA will approach the CITI
      trained ED provider who will obtain written informed consent. Allergies to either medication
      will be screened for in Epic by the research associates. Allergies will also be verified by
      the provider who is completing the consent.

      Study protocol: If the patient consents to enroll in the study, the research associate will
      randomize the patient to receive olanzapine or clonidine as the first treatment intervention.
      The ED provider will then order that medication for the patient and will it be administered
      by nursing staff. At this time the provider may order the patient to have a peripheral IV
      placed and IV fluids administered at their discretion. No other supportive measures
      (anti-emetics, non-narcotic pain medications) may be given at this time.

      Prior to medication administration, the research associate will assess the patient's
      withdrawal symptoms using the Clinical Opiate Withdrawal Scale for withdrawal symptoms. This
      is a validated tool used to assess degree of withdrawal symptoms by evaluating physiologic
      and symptomatic parameters. The medical provider will also obtain information regarding the
      patients opioid use history (what type of opioid used, chronicity of use, date and time of
      last use). After the study medication administration, patients will be observed for clinical
      improvement. At 30 minutes, additional medications or interventions may be prescribed at the
      discretion of the ED provider for symptom control, including crossover of the study
      medications. The research associate will record which other medications/interventions were
      ordered, the indication for these interventions, and times administered.

      Symptoms will be re-assessed by the research associate using the COWS at 60 minutes, 120
      minutes post administration of the initial treatment intervention, as well as at 4 hours post
      administration (approximately time of discharge from the emergency depatment). At these same
      time marks, sedation of the patient will be assessed using the overt agitation severity scale
      (OASS). Throughout the patient's ED stay, the research associate will be monitoring for
      adverse complications such as allergic reaction, dystonia, akathisia, respiratory
      complications, or hypotension.

      The investigators will conduct preliminary data analysis after the first 25 and 50 patients
      are enrolled, respectively. Initial power analysis and sample size calculations delineated
      that the investigators would need 35 patients per arm to detect a 50% difference in the need
      for rescue medication at 1 hour between the two study medications.
    
  