
    
      Up to 20 healthy subjects will be recruited for the study and before inclusion in the study,
      potential participants will be given the opportunity to ask questions. Subjects who will
      fulfill all the acceptable criteria(Chinese ethnicity, body mass index between 18-25 kg/m2,
      weight of at least 45kg, normal blood pressure,less than or equal 140 and 90 mmHg; age
      between 21-40 years, fasting blood glucose less than 6 mmol/L) may be included in the
      study.Each subject will be asked to complete a screening session(lasting approximately1 hour)
      in a fasted state where baseline measurements including anthropometric measurements, fasting
      blood glucose and blood pressure will be collected from each participant to assess their
      eligibility.On the day before each test, enrolled subjects will be asked to restrict their
      intake of alcohol and caffeine-containing drinks and to restrict their participation in
      intense physical activity (eg, long periods at the gym, intensive swimming, running, aerobics
      etc). There is a total of five test sessions. Test sessions will be interspaced by a minimum
      of 1 week. For each session, subjects are required to come between 8:00-9:00am, with each
      session lasting approximately 4 hours. Subjects would have to come following a 10-12 hour
      overnight fast. An indwelling catheter will be inserted into a vein in your forearm and will
      be kept patent (free of clots) for the remainder of the test session. The investigators will
      then take a blood sample from the cannula to measure baseline values. The investigators will
      also take a finger prick blood sample to measure blood glucose concentration. After obtaining
      the baseline blood samples the investigators will give subjects the test meal in different
      sequence consume in 15 minutes. Following the meal we will take further blood samples (from
      the cannula and finger pricks) for the next 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150 and180 minutes. The
      amount of blood that will be collected at every time point will be about1.2 teaspoon of blood
      (approximately 6 mL).At the same time intervals the subjects will be instructed to fill in
      visual analogue scales on feelings of fullness, hunger, desire to eat and prospective food
      consumption.Visual analogue scales are 100 mm continuous lines anchored with opposing answers
      to a specific question asked. The specific questions asked will be, 'How hungry do you
      feel?', 'How full do you feel?', 'How strong is your desire to eat?', ' How much more food do
      you think you can eat?'. The subjects will be instructed to make a mark on the line which
      corresponds with their subjective feeling. After 3 hours, the cannula will be removed and the
      subjects will be instructed to an ad libitum lunch. After finish the lunch, the subjects will
      also be asked to complete a visual analogue scales (VAS) for the measurement of hunger and
      feelings of fullness. After which,subjects are free to leave Clinical Nutrition Research
      Centre. During the entire testing period the subjects will be instructed to remain rested and
      in the laboratory.
    
  