
    
      Background/Rationale The incidence of primary pediatric brain tumors in the United States is
      about 1500 per year. Brain tumors are the most common solid tumor diagnosed in childhood and
      thus account for significant childhood mortality in the United States. Low-grade astrocytomas
      and gliomas are the most common type of brain tumor of childhood (36% of childhood brain
      tumors). These tumors encompass a heterogeneous assortment of histological subtypes
      including: fibrillary, protoplasmic, gemistocytic, and mixed variants. Pilocytic
      astrocytomas, pleomorphic xanthoastrocytomas and subependymal giant cell astrocytomas are
      also included. Furthermore, in young children there are some unique rare entities that behave
      like low-grade tumors, including infantile desmoplastic gangliogliomas, and desmoplastic
      astrocytomas. Although children with low-grade astrocytomas often survive many years after
      conventional treatment with surgery and sometimes radiotherapy, some children will not fare
      as well. These tumors constitute a heterogeneous group because of differing locations within
      the brain and varying biological behavior of different subtypes. For those where total
      excision is possible, such as cerebellar astrocytomas, prognosis is excellent with over 90%
      ten-year survival rates with surgical excision alone. In contrast, survival rates in children
      with cerebral or diencephalic tumors are 40-70% at five years with irradiation, but decline
      to 11-50% at 10 years (Mundigers, 1990). Some tumors however may be unresectable/partially
      resectable, and radiation can have undesirable side effects in young children. While the most
      significant intellectual deficits occur in young children less than 5 years treated with
      cranial irradiation, the deficits recognized even in young adults warrant extending the age
      to 10 years for avoiding radiation. Chemotherapy regimens are used for high-risk patients
      (progressive tumor, residual tumor) as a means to avoid or delay radiation in young patients,
      but side effects of chemotherapy are frequently reported.

      Newer forms of effective treatment that will have lesser side effects are much needed in
      childhood brain tumors especially low-grade gliomas. We propose to study the efficacy and
      toxicity of poly-ICLC, a biological response modifier in children with low-grade gliomas.

      PROTEOMICS

      Current diagnostic and therapeutic monitoring of brain tumor patients are significantly
      hindered due to limited understanding of brain tumor biology and response to therapy. The
      majority of CNS tumors cannot be identified or followed by expression of serum or CSF
      markers. However, if available, such markers would be highly desirable and could be used to:

        -  Detect minimal residual disease

        -  Predict response to specific targeted therapies

        -  Predict or anticipate tumor progression

        -  Distinguish tumor recurrence from post surgical changes or post-radiation changes on
           neuro-imaging

        -  Augment current histopathologic classification systems

        -  Improve current clinical and pathological treatment stratification schemata

        -  Assess efficacy of and tumor response to specific biologic targeted therapies that may
           not impact tumor size as a primary tumor endpoint (e.g., small molecule inhibitors or
           anti-angiogenic strategies) While such markers would be useful to prognosticate, monitor
           and treat all CNS tumors, its use in glial tumors including recurrent low grade
           astrocytomas is critical since these tumors are often biopsied at presentation, but not
           at recurrence. Often these tumors are not amenable complete resection or biopsy due to
           the eloquence of brain tissue they infiltrate (e.g., optic pathway, brainstem or
           hypothalamic gliomas), or the blood vessels that they encase.

      CNS biologic material in CSF Glial tumors tend to disseminate locally along white matter
      tracts rather than through sub-arachnoid seeding. Dissemination of low grade gliomas along
      the sub-arachnoid space has been reported in children with low grade gliomas. Even focal
      tumors are frequently adjacent to CSF pathways (e.g., intrapeduncular fossa, third and fourth
      ventricles) resulting in direct contact between tumor tissue and spinal fluid. Yet
      examination of CSF cytology for these tumors is not standard. Given limitations of
      identifying tumor cells in the CSF, methodologies that could improve our understanding of CNS
      tumors of all types are needed. This would provide a significant improvement in currently
      available knowledge about the biology of these tumors, and could elucidate potential
      therapeutic avenues.

      Proteomics, a relatively new area of research whereby total protein complement of a tissue
      compartment is analyzed, has successfully been used to identify novel biomarkers in solid
      tumors (Zheng, 2003);( Khwaja, 2007). Because proteins are effectors of all cellular
      functions, their measurement should represent the most direct means of cellular
      characterization and hence tumor biology. Because cells and their environment exist in an
      integrated state, it has been possible to interrogate the proteins of extra-cellular
      compartments to assess the presence and impact of tumor cells. This has been done primarily
      using serum or plasma to establish a method of screening for the presence of low stage
      tumors. An analogous extra-cellular compartment for use in brain tumors would be
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). It circulates throughout the CNS and exchanges proteins with the
      extra-cellular fluid of the brain and spinal cord.

      CSF is continuously created and reabsorbed, providing a real time steady state proteome.
      Unlike serum, which contains a highly complex protein mixture ranging from very low abundance
      proteins in the 10-30 pg/mL range to very abundant proteins in the 35-55 mg/mL range, CSF
      contains a less complex protein mixture (Omenn, 2005).

      Therefore, the CSF is more likely to contain higher relative concentrations of tumor-specific
      proteins (higher signal to noise ratio) than serum. Taken together this makes CSF and
      attractive alternative to serum for detection of brain tumor related biomarkers. Unlike
      leukemia and many solid tumors outside the CNS, where serial biopsies are readily performed,
      tumors of the CNS are not easily accessible other than at the time of initial or repeat
      resection or biopsy. While studies on these samples provide important findings regarding
      tumor biology, serial analyses during treatment are not reasonable. By contrast, the CSF of
      tumor patients can be more readily sampled in most pediatric patients. With the development
      of proteomic technology, investigation of tumor related signals at the time of diagnosis
      through treatment, and then in remission and/or at the time of recurrence or progression is
      possible.

      While CSF for seeding tumors is readily available and routinely obtained for cytology, the
      systematic evaluation of the proteins within these samples could be of considerable
      scientific importance. In addition to identifying potential makers of disease or response to
      therapy, the glycosylation and phosphorylation status of many proteins can also be evaluated.
      Studies in tumor tissue show that such information reveals activity of different enzymes that
      correlate with treatment response (Mellinghoff, 2005); (Helgi, 2005) or progression of
      leptomeningeal metastases (Brandsma, 2006).

      Proteomics CSF proteomics has been applied to many neurological disorders including
      Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, acute brain injury
      and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (Rohlff, 2001).

      Reports of its use in neuro-oncology are limited, but demonstrate the potential of this
      technology to effectively identify tumor biomarkers. One study used two dimensional
      polyacrylamide (2-D) gel electrophoresis to measure the relative quantities of two
      pre-selected markers, N-Myc and l-CaD, in the CSF of brain tumor patients (Zheng, 2003).
      Another used ELISA of CSF to identify Osteopontin as predictive of AT/RT and correlated with
      response to therapy (Kao, 2005). CSF proteomics using 2-D gel electrophoresis in combination
      with mass spectroscopy and cleavable isotope Coded Affinity Tag (cICAT) was used to evaluate
      60 samples of CSF and tumor cyst fluid taken from adults with brain tumors and non-neoplastic
      controls. These techniques were used to find a panel of proteins differentially expressed in
      lower vs. higher-grade gliomas. Findings were confirmed using Western Blot analysis probing
      for eight selected proteins based on implied role in gliomagenesis and availability of
      antibodies. This report, which has been accepted for publication pending revisions,
      identified 21 potential CSF biomarkers for astrocytoma.

      As mentioned above, there is evidence that gliomas disseminate through the subarachnoid
      space. Currently there are several consortia actively studying protein expression in the
      spinal fluid of children with malignant glial and embryonal tumors (Pediatric Brain Tumor
      Consortium, Pediatric Oncology Experimental Therapeutics Consortium). Proteins interrogated
      in these protocols include those involved with angiogenesis and neovascularity (EGF, VEGF and
      bFGF), those involved in tumor growth and migration (Secreted protein with acidic and
      cysteine rich domains (SPARC), attractin). There is no consortium actively collecting spinal
      fluid sample in children with lower grade tumors. A secondary goal of this study is to
      examine these proteins in the CSF of children with low grade gliomas who have tumor
      progression. Comparison of CSF protein expression of in high grade and low grade tumors is
      likely to help identify biological markers specific for tumor progression, or for tumor
      pathology.
    
  