
    
      There is a global epidemic of obesity and/or being overweight. Fatty liver disease associated
      with overweight/obesity, can cause liver inflammation, which can lead to scarring of the
      liver (cirrhosis), liver cancer and early death. It is predicted that fatty liver disease
      will become the number one cause of liver cirrhosis in the next 20 years. There are no
      effective treatments, except weight loss, which is rarely successful.

      In HIV-infected individuals, antiretroviral therapy (ART) is very successful at maintaining
      health long-term. However, despite this, data suggest that HIV-infected individuals are at
      greater risk of developing fatty liver disease than the general population, even if they are
      not overweight. Past exposure to some of the older, now obsolete, ART drugs, may have added
      to this greater risk. What makes things more difficult is that fatty liver disease can be
      'silent' with no symptoms or signs until quite advanced.

      MAVMET is trying to find out if maraviroc (licensed anti-HIV drug) and metformin (licensed
      for diabetes), given separately or in combination will reduce the amount of liver fat.

      MAVMET participants are HIV-infected adult (aged at least 35), with HIV (but not hepatitis
      B/C) for 5 years or more, on combination ART for at least 1 year, and likely - because of
      abnormal liver tests and/or a large waist to have increased liver fat or already have a
      confirmed diagnosis of fatty liver disease, on a previous scan or a liver biopsy.

      Participants will continue on their current ART and be randomised (like the flip of a coin)
      to receive 48 weeks of maraviroc (Arm A) or metformin (Arm B) or both drugs (Arm C) or no
      additional drugs (Arm D). Participants have 7 clinic visits over 48 weeks to monitor progress
      and 2 magnetic liver scans (MRI) (no radiation) at University College Hospital to measure
      liver fat. Mortimer Market Centre participants can also have optional brain MRI at the
      Institute of Neurology.

      Patients can enrol at one of 3 sites: Mortimer Market Centre, St.Thomas's Hospital, King's
      College Hospital, London.
    
  