
    
      Atrophic vaginitis is a condition in which the skin lining of the vagina and labia becomes
      thin, usually due to a decreased estrogen state - such as menopause. Symptoms of atrophic
      vaginitis include vaginal itching, vaginal discomfort and dyspareunia and can significantly
      affect women's comfort, sexuality and quality of life.

      Treatment for this condition includes estrogen given in pill form, commonly known as hormone
      replacement therapy and local estrogen treatments, such as vaginal estrogen creams and
      topical vaginal lubricants. Unfortunately, systemic estrogen is contraindicated in many women
      with breast cancer. Some providers also feel that women who are taking aromatase inhibitors
      for their breast cancer should also not use local estrogens as several small studies suggest
      that these treatments might effect estrogen levels and thus might change how effective the
      aromatase inhibitors are. If these women choose not to use any form of estrogen therapy there
      symptoms may not be well controlled with other treatments.

      The investigators hypothesize that a vaginal testosterone cream might be a safe and effective
      alternative treatment for these women. This small study is intended to test the hypothesis
      that testosterone cream will not increase estrogen (estradiol) levels and that it will
      improve the symptoms of atrophic vaginitis including vaginal dryness, vaginal itching and
      pain with intercourse.

      The investigators will enroll women in the trial who are taking an aromatase inhibitor and
      have the symptoms mentioned above. They will receive a testosterone cream which will be
      applied vaginally once a day for 28 days. If good results are found with a prespecified dose
      of testosterone, a lower dose will be tested in the next group of women enrolled.

      Objectives:

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      1.1. Does topical testosterone cream affect serum estradiol levels in women taking aromatase
      inhibitors for breast cancer?

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      1.2. Can atrophic vaginitis and resultant symptoms of vaginal dryness, itching and
      dyspareunia in women taking aromatase inhibitors for the treatment of breast cancer be
      improved with a topical testosterone cream?

      1.3. Does topical testosterone cream affect physical findings, pH and cytologic changes in
      atrophic vaginitis?

      Schema:

      Intervention - Subjects will apply a testosterone cream to the vaginal area daily for one
      month (28 days).

      Evaluation - Before and after the study intervention participants will have testosterone and
      high-sensitivity estradiol tested. They will complete a questionnaire on symptoms of atrophic
      vaginitis and have a gynecologic examination (with visual, speculum, pH and sample of vaginal
      epithelial cells.)

      Endpoints - Serum estradiol levels Improvement in symptoms of atrophic vaginitis, as measured
      by questionnaire. Atrophic vaginitis as measured by gynecological examination (including pH
      and cytology to assess maturation index).
    
  