
    
      Virologic failure occurs in a large proportion of individuals receiving treatment with
      combination antiretroviral therapy. Studies suggest that treatment interruption prior to
      initiation of a multiple-drug rescue regimen may improve virologic response in individuals
      who have failed several prior antiretroviral regimens. Other studies suggest there is a
      virologic benefit derived from using genotypic or phenotypic resistance testing in selecting
      salvage therapy regimens for patients failing antiretroviral therapy. This study tests the
      hypothesis that salvage regimens selected on the basis of HIV-1 resistance genotype,
      phenotype [AS PER AMENDMENT 02/19/02: virtual phenotype], and treatment history will be more
      effective if there is a period of treatment interruption before initiating that regimen.

      Patients continue their antiretroviral therapy until randomization. Based on the results of
      the pre-entry genotype and phenotype [AS PER AMENDMENT 02/19/02: virtual phenotype] tests and
      treatment history, an individualized salvage therapy regimen (not provided by the study) is
      selected by the site investigator(s). Additionally, patients start or continue maintenance
      therapy (not provided by the study) for opportunistic infections (OIs). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. In Arm A, patients have antiretroviral treatment
      interruption for a period of 16 weeks (Step 1), followed by initiation of the [AS PER
      AMENDMENT 02/19/02: best available] salvage therapy regimen (Step 2). [AS PER AMENDMENT
      02/19/02: Patients in Arm A will be placed immediately on their individualized salvage
      regimen before the end of the 16-week period of treatment interruption if their CD4 count
      falls below a defined threshold, or if they develop a new OI]. In Arm B, patients switch
      immediately to the salvage therapy regimen. [AS PER AMENDMENT 02/15/01: Patients who become
      pregnant during Step 1 of Arm A must be advised to begin their selected, individualized
      salvage therapy regimen or a modified salvage regimen. Patients who become pregnant during
      Step 2 of Arm A or Arm B have therapy evaluated and undergo any changes required by their
      pregnancy.] Patients in both arms are monitored for plasma HIV-1 RNA levels, CD4+ and CD8+
      cell counts, and HIV drug resistance genotypes and phenotypes for a duration of 64 weeks from
      randomization. Patients in Arm A are also monitored for immune reactivation by measurement of
      T-cell subsets and plasma cytokines during treatment interruption. Patients may participate
      in a virology substudy (A5100s) and an immunology substudy (A5104s). [AS PER AMENDMENT
      02/19/02: Patients who volunteer to participate in the substudies must be registered to the
      main study at the same time they are registered to a substudy.]
    
  