
    
      Type and purpose of the study: This randomized controlled trial was planned to evaluate the
      effect of volatile lavender oil on the level of instantaneous and sustained anxiety level of
      the patients undergoing endoscopic procedure.

      Time and place of study:

      The research is carried out in Eskişehir Osmangazi University Gastroenterology Polyclinic.

      Universe and sample: The population of the study was applied to the gastroenterology
      outpatient clinic for diagnosis and diagnosis. The sample of the research sample will be
      composed of people who meet the sample selection criteria in the specified
      universe.Chi-Square Test Power analysis was used to determine the sample number of the study.
      The statistical power was calculated as 118 people with 82%, alpha 0.05, beta 0,1741 errors
      and 59 persons in group A and 59 persons in group B. In the calculation of the power
      analysis, Hu et al. (2010) evaluated the effect of lavender in the management of anxiety
      related to colonoscopy.

      Randomization: Within the scope of the study, written consent was obtained after the
      individuals were informed by the researchers. Randomization method was randomized to two
      groups [(lavender oil group (A), control group (B)]. The registration numbers and the group
      numbers of the individuals will be delivered to the researchers in a closed envelope and the
      lavender oil / distilled water will be sniffed according to the group of the individual
      before the procedure.

      There are differences in the level of anxiety related to esophagogastroduodenoscopy and
      colonoscopy. For this reason, randomization of the patients to groups will be tried to be
      matched with the case of esophageogudroduodenoscopy and colonoscopy. Patients in the same
      group of patients will also be included in group B according to the type of procedure in each
      group (esophagogastroduodenoscopy / colonoscopy).

      Preparation of aromatic oils: In the light of the information obtained from the studies
      evaluating the effect of lavender oil on anxiety, lavender oil with a sedative effect was
      used in one group, while the other group was determined to use jojoba, sunflower, jasmine,
      rosemary, grape seed, tea tree oils without sedative effect.

      Lavender oil (Lavandula hybrida): The volatile lavender oil to be used for the enterprise
      will be taken from a reliable plant product company and the company has got the operation
      registration and TS EN ISO 9001: 2008 quality certificates from the Ministry of Food,
      Agriculture and Livestock by G06-3231. After 10 days of 3 drops of lavender oil on the cotton
      pad, the prepared cotton pad will be placed on the shoulder dress. Application and
      evaluation: The data of the study will be collected in the first and second stage in a total
      of 2 weeks; First stage:Individual presentation form, State Trait Anxiety Inventory-I, II
      will be applied to the individuals who have been given an appointment to perform
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy and colonoscopy in the gastroenterology outpatient clinic, then A
      and B group individuals will be informed by the healthcare professional about the application
      of lavender oil / distilled water at home. For 10 days at home, group A patients receive
      lavender oil; Group B patients will smell distilled water every evening between 21.00-21.05
      for 5 minutes.

      Second stage: State Trait Anxiety Inventory-I, II will be filled before sedation in patients
      coming to the outpatient clinic for esophagogastroduodenoscopy and colonoscopy, vital signs
      (heart rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure arterial) to be evaluated and the sedation
      protocol prescribed by the physician. No changes shall be made to the screening, diagnosis
      and treatment of individuals during the trial.

      Individual presentation form: Socio-demographic characteristics of patients (age, gender,
      educational status, marital status, information to support the patient's care) and
      disease-related features (diagnosis, treatment, duration of disease) is a form of questions
      about.

      State Trait Anxiety Inventory (I, II) is a self-assessment questionnaire consisting of short
      expressions. This is a Likert-type scale, a four-degree scale ranging from None "to"
      Completely. It includes the description of how an individual feels himself / herself in a
      certain moment and under certain conditions and taking into account his / her feelings about
      the situation he / she is in. Cronbach alpha internal consistency coefficients in reliability
      analysis;0.94-0.96 for State Anxiety Inventory, for The Trait Anxiety Inventory is between
      0.83 and 0.87. There are two types of expressions in State-Trait Anxiety Inventories. Direct
      expressions express negative feelings and reversed expressions express positive feelings. In
      the State Anxiety Inventory, the terms reversed are 1,2,5,8,10,11,15,16,19 and 20 items. On
      the Trait Anxiety Inventory, the inverse statements constitute 21,26,27,30,33,36 and 39th
      items. After the total weight of the direct and inverted expressions are found, the total
      weight score of the reverse expressions is subtracted from the total weight score obtained
      for the direct expressions. A predetermined and unchanged value is added to this number. This
      constant value is 50 for the State Anxiety Inventory and is 35 for the Trait Anxiety
      Inventory. The recent value is an individual's anxiety score
    
  