
    
      After informed consent, subjects will be randomly assigned to ILIT group or placebo group in
      double-blind manner. In both group, causal allergen or placebo will be injected into inguinal
      lymph node through guidance by ultrasonography three times with 4-week interval. In ILIT
      group, initial dose of allergen will be 1,000-fold diluted solution from maximal
      concentration of allergen extract for subcutaneous immunotherapy (Tyrosine S, Allergy
      Therapeutic, West Sussex, UK) in volume of 0.1ml. If skin is highly reactive in skin prick
      test, the initial dose will be 10-fold dilution from maximal concentration where diameter of
      wheal is less than that of histamine. After the first dose, allergen concentration will be
      escalated 3-fold at second dose, and 10-fold at third dose if there are no (or mild) local or
      systemic hypersensitivity reaction. The allergen concentration will not change at second or
      third dose if there is moderate local or systemic reaction. The allergen concentration will
      decrease by 10 or 100-fold from previous concentration or further injection will be held if
      there is severe local or systemic reaction after sufficient explanation and discussion with
      subjects.

      The investigators will evaluate allergic rhinitis symptom score before and 4, 12 months after
      the initial treatment. Rhinoconjunctivitis Quality of Life Questionnaire (RQLQ) and
      Sino-Nasal Outcome Test (SNOT-20) will be used. Visual analogue scale (VAS) of symptoms
      including rhinorrhea, sneezing, nasal obstruction, postnasal drip, eye/nose/ear/palate
      itching, dyspnea, wheezing, chest discomfort as well as urticaria, angioedema, and itching on
      exposed skin during exposure to causal allergen in daily life will be also evaluated. Skin
      prick test (SPT), intradermal test (IDT), blood sampling for serum total immunoglobulin E
      (IgE), allergen-specific IgE, and allergen-specific immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4), nasal lavage
      for Th1, Th2, and Treg cytokines, and nasal provocation test (NPT) with Df and/or Dp allergen
      (in subjects whose AR symptoms are provoked by Df and/or Dp) will be also performed before
      and 4, 12 months after the initial treatment. In addition, the investigators evaluated the
      change of subjects' recognition of causal allergens, their avoidance, and AIT during this
      study. Using VAS, subjects were requested to score the rate of agreement with "Allergen
      provokes allergic symptoms in daily life", "Allergen avoidance can reduce allergic symptoms",
      "Allergen-specific Immunotherapy (AIT) can reduce allergic symptoms", "I can pay 50,000
      Korean Won (KRW)/month for allergen avoidance", "I can pay 100,000 KRW/month for allergen
      avoidance", "I can pay 200,000 KRW/month for allergen avoidance", "I can pay 150,000 KRW for
      each injection of ILIT", "I can pay 300,000 KRW for each injection of ILIT", "I can pay
      600,000 KRW for each injection of ILIT" before and after SPT/IDT, after NPT, 4 months and 1
      year after ILIT.

      Adverse events will be recorded and graded according to Muller classification and Ring and
      Meissner classification.
    
  