
    
      Problematic alcohol use, including alcohol use disorders (AUD) and high episodic drinking
      (HED), remains a public health crisis among college students, particularly those from
      underserved minority groups. Less likely to disclose alcohol use, underserved minority
      college students participate in riskier drinking, attributed to multiple social factors,
      including racial/ethnic discrimination, financial strain, and neighborhood disadvantage.
      Faced with worse alcohol health-related consequences, effective interventions to reduce
      alcohol use among this population is critically needed. To reduce alcohol-related health
      disparities, the investigators aim to develop a public health-based, comprehensive program
      (Alcohol Awareness Peer Leaders) that will train underserved minority non-traditional health
      professional students to conduct alcohol screening, brief intervention, and referral to
      treatment (SBIRT) by using a culturally sensitive approach and screening tool (Rapid Alcohol
      Problems Screen - RAPS4-QF). By utilizing a culturally adapted SBIRT curriculum, AAPLs will
      be able to deliver alcohol education and messaging to motivate alcohol risk reduction and
      decrease in consumption for non-traditional college students studying at a predominantly
      minority academic institution in an underserved area. The Andersen Healthcare Utilization
      Model will be utilized to guide this intervention. This theoretically and culturally tailored
      proposed project is evidence-informed and promising for underserved minority college students
      and will be advanced through the following three aims: 1) Using an explanatory-sequential
      mixed methods design, examine a) alcohol consumption and HED patterns, b) attitudes toward
      alcohol use, c) social and environmental factors, and d) alcohol-related consequences among
      minority health professional students, 2) Through training of minority health professional
      students as Alcohol Awareness Peer Leaders (AAPLs), assess the acceptability and relevance of
      a peer-based SBIRT that was culturally-tailored based on Aim 1 findings, and 3) To compare
      the feasibility and effectiveness of delivering a culturally-tailored SBIRT using RAPS4-QF by
      AAPLs by race/ethnicity, drinking status (abstainer vs. drinker), and adverse life
      experiences. These outcomes will result in the training of 208 underserved minority AAPLs who
      will conduct culturally competent and evidence-based alcohol screening, brief intervention,
      and treatment referral for over 2000 students. The result of this innovative proposal will
      produce future healthcare professionals who will be a valuable community resource for
      underserved areas as they can continue to decrease alcohol health disparities for
      underrepresented minority populations, inducing sustainability.
    
  