
    
      Objective The therapeutic alliance (TA), a working relationship between therapist and
      patient, may contribute to favorable outcomes in all types of psychotherapy, including
      cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for drug dependence. Enhancement of the TA may be possible
      through intranasal administration of the hormone and neurotransmitter oxytocin, which is
      associated with social bonding and trust. The objective of this study is to determine whether
      addition of intranasal oxytocin to a course of CBT for drug dependence enhances TA and
      treatment retention and reduces drug use post-treatment. The study will assess changes in
      performance on tasks that probe decision-making, emotional processing, and drug-cue
      reactivity. We will employ fMRI on a subset of participants to study the neural correlates of
      these processes.

      Study population. The treatment portion of the study will be conducted in three parallel
      arms, not intended to be statistically compared to each other: (1) Outpatient Methadone arm
      (physically dependent heroin users, n = 80 evaluable); (2) Outpatient Cocaine arm
      (cocaine-dependent individuals, non-opiate-dependent, n = 80 evaluable); 3) Inpatient Cocaine
      arm (cocaine-dependent individuals, non-opiate-dependent, n = 80 evaluable). There will also
      be two groups of non-treatment-seeking controls (20 cocaine-using, 20 non-drug-using) to rule
      out practice effects on tasks; controls will not receive oxytocin or CBT.

      Experimental design and methods. Primary outcome measures will be TA in all arms and drug use
      for methadone and cocaine outpatient arms. (1) Methadone arm: after a 5-week baseline for
      stabilization on methadone, participants will undergo 12 weeks of CBT, with random assignment
      to oxytocin (24 IU, administered before each session) or placebo. (2 and 3) Cocaine arms,
      inpatient and outpatient: after a 1-week baseline for assessment of drug use, participants
      will undergo 6 and 12 weeks respectively of CBT, with random assignment to oxytocin (24 IU,
      administered before each session) or placebo.

      Outcome measures: Principle outcome measures for the outpatient arms will be TA measured at
      several points during CBT, treatment retention, and attendance at CBT sessions. Secondary
      outcome measures are drug use during treatment and at follow-up, drug craving during
      treatment and at follow-up, stress reduction during treatment and at follow-up, HIV risk
      behaviors during treatment and at follow-up, behavioral performance on various tasks, and
      neural response to these tasks for the imaging subgroup. The outcome measures for the
      inpatient arm will be the same as for the outpatient arms with the exception of drug use
      during treatment.
    
  