
    
      1. Inclusion procedure and saving selection failures Participation in this study will be
           offered to patients during their care in day hospital (= inclusion visit).

           Any patient giving express consent to participation and meeting the criteria for
           inclusion and non-inclusion will then be included in the study.

           Each patient will then be identified by his or her initials as a patient number in the
           study, directly on the basis of collecting the data from the study.

        2. Study progress for patients Data collection takes place over two different periods. Each
           period lasts 12 weeks. The Adapted Physical Activity (APA) program is 8 weeks old.

      The first period will run from mid-January to early April (first cohort) to collect data from
      the first patients in the experimental group.

      The second period will be from mid-February to the end of April. During this one, it will be
      necessary to collect the data of the last patients of the experimental group (second cohort)
      The first two weeks of each period (weeks 1 and 2, weeks 4 and 5) are dedicated to recruiting
      patients.

      During the pre-test session, carried out week 3 for the first cohort and weeks 6 for the
      second, the patients will carry out different tests and questionnaires: General Information
      Questionnaires, Education, MoCA (Montreal Cognitive Assessment), GPAQ (Global Physical
      Activity Questionnaire), Stroop test, test of MEM3 (Echelle Clinique de Mémoire), letter
      comparison test, HADS (Hospital and Anxiety Depression Scale), and the MFI (Multidimensional
      Fatigue Inventory). Patients should also wear an actimeter for one week from the day of
      recruitment.

      Patients then take part in a program of Adapted Physical Activity lasting 8 weeks, with 2
      sessions per week. The sessions of this program are similar to the APA sessions already
      offered by sports therapy practitioners. This is an aerobic exercise session, with Nordic
      walking, and a combined session of muscle building and breathing-based exercises.

      In the post-test session, which was conducted week 12 for the first cohort and week 15 for
      the second, some questionnaires and tests are again administered: GPAQ, Stroop test, MEM3
      test, letter comparison test, HADS and the MFI. Patients should also wear an actimeter the
      week before the day of the post-test.

      The forecast schedule may be slightly modified depending on unforeseen circumstances and
      constraints that may occur.
    
  