
    
      Family caregivers of frail older adults with cognitive impairments face special challenges in
      caring for their care recipients (CR) due to their fast declining health. Examples of
      difficulties include managing CR's behaviors and daily activities, as well as maintaining
      their own psychological and physical health, which result in high caregiver burden. The aim
      is to support these caregivers of older adults who are enrollees of the Program for
      All-inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) through occupational therapy (OT) interventions to
      reduce caregiver burden and depression, and increase positive aspects of caregiving and
      self-efficacy. Since PACE organizations offer limited support for caregivers due to
      understanding, supervised OT graduate students (OTGS) will provide caregivers with customized
      supports. By doing so, the students will gain precious experience before they enter the
      workforce. This proposal will develop and test the effectiveness of this collaborative model.
      This study will use a randomized controlled design with about a 4- month intervention period.
      The assessments will take place at baseline, 2 months and 4 months. The study period will be
      two years. Participants will be 60 convenience family caregivers of the PACE enrollees in
      Western New York; therefore, CRs are 55 years old or older, need a nursing home level of
      care, but remain living in the community. Caregivers are adults who visit the CR at least
      once a week. OTGS will contact the caregivers, using a phone, and conduct an in depth
      interview to understand their difficulties. Then solutions will be brainstormed amongst OTs
      and geriatric specialists, and interventions will be formed. At the first visit to the CRs'
      homes, interviews will be conducted using the Zarit Burden Interview, the Center for
      Epidemiology Study for Depression, the Buffalo Fatigue Scale, the Positive Aspect of
      Caregiving, and the Visual Analogue Scale for self-efficacy. The possible solutions will be
      discussed with caregivers and more detailed difficulties will be videotaped. The solutions
      that caregivers are comfortable with will be reviewed by the PACE Rehabilitation Department
      and need to be approved before their implementation. The solutions may include: education of
      disease process, training for caregivers in supporting CR's activities of daily living (ADL)
      and instrumental ADL, coordination of family caregivers, problematic behaviors, functional
      exercise, fall prevention, and increased number of CR's visits to a PACE daycare facility.
      Statistical analysis will use Generalized Estimating Equations to compare the two groups'
      linear trends. We expect CRs' condition will deteriorate but the treatment group will reduce
      caregiver burden and increase self-efficacy.
    
  