
    
      Interleukin-7 (CYT107) Treatment of Idiopathic CD4 Lymphocytopenia: Expansion of CD4 T Cells
      (ICICLE) is a Phase I/IIa open-label, single arm clinical trial evaluating the safety profile
      of glycosylated recombinant human interleukin-7 (rhIL-7) as an immunostimulatory therapy in
      patients with idiopathic CD4 T cell lymphocytopenia (ICL) at risk of disease progression.
      Secondary analyses will assess the immunostimulatory effects of rhIL-7 on T cell number and
      function.

      ICL was first characterized in the early 1990 s and is a primary immune disorder of CD4 T
      cell lymphocytopenia (less than 300 cells/microL or less than 20% of lymphocytes), which is
      not due to any known infectious process, exogenous medication, autoimmune cytopenia, or other
      underlying disorder associated with lymphocytopenia. ICL patients are at risk for a wide
      spectrum of opportunistic and other serious infections, autoimmune disorders, and other types
      of lymphocytopenia. At present, no validated treatment exists for ICL, and treatment is
      directed primarily toward infectious complications once they arise. A first-generation form
      of rhIL-7 was shown in pre-clinical and Phase I studies in oncology and human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients to be well tolerated in repeated dose trials,
      with long-lasting increases in both CD4 and CD8 T cells. CYT107 is a second-generation rhIL-7
      product made by Cytheris via a recombinant mammalian cell culture system.

      DESIGN - Open-label, single-arm, Phase I/IIa interventional clinical trial. Participants will
      be evaluated at baseline (prior to study treatment) and according to the protocol follow-up
      schedule, receiving a total of 2 cycles of rhIL-7 (CYT107) during the induction phase and up
      to 8 cycles during the maintenance phase. Safety assessments of rhIL-7 will be the primary
      focus at each study visit, with secondary analyses of immune parameters, including changes
      from baseline in T cell number and function at Weeks 24 and 48.

      DURATION - Enrollment is expected to take 3 to 4 years. Each volunteer will be followed for
      at least 48 weeks. Thus, total duration of the study will be approximately 5 years.

      SAMPLE SIZE - Approximately 35-40 patients will be screened over a 3-year period to achieve
      the desired sample of 18 ICL patients, allowing for a primary safety assessment of CYT107 in
      this Phase I/IIa clinical trial, as well as exploring the immunomodulatory effects of rhIL-7.

      POPULATION - Men and women, aged greater than or equal to 18 years, with a confirmed
      diagnosis of ICL (CD4 less than 300 cells/micromL or less than 20% of lymphocytes) deemed at
      risk for complications due to concurrent CD8 T cell lymphocytopenia and/or history of
      opportunistic or otherwise serious infection, without autoimmunity or hematologic or lymphoid
      malignancy.

      REGIMEN - During the induction phase, subjects will receive 2 cycles of subcutaneous rhIL-7
      dosed once weekly for 3 weeks in a dose escalation fashion: 3 microg/kg (first 3
      subjects-completed), 10 microg/kg (next 5 subjects-completed) and 20 microg/kg (last 5
      subjects), with an additional 5 subjects at the highest achieved dose level. Cycles of rhIL-7
      will be administered starting at Week 1 and Week 24.

      For subjects who tolerate the induction phase and elect to participate in the

      maintenance phase, additional cycles of rhIL-7 may be offered at 3-6 month

      intervals. These participants will receive rhIL-7 at the highest dose for which at

      least 8 weeks of safety data for 5 subjects has been reviewed provided no more

      than 1 DLT is reported.
    
  