
    
      The addition of contingency management (CM) to existing evidenced-based tele-health smoking
      cessation interventions is expected to be a cost-effective way to increase the reach of
      intensive smoking cessation treatment. CM is an intensive behavioral therapy that provides
      positive reinforcers (e.g., money, vouchers) to individuals misusing substances contingent
      upon objective evidence of abstinence from drug use. Implementation of CM has been limited
      because of the need to verify abstinence multiple times daily with a clinic based carbon
      monoxide (CO) monitor. As a result, CM approaches have largely been relegated to inpatient
      and day treatment programs. The application of emerging smart-phone technology, however, can
      overcome this barrier. Investigators have developed a smart-phone application which allows a
      participant to video themselves several times daily while using a small CO monitor and to
      transmit the data to a secure server. This innovation has made the use of CM for outpatient
      smoking cessation portable and feasible, i.e., mobile CM (mCM). Thus, the primary goal of the
      current study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a combined tele-health and CM intervention
      that investigators are calling Abstinence Reinforcement Therapy (ART). Proposed is a
      comparative effectiveness trial with a two-group design in which 310 Veteran smokers will be
      randomized to either:

      ABSTINENCE REINFORCEMENT THERAPY (ART) a proactive tele-health intervention that combines
      guideline based cognitive-behavioral telephone counseling (TC), a tele-medicine clinic for
      access to nicotine replacement (NRT), and intensive behavioral therapy through mobile
      contingency management.

      TELE-HEALTH FOR SMOKING CESSATION a proactive tele-health intervention that will provide
      controls for therapist, medication, time and attention effects. The tele-health intervention
      provides the same guideline based cognitive-behavioral smoking cessation telephone counseling
      (TC), and tele-medicine clinic for access to NRT as in the ART intervention.

      Both of the proposed interventions are designed in accordance with national smoking cessation
      guidelines. Tele-health smoking cessation interventions are typically less intensive than
      clinic based specialty care, but increase reach of services through bypassing barriers to
      participation such as geographical distance from VA care. The addition of mCM to an
      evidence-based tele-health smoking intervention will significantly increase the intensity of
      the intervention and is predicted to increase efficacy. If cessation programs are to have
      significant impact (Impact = Reach X Efficacy) on changing health behavior at the population
      level, investigators must identify new and innovative strategies to increase treatment
      intensity, access, and participation.

      The primary aim is to evaluate the impact of ART on rates of abstinence from cigarettes at
      3-month, 6-month, and 12-month post-randomization follow-ups.

      Hypothesis 1: Abstinence rates will be significantly higher among Veterans randomized to the
      ART-based intervention than those randomized to the Tele-health alone intervention (primary
      end-point; self-reported and bio-verified prolonged abstinence at the 6-month follow-up).
    
  