
    
      In Switzerland 100'000 people live with the consequences of neurological events and
      illnesses. Most events are caused by cerebral vascular events, accidents, tumors and
      illnesses such as Multiple Sclerosis (MS).

      Despite the fact that symptoms and disabilities vary based on underlying causes and
      individual manifestations, common in all those patients is a significant impairment in
      sensory function, orientation, and mobility that present a great challenge for the affected
      persons, their families and the health care providers.

      Over the years nurses in addition to other health care providers in the rehabilitation Center
      Valens, SG, have developed and refined interventions to specifically enhance patients'
      safety, body perception, kinesthetic competence, mobility and functionality, and to reduce
      burdens of care. The approach that has shown great promise is the mobility enhancing nursing
      intervention referred to as "Mobilitätsfördernde Pflegeintervention (MfP)".

      In a first retrospective descriptive study Suter-Riederer et al (2008)) showed a significant
      improvement in functional status of daily activities in agitated patients due to MfP.

      Method A randomized-control trial will be conducted utilizing a mixed-method design in the
      Neurological Clinic at the Rehabilitation Center Valens and 165 patient with stroke, MS and
      brain injuries will be enrolled.Demographic, medical, and functional data as well as quality
      of life measure will be obtained. Patients' experiences and perspectives will be explored
      with narrative interviews.

      Descriptive and inferential statistics, with p value set to .05, will be deployed to analyze
      quantitative data. Constant comparative analysis will be used for qualitative data.

      Expected results We hypothesize that the group with MfP has better score increase on the
      Extended Barthel Index, has less fear of falling on the Fall Efficacy Scale after 30 days and
      higher quality of life than the usual care group after 30 days and one months after
      discharge. Additionally we hypothesize that the MfP group has less falls and longer time to
      first fall than the usual care group. Secondary outcomes will be enhanced movement patterns
      and kinaesthetic competence in the intervention group compared with the control.
    
  