
    
      For sub-project1 and 2:Inclusion criteria: Participants are ineligible to enter the trial
      under the following conditions: 1) Participants must be aged 18 to 65 years old who meet the
      criteria for schizophrenia diagnosed by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental
      Disorders-fifth edition (DSM-5) or International Classification of Diseases- tenth edition
      (ICD-10); 2) participants are in current episode of psychotic symptoms with a disease course
      less than 3 years and intermission less than 6 months; 3). there is at least 1 guardian to
      accompany patient within 1 year; 4). Participants and their guardians must sign an Informed
      Consent Form (ICF) indicating that they understand the purpose of and procedures required for
      the study and are willing to participate in the study.

      Exclusion criteria (any potential paticipant who meets any of the following criteria will be
      excluded from participating in the study): 1). Participants with known or suspected
      clinically unstable systemic medical disorder; 2). participant has a current or prior DSM-5/
      ICD-10 diagnosis of substance use disorder, intellectual disability, autism spectrum
      disorder, dementia or severe cognitive impairment; 3). planning to be pregnant, pregnancy or
      breast-feeding; 4). currently enrolled in another clinical trial.

      For sub-project 3:The diagnostic criteria for Paticipants who develop metabolic syndrome: A.
      body mass index ≥ 25.0kg / m2; B. hyperglycemia: fasting blood glucose ≥ 110mg/dl (6.1mmol/l)
      and / or plasma glucose ≥ 140mg/dl(7.8mmol/l) after glucose load; and / or those who have
      been diagnosed with diabetes and received treatment; C. hypertension: systolic blood pressure
      (SBP) / diastolic blood pressure (DBP) ≥ 140/90mmHg, and / or those who have been diagnosed
      as hypertension and received treatment; D. dyslipidemia: at fasting state, total cholesterol
      (TG) ≥ 150 mg/dl (1.7mmol/l); and / or HDL-C: male < 35mg/dl (0.9mmol/l), female < 39mg/dl
      (1.0mmol/l) . The inclusive criteria for patients at high-risk of MetS: A. paticipants are
      taking antipsychotic drugs that significantly affect metabolisms, such as olanzapine,
      clozapine or risperidone; B. paticipants have family history of diabetes, hypertension and
      heart disease; C. the age of paticipants is over 40 years old; D. paticipants have no
      nonalcoholic fatty liver and gout; E. paticipants who have one or two components of metabolic
      syndrome but do not meet the diagnostic criteria.

      For clinical and biological data collection, we collect blood samples and case information,
      which contains demographic data, medical history (including current medical history, past
      history, personal history and family history), medication regimen and results of follow-up
      evaluation. The biological samples are stored using unique code whose storage information can
      be linked to research case in the web server.

      The Standard Operations Procedures (SOPs) are followed for data collection, storage,
      tracking, and utilization.

      Professional technicians are employed for the establishment and subsequent maintenance of
      Internet platform, including web server and mobile terminal applications (APP). Ancillary
      researchers are involved for collection and timely upload of case information online.
      Principal investigators are responsible for auditing the data and quality control.
    
  