
    
      Upon meeting the eligibility requirements and enrolling on study, subjects will undergo
      apheresis to obtain the T cells for the generation of the CD171 CAR+ T cells. The T cells are
      isolated from the apheresis product, the CD4 and CD8 T cells are then selected and grown
      separately, transduced with a lentivirus to express the CD171 CAR as well as a truncated EGFR
      that has no signaling capacity (noted EGFRt) and expanded in culture over a 4-6 week period.
      During the process of cell generation, subjects will continue to be cared for by their
      primary oncologist and may undergo additional treatment directed at neuroblastoma during this
      time.

      After the CAR+ T cells have been generated, the subject undergoes a disease assessment and
      determination of necessary lymphodepletion therapy. A variety of lymphodepletion strategies
      are acceptable and determined on a case by case basis. At least 48 hours after the completion
      of lymphodepletion, the subject will receive and infusion of CAR+ T cells at an approximate
      1:1 ratio of CD4 to CD8 CAR+ T cells.

      Following treatment with the CAR+ T cells, subjects will be followed intensely for 6 weeks
      with serial blood testing and re-evaluation of disease status with MIBG scintigraphy, tumor
      imaging by MRI/CT and bone marrow aspirates. After 4-6 weeks, the subjects clinical care will
      be resumed by their primary oncologist, and it is possible that they would receive additional
      chemotherapy or investigational agents.

      Some subjects will receive cetuximab for ablation of the genetically modified T cells.
      Criteria to receive cetuximab include acute toxicities that are life threatening, as well as
      studies indicating lymphoproliferative disorder arising from an infused genetically modified
      T cell.

      Upon completion of the study, subjects will be followed bi-annually for 5 years, and then
      annually for 10 additional years with either a medical history, physical exam and blood tests
      or a phone call/questionnaire. This follow up will help to determine if the subject develops
      any long-term health problems related to the CAR+ T cells including a new cancer.
    
  