
    
      The prevalence of obesity is increasing throughout the world. General Anesthesia for obese
      patients is associated with increased risk of difficult/failed tracheal intubation and
      aspiration of gastric contents. These life-threatening complications can be avoided by use of
      regional anesthesia. Other potential advantages of regional anesthesia include improved pain
      control, less incidence of nausea and vomiting, early ambulation, decreased pulmonary
      complications, shorter hospital stay. On the other hand, regional anesthesia in obese
      patients can be challenging because of loss in anatomical landmarks. However, the
      availability of high-resolution ultrasound imaging has decreased the reliance on anatomical
      landmarks as the vascular, nervous and musculoskeletal structures can be directly visualized.
      Ultrasound imaging also allows real time needle visualization and local anesthetic can be
      deposited more precisely allowing faster onset anesthesia and reduced incidence of
      complications. Brachial plexus can be anaesthetized at various levels along its course to
      provide anesthesia for elbow, forearm and hand surgery. Axillary region is ideal site for
      targeting brachial plexus in obese patients as the plexus is superficial in this region and
      the likelihood of causing serious complications (e.g. pleural puncture) is low. Study of 188
      patients by Chan et al showed that use of ultrasound increases the success rate of axillary
      brachial plexus block from 63% to 80% when compared with nerve stimulation technique. A
      recent study (Hanouz et al) showed that obesity increases the failure rate and immediate
      complications of axillary brachial plexus block but ultrasound was not used for performing
      the block. In current era, we consider ultrasound-guidance as a standard of care. We
      hypothesize that the block performance time, success rate and incidence of acute
      complications are similar in obese and non-obese patients when ultrasound-guidance is used to
      perform brachial plexus block in axillary region.
    
  