
    
      Principal Investigator: Peter Kozuch, M.D.

      Sites: BIMC/SLRHC

      Introduction

      A Phase II open- labeled, prospective study to determine the efficacy of pre-operative
      chemotherapy with six cycles of modified FOLFOX 6 followed by total mesorectal excision (TME)
      followed by an additional six cycles of FOLFOX 6.

      The objectives of this study are the following:

        1. The primary endpoint of this trial is pathologic complete response (response rate).

        2. Secondary endpoints will include observation of overall pathologic response rate,
           correlation of pathologic staging with pre-operative ultrasound and pelvic MRI staging,
           as well as observation of toxic side effects, patterns of disease relapse, disease-free
           survival outcomes and overall survival outcomes.

      Background Locally advanced rectal carcinoma continues to be a major oncologic problem in the
      United States. Several landmark studies have led to the current standard approach to the care
      of patients with stage II and III rectal cancer. In 1990 adjuvant 5- fluorouracil based
      chemoradiation became the accepted standard of care on the basis of two randomized trials.
      During the following two decades significant modifications were made to both the
      administration of chemoradiation therapy and surgery. First, continuous infusion
      5-fluorouracil daily concurrent with radiation to was shown to be superior to bolus
      5-fluorouracil for 3 consecutive days during weeks 1 and 5 of radiation. The overall rate of
      tumor relapse fell from 47% to 37%, and distant metastasis rate fell from 40% to 31%.
      Notably, local tumor recurrence was not significantly different between the two chemotherapy
      schedules. The improvement in relapse rate translated into a 4 year survival benefit, 70%
      versus 60%, favoring the protracted venous infusion of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU).

      What is not known, however, is the relative contribution of radiation therapy to survival
      outcomes in the setting of chemotherapy programs for rectal cancer. Optimization of systemic
      therapy appears to have the most significant impact on survival outcomes. Firstly, patients
      may begin full systemic therapy with the regimen that has currently been identified as the
      most effective adjuvant treatment of stage III colon cancer. This relatively prompt
      initiation of 'full systemic dose' chemotherapy is in stark contrast to the typical paradigm
      of a 3-4 week interval between initial consultation and initiation of chemoradiation. Another
      theoretical advantage of this proposed trial lies in the fact that full systemic therapy is
      relatively uninterrupted. Therefore, the anticipated 6-8 week perioperative treatment free
      interval anticipated in this schema compares favorably with the typical 10-12 week
      perioperative treatment free interval with current standard of care neoadjuvant
      chemoradiation. Another important consideration favoring this chemotherapy is substantially
      less travel time/treatment time for patients and favorable toxicity profile given the
      elimination of daily neoadjuvant radiation.

      Treatment Plan

      Patients will be given:

        -  Modified FOLFOX6 will be given neoadjuvantly prior to resection for 3 months (6 cycles)

        -  Modified FOLFOX6 will be given adjuvantly within 6 weeks following resection for 3
           months (6 cycles)
    
  