
    
      Pulmonary hypertension is defined as an increase in mean pulmonary artery pressure > 25 mmHg
      evaluated by right heart catheterisation. Over time increased pulmonary artery pressure
      eventually causes vascular remodelling and right ventricular dysfunction. The right and left
      ventricles interact sharing a common pericardial sac and interventricular septum. Frequently
      right ventricle dysfunction reflects clinical PH worsening.

      The aim of this study was to assess the geometry, function and morphology of right ventricle
      and also pulmonary artery diameter and stiffness in pulmonary hypertension patients by
      cardiovascular magnetic resonance.

      Patients are recruited from the Hospital of Lithuanian University of Health Sciences Kaunas
      clinics Pulmonary hypertension center.

      Study inclusion criteria:

        1. Patient with diagnosed pulmonary hypertension

        2. RHC, 6MWT, echocardiography, NT-pro BNP, CMR performed in one month period.

        3. Patients who signed study informed consent form.

      Study exclusion criteria:

        1. Coronary and valvular heart disease

        2. Atrial fibrillation

        3. Expressed shortness of breath

        4. Claustrophobia.

      Suspected number of participants - 100.

      Data Analysis Statistical analyses will be performed using SPSS 22.0 package (SPSS, Chicago,
      IL, USA). Continuous variables will be expressed as mean +/- standard deviation, skewed
      variables as median (interquartile range). Chi square test will be used for qualitative
      parameters. For continuous variables, differences between two groups will be compared using
      non-parametric Mann-Whitney U test. Relation between variables will be assessed using
      Spearman correlation coefficient. Univariate analysis of predictors for survival will be
      used. In order to assess minimally false negative and minimally false positive results with
      greatest accuracy, the method of ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristics) curve will be used.
      The optimal values will be separated out the different groups (survival/non-survival) with
      the highest accuracy (minimal false negative and false positive). Survival curves will be
      established by the Kaplan-Meier estimation method. Cox regression analysis will be used to
      identify independent predictor of outcomes. Two-tailed probability values at p<0,05 will be
      considered statistically significant.
    
  