
    
      All participants will be treated with valproic acid (VPA) at a starting dose of 15 mg/kg/day
      orally in divided doses. This dose produces a VPA plasma level of 346-693 μM and is the
      recommended starting dose for patients with seizure disorder. Each week a pre-dose serum VPA
      level will be determined by immunoassay and the daily dose increased by 5 mg/kg/d to ensure a
      predose level > 1mM. Once the target dose has been achieved serum VPA levels will be
      determined on a monthly basis to ensure a pre dose level >1mM.

      After completing 28 days of therapy participants will be examined and have lab work drawn
      (CBC with differential, electrolytes, BUN, creatinine, total protein, albumin, calcium, LDH,
      total and direct bilirubin, ALT/AST, and β2-microglobulin. Females of child bearing age will
      undergo a pregnancy test prior to each 28 day cycle). For participants identified as having
      stable or progressive disease (National Cancer Institute Criteria), Fludarabine (Flu) therapy
      will be added to VPA on a 28 day cycle. Oral Flu will be administered at a dose of 40
      mg/m2/day on days 1-3 of a 28 day cycle in addition to VPA as described above. Dose
      adjustments for Flu will be based on creatinine clearance. All participants receiving
      fludarabine will receive irradiated blood products and pneumocystis carnii prophylaxis.

      Treatment will be continued with VPA ± Flu to a maximum of six 28 day cycles. Therapy will be
      discontinued prior to six 28 day cycles if: a) the participant requests discontinuation, b)
      if the participant is unable to comply with the protocol, c) the medical care team thinks a
      change of therapy would be in the best interest of the participant, d) there is evidence of
      progressive disease after two cycles of VPA + Flu, e) if the participant experiences
      unacceptable toxicity attributable to the study drugs such as ≥3 non-hematological toxicity
      or prolonged grade 4 hematological toxicity (NCI common toxicity criteria, Table 5 of the
      protocol), f) if the AST/ALT increase to > 6x the upper limit of normal or g) the participant
      becomes pregnant.
    
  