
    
      From January through June 2019, participants will be requested to attend one of six sessions
      that will be held at the hospital simulation center. Participants will be randomized into 1
      of 2 study arms. Each participant that enters the B-Con course will be randomized using a
      "random generator." At the start of the program, all participants will be explained the
      purpose of the research study and the two groups (Control versus High Fidelity). An option
      will be given for participants to be able to opt out. So that our participants all have the
      same opportunities afforded to their colleagues, we will also offer the control group the
      option to participate in the high fidelity simulation at the conclusion of the entire
      program.

      All groups will sit through the exact same B-Con powerpoint presentation by trained STB
      instructors. This course includes the powerpoint presentation that reviews how to call for
      help, assess those affected, identify the location of life-threatening bleed, apply pressure,
      pack a wound and/or apply a tourniquet and when to do this. Tourniquet placement is taught as
      is wound packing placement. Participants will each be given tourniquets to practice alongside
      the instructor. The presentation will cover the first hour of the curriculum. This is
      considered to be the standard for this course.

      Upon conclusion of the course, the control group and high fidelity group will be separated
      into two rooms based on their randomization. In groups of 2, participants will be trained in
      tourniquet placement, wound packing. The High Fidelity group will have a simulation
      intervention in addition and the wound packing will be performed on a device that has
      biofeedback. Upon conclusion of this one hour session, both groups will be tested on wound
      packing and tourniquet placement. They will again be tested 3-8 months later on retention for
      wound packing and tourniquet placement.
    
  