
    
      Chronic neurological conditions have a significant impact on the child and family system.
      Parents of children with neurological conditions want to foster the healthy development of
      their child, however, they struggle with constant feelings of uncertainty, which results in
      an increased level of stress that can interfere with this goal. Stress in parents also
      results in anxiety, depression, decreased confidence in care giving skills, ultimately
      leading to an increase in behavior problems in the child with epilepsy. Pediatric nurses are
      in a position to intervene with parents of children with epilepsy to facilitate coping with
      and adjustment to these issues.

      Although many researchers have identified the relationship between effective parental coping
      and the improved psychosocial outcomes of children with epilepsy, little has been done to
      test interventions that may be effective in improving the coping strategies of parents of
      children with epilepsy. COPE (Creating Opportunities for Parent Empowerment) is a nurse
      coached educational intervention, which shows promise for improving coping in parents of
      hospitalized children. This is particularly significant for parents of children with
      neurological conditions, as these conditions are associated with repeated hospitalizations,
      stigma, and numerous comorbidities. Collectively, these factors make epilepsy one of the most
      stress producing pediatric conditions for parents to manage.

      This study will help to advance Nursing science in several ways. First, this study will
      develop an intervention that can be used to teach parents how to help their children cope
      with living with a chronic condition. This intervention could further advance Nursing science
      because it could be adapted and trials performed with children who have a wide variety of
      medical conditions. This study has the potential to improve the way we prepare parents and
      children for hospitalization. This study will guide nursing in how to best help families cope
      with caring for a child with a chronic condition.

      The research consent form has been reviewed and approved by the IRB at both Children's
      Hospital Boston and Boston College. The consent form addresses the following topics:

      A. Why the research is being conducted and what is its purpose B. Who is conducting the study
      and where it is being conducted C. How individuals are selected to be in the study and how
      many will participate D. What the participant needs to do in the research study E. What are
      the risks of the study and what could go wrong F. What are the benefits of the study G. Costs
      and payments associated with the study H. What happens to the information obtained from the
      study and what about confidentiality I. What are the choices if the participant does not want
      to be involved with the study J. What are the rights of a research participant K. HIPAA
    
  