
    
      Saliva specimens will be collected from COVID-19-positive patients presenting to TETAMMAN
      clinics from November 2020 to March 2021. The total number of participants in this study will
      be 120 participants, with 20 per group (5 groups), 4 saliva specimens from each patient in
      each group. The groups in this study will be as follows: Group 1: Negative Control (distilled
      water); Group 2: PVP-I (1% w/v); Group 3: Hydrogen Peroxide (1.5 % w/v); Group 4: Sodium
      Hypochlorite; Group 5: Cetylpyridinium Chloride CPC (0.075% w/v). Confirmed positive cases of
      COVID-19 will be recruited randomly at each TETAMMAN clinic based on inclusion and exclusion
      criteria to satisfy the total of 120 patients needed. Each participant will be introduced
      briefly to the study aims and then asked to sign a consent form. Demographic data and medical
      history will then be collected for each participant. The participants will be blinded to all
      mouth rinses, which will be labeled with identification codes, and presented in similar
      packages. Patients will be asked to pool saliva in their mouth (self-collected saliva) for
      2-4 minutes before collection and then gently expectorate in a 25-mL sterile (RNase-DNase
      free) collection container about 2 mL of whole non-stimulated saliva (1st sample). The first
      saliva sample will be considered as a baseline sample that represents the baseline viral
      load. Then patients will be instructed to gargle gently, for 15 seconds in the oral cavity
      and the back of the throat with Distilled water, PVP-I, Hydrogen Peroxide, Sodium
      Hypochlorite, and CPC. After that, the participants will spit the mouthwashes into a
      disposable plastic cup. After that, different salivary samples will be collected using the
      collection procedure, as mentioned earlier, at several time points from spitting the
      mouthwashes: 5 minutes, 30 minutes, and then 60 minutes. Thus, a total of four saliva samples
      will be gathered from each patient. Changes in saliva SARS-CoV-2 viral load in each sample
      will be assessed using the quantification of gene expression using qRT-PCR.
    
  