
    
      The purpose of this observational study is to describe participants in geographically diverse
      locations with influenza virus infection and other viral respiratory diseases of public
      health importance and their clinical course over a 14-day period following enrollment.

      Specific objectives related to influenza virus infection are to estimate the percentage of
      participants who go on to develop severe disease or complications that require
      hospitalization; to obtain information on risk factors for disease severity; and to establish
      a central repository of specimens for use in virus characterization, including subtyping,
      antigenic and genetic analyses, identification of signature mutations associated with
      antiviral drug resistance, mutational evolution, and additional reassortment.

      Specific objectives related to novel non-influenza respiratory viruses of potential major
      public health importance are to characterize initial cases and their outcomes in order to
      develop more specific protocols that could inform the prevention and treatment of these new
      infections

      Sample size is open-ended for this observational study. Based on experience to date, it is
      estimated that 75 sites will participate and will enroll approximately 1,700 patients with
      influenza each year, about one-half in the Northern Hemisphere and one-half in the Southern
      Hemisphere. Sites in diverse geographic locations on several continents will participate.

      Study Plan:

        -  Participants who meet the eligibility criteria will be enrolled at participating
           clinical sites.

        -  At enrollment, consent is signed and information (demographics, medical history
           (including prior influenza and pneumococcal vaccination), medications (including
           antivirals) and treatments prescribed will be recorded. A blood sample for serum and
           plasma will be obtained at enrollment, as well as an upper respiratory tract specimen.
           The respiratory specimen will be sent for central reverse transcriptase polymerase chain
           reaction (RT-PCR) testing for influenza.

        -  Status will be re-assessed at approximately 14 days after enrollment and another blood
           sample for serum and plasma will be obtained. For participants with a confirmed novel
           respiratory virus of public health importance, attempts will be made to obtain a sample
           of the local specimen used to diagnose the infection.

      In February 2012, the FLU 004 Genomics protocol v 1.0 was released to the field.

      In August 2013 v 2.0 of the protocol was released as INSIGHT Genomics. The protocol was
      expanded beyond the FLU 002 and FLU 003 studies to include all qualifying INSIGHT studies
      (list posted on the INSIGHT website, www.insight-trials.org. The purpose of this substudy is
      to obtain a whole blood sample from which DNA will be extracted to study polymorphisms in
      immune response genes and other genetic variants that may be associated with an increased
      risk of disease progression among individuals with infectious diseases of public health
      importance who are enrolled in qualifying INSIGHT studies.

      Participating FLU 002 Plus sites are given the option to also participate in INSIGHT
      Genomics, which requires a separate protocol registration. Participants, once consented to
      FLU 002 Plus, will be offered the option to also consent to INSIGHT Genomics, which includes
      a single whole blood sample collection. Participation in FLU 002 Plus will not be compromised
      if a participant opts not to participate in INSIGHT Genomics.
    
  