
    
      Ten percent of all people over the age of 20, and 21% of all people over the age of 60, have
      diabetes. Diabetes is the sixth leading cause of death, and is one of the most prominent
      causes of heart disease, stroke, blindness, nephropathy, and neuropathy. Total health care
      expenditures for diabetes and its complications are enormous, amounting to more than $132
      billion in direct and indirect costs in 2002. Nationally, substantial percentages of diabetic
      patients are not meeting ADA, Health Plan Employer Data and Information Set, (HEDIS), and
      Physician Quality Reporting Initiative (PQRI) guidelines for care that are intended to reduce
      morbidity and mortality associated with this disease. In order to improve these statistics,
      novel ways of delivering primary and secondary preventive diabetes care are needed. The
      growing use of electronic medical record systems and the ability to extract
      clinically-relevant information from administrative data sets offer powerful opportunities to
      identify patients who are "falling through the cracks," reach out to them proactively where
      they live, and render medical services and education in ways that maximize convenience and
      minimize barriers associated with sporadic and time-limited clinic visits.

      The delivery of preventive and chronic disease services is sub-optimal in outpatient
      settings. Rates of guideline concordance for diabetes care within University of Colorado
      Hospital (UCH) are in most instances modestly better than national averages, yet there
      remains tremendous room for improvement. Clinic visits are often too brief for medical
      providers to review and arrange for all recommended care. Providers are frequently hampered
      by poorly-organized clinical data and a lack of automated reminders. Finally, many patients
      do not know about recommendations for care and prefer to focus on acute concerns during
      clinic visits.

      Although decision support in the medical provider's office can improve guideline-based care
      for chronic illness, it does not improve outcomes among patients who fail to make clinic
      appointments or who make appointments for reasons unrelated to the illness. The investigators
      developed a health promotion outreach system (HPOS) to overcome many of these barriers. The
      purpose of HPOS is to increase access to and enhance the delivery of guideline-based care by
      communicating with patients outside of clinical settings.

      Our diabetes-specific HPOS intervention incorporates the following key elements: (1)
      electronic queries of administrative claims to identify patients who are not up-to-date with
      recommended diabetes services; (2) mail and telephone outreach to alert patients about
      recommendations for care and facilitate the direct scheduling of primary care provider (PCP)
      visits, laboratory testing several days before PCP visits, and ophthalmology appointments;
      and (3) advance PCP notification regarding the intended diabetes focus of appointments
      arranged through the outreach process. The purpose of this study is to assess whether this
      intervention improves guideline concordance for LDL cholesterol, hemoglobin A1c, blood
      pressure, retinal examinations, and aspirin therapy as well as clinical attention to diabetes
      during primary care visits.

      The investigators believe our intervention will reduce several barriers associated with usual
      care. First, the investigators reach out proactively to inform patients about recommendations
      for care instead of waiting for them to make appointments haphazardly and often for reasons
      unrelated to diabetes. The investigators make daytime and evening telephone calls to
      patients, many of whom are undoubtedly busy and forgetful, when they do not themselves call
      in response to letters that summarize personalized recommendations. The investigators
      schedule all laboratories and PCP visits at a single point in time, over the phone, and then
      send reminder postcards that summarize this information. Rather than completing laboratory
      testing during PCP visits and then requiring PCPs to convey recommendations for care several
      days later, the investigators schedule laboratories ahead of time whenever possible so that
      timely information will be available help guide clinical decision-making at the point of
      care. Finally, the investigators notify patients and PCPs in advance about the
      diabetes-specific purpose of scheduled appointments and specific areas needing clinical
      attention.
    
  