
    
      Endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) is the gold standard surgical intervention for chronic
      rhinosinusitis that is not adequately controlled with medical therapy. Synechiae formation in
      the middle meatus is the most common complication of endoscopic sinus surgery. Synechiae
      describes the adhesion of two opposing mucosal surfaces in the nasal cavity that can cause
      scarring and obstruction of the nasal passage. Incidence of synechiae formation varies in
      literature and ranges between 4-35 %. Presence of middle meatal synechiae can impair sinus
      drainage, promote sinusitis, and limit endoscopic visualization of the sinus cavities
      postoperatively. This may result in difficulty in performing postoperative routine endoscopic
      debridement and examination, which is paramount to a successful outcome from ESS.

      To prevent synechiae formation, numerous studies have been published evaluating the
      effectiveness of absorbable and non-absorbable spacers placed in the middle meatus for 1-2
      weeks postoperatively. The spacer is meant to prevent contact between the denuded surfaces of
      the middle turbinate and the lateral nasal wall during re-epithelialization. In general,
      non-resorbable spacers that have been used include sponges, cotton gauze and plastic sheets.
      Of these, Silastic Silicone sheets have been used in a number of hospitals across the US and
      Canada. Lee and Baguley have demonstrated the effectiveness of Silastic spacers in reducing
      the risk of synechiae formation to between 0-6 %. There are also a number of resorbable
      spacers that are in use, which are preferred by some physicians because there is minimal need
      to remove the packing materials as they naturally are removed or resorbed during the healing
      period.

      In a recent meta-analysis, Lee et al has revealed that usage of middle meatal spacers
      (absorbable and non-absorbable) did not decrease the rate of synechiae formation to a
      statistically significant degree compared to not using any spacer. However, when subgroup
      analysis was performed, non-absorbable spacer usage demonstrated a statistically significant
      lower incidence of synechiae compared to no spacers. This can be explained in part by an
      inherent capability of the absorbable spacer material to degrade to smaller size particulates
      that, if caught in the healing tissue, could illicit local inflammatory response to slow down
      the healing and cause further synechiae formation. This mechanism was demonstrated by
      Maccabee et al in a rabbit model, where fibers of the absorbable spacer became incorporated
      into healing mucosa and increased the extent of the inflammatory response and formation of
      fibrosis.

      To improve outcomes, physicians have attempted to load steroids such as Triamcinolone and
      antibiotics such as Neosporin into nasal packing and/or stents. However, residence of the
      drug in the intended treatment space is minimized as the drug, which is not bound to the
      spacer, quickly releases and may not remain long enough to impact inflammatory response. A
      Mometasone Furoate coated stent (Propel™), manufactured by Intersect ENT, is currently the
      only drug coated nasal stent that has a claim of longer sustained release. In a randomized,
      controlled, double-blind trial, Marple et al found that this Mometasone Furoate
      steroid-eluting bio-absorbable stent could significantly improve postoperative outcomes
      compared to a non-steroid eluting placebo arm with the same stent. Zhao et al conducted a
      systematic review of the efficacy of this steroid-eluting stent (Propel) vs inert (both
      resorbable and non-resorbable) spacers and again confirmed that there are lower rates of
      synechiae formation in the steroid-eluting treatment groups. However, anecdotal evidence,
      based on discussion with a number of surgeons in the field, suggests that a drug-loaded
      resorbable spacer may be subject to the same issues as non-drug-loaded resorbable spacers,
      namely late stage degradation of the material that can cause a secondary spike of the
      inflammatory cascade, requiring additional surgical intervention to remove the remaining
      debris.

      Therefore, it has been hypothesized that a steroid eluting non-absorbable spacer may provide
      optimal benefit for the patient's outcome. The Restora™ spacer is made of a biocompatible
      non-resorbable material that is expected to deliver up to 370 µg of Mometasone Furoate. The
      steroid elutes out of the spacer and onto the surrounding mucosal tissue during the 6-8 day
      period during which it is retained.

      This study is designed to evaluate basic device usability and confirm safety and
      effectiveness of the Restora™ Steroid eluting spacer as compared to the standard of care
      Silastic Silicone spacer.
    
  