
    
      Comparison of cold and hot tonsillectomy carried out with needle-point tip monopolar
      electrocautery: a prospective, randomized, blinded, controlled (paired design) : A Randomized
      Clinical Trial

      Tonsillectomy surgery techniques are basically divided into cold steel knife dissection and
      other (hot) techniques where surgeons use electrocautery and other contemporary technological
      devices. Pros / cons of hot and cold techniques have been long researched in the literature.
      Parameters are: cost, postoperative bleeding rate, postoperative pain. (Leinbach RF) Latest
      research proved that monopolar electrocautery (EC) is ideal when cost/postoperative bleeding
      rate ratio is concerned. (Cunningham LC) Although EC presents as a viable option, hot
      techniques - although providing good advantages - result with a more painful postoperative
      period. Trade-off with electrosurgery is the heat generated to cut/coagulate the tissue also
      causes a variable amount of tissue necrosis consequent to thermal injury. This pain is
      associated with the thermal injury and consequent tissue necrosis. (Hetzler D) Needle
      electrocautery tips are thinner compared to conventional bovie tip. Their surface area is
      smaller and according to the study carried out by Farnworth et al. (Farnworth TK) cause
      reduced thermal injury compared to conventional blade tip.

      The investigators' aim in this study is to compare cold-knife dissection + bipolar diathermy
      tonsillectomy with needle tip EC monopolar cautery. Study design was prospective, randomised,
      single-blinded and controlled (paired). Either right tonsil was operated with standard-needle
      electrocautery, contralateral side was operated with cold-technique; or vice-versa. Which
      side received which treatment was randomly assigned (Aksoy F)

      Surgical Technique

      Both tonsils were injected with lidocaine and epinephrine infiltration to anterior tonsillar
      plica before the operation. All surgeries were performed by the primary investigator (BO)
      under x2.5 loupes. Force 2 Electrosurgical Generator (The Valley Lab, Boulder,CO) was used to
      power both the monopolar and bipolar electrocautery. Bipolar cautery was used (25-30 Watts)
      in accordance with the literature. Monopolar electrocautery settings were adjusted to 'Blend
      1' which is a summation of the coagluation and cutting waveforms (75% cutting, 25%
      coagulation). Cut power was adjusted to 10W, whereas coagulation power was set to 12 Watts.

      Results and Evaluations

      Postoperative tonsillar fossa healing and pain is going to be evaluated for both sides
      separately with Visual Analogue Scale. All operations are going to be performed by a single
      investigator and all evaluations are going to be carried out by another investigator in a
      totally blinded fashion to avoid possible bias. These evaluations are going to be carried out
      for 10 postoperative days. Tonsillar fossa healing will be evaluated according to scale
      reported by Magdy EA et al. on first, fifth and tenth postoperative day (Magdy EA). Patients
      will evaluate their pain 10 (maximum) , 0 (none) based on a Visual Analogue Scale. Results
      will be calculated as (mean+-SD) and compared statistically for significance with SPSS.

      Discussion

      A finer tip can give greater precision in dissection and can also affect the dispersion
      characteristics of the energy used to perform the dissection. The implication of this for
      tonsillectomy is that greater precision in dissecting the tonsil from the underlying muscle
      can potentially lead to less post-operative discomfort.

      For those surgeons who choose to use an electrocautery technique for tonsillectomy, the
      greater precision of the needle-tip EC may enhance the results.
    
  