
    
      Pilot studies of approximately 1500 patients, RPN #03-08-12-11 and 00051707 (manuscript
      submitted) demonstrated the safety of most contemporary implanted rhythm management devices
      in the MRI environment given appropriate precautions.

      When pilot studies were developed, there was a theoretical concern that there may be an
      increased risk associated with some device and device circumstances including: 1) PPM's or
      leads implanted prior to 1996; 2) ICD's implanted prior to 2000; 3) abandoned or endocardial
      leads; 4) leads implanted <6 weeks; 5) ICD's where patient is pacemaker dependent.

      While it was reasonable to be hyper vigilant when initiating pilot studies by including
      restrictive inclusion criteria, the natural evolution of the devices and device related
      technologies coupled with a lack of objective scientific data to support investigator's early
      safety concerns has caused investigators to reevaluate their necessity. For example, older
      pacemakers and ICD's that previously excluded potential participants are now obsolete; all
      have expired batteries and have been explanted. Similarly, the technological evolution of
      ICD's includes ICD's that are now capable of providing ongoing asynchronous pacing including
      in the MRI environment. Despite some concern that abandoned, epicardial and newly implanted
      leads may be at increased risk of heating or subject to torque, when investigators evaluated
      15 participants with these lead issues and exposed them to MRI (off protocol in life
      threatening situations) there were no adverse problems seen.

      The vetting procedures investigators implemented in pilot studies required that a registered
      nurse obtain all patient device information and chest xrays (when indicated) from referring
      physicians, review them in advance of allowing participants to schedule an MRI, and exclude
      any patient who did not meet inclusion criteria. Investigators found that these procedures
      were time consuming and expensive (as they required a part time Registered Nurse (RN)
      salary). In addition, in some cases, patients who might have derived considerable benefit
      from an MRI were excluded from obtaining one and the time it took to adhere to the vetting
      procedures needlessly delayed the MRI in some participants, causing them unnecessary stress
      and frustration and even adversely affecting their clinical care.

      MRI's will be done in participants who require a clinically indicated MRI without
      implementing the vetting procedures investigators included in pilot studies. Participants
      with implanted pacemakers and ICD's will only be eligible for MRI at Johns Hopkins Hospital
      (JHH) if they agree to participate in this study. All studies will be done in the 1.5 Tesla
      MRI unit. Since the first 100 participants were scanned in investigator's initial protocol
      03-08-11-12, MRI scan sequences, field intensity and fields of exposure have been given no
      special consideration given the presence of the pacemaker or ICD and there have been no
      adverse or unanticipated problems. For this reason, investigators do not feel it is necessary
      to impose any special restrictions (related to field intensity or scan sequences/exposure) in
      this protocol. In the event that any device manufacturer indicates the need for including
      additional safety precautions investigators will amend the protocol immediately to include
      them.

      Electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring pads will be placed on the patient for the duration of the
      study. Heart rate, blood pressure, O2 saturation will be monitored non-invasively throughout
      the study by a registered electrophysiology nurse who is Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS
      )certified, fully trained in cardiac device management and familiar with the research
      protocol as well as the implications of scanning patients with cardiac devices. In addition
      to the electrophysiology nurse, two fully certified MRI technologists familiar with scanning
      participants with implanted devices will be present in the control room the entire time the
      participant is scanned. The scanner is located in close proximity to the electrophysiology
      laboratory where Electrophysiology physicians perform procedures, hence at all times at least
      one, but typically more than one Electrophysiology physician who knows both the participant
      and the MRI device procedure will be available. A Zoll external defibrillator with
      transthoracic pacing capabilities, ACLS drugs and a fully equipped crash cart will be readily
      available at all times in an area that is adjacent to the MRI control room.

      Prior to the MRI, participants will be handed an alarm button and instructed to notify the
      MRI technologist if for any reason he/she feels it is necessary and particularly in the event
      that any unusual pains or sensations are experienced. Participants can be seen by the
      technologist and the nurse who is monitoring the scan through a large window that separates
      the scanner from the control room. In addition, the MRI technologist frequently initiates
      conversation between sequences by asking the patient; "how are you".

      All devices will undergo a complete interrogation and testing prior to imaging and following
      imaging. PPMs will be programmed to an asynchronous mode if dependent and to an inhibited
      mode in patients without pacemaker dependence.

      The pacemaker function of ICD's in pacemaker independent patients will be programmed to
      ventricular inhibited (VVI) mode at 50 bpm. Pacemaker dependent participants with ICD's who
      were previously excluded from prior studies will no longer be excluded as ICD's are now
      reliably capable of maintaining adequate pacing when programmed to an asynchronous pacing
      mode..

      After the appropriate MRI protocol for each MRI patient is completed, the device will be
      re-programmed to its original settings and completely interrogated and retested to detect any
      changes in device performance.

      All MRI's are clinically indicated and therefore standard of care. The participants
      participation in the study will terminate when they complete a 1-6 week follow-up device
      evaluation that will also be done as standard of care.
    
  