
    
      Endometriosis is defined as the presence of endometrial like tissue (glands or stroma)
      outside the uterus, which induces a chronic inflammatory reaction. The exact prevalence of
      endometriosis is unknown but estimated to range from 2 to 10% in women of childbearing age.
      Its prevalence rises up to 50% in women with infertility.

      In subfertile patients with moderate-to-severe endometriosis, the anatomy of the pelvic
      cavity can be disturbed resulting in impaired ovum retrieval or diminished patency of the
      Fallopian tubes, making IVF the first choice of fertility treatment. However, in patients
      with surgically treated endometriosis in which normal functioning ovum retrieval and patency
      of at least one Fallopian tube has been established, intrauterine insemination (IUI) can be
      provided prior to IVF.

      The application of ovarian stimulation in IUI is advocated, even if the woman has ovulatory
      cycles, to improve the pregnancy rates with IUI. However, the application of ovarian
      stimulation has two main drawbacks: The increased chances of a multiple pregnancy and ovarian
      hyperstimulation syndrome. To avoid these complications unstimulated IUI cycles have been
      investigated. The objective of the study is to evaluate the role of stimulated and
      unstimulated IUI cycles in women with endometriosis.

      The study will be conducted in Cairo university hospitals and BeniSuef University hospitals
      All patients with laparoscopic documented endometriosis attending both sites will be invited
      to participate in the study. The study will be explained and only couples who sign written
      consents will be included in the study.

      Four hundred and fifty women with endometriosis will be divided into 3 equal groups using
      computer generated random numbers: Group 1 will have up to 4 stimulated IUI cycles, group 2
      will have up to 4 unstimulated cycles, women who do not become pregnant after the 4 cycles in
      groups 1 and 2 will be advised to have regular intercourse at the expected time of ovulation.
      Group 3 will be the control group will be advised to have regular sexual intercourse at the
      time of ovulation for 6 months On the 3rd day of menstruation group 1 will have a vaginal
      ultrasound and will receive daily intramuscular 150 IU of human menopausal gonadotropins
      (hMG, Merional ®, IBSA, Lugano, Switzerland) starting from the 3rd day of menstruation. On
      day 8 the ultrasound will be repeated and serum E2 will be measured, hMG dose will be
      adjusted and continued and the frequency of ultrasound scans will be individualized. HMG will
      be stopped when at least 2 follicles measuring 18 mm are associated with serum E2 of 500-3000
      Pg/mL, this was followed by the administration of 10000 IU of human chorionic gonadotropin
      (hCG; Choriomon®, IBSA) Women in group 2 will be asked to test their morning urine specimen
      for luteinizing hormone daily starting 4 days before the expected day of ovulation. This will
      be done using a qualitative kit. Intrauterine insemination will be performed on the day after
      the surge in urinary excretion of luteinizing hormone.

      Women in group 3 will be asked to test their urine for luteinizing hormone by the same method
      as group 2. They will be asked to have an intercourse on the day after the surge in urinary
      excretion of luteinizing hormone and this will be repeated for 12 months.

      Semen specimens for groups 1 and 2 will be evaluated and prepared for IUI within one hour
      after collection. Semen will be diluted 1:2 (vol/vol) with HEPES-buffered Ham's F10 medium
      containing 1.5 percent serum albumin. After centrifugation for 10 minutes, the pellets will
      be re-suspended and combined in 3 ml of the medium.

      The sperm suspension will be centrifuged for 10 minutes, and the pellet was resuspended in
      0.35 ml of medium. Approximately 0.05 ml will be used to determine the concentration and
      motility of sperms. The remaining sample will be drawn into a shepherd catheter attached to a
      1 mL syringe and injected into the uterus.

      The procedure will be repeated for up to 4 months in groups 1 and 2, if pregnancy does not
      occur. Women who do not conceive after the 4 trials will be asked to check their urine for
      luteinizing hormone using the ovulation detection kits and have an intercourse on the day
      following the luteinizing hormone surge. This will be repeated for 8 months.

      The pregnancy rates of the 3 groups will be compared after the 4 months and after one year.
    
  