
    
      It has been found that people who consume a large amount of oily fish tend to have a lower
      risk of developing colon cancer. This is thought to be due to the omega-3 fatty acids present
      in oily fish, one of which is EPA. The effect of taking a 99% pure form of EPA (2g per day)
      compared with placebo capsules on the number and size of polyps in the rectum over a six
      month period will be investigated.

      FAP is an inherited susceptibility to diffuse colorectal adenomas and colorectal carcinoma,
      occurring in close to 100% of unresected colons. It is caused by a germline mutation in the
      Adenomatous Polyposis Coli (APC) gene located in the long arm of chromosome 5. To prevent
      cancer development it is recommended that patients with FAP undergo colectomy with ileo-anal
      or ileo-rectal anastomosis (or colectomy and end-ileostomy) at a socially convenient time
      before polyp progression to malignancy and before the age of 25. Patients with the attenuated
      FAP phenotype, often associated with mutations at the 5' terminus (exon 4 and proximally),
      have fewer polyps and may often delay colectomy. Patients with an ileo-rectal anastomosis are
      still susceptible to polyp formation in the remaining rectal stump and require 6 monthly
      check-ups with a flexible sigmoidoscope with removal of any polyps that develop. Therefore,
      an effective chemopreventative agent with a favourable side-effect profile would be of
      benefit to FAP patients with ileo-rectal anastomosis (IRA) and recurrent rectal polyps in
      addition to young adults who prefer to delay colectomy. If such an agent were to be effective
      in FAP patients in the prevention of colonic polyps, it may also be of benefit to the larger
      population of patients with sporadic colorectal adenomatous polyps who are also at risk of
      colorectal cancer.

      Colorectal polyps are thought, at least in part, to arise from an imbalance in the levels of
      cell proliferation and apoptosis (natural cell death) in the colonic mucosa. It has been
      suggested that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in fish oil can manipulate the
      high levels of colonic-mucosal cell proliferation rates associated with colonic adenomas.

      The rationale for this trial is based on the increasing evidence linking inflammatory
      processes and the development of a number of cancers, including bowel cancer. This has
      focused attention on the role of inflammatory mediators in the development of cancer. In
      particular, the family of eicosanoids (including 2-series prostaglandins, 4-series
      leukotrienes and thromboxanes) produced through conversion of the omega-6 PUFA, arachidonic
      acid, via cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) is believed to contribute to the physiological processes
      of inflammation and the development of tumours. Prostaglandin E2, a product of the conversion
      of arachidonic acid via the COX-2 pathway, has been implicated in tumourigenesis through:

        1. promotion of angiogenesis

        2. anti-apoptotic properties

        3. increasing expression of matrix metalloproteinases and hence the ability of a tumour
           cell to undergo metastasis

        4. altering the cytokine expression profile of cells.

      The class of eicosanoid synthesised will depend on the PUFA substrate. Whilst arachidonic
      acid is converted to 2-series prostaglandins and 4-series leukotrienes, EPA is converted to
      3-series prostaglandins and 5-series leukotrienes. Overall, the latter eicosanoids are less
      potent as inflammatory mediators than those derived from arachidonic acid.

      Increasing daily intake of EPA, the omega-3 PUFA analogue of arachidonic acid, alters the
      balance between the cell content of these fatty acids. This results in reduced production of
      the more active inflammatory/tumourigenic products of arachidonic acid metabolism. This is
      supported by the results of recent work at St George's Hospital Medical School, London. In
      patients with a history of colonic adenomas, daily dosing with a highly purified, free-fatty
      acid form of the EPA produced a significant reduction in cell proliferation and increase in
      apoptosis in the colonic mucosa. This preparation of EPA has the proprietary name "Alfa" and
      is referred to here as EPA.

      This proposed study will be based upon the randomised, placebo-controlled National Cancer
      Institute sponsored study in which three groups of FAP patients were assigned to one of two
      doses of celecoxib (a COX-2 inhibitor) or placebo. The results showed a reduction in the
      polyp burden of the group taking the higher (400mg twice daily (bd)) dose. However, there is
      evidence to suggest that COX-2 inhibitors carry significant potential for side-effects.
      Adopting a similar design, EPA will be substituted for celecoxib in this randomised,
      placebo-controlled trial, comparing 2g EPA to placebo, with reduction in polyp burden as the
      primary objective.
    
  