
    
      INTRODUCTION Neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) is one of the most common
      disorders that cause irreversible blindness in the senior population in the developed world.
      If left untreated the patients may experience gradual central visual impairment and
      metamorphopsia which could severely affect their quality of life. However, with the
      development and application of intravitreal injection of anti-vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF), the visual prognosis of nAMD has been greatly improved.Currently there are
      three commonly prescribed anti-VEGF agents. Aflibercept (Eylea; Regeneron Pharma, Tarrytown,
      New York, USA; Bayer, Basel, Switzerland), ranibizumab (Lucentis; Novartis Pharma, Basel,
      Switzerland; Genentech, South San Francisco, Chicago, USA), and bevacizumab (Avastin;
      Genentech). Generally speaking, the binding affinity of VEGF is stronger in aflibercept than
      in ranibizumab and bevacizumab. Previous studies have shown that aflibercept may be effective
      in eyes resistant to ranibizumab or bevacizumab.

      Though the studies of the 2 years results of anti-VEGF agents showed great efficacy in
      improving vision in nAMD, the visual outcome of the long term treatment were
      inconsistent.Besides, studies about the long-term efficacy in Asians were limited.In this
      retrospective study, we aim to investigate the 4 year result of nAMD treated with anti-VEGF
      agents in Taiwan.

      MATERIALS AND METHOD A retrospective, interventional case series analysis o of patients with
      nAMD treated at the Ophthalmology department at Changhua Christian Hospital for at least 4
      years was conducted. The study was approved by the institutional review board of Changhua
      Christian Hospital and was adhered to the tenets of the Declaration of Helsinki. Only
      patients who were both treatment naive upon the initial visit and fulfilled the reimbursement
      criteria set by Taiwan NHIB for subsidized ranibizumab were included.

      Ranibizumab has been reimbursed for the treatment of nAMD by the Taiwan National Health
      Insurance Bureau (NHIB) since 2012, with a total reimbursement of 3 or 7 injections for each
      eye depending on the clinical response of the patient in his or her lifetime, after which,
      the treatment is paid by the patients themselves. In order to be reimbursed by the NHIB,
      patients must be at least 50 years old at the time of diagnosis, and had nAMD confirmed by
      fluorescein angiography, with subretinal fluid or macular edema demonstrated by optical
      coherence tomography (OCT). In addition, there should be no macular scars on the fovea, and
      the best correct decimal visual acuity (BCVA) should be ranging between 0.05 to 0.5. The
      waiting period for the permission of reimbursement of ranibizumab was around 4 weeks, thus
      some patients would have a self-paid bevacizumab injection during the waiting period.

      All eyes included in this study received an initial loading dose of 3 monthly intravitreal
      injections of either ranibizumab and/or bevacizumab. Afterwards, the treatment was made on a
      loose treat and extend protocol based on funduscopic examination, OCT findings and BCVA. The
      loose treat and extend protocol is as follows: if under examination there is stabilization of
      macular edema and resolution of subretinal fluid by OCT, plus no retinal hemorrhage by
      biomicroscopy with 90D lens and a stabilized BCVA for 2 successive visits, the next treatment
      and follow up were extended by 1 month. If the examination showed any signs of recurrence and
      the deterioration of VA equal or more than 1 line, the treatment injection interval was then
      shortened by 1 month. Most, but not all, of our patients followed the above loose treat and
      extend strategy since some patients would insist on following up and treatment with less
      frequency in spite of disease activity. Generally speaking, the patients' follow up interval
      and dosing schedule are made to be equal to or less frequent than a bi-monthly basis after 1
      year, even though there are signs of neovascular activity; either because of the economic
      burden, or the fear of the surgical procedures of intravitreal injection by the patients.
      Aflibercept was considered when the patient developed persistent subretinal fluid, or needed
      more frequent injections than a bi-monthly dosing. Patients had BCVA measured, along with
      funduscopic examination with 90 D lens and OCT imaging with Spectralis-OCT (Heidelberg
      Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany) at each visit.

      Patients were divided into 2 groups based on whether aflibercept was later used as a rescue
      therapy. Group 1 received bevacizumab and ranibizumab only. Group 2 received bevacizumab,
      ranibizumab, and later aflibercept rescue therapy. Outcome measures include BCVA at 1 year, 2
      years, 3 years and 4 years of follow up, and the average number of injections per year.

      Statistical analysis The BCVA obtained during each visit was converted from decimal to
      logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMar) for calculation. Chi-square test were
      used to Compare the baseline data including age, sex, eye. Mann-Whitney-U test was used to
      compare the difference of age, and average number of injections per year between the 2
      groups. Mann-Whitney-U test, Wilcoxon test and independent t-test were used for the
      comparison of BCVA at different time points in each group. Patients were also divided
      according to their initial BCVA (>1.0 or <=1.0 in logMar), or age (>70 or <=70 years of age)
      to see whether initial BCVA or age play a role in the visual changes. A p-value of less than
      0.05 was accepted as statistically significant. All the analyses were performed using SPSS
      software package (ver. 23.9; SPSS Inc., Chicago, illinois, USA).
    
  