
    
      This internal pilot study (n=36) is designed as a 3-arm, parallel, placebo-controlled trial
      with block randomization. All parties will be blinded.

      Patient Recruitment: Patients with T2D on metformin presenting to the Hamilton Health
      Sciences (HHS) preoperative clinic for elective surgery requiring general anesthetic will be
      screened for eligibility.

      Sample Size: 36 patients over the 1-year study. This sample size will allow for 3 groups of
      12, which permits block randomization and precise confidence interval (CI) calculations.

      Randomization and Allocation: Patients will be randomized on the day of their pre-operative
      assessment by our department statistician using a computer-generated table, with an
      allocation ratio of 1:1:1 in random permuted blocks of 3 or 6. Only the pharmacist and
      statistician will know the allocation sequence. Concealed medications (over-encapsulated)
      will be provided to the RC upon confirming the allotment with a unique identification number
      (UIN), recorded on the patient-specific case record form (CRF).

      Application of Intervention: Our intervention involves self-administered metformin (patient's
      usual dose) vs. salsalate (1.5g) vs. placebo with sips of water 2h prior to surgery. Baseline
      data (age, height, weight, ASA score, mean arterial BP, and baseline glucose) will be
      collected by the RC in the pre-operative assessment area, and flash glucose sensors
      (FreeStyle Libre, Abbot) will be placed on the upper arm as per manufacturer's instructions
      and readings collected by the RC. Study data will be securely stored in the anesthesia
      research office, McMaster University. Standard monitors will be used in the operating room,
      with any additional monitoring left to the anesthesiologist's discretion. Although most
      anesthetics appear to modify glucose metabolism, general anesthesia will be provided in their
      preferred manner (including dexamethasone administration for post-operative nausea and
      vomiting prophylaxis) to improve generalizability. Details of the type of drugs, fluids and
      blood loss will be recorded. Following surgery, patients will be brought to the PACU for
      routine monitoring (30-60 min), and additional blood samples will be drawn. Subsequent
      samples will be collected on the evening of surgery (6-12h) and POD1. Any episodes of hyper-
      or hypoglycemia will be managed routinely at the treating physician's discretion and details
      recorded.

      Measurements of Inflammation: Blood and urine samples will be collected on the morning of
      surgery, upon admission to PACU, and will coincide with other tests to minimize needle
      sticks. Blood samples will be processed at the HHS Core Research Laboratory and divided into
      3 serum and 2 EDTA aliquots, barcoded and stored in liquid nitrogen. Urine samples will be
      divided into 2 barcoded aliquots and stored in liquid nitrogen. This will allow for future
      analysis and characterization of biochemical pathways related to the surgical stress
      response. These future analyses will include measurement of insulin and proinsulin since
      salsalate may modify their endogenous metabolism. Similarly, the investigators eventually
      plan to measure various inflammatory markers implicated in the development of acute
      stress-induced insulin resistance (i.e. IL-6, TNFα, and hsCRP), which could provide insight
      into potential beneficial effects of salsalate or metformin.

      Feasibility Outcomes: The primary feasibility outcomes include calculating the recruitment
      rate (both the percentage of individuals who were approached in the pre-operative clinic that
      enrolled in the study, and the total number of individuals that were recruited each month
      (Table 1, supplemental document). The ability to follow study protocol will be reported as
      the percentage of individuals who were able to complete the study protocol as a fraction of
      the total number of individuals recruited for i) drug administration and blinding, ii) blood
      sampling at specified times, and iii) reliability of CGM by comparison with laboratory
      glucose values. Workload will be calculated per patient, and safety profile assessed by
      recording adverse events. Together, this may identify pitfalls requiring modification prior
      to a full RCT.

      Statistical Analysis and Feasibility: Reporting and analysis will conform to the CONSORT
      pilot and feasibility trials guidelines (www.consort-statement.org). Data will be collected
      using an encrypted online tool (RedCap, Research Electronic Data Capture) hosted at McMaster.
      To be feasible and continue onto a subsequent RCT the investigators will need to recruit at
      least 3 patients per month. Additionally, the investigators seek an adherence rate of 88.9%
      (32/36) to receive study drug, collect more than 90.3% (130/144) of pre-specified blood
      samples, and ensure 83.3% (30/36) patients have been followed up within 6 weeks of their
      procedure to document any complications (e.g. SSI). If targets prove difficult, then our
      protocol will be reevaluated for possible amendments that will not compromise final outcomes.
      Given this is a pilot, CIs will be calculated for outcomes of interest: rates of
      hyperglycemia, SSI, and degree of inflammation.

      Trial Management: This pilot trial will be conducted at HHS. The trial will enlist support
      and collaboration from surgeons and fellow anesthesiologists. Study data will be securely
      stored at the anesthesia research office, McMaster University. An RC will be employed for
      patient recruitment and data collection. The CRFs for study patients will be randomly
      cross-checked for completeness and accuracy. All reports of incorrect randomizations,
      protocol violations or incomplete data will be noted.

      Risk Assessment: This trial does not entail any higher risk to the patient than the present
      standard of care. It is pragmatic, and uses clinically acceptable doses with a safe profile.
    
  