
    
      Enhancing functional capacity in older adults with short session high intensity interval
      training

      Frailty is a condition of poor physiological reserve that increases susceptibility to falls,
      hospitalization, disability and mortality. The incidence of frailty rapidly increases after
      the age 65, growing from 10% to as many as 50% of those 85 years or older; therefore over 9
      million Veterans are either frail or at risk for frailty. Exercise has proven benefits for
      frailty, yet older adults rarely attain the recommended 150 minutes a week of moderate
      intensity exercise. High intensity interval training (HIIT) is emerging as an alternative as
      it delivers similar or better gains than moderate intensity exercise in less time. Recently,
      the investigators published that a 3-day-a-week, 10-minute HIIT regimen in aged mice not only
      reduces frailty, but leads to both strength and endurance benefits. In addition, the
      preliminary data demonstrate significant changes in microRNA (miRNA) profiles. Despite the
      potential of short session HIIT to improve functional capacity and lead to better adherence,
      the modality has not been tested in individuals 65-85 years of age, and in particular, frail
      individuals. The goals of this proposal are to: 1) investigate the feasibility of recruiting
      and administering short session HIIT to frail, pre-frail, and non-frail older Veterans and 2)
      to characterize the physical performance benefits and serum microRNA (miRNA) profiles in
      those participants.

      To accomplish these goals the investigators will administer a short session HIIT regimen
      totaling only 10-minutes, 3-days-a-week for 3 months, using recumbent exercise cycles, to
      65-85 year old participants. The investigators will also utilize next generation RNA sequence
      technology to assess HIIT impacts upon microRNA profiles in serum samples. The investigators
      anticipate this project will demonstrate the feasibility of administering short session HIIT
      to older individuals, including vulnerable frail and pre-frail populations as well as
      demonstrate the ability to collect and analyze serum miRNA profiles. The advantages to this
      program are the ability to maintain or build muscle mass and improve aerobic conditioning,
      especially in older patients where frailty and sarcopenia are so prevalent. This pilot
      project will therefore lay the foundation for future clinical trials that further explore the
      utility of HIIT to prevent or delay the onset of frailty in larger cohorts, and ultimately
      lead to the enhancement of functional capacity and quality of life in aging Veteran
      populations.
    
  