
    
      Patients will be stratified for resectability of liver metastases (potentially resectable
      versus permanently unresectable), serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) (normal versus abnormal),
      BRAF mutation status (wildtype versus mutated), type of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (FOLFIRI
      versus FOLFOX) and hospital of registration.

      Patients with RAS and BRAF wildtype and left-sided primary tumors will be randomised between
      FOLFOX or FOLFIRI plus either bevacizumab or panitumumab. The choice between FOLFOX or
      FOLFIRI is to the discretion of the local investigator, however, the treatment is restricted
      to regimens that are specified in the protocol. Patients with RAS or BRAF mutated and/or
      right-sided primary tumors will be randomized between FOLFOX/ FOLFIRI (investigator choice)
      plus bevacizumab or 5FU, irinotecan, oxaliplatin (FOLFOXIRI) plus bevacizumab.

      Patients will be evaluated every 8 weeks by CT scan for disease status. The assigned systemic
      treatment should be continued for at least 6 months or earlier in case of resectability,
      progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity, or patient refusal. If after 6 months the
      panel concludes that the patient is still not resectable, it is highly unlikely that
      resectability will be achieved at all. Therefore the chemotherapy regimen may be reconsidered
      after 6 months of treatment. These patients should continue with the targeted drug in
      combination with chemotherapy, but the chemotherapy may be altered into a less toxic schedule
      such as fluoropyrimidine monotherapy. The targeted drug should be continued until progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. In patients who will become resectable and undergo secondary
      surgery of liver metastases, the total duration of preoperative and postoperative treatment
      together should be 6 months, with the chemotherapy schedule being administered according to
      the assigned treatment arm. However in these patients the targeted drug (bevacizumab or
      panitumumab) should not be continued after surgery.
    
  