
    
      Women will be consecutively allocated into one of the following two groups using a 1:1 ratio
      in order to avoid any potential source of bias.

      Group DEX: women will receive dexmedetomidine (solution 4 γ/ml) continuously infused at a
      dose of 1 γ/kg/ and fentanyl 100γ iv. Dexmedetomidine infusion will start 10 min before the
      start of transvaginal oocyte retrieval and will stop at the end of procedure. At that time
      point, both total volume (ml) and dose (γ) of dexmedetomidine administered will be recorded.

      Group MZM: women will receive remifentanil (solution 50γ/ml) continuously infused at a dose
      of 0.2 γ/kg/min και midazolam 1 mg iv. Remifentanil infusion will start 10 min before the
      start of transvaginal oocyte retrieval and will stop at the end of the procedure. At that
      time point, both total volume (ml) and dose (γ) of remifentanil administered will be
      recorded.

      In both groups, in case of non-co-operation of the woman (e.g. kinetic response), propofol
      will be given as a bolus rescue dose as follows: the 1st rescue dose will be 1mg/kg while all
      the next doses will be 0.5 mg/kg. At the end of the procedure, the number of rescue doses and
      the total rescue dose (mg) of propofol given will be recorded.

      Intraoperative monitoring will include ECG, noninvasive blood pressure, SpO2, EtCO2 and depth
      of sedation using BIS values and ΟΑSS scale. Also, adverse effects such as hypotension,
      bradycardia, nausea & vomiting, rigidity, airway obstruction, and need for bag-mask
      ventilation will be recorded. The use of vasoactive drugs will also be reported.

      At the end of the procedure, the time and quality of recovery will be assessed using ΟΑSS
      scale (max score=5), while postoperatively the Post Anesthesia Discharge Scoring System, as
      well as woman's and gynecologist's (physician) overall satisfaction related to the sedation
      techniques used, will be recorded.

      Regarding the IVF outcome, the following parameters will be recorded: number of oocytes
      retrieved, the percentage of mature oocytes, embryo quality, percentage of positive pregnancy
      test, percentage of clinical pregnancy, the percentage of live birth.
    
  