
    
      The investigators aim to assess the feasibility and accuracy of a new pragmatic and original
      ultrasound algorithm adapted for acute dyspnea diagnosis in the emergency department.

      This primary objective of this prospective multicenter study is to assess the diagnostic
      accuracy of an ultrasound algorithm (EMERALD-US) dedicated to emergencies using lung, cardiac
      and vascular ultrasound for the 3 main dyspnea causes (heart failure, pneumonia and
      obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation) in patients with acute non-traumatic dyspnea
      managed in the emergency department. Ultrasound exams will be blindly read by a centralized
      core laboratory after the standardized acquisition of all exams by a physician not involved
      in the care of patients in the ED. The main discharge diagnosis from initial hospitalization
      (heart failure, pneumonia and obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation) will be adjudicated
      by a college of 3 senior physicians (emergency physician, cardiologist and internist) blinded
      to the use of ultrasound in the ED.

      The secondary objectives of the study are to:

      A/ Assess the feasibility of the ultrasound algorithm (EMERALD-US) in emergency departments.

      B/ Assess the association between the diagnosis obtained from the ultrasound algorithm
      (EMERALD-US) and the results of additional (laboratory and radiological exams.

      C/ Assess the diagnostic accuracy of the ultrasound algorithm (EMERALD-US) for less frequent
      dyspnea causes (pulmonary embolism, pleural effusion).

      D/ Assess, the diagnostic accuracy of clinical (including BREST score), laboratory and
      radiological variables.

      E/ Assess, the improvement in diagnosis accuracy with the ultrasound algorithm (EMERALD-US)
      on top of the diagnostic accuracy of clinical, laboratory and radiological exams.

      F/ Assess the association between misdiagnosis (without using ultrasound) and survival at
      D30.
    
  