
    
      Frozen section: Lymph nodes up to 2 mm were embedded as a whole. Lymph nodes between 2-5 mm
      were cut in half along their long axis and nodes larger than 5 mm were sliced in neat,
      parallel slices at 2-3 mm intervals-slicing was perpendicular to the long axis of the node.
      Then whole of the SLNs were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and examined by frozen
      section.

      Scrape Cytology: SLNs were cut into 3-mm-thick pieces along their long axis. If the lymph
      node was smaller than 3 mm, it was cut in half. Both sides of the pieces were scraped
      separately by an edge of a glass slide or a lancet gently. Obtained materials were smeared
      immediately onto a slide and placed in ethanol for fixation. Then, all slides were stained
      with H&E and examined.

      The results were reported to the surgeon as positive (metastatic) or negative with the
      numbers of lymph nodes. After intraoperative examination, lymph nodes were put into formalin
      solution and sent for final pathologic examination.

      Data analyses were performed using SPSS Version 21.0 (IBM Corporation, Armonk, NYC, USA).
      Shapiro-Wilk test was performed to determine whether the data were normally distributed.
      Descriptive statistics of continuous variables were compared between groups using
      Mann-Whitney U test. The Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test (when chi-square test
      assumptions do not hold due to low expected cell counts) were used to compare categorical
      variables between groups. Continuous variables were presented as median and min-max values,
      whereas categorical variables were presented as number and percentage. A p value of <0.05 was
      considered statistically significant. Performance of each protocol to predict treatment
      success was assessed using confidence intervals with respect to sensitivity, specificity,
      positive predictive value, and negative predictive value.
    
  