
    
      This is a prospective randomized proof of concept trial comparing the efficacy of the novel
      application of blood flow restriction to improve exercise tolerance in patients with
      post-concussion syndrome. Blood flow restriction training is commonly used in combination
      with low intensity/load exercise to facilitate exercise tolerance in those that would not
      tolerate high intensity/load exercises. While this intervention has been clinically employed
      in patients with concussion, research is needed to establish it's efficacy in a meaningful
      and prospective way. Subjects in this study will be randomly assigned to one of two groups.
      One group will perform exercises with BFR and then without BFR. The other group will perform
      the exercises without BFR first and then perform them with BFR. Each subject will undergo a
      single physical therapy session in each condition. Subjects meeting study criteria will be
      randomly allocated to each group. Because concussion symptoms can change quickly over time,
      it will be important to vary the timing of when the blood flow restriction is performed to
      better understand if improvement is due to intervention or passage of time. Randomization
      will be performed via sealed envelope to ensure even distribution into both groups.

      Patients presenting to physical therapy for treatment of concussion symptoms will undergo a
      physical therapy concussion evaluation that includes orthostatic measurements, cervical
      screen, and vestibular-oculomotor screen. Patients will report a Global Function Rating and
      complete a Post-concussion Symptom Score, Neck Disability Index, and Dizziness Handicap
      Inventory at initial visit. Heart rate variability will also be assessed at initial visit.
      The measurements and questionnaires collected at the initial evaluation are part of the
      standard of care at this clinic. Subjects will be recruited after the initial visit and will
      have already completed these measurements/questionnaires. It is also standard of care to
      continue to administer these questionnaires as symptom status changes throughout the course
      of treatment until discharge. At the subsequent visit, subjects will undergo cardiovascular
      testing on a stationary bike to identify symptom provocation and exercise tolerance with
      aerobic exercise. The above evaluative tools and interventions are standard of practice for
      concussion patients being treated by physical therapy at the Duke Sports Concussion Clinic.

      Intervention Procedure (BFR):

      A blood flow restriction (BFR) cuff is applied to dominant leg and limb occlusion pressure
      (LOP) and personalized tourniquet pressure (PTP) at 80% is determined with the patient in
      supine.

      Using an established BFR protocol of 4 sets of exercises with repetitions of 30-15-15-15, the
      patient will perform the exercises of double leg squat and forward lunge under occlusion.
      There will be a 30 second break between each set and 1 minute break between exercises.

      Then, the physical therapist will move BFR cuff to opposite leg and reassess LOP/PTP 80%. The
      patient will repeat squat and forward lunge exercises as above.

      The treatment will be discontinued if there is a greater than 3 point change in subjective
      symptom report. If the patient reports leg pain/discomfort, the pressure will be decreased by
      10%. If still unable to complete the exercise due to leg discomfort, the intervention will be
      discontinued.

      The following will be recorded:

      Heart rate range during each set Maximum heart rate during the recovery period Rate of
      Perceived Exertion (RPE) and symptom report will be obtained during each recovery period.

      Total time under occlusion upon completion of the round.

      Intervention Procedure (No BFR):

      Subjects will perform the 4 sets of each exercise with repetitions of 30-15-15-15. There will
      be a 30 second break between each set and 1 minute break between exercises.

      The exercises will include double leg squat, dominant leg forward lunge, repeat double leg
      squat, and non-dominant leg forward lunge

      The following will be recorded:

      Heart rate range during each set Maximum heart rate during the recovery period Rate of
      Perceived Exertion (RPE) and symptom report will be obtained during each recovery period.
    
  