
    
      Multicenter Schroth Exercise Trial for Scoliosis (SETS study) Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis
      (AIS) is a progressive 3D deformity of the spine. It is the most common orthopedic condition
      in adolescents. Of those with curves larger than 10°, 90% are females. Scoliosis often
      results in chronic pain, poor posture, function, and self-image.

      Curves greater than 30° are braced or later surgically corrected. In Europe but not the
      Americas, small curves (<30°) are treated with exercises to prevent the need for bracing and
      moderate curves with bracing and exercises to prevent surgery. Bracing is uncomfortable and
      patients fear surgery. In contrast, exercises are generally well received.

      Schroth exercises are the most studied scoliosis exercises and have achieved very good
      outcomes. Schroth was the first exercise approach to offer formal certification training. No
      randomized controlled trial has focused on the Schroth method. Only 1 randomized controlled
      trial and only 3 prospective controlled studies with important methodological flaws were
      included in a recent review of the effect of all types of scoliosis exercises that found that
      exercises slowed the worsening of scoliosis. A randomized controlled trial on Schroth
      exercises is needed.

      Schroth exercises are asymmetric scoliosis-specific postural exercises and aim to improve the
      curve, posture, pain, function, and self-image. Schroth exercises target endurance and
      strength training of the abdominal, back, and leg muscles. Schroth exercises also aim to
      improve motor control of the posture by repeating corrective movements with progressively
      less feedback.

      Objectives: (1) To compare the effect of 6 month "of Schroth exercises combined with
      standard-of-care" to "standard-of-care alone" on scoliosis curve severity measured using the
      Cobb angle.

      Secondary aims include determining treatment effects on quality-of-life, spinal appearance,
      posture and spinal muscle endurance and monitoring if effect are maintained at long-term
      follow-ups.

      See above for objectives corresponding to the secondary analysis planned at Hopital
      Ste-Justine.

      Methodology:

      Participants: Two hundred fifty-eight females with AIS will be recruited for this study from
      our scoliosis clinic. Females 10-16 years old with curves 10° to 45°, and Risser less than or
      equal to 3 will be included. Patients who are planning surgery, have had surgery, worn a
      brace or to be discharged will be excluded.

      Procedures: Participants will be randomized to the standard-of-care group (observation of
      bracing if Boston brace criteria are met) or the Schroth exercise treatment group.

      (At hospital Ste-Justine, only because of the ethics committee requested we include a third
      trial arm, we will randomize an equal number of subjects to each of the three trial arms
      (Global Postural Re-education, Schroth and Standard care) using the a variable blocked
      randomization specific to this site. This implies recruiting an estimated additional 52
      patients to be randomized to the Global Postural Re-education group.) Outcomes will be
      measured by evaluators blind to randomization status at baseline and at 3 and 6 month
      follow-ups. The primary outcome is the spinal curvature angle on radiograph at 6 months.
      Secondary outcomes analyzed at 3, and 6 months include radiographs (Cobb angle, rotation),
      Scoliosis Research Society-22r quality-of-life domain scores (self-image, function, pain),
      spinal appearance questionnaire domain scores, postural measures (surface topography), and
      Sørensen back muscle endurance. Radiographs and Scoliosis Research Society-22 measures from
      routine scoliosis clinic visits will also be obtained from the clinic database until
      discharged from routine care. Measurement properties of all measures are adequate.

      Standard-of-care subjects will be under observation or treated with bracing if they meet the
      Scoliosis Research Society bracing criteria for 6 months and then be offered the Schroth
      exercise treatment as a recruitment incentive necessary based on our pilot. Treated patients
      will receive supervised and standardized Schroth exercises combined with a home program in
      addition to standard of care for 6 months. Parents will be involved to enhance (and monitor)
      compliance. (At hôpital Ste-Justine only, one group will receive the 6-month supervised
      Global Postural Re-education intervention consisting of individual training sessions with a
      therapist combined with a home exercise program consisting of 1 or 2 exercises to perform
      twice weekly in addition the standard of care).

      Analyses: Linear mixed models will be used to assess differences in group changes from
      baseline, to 3 months and 6-month, and adjusting for relevant covariates (including age, and
      risk of progression).

      Expected findings: Schroth exercises will improve curve characteristics, quality of life,
      posture, pain, and muscular endurance in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. The
      study team is integrated within the Edmonton scoliosis clinic, Montréal's Centre Hospitalier
      Universitaire Ste-Justine clinic and Calgary's Alberta Children Hospital Clinic. Research
      results can directly influence practice.
    
  