
    
      Studies have shown that inactivated, gp120-depleted whole virus immunogen (Remune) boosts
      immune responses to HIV. One response, lymphocyte proliferative response (LPR) to p24, is
      correlated with a low viral load in some patients with long-term non-progression of disease.
      This study examines whether administering Remune vaccine may generate new immune responses or
      boost existing responses to keep the level of virus in the blood low for a longer period of
      time than antiretroviral therapy alone. [AS PER AMENDMENT 7/20/00: In a recent study using
      Remune, comparison of virologic failure and time to virologic failure between Remune and
      adjuvant placebo arms revealed no differences between the 2 arms of the study. Results of
      this study suggest that the hypothesis in A5057 (that recipients of Remune would have only 50
      percent of the number of virologic relapses as occur in the control arm) is no longer
      plausible in its current design. This protocol is being redesigned.] A substudy adds the HIV
      canarypox vaccine (vCP1452) in patients in the parent study and evaluates whether canarypox
      vaccine can augment the immune responses of Remune.

      Patients will add either Remune (Arm A), or the placebo Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant (Arm B),
      to their antiretroviral therapy. They will be stratified to 1 of the following 4 groups:

        1. Patients suppressed with 3 or more antiretroviral drugs for 15 months or longer, with an
           HIV-1 RNA below 50 copies/ml, and who may have substituted 1 antiretroviral medication
           during that time.

        2. Patients suppressed with 3 or more antiretroviral drugs, who have not taken
           antiretroviral medications for 15 months or longer, with an HIV-1 RNA below 50
           copies/ml, and who may have substituted 1 antiretroviral medication during that time.
           [AS PER AMENDMENT 7/20/00: This stratum includes patients who have taken their current
           antiretroviral therapy for less than 15 months prior to screening viral load
           measurement. If these patients changed from prior antiretroviral regimen(s) during the
           15 months prior to screening, they must have changed at least 2 antiretroviral drugs
           during this time.]

        3. Patients suppressed with 3 or more antiretroviral drugs and whose HIV-1 RNA is 50
           copies/ml or higher.

        4. Patients suppressed with 2 antiretroviral drugs. Injections of either Remune or IFA are
           given at Day 1 and once every 12 weeks for 96 weeks. Patients remain at the clinic for
           observation for 30 minutes following the first and second injections. If a patient's HIV
           viral level rises above a certain level, the patient and his/her health care provider
           may decide to change antiretroviral drugs to try and lower it. Injections will be
           suspended until the lower level is achieved, then resumed on the regular 12-week
           schedule. If the decision is not to change therapy, or the viral load does not decrease
           to under 500 copies/ml within 3 to 4 months, injections may still be received as long as
           the HIV RNA level is below 5,000 copies/ml. Blood samples are collected prior to every
           injection to determine CD4/CD8 counts and viral load, to assay for viral presence in
           peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and to store for future studies. Pregnancy tests for
           women of reproductive potential, physical exams, and medical histories are done prior to
           every immunization.

      An immunological substudy will randomize 80 of the eligible volunteers from the study cohort
      to additionally receive ALVAC vCP1452 or placebo (ALVAC) with equal probability. Arm A will
      receive ALVAC vCP1452; Arm B will be administered placebo.

      [AS PER AMENDMENT 7/20/00: The study is closed to accrual except for patients who enroll into
      A5058s until the protocol can be redesigned. Patients enrolled under Version 1.0 continue to
      be followed every 12 weeks (plus or minus 14 days) until the end of the study. Patients
      should continue taking the same potent antiretroviral treatment that they were taking at
      study entry until reaching the primary endpoint of first virologic relapse.]
    
  