
    
      99 patients will be included in the study. Group C (Control, n = 31), Group ES (Erector
      Spina, n = 31), Group PV (Paravertebral n = 31) will be randomized. A researcher will present
      the patient distribution to patients in a sealed envelope (1: 1: 1 distribution ratio). This
      envelope will be opened in the preoperative preparation room. It will be explained that
      patients can receive both intravenous analgesia treatment and both blocks that are thought to
      be done. Patients will be told to express the degree of postoperative pain in the
      preoperative preparation room using a numerical scoring scale (NRS) between 0 and 10 (no pain
      at 0, no pain at 10). The vascular access will be opened in the pre-operative preparation
      room and 2 mg demizolam will be made. All preoperative cardiac drugs, except antiplatelet and
      anticoagulants, will be continued until the morning of surgery.

      Demographic structures, cardiopulmonary bypass time, aortic cross clamp time, surgical time,
      ejection / fraction values will be recorded.

      Weight and height of patients will be recorded (BMI). Preoperative, blood group and typing,
      full hemogram, liver function tests, renal function tests, chest radiography,
      electrocardiography, 2D transthoracic echocardiography and coronary angiography will be done
      as routine investigations.

      Platelet count, bleeding time, clotting time, prothrombin time, activated partial
      thromboplastin time will be checked in all patients.

      Constructional blocks:

        1. ESP (Erector Spina Plane) Block Group

        2. 2. Parasternal Block Group

        3. Control Group The control group will not receive any Erector Spina block and
           Paravertebral Block. Only PCA (Patient Control Analgesia) and intravenous analgesic
           (Morphine) drug will be used.

      The same surgical and anesthesia team will manage the patients. 6 channel ECG and
      non-invasive arterial pressure monitoring will be performed after the patients are admitted
      to the operation room. A peripheral intravenous line with a 16-gauge needle and a right
      radial artery with a 20-gauge needle will be performed. Blood will be taken for preoperative
      blood gas. Midazolam 0.01 (mg / kg), fentanyl (5-8 μg / kg) and rocuronium (0.6 mg / kg) will
      be used for induction of anesthesia. After anesthesia, central venous catheter and urinary
      catheter will be inserted. During general anesthesia Sevoflurane will be used in the
      air-oxygen mixture with a concentration of 50% oxygen. Normocapnic variation will be provided
      (PCO2 = 35-45). A rocuronium 0.6 mg / kg will be used every 30 minutes. All patients will
      undergo median sternotomy. Heparin 300-500 Units / kg to be administered. Activeted clotting
      time (ACT) will be kept> 400 throughout the procedure. Esophageal temperature will be
      monitored. The mean arterial pressure throughout the operation will be maintained above 60 mm
      Hg. Peroperative blood sample will be taken from the radial artery 3-5 minutes after the
      cross-clamp is removed. Heparin will be neutralized with protamine 1: 1.3. After the
      operation, patients will be transferred to the intensive care unit.

      In the intensive care unit, patients will be extubated when the respiratory effort occurs,
      when the patient is awake, blood gas values are within normal range, body temperature is
      normal and hemodynamically stable. Morphine consumption by PCA and NRS scores will be
      monitored and recorded at 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 hours after extübation. MAP (Mean arterial
      pressure), PH, PO2 (Blood gas) follow-ups will be recorded in the first blood gas, extubation
      and postoperative 1,2, 4,6,12, 24 hours.Paracetamol 1 g and Tramadol 1mg/kg intravenously
      will be administered to the patient if NRS> 3 when the patient is extubated.

      If the patient's consciousness and hemodynamic status do not allow pain assessment, the
      patient will be excluded from the study. After the surgery, the investigator who evaluates
      NRS scores in the ICU will not know which group the patient is.

      Oral feeding at postoperative hour, intensive care unit stay day, Side effects Nausea,
      Vomiting, Itching to be followed
    
  