
    
      The pre-op examination involved taking patient history (including the information about prior
      venous surgeries), identifying varicose veins (VV's) clinical symptoms/signs, duplex
      ultrasound (US) evaluation of the lower extremities, clinical-etiological and
      anatomical-pathophysiological assessment based on the CEAP classification.

      The primary transverse and longitudinal US examination (B-mode, color and spectral Doppler)
      was performed by expert doctors at the Vascular Pathology Non-Invasive Diagnostics Unit
      before deciding on treatment choices. Reflux in the saphenofemoral/saphenopopliteal junction
      (SFJ/SPJ) area was determined in supine and upright positions using the Valsalva manoeuvre or
      manual compression/decompression test, respectively. SFJ/SPJ and great/small saphenous vein
      (GSV/SSV) segments with retrograde blood flow longer than 0.5 seconds were considered
      incompetent. Venous reflux section length and incompetent GSV/SSV segments' diameter (in mm)
      were reflected in medical documentation.

      The trial inclusion criteria were as follows: age >18 years old; VV's CEAP clinical class
      C2-C4; SFJ/SPJ insufficiency and pathological (>0.5 s) reflux in GSV/SSV manifested by one or
      more "venous" symptoms (pain, itching, nocturnal leg cramps, swelling/pulsing sensation,
      heaviness, fatigue and overall discomfort), vein diameter at the SFJ/SPJ >4.5 mm and <8 mm in
      an upright position.

      The patients were informed about the MOCA technique, the intervention's potential
      complications and side effects.

      The exclusion criteria included isolated reflux in tributaries, excessive GSV/SSV tortuosity,
      known allergy to the sclerosant, deep/superficial vein thrombosis, post-thrombotic occlusion,
      confirmed thrombophilia, postoperative VV recurrence, obliterating peripheral artery diseases
      (ankle-brachial pressure index <0.8), pregnancy and lactation.

      The Flebogrif™ device's design is based on a 5Fr single-channel diagnostic vascular catheter
      60 cm or 90 cm long (with 1-cm graduated marks), its lumen containing a retractable metal rod
      with five sharp wires ("claws") attached to its tip. As the "claws" get released and the
      catheter is then withdrawn from the vessel, the vein wall's endothelial layer gets damaged;
      at this time, the distance between the fully opened cutting elements is ~29 mm, which is
      quite enough to treat incompetent veins up to 17-20 mm in diameter.

      The patients were put in supine or prone positions for GSV or SSV ablation, respectively. The
      catheter length choice was determined by that of the incompetent vein segment. The GSV/SSV
      was punctured with a straight needle 18G at the distal point of reflux in an operating room
      under local anesthesia (1% lidocaine hydrochloride solution) and US guidance, after which a
      0.035" J-shape guidewire was employed to insert a 6Fr introducer with an expander. Upon the
      latter's removal, a Flebogrif™ catheter was delivered to the target vein's lumen so as to
      have its tip positioned 2-3 cm below the SFJ/SPJ. Following the guidewire's removal, the
      catheter's cutting elements were released, shifting its outer "shell" against the stationary
      inner rod, after which a syringe containing a dose of 3% lauromacrogol-400 foamed solution
      (Ethoxysclerol®, Kreussler & Co. GmbH, Wiesbaden, Germany) prepared using the Tessari's
      method was connected to the central channel's port. The catheter was being distally removed
      from the vein in a smooth motion all the way up to the introducer, damaging the endothelium
      with its cutters, with simultaneous introduction of the foam in the amount of 0.1-0.2 ml per
      1 cm. The graduated marks on the catheter helped measure the treated GSV/SSV section's
      length. During and within 5 minutes after the foam injection, the ultrasound probe was used
      to apply percutaneous compression in the SFJ/SPJ plane. Where deemed necessary, MOCA was
      supplemented with simultaneous Müller- Varadi miniphlebectomy or standard foam sclerotherapy
      of the visible varicose tributaries.

      Immediately after the procedure, a class 2 RAL compression stocking was put on the operated
      lower limb, and the patients were recommended a 30-minute walk. The duration of elastic
      compression was continuous over the first 24 hours, with subsequent transition to daytime
      wear for 4 weeks.
    
  