
    
      This cohort study is part of the Search for a Treponema pallidum Antigen Test (SeTPAT)
      project to study the proteomic, immunological, serological and clinical changes associated
      with pre- and post-treatment syphilis infection in a way that will ultimately lead to the
      development of a new ELISA and rapid diagnostic test of T. pallidum antigenaemia. The general
      aim of this observational cohort study is thus to quantify a set of target proteins with the
      highest diagnostic potential for the diagnosis of initial T. pallidum infection and T.
      pallidum persistence. A test which could directly detect the presence of T. pallidum antigens
      could represent a considerable advance over currently used tests in the diagnosis of initial
      syphilis infection, its response to therapy and in the diagnosis of syphilis reinfections.

      This prospective observational cohort study of HIV-positive patients with a new diagnosis of
      syphilis infection will be conducted at the HIV/Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) Clinic
      at the Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp (ITM). 120 patients with a new diagnosis of
      syphilis infection who receive treatment for their syphilis at the ITM and give informed
      consent, will be recruited; based on the current rate of syphilis diagnosis this should take
      approximately 18 months. Participants will receive a detailed, standardized clinical
      assessment, fill out a brief behavioural questionnaire and then be treated with therapy for
      syphilis according to their stage of disease. In addition to the routine tests performed, if
      and after they consent to participate in this study, they will have their serum analyzed for
      a number of other immunological markers. A control group will be recruited, consisting of 30
      convenience selected patients who are HIV infected but have no evidence of syphilis (Rapid
      Plasma Reagin, T. pallidum antigenaemia , or clinical evidence that could be suggestive of
      syphilis infection) are attending the HIV clinic regularly, who were seen in the same month
      as one of the acute syphilis cases and who consent to take part in the study. The control
      group will only undergo the investigations planned for the baseline visit.

      Noteworthy, it is hoped that the results of the study will also allow to develop and evaluate
      the utility of a composite diagnostic rule for the diagnosis of syphilis reinfection.
    
  