
    
      Carcinoid tumors are rare. In early stage disease they may cause either no or few nonspecific
      symptoms. Therefore, patients with carcinoid tumors most often present late in the course of
      their illness when there is already progression to an incurable state as a result of
      metastatic disease. At present there are neither practical population screening tests nor
      effective therapies and hence the 5 year survival rate is low. Due to the rareness of
      sporadic carcinoid tumors, large scale genetic analysis and development of sensitive and
      specific diagnostic tests have not been successful. While kindreds with familial carcinoid
      tumors that are not ascribable to known genetic syndromes are exceedingly rare, they provide
      a unique opportunity to facilitate the identification of the responsible gene mutation. In
      addition, the mutated gene in the rare familial form may also underlie the origin of the more
      common sporadic occurrence of carcinoid tumors. We propose to study families in which there
      are at least two known affected members with carcinoid tumors. We aim to diagnose patients
      with early and therefore potentially curable occult disease. Therefore, family members who
      have up to a 50% lifetime risk of harboring a carcinoid tumor will undergo an intensive
      diagnostic evaluation using biochemical, endoscopic and imaging modalities at initial and
      subsequent two year follow up encounters. Early phenotypic assignment of affected family
      members and collection of germline and tumoral DNA from multiple kindreds should also
      facilitate the genetic analysis leading to the identity of the disease gene. Evaluation of
      affected family members at varying stages of disease will contribute to our understanding of
      the natural history of carcinoid tumors and the relative utility of a variety of diagnostic
      and surveillance tests. Hopefully, such knowledge gained will also be applicable to patients
      with carcinoid tumors occurring sporadically or in the setting of other familial cancer
      syndromes. There is no planned treatment for patients with existing or newly diagnosed
      primary or metastatic carcinoid tumors. However, these patients may be evaluated by
      consultation with oncology and surgery for potential treatment on their service under their
      preexisting protocols.
    
  