
    
      The routine dental treatment for the patient diagnosed with symptomatic or asymptomatic
      irreversible pulpitis secondary to deep carious lesion is conventional root canal treatment.
      Root canal treatment is the preferred treatment option because of its superior success rate
      to other treatments .

      However, it is expensive, time consuming and complicated. Root canal treatment needs special
      clinical skills and high socio-economic status to afford the cost of the treatment.
      Unfortunately, in developing countries these can be un-reachable. Therefore, extraction is
      the only alternative option to the affected teeth . Moreover, a recent systematic review by
      Ng et al stated that the success rate of root canal treatment had not improved over the past
      few decades and molars had poor survival rates in comparison to non-molar teeth.In addition,
      It was stated that the survival rate of endodontically treated tooth is alarmingly low in
      comparison to vital teeth, especially molars, During root canal treatment many mishaps can
      occur such as perforations, ledges and extrusion of root filling, that reduces the longevity
      of root treated teeth .

      Carious pulp exposure of permanent molars in children is a very common unfortunate event
      faced in Pediatric Dentistry and Public Health department in Cairo university. This may be
      due to the low socioeconomic status, ignorance of patients attending that clinic, their wrong
      eating habits and their bad oral hygiene.

      Root canal treatment in an uncooperative young patient is very complicated which may affect
      the quality and prognosis of the treatment itself. Therefore, an economical, simple and
      conservative technique such as pulpotomy should be considered Pulpotomy has been proposed in
      the last decade as a definitive treatment of mature permanent teeth with irreversible
      pulpitis due to the better understanding of the pulp biology and development of bioactive
      materials . This technique involves removal of the coronal portion of the pulp that has
      undergo degenerative and irreversible changes to the level of the canal orifices and leaving
      the healthy vital radicular portion of the pulp. The surrogate marker for the degree of
      inflammation and the healing potential of the remaining pulp tissue has been suggested to be
      the ability to control the bleeding after pulp amputation..

      By preserving the pulp vitality, this can help in maintaining proprioceptive, reparative,
      innervation (tooth sensitivity), vascularization, and damping functions.The vital pulp can
      continue to serve the function of protecting the tooth from overload by means of protective
      feedback mechanism and preventing fracture because of the presence of pulp and organic tissue
      in the dentinal tubules.The dentin -pulp complex will stimulate the formation of tertiary
      dentine or a mineralized barrier protecting itself .

      Compared to the root canal treatment, pulpotomy is considered less technique sensitive so it
      can be performed by general dental practitioners. Hence, It increases the patients' access to
      dental care and more clinicians will be able to provide the affordable treatment saving more
      teeth when the patients cannot afford the root canal treatment leaving extraction as a last
      treatment option.

      It is believed that the pulp tissue of the younger aged patients has higher healing capacity
      and regenerative powers than pulp tissue in older aged patients.
    
  