
    
      Disease Progression and Timing of Intervention The intervention described herein focuses on
      adjustment of patient positioning aimed at improving gas exchange and lung function in
      patients harboring COVID-19. This intervention will target the inpatient setting generally.

      Scientific/Clinical Rationale for Approach Since emergence of the novel coronavirus, severe
      acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) now designated coronavirus disease 2019
      (COVID-19), one in six affected patients becomes seriously ill. The lung appears to be the
      most susceptible target organ, with a large swath of symptomatic patients struggling with
      mild upper respiratory tract illness and severe viral pneumonia resulting in respiratory
      failure. This respiratory failure is often fatal, with one study showing 28% non-survivors
      having experienced respiratory failure. Moreover, 81-97% of patients requiring mechanical
      ventilation do not survive.

      Like its interaction with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV), angiotensin
      converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is the functional receptor for COVID-19. Viral adherence to
      host-cell membrane associated ACE2 facilitates the proximity required for viral "spike"
      mediated genetic material injection. In COVID-19, this spike is 10-20 times more likely to
      bind ACE2 than SARS. ACE2 is expressed in 0.64% of all human lung cells, with 83% of those
      cells being alveolar epithelial type II. In addition, gene ontology enrichment analysis
      showed that the ACE2-expressing alveolar epithelial type II have high levels of multiple
      viral process-related genes, including regulatory genes for viral processes, viral life
      cycle, viral assembly, and viral genome replication, suggesting that the ACE2-expressing
      alveolar epithelial type II cells facilitate coronaviral replication in the lung. Thus, these
      cells likely serve as a ready reservoir for viral invasion. Perhaps more importantly,
      alveolar type II cells function to generate and recycle surfactant essential to respiratory
      activity. Surfactant defends against alveolar collapse at low lung volume and protects the
      lung from injuries/infections caused by inhaled particles and micro-organisms. In COVID-19,
      if these vital cells are being destroyed, alveolar failure may ensue with severe lung
      impairment. Thus, interventions that are aimed at improving pressure normalization and
      alveolar protection may be beneficial in these patients.

      Prone positioning (PP) has long been used to combat hypoxemia in acute respiratory distress
      syndrome (ARDS). Improvements in gas exchange result from improved alveolar ventilation and
      blood flow redistribution with enhanced perfusion following. PP reduces lung over inflation
      and bolsters alveolar recruitment. PP also promotes uniformity of vertical pleural pressure
      gradients resulting in more uniform alveolar size. Considering these physiologic factors
      together, the investigators hypothesize PP serves to balance stress and strain within the
      lungs of non-critically ill patients with COVID-19 leading to improved outcomes compared to
      traditional supine positioning.

      Prior Research Supporting the Positioning Model:

      Multiple studies have been conducted that support the use of PP as a proactive treatment to
      combat hypoxemia in ARDS. Each year, approximately 170,000 people are diagnosed with ARDS,
      and those diagnosed face mortality rates between 25% and 40%. The use of PP stretches back to
      the 1970s, as providers began to search for ways to ameliorate ARDS symptomatology and reduce
      the then even higher levels of mortality associated with it. Following initial reports that
      PP significantly improved oxygenation in 70-80% of patients with ARDS, it was adopted as a
      standard treatment option. Initially, randomized clinical trials struggled to replicate these
      findings, citing multiple limitations to study enrollment and treatment standardization that
      made ascertaining conclusive results difficult. Only as RCT construction has been refined to
      accommodate for these limitations have the benefits of PP been more clearly demonstrated.

      These beneficial effects have been recently upheld by the landmark PROSEVA study, a
      multicenter, prospective, randomized, controlled trial, that randomly assigned 466 patients
      with severe ARDS to undergo prone-positioning sessions of at least 16 hours or to be left in
      the supine position. Their results demonstrated a significant improvement in both 28- and
      90-day mortality rates: "the 28-day mortality was 16.0% in the prone group and 32.8% in the
      supine group (P<0.001). The hazard ratio for death with prone positioning was 0.39 (95%
      confidence interval [CI], 0.25 to 0.63). Unadjusted 90-day mortality was 23.6% in the prone
      group versus 41.0% in the supine group (P<0.001), with a hazard ratio of 0.44 (95% CI, 0.29
      to 0.67)".

      Per these positive findings, PP has been consistently shown to be an effective mechanism to
      increase oxygenation in patients with ARDS when implemented under the following conditions:
      early enlisting of treatment and its consistent maintenance for at least 16 hours per day,
      and with concurrent use of lung-protective therapies. Translating these findings towards
      treatment of COVID-19 positive patients seems promising given the similarity of manifested
      symptoms and complications.
    
  