
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety, toxicity, and maximum tolerated dose of lenalidomide when
      combined with temsirolimus in patients with relapsed lymphomas. (Phase I) II. To determine
      complete and overall response rate of lenalidomide plus temsirolimus in patients with
      relapsed lymphomas as stratified by histology: follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell
      lymphoma, and lymphoma not otherwise specified (NOS) (including Hodgkin lymphoma, T-cell
      non-Hodgkin lymphoma [T-NHL], lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, and mantle cell lymphoma). (Phase
      II) III. To determine duration of response, progression-free survival, and overall survival
      of lenalidomide plus temsirolimus in patients with relapsed lymphomas as stratified by
      histology: diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, and lymphoma NOS (including
      Hodgkin lymphoma, T-NHL, lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma). (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway activation in pre-treatment
      tumor tissue.

      II. To determine angiogenic and microenvironmental status of pre-treatment tissue and
      peripheral blood samples, and to evaluate changes following treatment with temsirolimus and
      lenalidomide.

      III. To determine differentially expressed genes associated with differences in clinical
      response and in progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with diffuse large B-cell
      lymphoma (DLBCL) and follicular lymphoma (FL) (Groups A and B, respectively).

      IV. To determine a methylation signature predictive of clinical response and PFS in patients
      with DLBCL and FL (Groups A and B, respectively).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) on days 1-21 and temsirolimus intravenously (IV)
      over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable disease
      after 2 courses may continue therapy for up to 52 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.
    
  