
    
      Insufficient physical activity, hazardous use of alcohol, tobacco use and unhealthy eating
      habits increase the risk of cardiovascular diseases, cancer and type 2-diabetes.
      Health-promoting work reduces the disease risk and mortality and should thus be integrated in
      clinical care processes.

      Despite support by the National guideline for prevention and treatment of unhealthy
      life-style habits, there is a chasm to bridge when integrating evidence into clinical
      practise. Prerequisites for changing work-ways are often underestimated and left to the
      individual co-workers to full fill on their own.

      Too few patients are asked about life-style habits and too few receive evidence-based
      measures. The measures taken may also depend on sex, language, residence and caregiver's
      profession. The investigators strive to support the implementation of a health-promoting way
      of working that includes self-reporting of life-style habits before a visit and that takes
      measures for those with at least one unhealthy lifestyle habit.

      The aim is to identify effective implementation strategies for health-promoting efforts in
      the primary care. The perceptions of barriers and opportunities when changing way of working
      from the target groups (leaders, co-workers, patients) will be used to enhance the
      possibility of successful implementation. Strategies are enhanced by theories of leading
      change. External and internal facilitators support the implementation.

      The study will evaluate the effects and the implementation process at the level of leaders,
      patients, co-workers and organisation.

      The project provides generalizable knowledge on strategies to overcome the gap between
      evidence and praxis, contributing to utilize an existing synthesized knowledgebase regarding
      health-promoting and preventative workways in a Swedish primary care setting.

      It is central for the health care system to identify successful implementation strategies in
      order to manage their future mission.
    
  