
    
      This study would be powered to detect differences in UTIs and Foley catheter re-insertion
      rates. Assuming a 10% drop-out rate, 100 total subjects should be enrolled in the study.

      All patients that meet the appropriate inclusion criteria and are scheduled for outpatient
      pelvic floor surgery will be considered for the study. Patients will be counseled about the
      study either in the office during a surgical planning office visit, over a pre-operative
      telephone call, or in the pre-operative area just prior to surgery. Consents will be signed
      in the pre-operative area.

      After surgery, the patient will be given a standardized voiding trial as per the usual
      protocol. If the patient is un-successful in emptying her bladder she will be discharged home
      with an indwelling Foley catheter with antibiotics. On post-operative day (POD) #1 the
      patient will be re-assessed for meeting eligibility requirements and will be called and
      randomized to either the early voiding trial group (EVT) or the late voiding trial group
      (LVT). Subjects in EVT will be scheduled for a repeat VT on POD#2, POD#3, or POD#4, whereas
      those in LVT will be scheduled for a repeat VT on or after POD#7. Subjects that are
      unsuccessful in the repeat VT will have a Foley catheter re-inserted and will return for
      another VT in 5-7 days. Subjects who fail the third VT from either group will have the Foley
      catheter replaced and will return for another office VT after waiting an additional 5-7 days
      or will be started on clean intermittent self-catheterization.

      Subjects will be monitored for a 6 week period for voiding and urinary symptoms. Urine will
      be tested via in-office urinalysis at each office visit, including pre-operatively, and will
      be sent for a urine culture per usual practice based upon abnormal urinalysis results. Urine
      cultures that grow out a single organism >10,000 CFU will be treated with appropriate
      antibiotics. In addition, patients will complete quality of life questionnaires at the time
      of catheter removal, the standard 2 week post-op visit and at 6weeks post-operatively.
    
  