
    
      This Phase 1b trial is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multiple ascending dose study to
      evaluate the safety and tolerability of oral ORIN1001 at 25 mg, 50 mg or 100 mg administered
      daily for up to 28 days in adult subjects with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) alone or
      in conjunction with local standard of care (SOC) for IPF (i.e., pirfenidone or nintedanib).

      Approximately 24 evaluable subjects will be required for this study. Eligible subjects will
      be followed for safety through the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) evaluation period, defined as
      28 days after the first dose of ORIN1001.

      In the absence of intolerable toxicity, doses will be escalated sequentially with 8 evaluable
      subjects receiving a maximum of 28 days of ORIN1001 in once-daily doses of 25 mg (Cohort 1),
      50 mg (Cohort 2), or 100 mg (Cohort 3) versus matched placebo. Subjects will be stratified
      based on local SOC for IPF, defined as the stable daily dose of pirfenidone or nintedanib (or
      neither) received for at least 8 weeks prior to signing the Informed Consent Form (ICF).
      ORIN1001 or matched placebo will be administered daily until Day 28, unacceptable toxicity,
      withdrawal for another reason or study termination.

      Safety Endpoints will be evaluated and will include adverse events (AEs), serious adverse
      events (SAEs), and changes in clinical laboratory evaluations as compared to baseline. Safety
      variables include but are not limited to: vital signs (blood pressure [BP], heart rate [HR],
      respiratory rate [RR]) and temperature; twelve-lead ECG; clinical laboratory tests
      (hematology, coagulation profile, clinical chemistry, and urinalysis); concomitant
      medications; physical examination; body weight; and pulmonary function tests (forced vital
      capacity [FVC], forced expiratory volume [FEV], and diffusion capacity [DLCO]) at baseline,
      End-of- Treatment and Follow-up Visits.

      Pharmacokinetic (PK) Endpoints will be evaluated on Day 1 and Day 28 and blood collection
      samples will be obtained from each subject. Exploratory serum biomarker endpoints will be
      evaluated to assess lung fibrosis and inflammation.
    
  