
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of 17-N-allylamino-17-demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG)
      (tanespimycin) when administered with cytarabine in patients with relapsed or refractory
      acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic
      myelomonocytic leukemia, or high-grade myelodysplastic syndromes.

      II. Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine,
      preliminarily, the activity of this regimen in these patients. IV. Correlate the
      pharmacokinetics of this regimen with cytochrome p450 3A5 genotype in these patients.

      V. Determine the effect of this regimen on client proteins in vivo and ex vivo using leukemic
      blasts from patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of tanespimycin.

      Patients receive induction therapy comprising cytarabine intravenously (IV) continuously on
      days 1-5 and tanespimycin IV over 1 hour on days 3 and 6.

      Patients achieving a morphologic complete response with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi)
      or partial response may be eligible to receive a second induction course of therapy after day
      21 at the discretion of the principal investigator. Patients achieving a complete response
      (CR) receive up to 4 courses of consolidation therapy with cytarabine and tanespimycin.
      Consolidation therapy repeats approximately every 60 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve CR and remain in remission for ≥ 6
      months may be retreated with cytarabine and tanespimycin (at the current dose level or the
      maximum tolerated dose [MTD]) at the time of relapse. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive
      escalating doses of tanespimycin until the MTD is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Patients
      are followed at 3 months.
    
  