
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Black health disadvantage remains a pressing public health issue in the United States.
      According to the Department of Health and Human Services 'Black and Minority Health Report',
      65,000 excess deaths occur each year among Blacks when compared to the mortality experience
      of whites. Cardiovascular diseases make by far the largest contribution to this loss of life,
      accounting for over 30 percent of the excess. Despite improvements in CV mortality for all
      four major sex-race groups during the 1970's, the trends in heart disease in the United
      States began to diverge. A 50 percent slowing of the decline in coronary mortality occurred
      among Blacks from 1978-1986, compared to whites, and the gap in life expectancy between the
      races has widened. As noted in the 'Report', despite the widespread recognition of the
      importance of the problem, our knowledge regarding the causes of these differentials in CV
      disease was inadequate. To address this problem, the Report recommended support for
      'innovative uses of current data' and 'cross-comparisons from different data sets',
      emphasizing the unique contribution population-based studies can make to 'understanding the
      health status and needs of minority populations'. Given the deterioration of the Black health
      status relative to the majority population, these recommendations took on new urgency.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Several separate analyses were conducted of prevalence surveys, epidemiologic followup
      studies, hospitalization surveys and vital statistics. These separate analyses were
      subsequently combined into a comprehensive description of the clinical and epidemiologic
      determinants of the Black CV disadvantage, and its future trends.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  