
    
      Preoperative patients undergoing emergency non-cardiac surgery will be approached for study
      recruitment and participation. Study participants will be randomized to receive, or not, a
      preoperative POCUS exam as part of their routine preoperative assessment. Patients randomized
      to receiving a POCUS exam will undergo a protocolized focused cardiac ultrasound, lung and
      pleural ultrasound and a gastric volume and content ultrasound assessment. Results of this
      exam will be disclosed to the anesthesiologist and primary care team. Randomization will be
      stratified by the presence of any sign(s) of cardiorespiratory failure. Signs of
      cardiorespiratory failure are defined as: systolic blood pressure <90 mmHg, heart rate>100,
      respiratory rate >24, Oxygen saturation <90%, requirement of supplemental oxygen or
      mechanical ventilation, new requirement of loop diuretics in current hospital admission,
      chest pain, newly diagnosed ECG changes, requirement of vasoactive drugs, signs of pre-renal
      azotemia (BUN:creatinine ratio >20). Outcome data will be collected prospectively.
      Investigators performing and interpreting the scan will disclose the results to the care team
      but will not participate in patient care. Primary and secondary outcome data collection will
      be performed by an investigator blinded to patient assignment. The primary outcome is post
      anesthetic care unit length-of-stay. The secondary outcomes are post-randomization hospital
      length of stay, number of operating room (OR) delays for optimization, alterations in
      anesthetic management (using a brief anesthesiologist-administered survey), intensiveness of
      OR management (invasive blood pressure monitoring, central venous pressure monitoring,
      intraoperative TEE), new peri-operative diuretic use, new intensive care admission rates,
      mortality during this admission, amount/frequency of postoperative investigations, rates of
      detection of new pathologies identified by preoperative POCUS exam and the rates of
      adequately diagnostic POCUS studies.
    
  