
    
      This trial evaluates the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of
      telephone-based Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) on fatigue interference in advanced
      gastrointestinal (GI) cancer patients and family caregiver burden as well as secondary
      outcomes. The study team will recruit advanced GI cancer patients receiving care at the
      Indiana University Simon Cancer Center or Eskenazi Health hospital. Potentially eligible
      patients will be mailed an introductory letter signed by their oncologist and the PI along
      with a consent form. The letter will have a number to call if they do not wish to be
      contacted further. A research assistant (RA) will call all prospective participants who do
      not opt out approximately 1 to 2 weeks after the letter is mailed. The RA will describe the
      study as outlined in the consent form and answer any questions. Then the RA will administer
      an eligibility screening to those who consent to participate. Eligible and consenting
      patients will identify a potentially eligible family caregiver. If the family caregiver is
      eligible and consents to participate, then the patient and caregiver will each complete a
      baseline phone assessment. Following baseline assessments, patient-caregiver dyads (N = 42
      dyads) will be randomly assigned in equal numbers to ACT or education/support using a
      stratified block randomization scheme to balance the groups by patient performance status
      (patient-reported Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group [ECOG] scores 0 or 1 vs. 2). Dyads in
      both study conditions will complete six weekly 50-minute telephone sessions with the first
      session occurring one week after baseline. For ACT participants, adherence to home practice
      during the past week will be assessed and recorded during each session. Feasibility will be
      examined via accrual, attrition, and adherence rates, and acceptability will be evaluated
      using a mixed methods approach (qualitative and quantitative). Blind interviewers will assess
      outcomes during follow-up phone assessments at 2 weeks and 3 months post-intervention.
    
  