
    
      Early immunity to HIV may play an important role in the long interval between virus infection
      and the onset of clinical disease. Immune responses have been demonstrated in HIV-infected
      individuals within weeks to months of infection. Although none of these responses has been
      shown to be protective, it is possible that boosting anti-HIV immune responses through
      immunization may slow the progression of HIV infection. DTH responses to HIV-derived
      recombinant envelope glycoprotein could provide a means of measuring an important immune
      function in infected patients, and serve as an easily measured surrogate marker of cellular
      immunity. In addition to eliciting local, cutaneous DTH responses, intradermal inoculation of
      skin test antigens may be immunogenic, resulting in new antibody production and cellular
      immune responses. This study allows direct comparison of gp160 administered intradermally
      with alum-adjuvanted intramuscular preparation with respect to immunogenicity in HIV
      seropositive patients.

      Each of 10 volunteers is initially injected with the lowest dose of intradermal antigen and
      the injection site observed at 24, 48, and 72 hours. Clinical and laboratory evaluations are
      performed 4 and 8 weeks after inoculation. If there is not delayed-type hypersensitivity
      (DTH) response to the lowest dose, patients are retested at the next dose 8 weeks later and
      dose escalation is continued at 8-week intervals until (1) there is a DTH response to gp160;
      or (2) the maximum anticipated dose is reached. In any individual, a higher dosage is
      administered only if there is no evidence of DTH response. Patients with a DTH may continue
      to receive booster injections of gp160 at 3 month intervals up to week 70. Patients with an
      immune response but no DTH may continue to receive injections for an additional year. A
      second group of 10 asymptomatic individuals are recruited and inoculated with the dose found
      to bring about either a DTH or lymphocyte proliferative response in 7 of the 10 patients in
      the first group. If the second group confirms the results of the initial group, the study is
      amended to include patients with AIDS-related complex (ARC) and AIDS.
    
  