
    
      Background

      The aim of this study is to analyze the available accuracy of a computer-assisted approach to
      liver surgery and microwave ablation. The term 'computer-assisted' refers to 1) using 3D
      models of patient anatomy for extended orientation during the planning of the intervention
      and 2) using an image guidance system (similar to a GPS in a car) that allows for precise
      targeting of desired anatomical structures (e.g. intrahepatic tumor, bile ducts /
      vasculature) in the setting of successfully treating liver malignancies. Furthermore, we
      would like to demonstrate, that image guided open liver surgery is technically feasible,
      whenever the correlation between preoperative image-guided data and the intraoperative
      setting can be achieved with a known accuracy.

      Eventually, this technology, like in other surgical domains, will lead to successively
      implemented technical guiding functionalities that could potentially improve patient outcome.

      Objective

      To date, first systems (CE marked medical devices) are available that have been specifically
      developed for image-guided open liver surgery. The systems tracks positions of surgical
      instruments in or near the target organs and visualizes the instruments position in
      correlation to patients medical image data (i.e. 3D-CT) on the computer screen. Surgeons
      benefit from a view to a virtual scene (on a computer screen) in which CT images, together
      with models of the vascular structures, tumors and organ boundaries, are intuitively visible.
      The surgeon can see the moving instrument, just like the movement of a car can be seen in a
      GPS system

      Methods

      In patients requiring extensive surgery (eg. extended right hemihepatectomy), accurate
      calculations of the remaining liver volume are essential to avoid postoperative liver failure
      with potentially serious postoperative complications or even death, resulting from an
      inadequate remaining liver volume (ie "small-for-size syndrome"). In high-risk liver
      resections, use of computer programs, such as MeVis (MeVis Medical Solutions Inc.), provide
      the surgeon with accurate preoperative information, allowing him / her to judge the
      feasibility of the planned surgical resection based on preoperative liver volume analysis and
      evaluation of the planned resection line in relation to essential structures (ie. major
      vessels / bile ducts).
    
  