
    
      The chronic, autoimmune liver disease Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis (PSC) is a progressive
      cholestatic, hepatobiliary disease characterized by inflammation and fibrosis of the bile
      duct. As the disease progresses, it may result in debilitating bile duct cirrhosis,
      malignancy, and liver failure. Although the list of drugs studied for the treatment of PSC is
      extensive, the main, and commonly only, treatment option remains liver transplantation.
      Dietary manipulation is an approach of high interest to patients. Presumably, diet may have
      some influence on the intestinal microbiome and have a modifying impact on the diseases but
      this has not been well established.

      The investigators propose a study period of approximately 14 weeks to evaluate the effects of
      the SCD and vegan/low-sulfur diet on the intestinal microbiome and bile acid composition in
      stool and serum. Patients will visit their study site or participate in a video visit 7 times
      over the course of the study. At the screening visit (Week 0), eligibility will be assessed,
      lab tests will be performed, and subjects will be randomized to dietary instruction on one of
      the two diets with educational materials, recipes, and food procurement stipend provided.
      Consent will be signed at or before the screening visit either in-person or remotely.
      Patients will be asked to collect a stool sample and complete a Food Frequency Questionnaire
      (FFQ).

      The treatment phase of 8 weeks will begin at the baseline visit (Week 2). At each of the four
      time points during the treatment phase (Week 4, 6, 8, 10), participants will record in
      real-time what they eat by a smartphone app for 3-days, one of which includes a weekend. To
      enhance compliance to the intervention protocol, the dedicated study coordinator along with
      the Registered Dietitian will review the food diary data in real-time and discuss any
      challenges to comply with the meal intervention. After the 8-week treatment period is
      complete, patients will be encouraged to continue with their diet, self-directed, for 4 weeks
      following the end of the treatment phase (Week 10). Subjects will be asked to return for one
      final visit at Week 14 to complete a 3-day food diary and have labs drawn.
    
  