
    
      The standard approach for storage and transportation of livers for transplantation involves
      cold perfusion with Histidine-tryptophan-ketoglutarate (HTK) or alternative solutions, and
      storage in sterile bags surrounded by preservation solution in a box by ice. The prolonged
      cold ischemic injury substantially compounds pre-existing donor liver graft injury, further
      exacerbating potential risk for recipients. Normothermic perfusion may eliminate cold
      ischemic injury, and provide a unique opportunity to further assess ex vivo function of the
      most marginal organs before they are transplanted. Being able to select or eliminate organs
      in this manner would provide additional livers for transplantation while at the same time
      minimizing risk for recipients.

      This non-randomized, open-label, single arm, prospective trial is to assess safety and
      preliminary efficacy of normothermic machine perfusion on livers accepted under standard and
      expanded criteria for standard liver transplantation (n=50). Following assessment of donor
      and recipient eligibility and confirmation of consent, the liver will be preserved on OrganOx
      metra™ either at the donor hospital or where more practical transported to the University of
      Alberta hospital with ≤ 6 hours of cold storage and then placed on the metra™ for ≥ 4 hours
      ('back to base' sub-analysis). At the end of preservation, the liver will be transplanted and
      the patient managed according to standard local practice and protocols. 100 anonymized
      patient data from the University of Alberta Hospital Liver Transplant database will be
      utilized for the matched controls. Enrolled subjects will participate in the study for 30
      days (the accrued period to capture primary and secondary end-points: graft and patient
      survival, graft function, NMP perfusion parameters). Additional routine (non-research)
      biochemical and survival data will be collected and documented at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months
      post-transplant. Primary outcomes will be analyzed and reported 30 days following
      transplantation of the last subject in the study.
    
  