
    
      This study is a single organ, prospective study of patients who are scheduled to perform
      cardiopulmonary surgery to compare noninvasive skin temperature attached to the forehead with
      core temperature after cardiopulmonary bypass in cardiac surgery.

      anesthesia induction and maintenance use standard systemic anesthesia protocols using
      propofol-remifentanil-rocurium. Even before inducing anesthesia, it will start monitoring
      ECGs, noninvasive blood pigmentation, local cerebral oxygen saturation, blood pressure and
      heart rate.

      After anesthesia induction and intraperitoneal intubation, the Temp-NP Hardness Ultrasound
      and Cardiac Output Monitoring through pulmonary artery catheter are initiated.

      Before and after cardiopulmonary bypass, adjust the respiration rate of FiO2 04-0.5 so that
      the end tidal CO2 is 35-40 mmHg. Apply a positive end-expiratory pressure of 8 mmHg at the
      end of the period.

      For surgery, heparin 3 mg/kg is administered, cardiopulmonary system is operated at
      medium-low body temperature, cardiopulmonary system is administered, and heart surgery is
      initiated from a cardiac standstill state. After the heart valve and coronary artery
      transplantation period, warm up to raise body temperature.

      After recovering proper cardiac function, heparin is neutralized by administering 3 mg/kg of
      protamine and weaning from the cardiopulmonary bypass by administering inotropic agents.

      After the anesthesia is finished, the patient is transferred to the intensive care unit in an
      intubated state, and is kept in isolation with dexmedetomidine until the tube is released.

      The temperature monitoring of the sorcery starts the Temp-ZHF monitoring even before the
      anesthetic induction, and then the Temp-NP and Temp-PAC monitoring after the induction.
      Temp-NP monitoring devices are removed after surgery, but Temp-ZHF and Temp-PAC monitoring
      are also maintained in intensive care units after surgery.

      The objectives of the study are as follows. primary goal Temp-ZHF vs. Temp-NP 30 minutes
      after cardiopulmonary bypass. secondary goal

        1. After 30 minutes of anesthesia flow, there is a comparison between Temp-ZHF and Temp-NP.

        2. It is compared to Temp-ZHF and Temp-PAC after 30 minutes of anesthesia.

        3. Compared to Temp-ZHF and Temp-NP 30 minutes after cardiopulmonary bypass.

        4. Compared to Temp-ZHF and Temp-PAC 30 minutes after cardiopulmonary bypass

        5. 30 minutes after surgery, compared to Temp-ZHF and Temp-PAC.
    
  