
    
      This is a single-centre, phase 1a (dose escalation) and 1b (doses expansion) study to
      evaluate the safety and tolerability of oral Selinexor in Asian patients with advanced solid
      malignancies. After the initial screening visit and registration in the study, each patient
      will be assigned to 3 different schedules, a starting dose of 50 mg/m2 (Schedule 1) given
      once weekly ; 40 mg/m2 (Schedule 2) with a twice weekly dosing schedule and three times a
      week at 20mg/m2 (Schedule 3) dosing schedule have been chosen for this study. For Schedule 2,
      drug administration will occur twice weekly, on days 1 and 3 of the first two weeks (e.g.
      Monday and Wednesday or Tuesday and Thursday) and for Schedule 3, drug administration will
      occur three times a week on days 1, 3 and 5 (ie: Monday, Wednesday and Friday). For Schedule
      1, one cycle is 4 weeks with 4 doses of Selinexor. In Schedule 2, one cycle is 3 weeks with 4
      doses of Selinexor. In Schedule 3, one cycle is 4 weeks with 12 doses of Selinexor. Dose will
      be escalated using a 3+3 design. Patients who have difficulty tolerating treatment (e.g., due
      to anorexia, nausea, or fatigue) at any dose level may have their dose reduced by 4-10
      mg/m(2) increments to a lowest dose of 11 mg/m(2). Aggressive use of supportive medications
      is often sufficient to mitigate or eliminate tolerability problems.Supportive care including
      antinausea/ anti-emetic therapy, acid suppression (H2-blockers and/or proton pump
      inhibitors), glucocorticoids, anti-diarrheal therapy, and other standard treatments may be
      administered as per institutional guidelines both prophylactically and for symptomatic
      patients. A 3+3 design will be used for the dose escalation. A minimum of 3 patients will be
      enrolled per cohort. Once 3 patients are enrolled in a cohort and have completed at least six
      days of dosing at the target dose, up to 3 additional patients may be added to that cohort.
      After up to 6 patients have been accrued to a dose level, that dose level will be closed to
      accrual until safety assessment of all the 3 to 6 patients is performed through a safety
      cohort meeting at the end of cycle 1. If the dose level is well tolerated during these 4
      weeks at the target dose, then dose escalation will be performed in the next cohort. Dose
      escalation in the 3+3 design will proceed as follows:

        -  At least 3 patients will be entered into the cohort. Once 3 patients are enrolled in a
           cohort and have completed at least six days of dosing at the target dose, up to 3
           additional patients may be added to that cohort.

        -  If none of the patients in this cohort experience DLT during the 4 weeks at the target
           dose, dose escalation will be continued as per protocol design

        -  If one of patients experiences first cycle DLT, up to three additional patients will be
           added to this cohort (maximum 6 will be evaluated in this cohort) and if no additional
           patients experience DLT (i.e. only 1 out of 6 patients in the cohort experience DLT),
           dose escalation as per protocol will be allowed.

        -  If a DLT is observed in 2 or more subjects in a cohort of 3 or 6 subjects at a dose
           level, and a lower dose level has not been tested, then an additional 3 subjects will be
           enrolled at a lower dose level.

        -  If, following dose escalation, 2 patients in the cohort experience first cycle DLT, this
           dose will be labelled as Maximally Tolerated Dose (MTD) and the RP2D will be the
           previous dose at which <= 1/6 patients experienced a DLT. If only 3 subjects were
           treated at the previous lower dose level, then an additional 3 subjects will also be
           recruited for a total of 6 subjects at that dose level.

        -  However an additional cohort of patients may be enrolled at a dose between MTD and the
           dose below it. If dose level 3 is reached and criteria for determining MTD are not met,
           further dose escalation for each dose level may occur after discussion with the
           investigators, Karyopharm and the PI.If one patient in a cohort develops a DLT in Cycle
           1, at least 5 additional patients will be enrolled at that dose level. If there are no
           additional DLTs at that dose level, then doses will be escalated by up to 30-40% and all
           subsequent cohorts will include >=3 patients. If one DLT occurs in the first 3 patients
           enrolled in a cohort, an additional 3 patients will be enrolled. If another DLT occurs
           at this dose level (i.e., 2 DLTs/6 patients), this dose will be considered the MTD, and
           the RP2D is defined as the dose level below this dose, provided that that dose level is
           <=25% lower than the highest (intolerable) dose tested. This protocol is designed to
           guide maximal escalation, while ensuring patient safety. In order to achieve this,
           during each safety cohort review meeting with the investigators, Karyopharm, and PI, a
           decision will be made on the dose escalation scheme.

      The recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) is defined as the next lower dose level below MTD. The
      MTD is the dose level in which > 1 of 3 patients or >= 2 of 6 patients experience DLT,
      provided that that dose level is <=25% lower than the highest (intolerable) dose tested. If
      the projected RP2D is > 25% lower than the highest dose tested, then an additional cohort of
      >=3 patients will be added at a dose that is intermediate between the intolerable dose and
      the next lower dose. Once RP2D is reached, approximately 60 patients may be enrolled in the
      Dose Expansion cohort. The dose schedule for the Dose Expansion Phase will be the same as
      that for the Dose Escalation Phase. There is no maximum duration of participation for any
      patient enrolled in this study. However it is anticipated that for patients remaining on
      study for prolonged periods, an Extension study protocol will be made available in the near
      future.The dose used in the expansion phases of the study will be the RP2D (or lower doses)
      as determined in the dose escalation phases of the study.
    
  