
    
      In late 2019, a new coronavirus emerged in Wuhan Province, China, causing lung complications
      similar to those produced by the SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV) in the 2002-2003 epidemic. This
      new disease was named COVID-19 and the causative virus SARS-CoV-2 (Chen, Liu, & Guo, 2020; Li
      et al., 2020).

      Given that vaccines against COVID-19 are still in development and an effective treatment
      against this new coronavirus is lacking, various pharmacological agents are being tested in
      clinical trials designed by institutions such as the WHO or scientific entities in different
      countries (C.-C. Lu, Chen, & Chang, 2020).

      Taking into account the characteristics of the mode of entry of this coronavirus to human
      cells through binding with Angiotensin Converting Enzime 2 (ACE2) and extensive scientific
      and clinical evidence information on the Renin Angiotensin System, the hypothesis of the
      involvement of this system in the pathophysiology of COVID-19 was born (Gurwitz, 2020;
      Vaduganathan et al., 2020).

      The SARS-CoV-2 virus, enters the airway and binds, by means of the S (Spike) protein on its
      surface (after whose image the term coronavirus is coined), to the membrane protein ACE2 in
      type 2 alveolar cells (R. Lu et al., 2020; Wan, Shang, Graham, Baric, & Li, 2020). The S
      protein-ACE2 complex is internalized by endocytosis and facilitates the entry of each virion
      into the cytoplasm. For each intracellular entry, the function of one ACE2 molecule is lost
      leading to a partial decrease or total loss of the enzymatic function ACE2 in the alveolar
      cells of the lung directly related to the viral load of the air inoculum.

      ACE2 catalyzes the transformation of angiotensin II into angiotensin 1-7. Angiotensin II
      acting on AT1 receptors causes vasoconstriction, apoptosis, proinflammatory effects, and
      fibrosis. Angiotensin 1-7 acting on Mas receptors causes opposite effects: vasodilation and
      anti-inflammatory. Partial decrease or total loss of ACE2 function in alveolar cells results
      in a deviation of the homeostatic balance of the Renin Angiotensin System in favor of the
      angiotensin II-AT1 receptor axis (Paz Ocaranza et al., 2020; Tikellis, Bernardi, & Burns,
      2011). Indeed, it increases the tissue concentration of angiotensin II by decreasing its
      degradation and reduces the concentration of its physiological antagonist angiotensin 1-7(Liu
      et al., 2020).

      The clinical manifestations of COVID-19 disease will depend fundamentally on the degree of
      alteration of the homeostatic balance of the Renin Angiotensin System in the lung and at the
      systemic level (mainly at the heart).

      Increasing the effects of angiotensin II on the lung interstitium can promote apoptosis,
      which, in turn, initiates an inflammatory process with release of proinflammatory cytokines,
      establishing a self-powered cascade (Cardoso et al., 2018). In certain patients this process
      reaches such clinical relevance that requires external oxygen supply and in severe cases an
      Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) ensues (this correlates with an acute release
      -storm- of cytokines) (Ware & Matthay, 2000).

      Based on the aetiopathogenic hypothesis described, there are various pharmacotherapeutic
      proposals to be evaluated through clinical trials: Recombinant ACE2 therapy, administration
      of agents aimed at increasing ACE2 levels (e.g. estradiol), and administration of drugs that
      decrease the elevated activity of angiotensin II including renin release inhibitors, classic
      ACE inhibitors or Angiotensin Receptor 1 Blockers (ARBs).

      Most patients who develop COVID-19 disease initially have fever, indicative ofan inflammatory
      process with systemic release of pyrogenic cytokines. According to the hypothesis described,
      this inflammation is induced by the inhibition of ACE2 and the imbalance of the renin
      angiotensin system in the pulmonary interstitium in favor of the angiotensin II-AT1 receptor
      axis. Faced with the onset of the inflammatory process, a rapidly effective treatment is
      necessary to antagonize the cascading and self-sustaining phenomenon described. Of the
      different types of drugs mentioned above, we consider that the most rapidly effective may be
      ARBs.

      Recently, Gurwitz (2020) proposed the tentative use of agents such as losartan and
      telmisartan as alternative options for treating COVID-19 patients prior to development of
      ARDS.

      ARBs are widely used to treat hypertension and there is an abundant clinical experience with
      its use, all representatives of this group being characterized by their excellent tolerance;
      Furthermore, its adverse effects profile has been described as "placebo like(Schumacher &
      Mancia, 2008; Sharpe, Jarvis, & Goa, 2001).

      The most suitable ARB to antagonize the proinflammatory effects of angiotensin II in a
      patient with a recent positive COVID-19 test should be the compound with the best
      pharmacological properties for this indication. From the comparative analysis of the
      available ARBs, telmisartan gathers properties that make it the best pharmacological tool to
      evaluate the hypothesis under discussion in a clinical trial.

      Liposolubility is relevant for absorption after oral administration and for tissue
      penetration. Telmisartan stands out among all the representatives of the ARBs for being
      markedly more lipophilic, expressed both in partition coefficients (octanol / neutral pH
      buffer), distribution coefficients and distribution volumes (Vd). Telmisartan has a Vd of
      approximately 500 L, irbesartan 93 L, and both valsartan and olmesartan, candesartan and
      losartan, approximately 17 L.

      The affinity of ARBs for the AT1 receptor has been measured by multiple studies, mainly using
      radioligand binding studies. All AT1 receptor blockers are characterized by having similar
      affinity values (pKi or pIC50, between 2 and 19 nM), with losartan and its active metabolite
      EXP3174 being the lowest and irbesartan, candesartan and telmisartan the highest (Kakuta,
      Sudoh, Sasamata, & Yamagishi, 2005).

      Using isolated organ technique on blood vessels from different tissues and from different
      animals, these AT1 antagonists have a blocking power (pA2) against angiotensin II in the nM
      range (losartan, 8.15; irbesartan, 8.52; valsartan, 9.26; telmisartan 9.48; candesartan,
      10.08). Telmisartan has a 10-fold higher blocking potency than losartan (Kakuta et al.,
      2005).

      Functional as well as biochemical studies determining the dissociation rates of the ARBs have
      shown that these drugs have a slow dissociation rate that gives them characteristics of
      pseudo-irreversible blocking agents. In the only comparative study using cloned human AT1
      receptors, the half-lives of receptor dissociation were: telmisartan, 213 min; olmesartan,
      166 min; candesartan, 133 min; valsartan, 70 min; losartan, 67 min (Kakuta et al., 2005).
      Telmisartan is the AT1 blocker that dissociates more slowly from the receptor. This property
      may be clinically relevant as it maintains a longer lasting blockade difficult to reverse by
      the endogenous agonist angiotensin II.

      Furthermore, telmisartan causes downregulation of AT1 receptor at the mRNA and protein level
      apparently due to its action as a partial agonist of PPAR-gamma (Peroxisome
      Proliferator-Activated Receptor gamma). This action can contribute to the effects of
      telmisartan by producing a decrease in the number of AT1 receptors (Imayama et al., 2006).

      In summary, telmisartan, which is well absorbed after oral administration, is the ARB with
      the longest plasma half-life (24 h), it reaches the highest tissue concentrations due to its
      high lipid solubility and high volume of distribution (500 L), and dissociates more slowly
      after binding to the AT1 receptor, causing an apparently irreversible block (Kakuta et al.,
      2005; Michel, Foster, Brunner, & Liu, 2013).

      The present study is an open-label randomized phase II clinical trial for the evaluation of
      telmisartan in COVID-19 patients. Briefly, patients with confirmed diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2,
      will be randomized to receive 80 mg/12h of telmisartan (Bertel®, Laboratorio Elea Phoenix,
      Buenos Aires, Argentina) plus standard care or standard care alone will be monitored for
      development of systemic inflammation and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Other variables
      regarding lung function and cardiovascular function will also be evaluated.

      Clinical studies to evaluate the safety of Telmisartan in healthy individuals or in
      hypertensive patients with daily doses of up to 160 mg, found no difference between those
      treated with telmisartan and the placebo group in frequency and intensity of adverse effects
      (Schumacher & Mancia, 2008; Sharpe et al., 2001; Stangier, Su, & Roth, 2000).
    
  