
    
      Patients and control volunteers will be recruited from the Oral medicine Post-graduate clinic
      at NJDS. Medical history will be taken and will include age, gender, ethnicity, current and
      past illnesses, current and past medications, blood reports (CD4 and CD8 counts) which have
      been obtained during routine medical assessment. The clinician will perform a clinical head
      and neck examination. The examination shall include an extra-oral, cranial nerve and
      temporomandibular joint (TMJ) examination, and muscle palpation. A thorough intraoral
      examination will be performed. Patients will be examined for pathologies of the oral mucosa,
      teeth and periodontium prior to their participation in the study. The evaluation findings
      will be reported using the Research Diagnostic Criteria for Temperomandibular disorders. The
      patient will note level of pain on Visual Analogue Scale if there is any pre-existing
      orofacial pain. Psychological screening and nutritional questionnaires will be completed by
      the patient.

      Quantitative Sensory Testing will be conducted bilaterally on the face and intraorally on the
      tongue. Extraorally, the infraorbital and mental nerves regions will be tested bilaterally
      using thermal and electrical detection thresholds. Intraorally the tongue will be tested
      bilaterally for thermal and electrical detection threshold.

      Many of the differences among people in the way they respond to symptomatic therapies and
      their individual risk of HIV+ patients with neuropathic pain may be affected by their genetic
      makeup. We will search for these kinds of associations between inherited traits and
      development of neuropathic pain in this study.

      If the patient presents with evidence for pathologies that requires extraction of any molar
      (based on clinical and radiographic findings), the patient will be assessed 3 days, 8 days
      post-extraction and then after 3 weeks for thermal and electrical detection thresholds.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Group I n = 40 HIV+ with CD4+T cells/mm³ > 500 as determined by previous routine medical
      examination and from previous blood reports.

      Group II n = 40 HIV+ with CD4+T cells/mm³ 200-499 as determined by previous routine medical
      examination and from previous blood reports.

      Group III n = 40 HIV+ with CD4+T cells/mm³ < 200 as determined by previous routine medical
      examination and from previous blood reports.

      Control Group n = 40 Healthy with normal blood reports, without dental pathologies.
    
  