
    
      The purpose of the proposed research is to pilot a behavioral intervention specifically
      designed to reduce the symptoms of peritraumatic panic, in order to reduce the likelihood of
      subsequent PTSD. The investigators have developed the Anxiety Reduction Treatment for Acute
      Trauma (ARTAT), a one-session intervention targeting at-risk individuals (those continuing to
      experience peritraumatic panic following a trauma) and enhance self-efficacy. The
      intervention provides education about common responses to trauma in order to normalize
      symptoms and teaches individuals anxiety management techniques such as deep breathing and
      muscle relaxation. ARTAT specifically avoids encouraging people to process the trauma (given
      evidence that this may enhance arousal).

      This study is a randomized controlled trial of a single session 60- minute Anxiety Reduction
      Treatment for Acute Trauma (ARTAT) administered during Emergency Department (ED) admission to
      patients presenting with anxiety following traumatic exposure. Thirty-six participants will
      be enrolled over a 12-month period (18 receiving ARTAT and 18 receiving TAU). The study will
      target anxious arousal in patients immediately (1 to 8 hours) following a trauma.
      Participants will be recruited from among patients who present in the Bellevue Emergency
      Department for treatment of an injury sustained in a traumatic event (accident, assault) as
      long as injuries do not preclude participation. Participants included in the study will have
      experienced a trauma within 8 hours and presenting with signs of a strong risk factor for
      PTSD: peritraumatic panic (severe psychological and physiological anxiety symptoms such as
      fear of dying, fear of losing emotional control, tachycardia, sweating, shaking and
      dissociation symptoms such as derealisation and depersonalization that occur during and
      immediately following a trauma. Following the initial assessment, eligible participants will
      be randomized to receive the one-hour anxiety-reduction intervention designed to reduce
      anxiety and panic symptoms through education and anxiety y management skills or the TAU. The
      clinician administered and self-report assessments will be conducted at screening, baseline,
      post-treatment, and at a one-month and three-month follow-up.
    
  