
    
      A prospective observational multicenter study will be performed in patients with locally
      advanced cervical cancer considered to be potentially curable by definitive radio-(chemo)
      therapy. The patients will be divided and analyzed in three strata according to risk of
      recurrence:

        1. Small tumours

        2. Large tumours favourable response

        3. Large tumours with unfavourable response to the initial radio-(chemo) therapy.

      A clinical local failure has to be validated by MRI and topographically correlated to the MRI
      based BT targets (HR CTV and IR-CTV) and the dose volume parameters of the treatment plan. It
      has to be classified as "inside", "at the edge", "outside".

      Major events with regard to morbidity have to be reported using 3D imaging information
      integrating e.g. clinical examination, endoscopy and MRI. The location of organ damage (i.e.
      fistula) has to be identified in 3D and a correlation to the dose volume parameters for the
      affected region should be investigated.

      Specific Aims

        -  To assess prospectively outcome for disease (local control, survival), for morbidity and
           for QoL life applying appropriate clinical, imaging and QoL protocols.

        -  To test that there are three groups representing different risks of recurrence: small
           tumours; large tumours with favourable response; large tumours with unfavourable
           response to initial radio-(chemo)therapy.

        -  To correlate local control (survival) and dose volume parameters for GTV and CTV for the
           overall cohort and for the 3 different risk groups and to establish hazard ratios and
           dose effect curves for the primary tumour.

        -  To correlate outcome data and dose volume parameters for the different OAR (rectum,
           sigmoid, bladder) and to establish hazard ratios and dose effect curves for OAR.

        -  To correlate QoL outcome to morbidity outcome.

        -  To quantify the change in DVH parameters obtained by image guided dose optimization of
           BT in the individual patient.

        -  To compare volumetric data on GTV and CTV at diagnosis and during treatment and relate
           them to dose volume parameters within the 3 different risk groups of the overall patient
           cohort.

        -  To evaluate the indicators for quality assessment throughout the whole study period in
           order to define systematic and random variations for the different indicators (e.g.
           contouring, applicator reconstruction, dose volume assessment).

        -  To validate from clinical outcome data the radiobiological equivalence calculations used
           for assessing dose and volume parameters in gynaecological radiotherapy.

        -  To test if the GYN GEC ESTRO recommendations for BT in cervical cancer are feasible in a
           multi-centre setting.
    
  