
    
      Ovarian cancer (OC) is the seventh most common cancer and the fifth cause of cancer death in
      women worldwide. The most frequent type is surface epithelial tumors. It is frequently
      diagnosed at advanced stages. So, it is referred to as silent killer.

      Serous carcinoma is the most common and aggressive type of epithelial ovarian cancer . Serous
      carcinomas are currently separated into two completely different subtypes either
      histologically or biologically, lowg rade and high grade, based on both degree of nuclear
      atypia and the number of mitoses.

      Current therapy is based on few traditional prognostic factors, such as tumor stage and
      postoperative tumor residual mass. Identification of new molecular markers could help in
      significant modification of treatmant improving clinical prognosis The ErbB family of
      tyrosine kinase receptors (epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors) plays a role in the
      tumorigenesis of several types of solid tumors. The abnormal activation of these receptors
      has been associated with various pathological processes especially cellular transformation .

      EGFR is involved in various stages of cancer growth, such as tumor initiation, angiogenesis
      and metastasis. Also, it participates by various pathways as a proto-oncogene in several
      types of cancers such as gastrointestinal and breast ones. So, it is an attractive target for
      oncogenic therapy HER2 protooncogene is involved in the development of many types of human
      cancer and is used as therapeutic target. Although the association between HER2 expression
      and ovarian cancer has been widely studied, the results are still controversial Therefore, in
      the present study we will analyze the expression of both EGFR& Her2neu in an OC tissue
      microarray (TMA) by immunohistochemistry, and results were be correlated to other
      clinicopathological parameters and prognosis.

      Aim of the study:

      General aim: To assess alterations of EGFR& Her2neu expression in primary ovarian high grade
      serous carcinoma and its correlation with other clinicopathological parameters.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To measure the frequency of EGFR& Her2neu immunohistochemical expression in ovarian high
           grade serous carcinoma.

        2. To correlate between expression of EGFR& Her2neu expression and other
           clinicopathological parameters of ovarian high grade serous carcinoma

        3. To correlate between expression of EGFR& Her2neu expression and prognosis of ovarian
           high grade serous carcinoma

      Materials:

      This cross-sectional study will be done on 54 specimens of ovarian primary high grade serous
      carcinoma cases who attended to Oncology Centre, Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt since
      2012 to the end of 5 years follow up of the last patient The cases will be chosen randomly.

      Methods:

        1. All clinicopathological data of these cases will be collected such as Tumor size, LN
           metastases (N), metastasis (M), ascites, residual tumor, peritoneal deposits,
           recurrence, TNM staging & (FIGO) staging system.

        2. Prepare hematoxylin & eosin slides to diagnose and assess other histopathological
           parameters such as histological type

        3. Immunohistochemistry:

      Sections 4μm thickness from newly formed tissue microarray blocks will be cut on coated
      slides then immunohistochemical staining using antibody against EGFR& Her2neu will be done.

      Statistical analysis:

      SPSS software version 20 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL) will be used for analysis. For nominal
      variables, proportions and X2 tests will be applied, whereas for interval variables means,
      standard deviations (SD), and T test and ANOVA tests will be applied where appropriate.
      Kaplan-Meier method will be used for survival analysis. Chi-square test was used to estimate
      the relation between qualitative variables. Mann-Whitney test (non-parametric t test) was
      used for not normally distributed quantitative data, for comparison between two groups while,
      comparison between three groups was done using Kruskal-Wallis test (non-parametric ANOVA).
    
  