
    
      Nonspecific neck pain (NSNP) is one of the most common causes of neck pain and it occurs as a
      result of postural or mechanical causes without a specific musculoskeletal pathology or
      injury history. Neck pain leads to a decrease in the activity of the deep cervical muscle
      which contains a large amount of muscle spindles, with an increase in the activity of the
      superficial cervical muscle. Depending on the pain, chemical changes occur in the cervical
      receptors and differentiation in sensitivity of the muscle spindle is observed. These changes
      in the structures of the cervical region predispose to deterioration in the sense of
      proprioception, which is an important component of balance. The disruption in proprioceptive
      abilities causes sensori-motor defects, muscle inhibition, muscle atrophy, and muscle
      fatigue. Changing cervical afferent information can affect proprioception as well as balance.
      Both the presence of neck pain and disruptions in the proprioceptive sense may reflect
      negatively on balance and postural control. In a study comparing patients with neck pain with
      asymptomatic individuals, increases in postural sway were found in patients with neck pain,
      and it was stated that the increased sway was associated with the dysfunction of the postural
      control system.

      In the light of these informations, treatment approaches that can positively contribute to
      proprioception and balance gain importance in patients with NSNP. Although manual therapy is
      used both to reduce pain, and to increase cervical mobility in patients with NSNP, the number
      of studies investigating the effects of manual therapy on balance and proprioception is quite
      insufficient.

      It was thought that mobilization applied to the cervical region can improve cervical
      proprioception and mobility, reduce pain and contribute positively to balance. The purpose of
      this study is to examine the effect of mobilization applications on the balance and cervical
      proprioception in patients with NSNP.
    
  