
    
      Teriparatide is designed to act like a natural human hormone called parathyroid hormone,
      which can increase the blood levels of calcium. Calcium plus calcitriol is considered the
      standard treatment for low calcium in the blood.

      After scheduled surgery, the level of calcium in the blood will be monitored according to the
      standard of care. Between 18 and 24 hours after the surgery, if calcium level drops below an
      acceptable level, or participants develop symptoms of low calcium, they will be randomly
      assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to 1 of 4 groups. One group (the "standard-of-care"
      group) will receive calcium plus calcitriol alone, for 7 days. The other groups (the
      "teriparatide" groups) will receive 1 of 3 different dose levels of teriparatide for 7 days,
      plus calcium and calcitriol for 7 days. There is an equal chance of getting assigned to any
      of these 4 groups, for the first 40 participants enrolled on this study. If enrolled after
      that point, participants will have a greater chance of being assigned to the group showing
      the best results.

      Standard-of-Care Group:

      If assigned to the standard-of-care group, participant will receive calcium and calcitriol
      according to the standard schedule and dose. The calcium will either be given through a vein
      or by mouth, and calcitriol will be given by mouth.

      Teriparatide Group:

      If assigned to a teriparatide group, participant will receive teriparatide by an injection
      under the skin, twice a day for 7 days. They will be taught how to perform the injections
      themselves, with a pen-sized device. While in the hospital, the hospital staff will watch
      them perform the injections and offer help, if needed. If discharged from the hospital and
      sent home before the 7 days of therapy are complete, they will continue giving themselves the
      injections (through Day 7) at home. The pen should not be removed from refrigeration for more
      than 2 -4 hours. Depending on what dose level of teriparatide assigned to receive, they may
      have to give themselves up to 3 injections each time. In addition to teriparatide, they will
      receive calcium and calcitriol, according to the standard schedule and dose. The calcium will
      either be given through a vein or by mouth, and calcitriol by mouth.

      Both Groups:

      If blood calcium level has not returned to normal after the 7 days of treatment, participants
      may need to continue receiving calcium and/or calcitriol for as long as the doctor decides it
      is necessary.

      They will be asked to keep a medication log (diary) of when they take the teriparatide and/or
      calcium/calcitriol. The log should be returned to the research nurse on Day 8.

      On Days 1-7, blood will be drawn to check the level of calcium twice a day (while in the
      hospital) or once a day (while treated as an outpatient). These blood draws (about 1 teaspoon
      each time) will be performed 2 hours before receiving teriparatide and/or calcium/calcitriol.

      Blood will also be drawn to check calcium and parathyroid hormone levels after the study
      treatment is over. The first of these blood draws (about 1 tablespoon each time) will be
      performed at 3 days after receiving last dose of teriparatide and/or last dose of
      calcium/calcitriol. The second blood draw will be performed at 4 weeks after the surgery.

      Starting on Day 7, and again at 4 weeks after surgery, they will be asked to collect urine
      over the course of a 24-hour period so calcium levels can be measured.

      From Day 1 to Day 7, if discharged from the hospital and sent home, the study personnel will
      call on the phone once a day to see how participants are doing. At 3 days after receiving the
      last dose of teriparatide and/or the last dose of calcium/calcitriol, and at 4 weeks after
      the surgery, they will be called again.

      After the urine collection, blood draw, and phone call at 4 weeks after the surgery,
      participation in the study is over.
    
  