
    
      Rationale:

      Patients with a schizophrenia spectrum disorder experience substantial impairments in
      multiple domains of everyday life, including the ability to maintain social relationships,
      sustain employment, and live independently. These problems often persist, even after
      successful treatment of psychosis. Currently, no consistent evidence exists for the efficacy
      of interventions to reduce cognitive and negative symptoms, while in fact these are the
      factors that determine functioning to a great extent.

      Premenopausal women with schizophrenia have less psychotic and negative symptoms, and better
      cognitive and social functioning, in comparison to men and older women. This has been related
      to protective effects of estrogens in the brain. Administering estrogens has positive effects
      on psychotic symptoms, but exerts long-term side effects, especially in men.

      Raloxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator, with a beneficial side effect profile
      in women and in men. It has been shown to be effective in reducing symptoms in postmenopausal
      women with schizophrenia. Recently, positive results were found in premenopausal women and in
      men. It is important to replicate these results in an independent sample and to investigate
      the effects of raloxifene on functioning.

      Hypotheses: Daily treatment with raloxifene 120 milligrams (mg) in addition to antipsychotic
      treatment improves cognition, reduces psychotic symptoms, increases social and personal
      functioning and reduces health care costs, as compared to placebo.

      Objective:

      The primary objective of this trial is to investigate the hypothesized beneficial effect of
      raloxifene as compared to placebo when given for twelve weeks in addition to antipsychotic
      medication to patients with a psychotic disorder. The investigators expect lower symptom
      severity as measured with the Positive And Negative Symptom Scale (PANSS) and improvements of
      cognitive functioning as measured with the Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia
      (BACS).

      Secondary objectives include reducement of negative symptoms as measured with the Brief
      Negative Symptom Scale (BNSS), improvement of Personal and Social Performance (using the
      PSP-scale), reduction of thought disorder symptoms measures with the Thought And Language
      Disorder-scale (TALD), reduction use of health care recourses using the institute for Medical
      Technology Assessment's Medical Consumption Questionnaire (iMTA-MCQ), productivity using the
      institute for Medical Technology Assessment's Productivity Cost Questionnaire (iMTA-PCQ),
      improvement of quality of life using the EuroQol-5 dimensions scale (EQ-5D), improvement in
      both speed and error rates in the Stroop test, reduction of comorbid depression using Beck's
      Depression Inventory (BDI), improvement of language production and various hormonal and
      inflammatory parameters.

      Study design: Randomized placebo-controlled multicenter double-blind trial

      Study population:

      110 men and women diagnosed with schizophrenia, schizoaffective or schizophreniform disorder,
      or psychotic disorder not otherwise specified (DSM-IV 295.*)

      Intervention:

      Patients will be randomized 1:1 to either 120mg raloxifene or placebo daily for a period of
      12 weeks. Identical tablets will be administered.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary outcomes are changes in symptom severity as measured with PANSS and changes in
      cognition as measured with BACS. Secondary outcome are changes in negative symptoms (measured
      with BNSS), changes in personal and social performance (measured with PSP), change in
      severity of thought disorder (measured with TALD), quality of life (measured with EQ-5D), use
      of healthcare and non-healthcare resources, comorbid depression (measured with BDI),
      cognitive control (measured with a Stroop Test), language production (measured by analyzing
      speech samples) and hormonal and inflammatory biomarkers.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Use of raloxifene is associated with a small risk of side effects. The number of
      patient visits will be limited and mainly requires time invested for physical examinations,
      questionnaires and cognitive testing sessions (around 9 hours in total over the course of 9
      months). Blood will be drawn at three occasions with negligible and known risks (e.g.
      irritation). The burden and risks are acceptable while the benefits are expected to be
      considerable.
    
  