
    
      This study was carried out in order to examine the effect of the "Increasising Health
      Awareness Program for Immigrant Men " (IHAPIM), which was prepared based on the Transition
      Theory of Meleis, on the health perceptions, health responsibilities, perceived stress
      levels, attitudes towards utiling health care services and the types of coping strategies of
      immigrant men.

      This study, which was planned in accordance with the principles of a randomized controlled
      single-blind pre-test post-test control group experimental study, was conducted with
      immigrant males between the ages of 18 and 50, living in Canik and İlkadım districts of
      Samsun, where immigrants live mainly. The randomized clinical trial was based on the
      guidelines proposed by the SPIRIT 2013 Statement. The data of the study were collected in
      Samsun / Ilkadım and Canık District between May 2020 and November 2020. Randomization an
      experimental group and a control group formed using the research randomizer software. the
      program used random numbers to select participants and randomly assign them to the
      experimental or control group (total 95 immigrant men). In this study, immigrant men do not
      know that they are in the experimental or control group, and the statistician who conducted
      the research does not know which data belong to which group. Blinding is done in this way.
      The study was completed with 49 men in the experimental group and 46 men in the control
      group. The experimental (N = 49) received a short-term IHAPIM program by one-on-one interview
      (5 week, 1 hr per week, 10 hr in total). The data of the study were collected using personal
      information form, health perception scale, health responsibility sub-dimension of healthy
      lifestyle behaviors scale, perceived stress scale, stress coping methods scale and the scale
      of determining the attitudes of immigrants towards using health services.

      personal information form; the form was developed by the researcher and consists of questions
      involving sociodemographic characteristics (age, marital status, education status, etc.)
      health perception scale; Health perceptions of immigrant men were evaluated with a visual
      number scale. There is a question on the scale. Information on how to fill the scale as
      parentheses information at the end of the question scored between 1-10, which is easy to
      understand, which immigrant men can answer on their own ('0' on this scale indicates that you
      evaluate your questioned situation very badly, the increase of the score is improving your
      assessment of your questioned situation, and the '10' score is shows that your assessment of
      your situation is very good).

      health responsibility sub-dimension of healthy lifestyle behaviors scale; In measuring the
      level of responsibility for an individual's health, the healthy lifestyle behaviors scale,
      which was developed by Walker, Sechrist and Pender in 1987 and adapted to Arabic in 1998 by
      Hadad et al. is the scale that determines the extent to which they participate in health. All
      items of the healthy lifestyle behaviors scale are positive. There is no reverse matter.
      Marking is done on 4 Likert type scales. A score of 1 is given for an answer "Never", 2
      points for an answer "Sometimes", 3 points for an answer "Often" and 4 points for an answer
      "Regularly". Health responsibility sub-dimension of healthy lifestyle behaviors scale 2, 7,
      15,20,28,31,33,42,43,46. It consisted of a total of 10 items including items. The lowest
      score is 10, the highest score is 40. The reliability coefficients of the scale are α 0.90.

      perceived stress scale; The Perceived Stress Scale, developed by Cohen, Kamarc and
      Mermelstein (1983), is the most commonly used tool of this type. Chaaya et al. In 2010, its
      validity and reliability in Arabic was made. The scale consists of 10 items. It was developed
      to evaluate to what extent the individual perceived his life as unpredictable, uncontrollable
      or overloaded in the last month. The scale is in the 5-point Likert type (1- never, 2- almost
      never, 3- sometimes, 4- often 5- very often), and its four items are reverse (4th, 5th, 7th,
      8th items), six of its articles are plainly worded (1st, 2nd, 3rd, 6th, 9th, 10th items). The
      lowest score that can be obtained from the scale is 0, and the highest score is 40. The scale
      is evaluated over the total score, and the higher the scores indicate that the stress is
      perceived high. The Arabic reliability coefficients of the scale are α 0.87.

      types of coping strategies; The study of the "Ways of Coping Inventory" scale developed by
      Folkman and Lazarus (1980) in order to determine the ways individuals use to deal with
      general or significant stress situations, the Arabic validity and reliability was conducted
      by Alghamdi (2020). The "Coping with Stress Scale" consists of two groups, 14 sub-dimensions
      and 28 items, as compatible and incompatible. Harmonious coping methods; active coping,
      positive reframing, planning, acceptance, religion, humor, using emotional social support
      support), using useful social support (using instrumental support), incompatible coping
      methods; behavioral disengagement, denial, substance use, focusing on the problem and
      venting, mental self-distraction, self-blame. The Likert-type scale scored between 1 and 4
      does not have a total score. Arabic validity and reliability study of the scale was conducted
      in 2018 and the reliability coefficient was found to be α 0.80 in the Arabic version of the
      scale.

      the scale of determining the attitudes towards utiling health care services; Developed in
      Arabic by Avci and Korkmaz in 2019 in order to determine the attitudes of immigrants towards
      using health services, the scale for determining the attitudes of immigrants towards using
      health services consists of 26 items. The scale consists of 4 sub-dimensions: health
      awareness, factors affecting admission to health services, delivery of health services, and
      access to health services. Answers given to each statement in the scale are in 5-point Likert
      type and all statements are positive. Scores obtained from sub-dimensions: between 4-20
      points for health awareness sub-dimension; Between 4-20 points for the factors affecting the
      application to health services sub-dimension; It ranges between 5-25 points for the
      sub-dimension of the way health services are provided and 5-25 points for the sub-dimension
      of access to health services. The total scores obtained from the scale range from 18 to 90
      points. The fact that the scores obtained from the scale subscale and the total score are
      high indicates that the immigrants have a good attitude towards using health services.
      Cronbach's alphas in the validity and reliability study of the scale are as follows:
      Cronbach's Alpha reliability coefficient of the health awareness sub-dimension (0.63), the
      Cronbach's Alpha reliability coefficient (0.73) of the factors affecting admission to health
      services, the Cronbach's Alpha reliability coefficient of the sub-dimension of how health
      services are provided (0.60), and Cronbach's Alpha reliability coefficient of access to
      health services sub-dimension is (0.71). The total Cronbach's alpha reliability coefficient
      of the scale for determining the attitudes of immigrants towards using health services is
      0.72.

      Evaluation of Data SPSS 23.0 statistical package program (Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences, Chicago, Illinois) was used for statistical analysis and evaluation of the data.
      Whether the data showed normal distribution was checked with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.
      Mann Whitney U test were used to compare data between groups according to normality test.
      Wilcoxon test were used to compare the pre-test and post-test values within the group. The
      Chi-square test and two ratio tests were used to analyze categorical data. Significance level
      was taken as p <0.05.

      Funding: Financial support of the research provided by the Project Management Office of
      Ondokuz Mayis University. PYO.SBF.1904.20.002.

      Ethical aspects: Study approval was given by Ondokuz Mayıs University Ethıcs Commıttee For
      Socıal And Humanıtıes Research. (Decision No: 2019-91). All participants were informed about
      tis study and obtained orat-written informed consents.
    
  