
    
      Phosphorus is an essential micronutrient involved in a number of key biological processes.
      Excess phosphorus intake is linked to hypertension, heart failure, and disorders of bone and
      mineral metabolism. This has critical implications for public health in that dietary
      phosphorus consumption in the US far exceeds current recommendations for daily intake.

      Most studies that examined the adverse effects of excess phosphorus intake have focused on
      single tissue or cell specific processes. However, a full understanding of the systemic
      impact of nutritional phosphorus intake requires a more integrated biologic approach. The
      human metabolome represents the final end-product of the omics cascade, which can serve as an
      integrated measure of the total biological response to dietary exposures. Few studies have
      examined the impact of nutritional phosphorus intake on the human metabolome. Expanding the
      understanding of the effect of diet phosphorus on the metabolome has the potential to
      identify novel phosphorus-responsive pathways that may be therapeutic targets for reducing
      the development of hypertension, cardiovascular and kidney disease. The investigators will
      test the following hypothesis: consumption of a high phosphorus diet will result in
      significant changes in circulating metabolites associated with cardiometabolic health.

      This hypothesis is supported by published and preliminary studies showing that high
      phosphorus intake alters metabolic pathways with a wide variety of pathophysiologic effects.
      In the current application, the investigators propose to build on this work by investigating
      the effect of phosphorus consumption on the human metabolome using an untargeted approach.
      The investigators will do so by conducting a cross-over study in healthy adults consuming a
      study diet (normal diet supplemented by neutral sodium phosphorus, 1 gram/day) for seven days
      and a control diet (normal diet supplemented by sodium and potassium chloride only) for seven
      days with a 28 day wash-out period.
    
  