
    
      Chondrocalcinosis, recently renamed the calcium pyrophosphate deposition (CPPD) disease, is a
      very frequent affection of the elderly and causes very painful arthritis.

      International recommendations for the treatment of patients suffering from CPPD are based
      upon rare studies, not randomized, with small samples, and thus very weak scientific
      evidence.

      Some factors are known to trigger CPPD arthritis (trauma, surgery, infection,
      hospitalization). Prevalence increases with age, and case series estimate the presence of
      chondrocalcinosis in over 20% of 80 plus years population.

      International recommendations for the treatment of patients suffering from CPPD are based
      upon rare studies, not randomized, with small samples, and thus very weak scientific
      evidence.

      The treatment of CPPD arthritis is extrapolated from the experience of gout treatment,
      another crystal deposition disease (this one related to monosodium urate crystals that
      deposit after long-standing hyperuricemia.

      Among recommended treatments, colchicine and oral steroids are recommended as first-line
      treatments, while NSAIDs are used with caution in elderly populations of patients.

      Colchicine utilization is not risk-free, in particular with old patients and patients with
      renal impairment. Drug interactions of colchicine can have serious consequences, especially
      in a polymedicated old patient's population. Oral steroids offer an interesting alternative
      with the potential of being better tolerated.

      However, even oral steroids are recommended, their efficacy in CPPD arthritis isn't
      demonstrated. Interesting comparative results with NSAIDs were shown for the treatment of
      gout flares. These results may not be fully extrapolated to CPPD which holds differences with
      gout. In addition, oral steroids were not compared to colchicine which is the benchmark
      treatment in many countries for CPPD.

      The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of colchicine and oral steroids for the
      treatment of CPPD acute arthritis and compare their tolerance profile. It is the first large
      randomized controlled trial comparing two treatments of CPPD acute arthritis.
    
  