
    
      The rationale for IORT as the sole radiation therapy is:

      Favorable preliminary results in feasibility, safety and efficacy outcomes: Accelerated
      Partial Breast Irradiation (APBI) is an accepted alternative to whole breast irradiation
      following breast-conserving surgery for early stage breast cancer. Intra-Operative Radiation
      Therapy (IORT) is a form of APBI that allows radiation to be delivered directly to the open
      tumor bed following Breast Conservation Surgery (BCS). After 4 years of follow-up, IORT has
      shown equivalent disease control rates as whole breast irradiation.

      Direct and timely radiation to the tumor bed: Radiation is delivered at to the target tissue
      (adjacent to the resection margins at the time of lumpectomy). It avoids treatment delays and
      eliminates weeks or months of post-surgical radiation therapy during which residual cancer
      cells might proliferate. An in vitro study showed that un-irradiated wound fluid stimulated
      the growth of breast cancer cells while irradiated wound fluid did not. Each month of delay
      in radiation treatment is associated with a 1% increase in the recurrence rate. Huang, et
      al., found a 5.8% recurrence rate in patients who received WBRT within 8 weeks of BCS
      compared with a 9.1% recurrence rate in patients who started radiotherapy 9-16 weeks after
      BCS.

      Increased patient treatment compliance compared to conventional radiation therapy: Suitable
      early stage breast cancer patients are able to complete their breast cancer radiotherapy
      treatment at the time of BCS, which offers a convenient and potentially life-saving benefit
      to patients who might otherwise omit radiation therapy if it required lengthy travel or time
      commitments. In addition, healthcare resources, including both personnel and facilities, will
      be conserved by eliminating the overhead cost of multiple patient visits, eliminating waiting
      time for patients, and consolidating therapy to one visit combined with the surgical
      procedure.

      Available Technology: The Xoft Axxent controller, x-ray source, and balloon applicator are
      cleared by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to deliver brachytherapy
      treatments using high dose rate x-ray radiation. The Xoft Axxent System has been used to
      treat breast cancer subjects using a multi-fraction APBI technique on an outpatient basis as
      part of two multi-center studies. The Xoft Axxent System enables the Radiation Oncologist to
      administer electronic brachytherapy without the use of a radioactive isotope in minimally
      shielded rooms. Characteristics of the Xoft System that make it well-suited for IORT include
      its portability and low energy photons, allowing for minimal shielding during the radiation
      therapy.

      This protocol has been developed to further study the use of the Xoft Axxent eBx System in
      the delivery of IORT for subjects with early-stage breast cancer. The Xoft Axxent eBx System
      will be used according to the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 510(k) cleared
      labeling; therefore, the use of the technology in this study is considered on-label and
      within the scope of the FDA cleared indication.
    
  