
    
      Atelectasis formation is a common phenomenon during general anaesthesia, occurring in almost
      90% of patients (Lundquist, Hedenstierna et al. 1995). In patients in supine position,
      atelectasis of dorsal lung zones is usually accompanied by redistribution of ventilation
      towards ventral areas (Hedenstierna 2003; Victorino, Borges et al. 2004).The main mechanisms
      which contribute to the formation of atelectasis are compression (e.g. in obese patients or
      during laparoscopic surgery), absorption (e.g. when high concentrations of inspired oxygen
      are used) and reduced surfactant action(Magnusson and Spahn 2003). Atelectasis impairs
      oxygenation by reducing the functional residual capacity and by causing right-to-left-shunts.
      Consecutively, hypoxemia after extubation is common in daily practice: 20% of patients in a
      study experienced desaturations below 92% (Mathes, Conaway et al. 2001), and the risk is even
      higher in patients with risk-factors such as obesity or thoraco-abdominal procedures (Russell
      and Graybeal 1993; Xue, Li et al. 1999). Hypoxemic events prolong the stay in PACU, cause
      more ICU admissions and increase the incidence of cardiac complications (Rosenberg, Rasmussen
      et al. 1990; Gill, Wright et al. 1992).

      Several measures to prevent or treat atelectasis in ventilated patients have been
      investigated, such as PEEP (Brismar, Hedenstierna et al. 1985; Tokics, Hedenstierna et al.
      1987; Neumann, Rothen et al. 1999), recruitment maneuvers (Neumann, Rothen et al. 1999) and
      spontaneous breathing during mechanical ventilation (Putensen, Rasanen et al. 1994; Putensen,
      Mutz et al. 1999). The laryngeal mask airway (LMA) is ideally suited for spontaneous
      breathing during general anaesthesia because of its low resistance. A large survey found that
      more than half of the routine cases with an LMA are performed under spontaneous ventilation
      (Verghese and Brimacombe 1996), while positive pressure ventilation is equally acceptable.
      With regard to the prevention of atelectasis, spontaneous ventilation could be advantageous.

      Most works on atelectasis formation during general anaesthesia used CT. Although CT is a gold
      standard for quantification of lung aeration, it can only provide data on single time points
      and is not suitable for measurements during routine cases. In recent years, the electrical
      impedance tomography (EIT) has evolved into a versatile tool, which allows detailed insights
      into ventilation and perfusion conditions of the lung (Bodenstein, David et al. 2009). EIT
      allows continuous assessment of lung aeration, is non-invasive and can easily be used as a
      research and monitoring tool during routine cases.

      We hypothesize that compared with positive pressure ventilation (PPV), pressure support
      ventilation (PSV) during general anaesthesia reduces the extent of redistribution as detected
      by EIT during and after the procedure.
    
  