
    
      Study type Randomized controlled clinical trial with the aim of evaluating an eight-week
      protocol of repetitive magnetic stimulation (RMNMS) of the quadriceps muscle in COPD patients
      after inhospital treated exacerbations. The outcomes to be assessed are parameters relating
      to quadriceps muscle function, exercise capacity (Six minutes walking distance, 6MWD) and
      quality of life.

      Study design and procedures:

      Patients will receive information about the investigation, the procedures that will be
      carried out and their risks, and shall provide written consent in the consent form approved
      by the Cruces Hospital Ethics and Clinical Trials Committee. Regarding outcome evaluations,
      all patients, on full intensity and sham RMNMS, will be subjected to identical assessments
      and functional procedures.

      Evaluation for inclusion includes clinical anamnesis and physical exam, chest X-ray
      evaluation and general blood exam and biochemistry, including creatine kinase (CK) and lactic
      dehydrogenase (LD). In the week before the start of stimulation treatment and 3 month after
      hospital discharge, following measurements will be carried out:

        -  Pulmonary function tests

        -  Health-related quality of life, using the SF3626 and the Saint George Respiratory
           Questionnaire(SGRQ), both self administered.

        -  Body composition: fat-free mass (FFM) using the bioelectric impedance method
           (Bodystat-500 Bodystat Ltd, Douglas, UK) and expressed as a fat-free mass index (FFMI),
           which is the result of FFM/(height)2, height expressed in meters.

        -  Peripheral muscle function: Maximal voluntary contraction of the quadriceps (MVCQ)
           measured in five maximum isometric contraction efforts (knee-extension attempts) using a
           Biopac dynamometer (TSD 121C), Biopac system (Biopac System, La Jolla CA, USA) and
           AcqKnowledge software.

        -  Six-minute walking test (6MWT): carried out over the same 30 m stretch, according to the
           standard procedure.(Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2002;166:111e7.) A minimum of three
           measurements shall be carried out in the initial assessment and two during post-protocol
           evaluation.

      RMNMS training protocol: training sessions will start between 7 and 10 days after hospital
      discharge.

      Patients in the RMNMS group will be subjected to repetitive to magnetic stimulation in
      sessions of 15 min on each thigh, alternatively two and three days per week, for a period of
      eight weeks. The assessment is to be repeated three months after hospital discharge.

      Stimulation: repetitive magnetic stimulation training of the quadriceps, RMNMS, will be
      provided by a MEDTRONIC Magpro MCF125 electromagnet with refrigerated circular coils of 60 mm
      radius, applied at the point between the upper third and the lower two-thirds of the vastus
      lateralis,the optimum location for eliciting a contraction response,as determined by our
      volunteer validation study.

      Patients will be in sitting or recumbent position with the knee flexed at 90º and the ankle
      fixed by a strap. The intensity and frequency of stimulation will be adjusted according to
      the patient's tolerance and the performance of the equipment. Stimulation followed a cyclical
      pattern of two seconds ON, with contraction elicited by a burst of twitches, and four seconds
      OFF, repeated over a period of 15 min on each thigh. With the coil being cooled in advance to
      5 ºC, it is possible to maintain an initial intensity of 40% of the equipment's maximum
      stimulation capacity (2 T) at 15 Hz (stimulus per second), ending the protocol at an
      intensity of 70% at 7 Hz.

      Intensity was increased by 5% every two sessions, on the condition that the patient had not
      reported pain caused by the stimulation or unpleasant sensations following the previous
      session. In these cases patients will be examined and blood sampled to determine CK and LD
      determinations.

      Control group: patients will received sham training at 20% intensity with same schedule and
      evaluations as RMNMS patients. Identical to RMNMS patients, the assessment is to be repeated
      three monts after hospital discharge.

      Randomization Patients will be randomized either to intervention group 1, RNMMS or to the
      sham training control group 2. Scrambling code assignment will be performed and patients will
      be assigned,using the stratification method considering four factors: age ≥ 65 vs. <65 years,
      previous admissions yes / no, ≥ 250 vs. walking test < 250 meters and FEV1 ≥ 50 vs. <50%;
      with this method the aim is to obtain a sufficient representation of these four parameters,
      both in the control and in the treatment group.

      Blinding will be ensured by placing stimulation coils with effective or simulated load in
      patients and by blinding the outcome assessment that will be conducted without any reference
      to membership to a specific group. Given the complexity of the design, a triple blind would
      be unrealistic, so that the therapist himself is familiar with the assignment group. And also
      to minimize the differences assigned to both groups, we will monitor the treatment and record
      all incidents that may exist during the process.

      Sample size The improvement in distance walked in the 6 minute walking test is regarded as
      the main variable to evaluate improvement after discharge. An estimated population of 32
      patients, sixteen in each arm of the trial would be enough to show an improvement of 50
      meters (which is determined as clinically relevant by the various studies and the experience
      of specialists), with a power of 90% (beta) and a possible significance of 5% (alpha).

      Statistical analysis The nonparametric Mann Whitney test will be used for comparison between
      groups, while Wilcoxon's test for paired data will be used to evaluate the effects of the
      (training or control) interventions within each group.

      Comparison of the inter-group differences will be performed by comparing the percentage
      change per variable. Correlations between variables will be analysed using Spearman's
      nonparametric coefficient. Statistical significance: p < 0.05. The 95% confidence interval
      (CI) will also be provided.
    
  