
    
      Introduction: Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a heterogeneous chronic disease with a significant
      patient-perceived impact leading to pain, fatigue, impaired function and quality of life and
      psychological distress. Remission is the announced treatment target in PsA. Several
      definitions of remission have been proposed including definitions on composite scores such as
      the Disease Activity in Psoriatic Arthritis (DAPSA) and Minimal Disease Activity (MDA),
      however their translation into the patient's perspective is lacking. Flares are frequent in
      PsA and are important for patients but are not well-defined from the physician's perspective.
      Although some work is ongoing regarding remission and flare from the patient's perspective,
      currently no information allows to cross-tabulate and compare the patient and physician
      perspectives regarding remission and flare in PsA .

      The objective is to define cutoffs of the most widely used composite scores and PROs, for
      levels corresponding to remission/low disease activity and for changes in levels
      corresponding to flares, in PsA, when remission/low disease activity and flare are defined
      from the patient and physician perspective.

      Methods Design: the ReFlaP (Remission/Flare in PsA) study is a prospective, multicentric
      international, longitudinal, observational study. It will take place in 2017-18 in 25 centers
      across Europe, North and South America and Asia. Investigators plan to include a total of 450
      patients. The inclusion period will last 6 months; each center will include around 20
      patients. Each patient is seen twice at baseline and at 1-6 months (follow-up visit) in the
      context of usual care.

      Patients: Consecutive adult patients with definite PsA (according to ClASsification of
      Psoriatic ARthritis (CASPAR) criteria and confirmation by a rheumatologist), more than 2
      years of disease duration, and will be included after signed informed consent.

      Data collection: During each visit, physicians will collect data on the disease and on
      disease activity: 66 swollen joint counts, 68 tender joint counts, tender entheseal points
      (Leeds Enthesitis Index) and body surface area of psoriasis. This will allow calculation of
      most of the usual composite scores of PsA: Arythmetic Mean of Desirability Functions modified
      (AMDF modified), Disease Activity in PSoriatic Arthritis (DAPSA), clinical DAPSA (c-DAPSA),
      Minimal Disease Activity (MDA) and Psoriatic Arthritis Disease Activity Score (PASDAS).
      Well-validated Patient Reported Outcomes will be collected from patients: Patient Global
      Assessment (PGA), Pain, Health Assessment Quality (HAQ), PSoriatic Arthritis Impact of
      Disease (PSAID), Psoriatic Arthritis Quality of Life (PsAQoL), 12-Item Short Form Health
      Survey (SF-12), Patient Acceptable Symptom State (PASS) and Minimal clinically important
      differences (MCID) as well as the recent Flare questionnaire proposed by GRAPPA. Assessment
      of disease activity status (i.e. remission or flare) will be performed by both physician and
      patient using global questions.

      Planned analysis

      To define cutoffs of the most widely used composite scores and PROs, for levels corresponding
      to remission/low disease activity and for changes in levels corresponding to flares, in PsA:

      From the health professional perspective, the gold standard for 'remission' will be MDA and
      sensitivity analyses will use physician-perceived remission/low disease activity (single
      questions) and remission in composite scores (DAPSA, c-DAPSA, modified AMDF, PASDAS); for
      flare the gold standard will be decision of treatment intensification and sensitivity
      analyses will use: global assessment of flare and increase in category of disease activity in
      the composite scores.

      From the perspective of the patient, the gold standard will be for 'remission', PASS and as
      sensitivity analysis, patient-perceived remission/low disease single questions yes/no, and
      for flares, the GRAPPA flare questionnaire, and as sensitivity analyses, flare according to
      the patient (single question) and the assessment of worsening in MCID.

      Investigators will assess what physician-defined remission/low disease activity/flare and
      patient-defined remission/low disease activity/flare correspond to both on composite
      'physician' scores and on all the collected PRO scores. Investigators will use data collected
      at baseline cross sectionally for remission/low disease activity and changes in scores
      between the 2 visits for flares.

      Cutoff values for each outcome and for each change in outcome will be calculated using ROC
      curves and 75th percentile analyses. Sensitivity analyses will explore cutoff values found
      according to patient demographic characteristics and country. Investigators will compare
      attainment of remission or flare according to the different definitions, using kappa
      analyses. Rasch analyses will be used as necessary.

      Planned outcomes The expected outcomes of this study are a better knowledge of remission/low
      disease activity and flare in PsA in accordance to the perspectives of patients and
      physicians. Investigators will define cutoff values for most widely-used scores in PsA,
      allowing easier interpretation of study results and in the clinic, helping a better
      communication with patients.

      Better knowledge of the important aspects of disease fluctuation and of patient relevant
      disease targets in PsA should enhance patient care and management in a treat-to-target
      approach.
    
  