
    
      The prostate is the most common site of cancer in men with 240,000 new cases diagnosed
      annually in the United States with approximately 28,000 yearly deaths. Prostate screening
      typically relies on digital rectal exam (DRE) and prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels.
      Limitations of the PSA test include its low sensitivity and low specificity and its inability
      to distinguish between low-grade and high-grade lesions. Recent screening trials suggest that
      PSA-based screening programs result in small or no reduction in mortality, and have
      significant treatment-related adverse events (AEs). Better serum/plasma biomarkers are needed
      to supplement the PSA test in the diagnosis and management of a disease with a multiplicity
      of presentations and clinical outcomes.

      Cancer-derived DNA present in peripheral blood (referred to as cell-free DNA or cfDNA) was
      first reported in 1948, but research into this area remained in a dormant state for over 50
      years. Over the last ten years however, the development of Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)
      using massive parallel arrays has allowed researchers to create a database robust enough to
      distinguish normal genomic from non-diploid cfDNA. In 2008, fetal trisomy of chromosome 21
      was detected by analyzing cfDNA in maternal blood. Since then, the method has been validated
      for trisomy 13, 18, and 21 as a clinical laboratory procedure with remarkable accuracy >99%.
      Recently, cancer derived cfDNA has been demonstrated to recapitulate genomic tumor DNA.
      Current clinical acceptance of the utility of cfDNA in cancer diagnosis has been demonstrated
      in multiple abstracts at the 2014 and 2015 ASCO meetings in Chicago.

      In a recent publication in Clinical Chemistry, researchers at Vanderbilt University,
      Gottingen, Germany, and at the University of Toronto, Canada, analyzed cfDNA in the
      bloodstream from healthy controls as compared to those with clinically diagnosed prostate
      cancer. The results of this study demonstrated that it is possible to distinguish prostate
      cancer from healthy controls without prior knowledge of the genetic signature of the tumors
      and with over three times the sensitivity of the FDA-approved blood test for prostate cancer
      (i.e., prostate-specific antigen (PSA)). The study examined serum from more than 200 subjects
      with prostate cancer and more than 200 controls. The comparative data included PSA levels and
      prostate tissue biopsy grading (referred to as the Gleason score). The technique
      distinguished prostate cancer from normal controls with 84% accuracy and cancer from benign
      hyperplasia and prostatitis with an accuracy of 91%. Because the method quantifies the
      inherent chromosomal instability of cancer and can be followed as a function of time (without
      having to do an invasive tissue biopsy), it is called a "liquid biopsy." This multi-centre
      clinical study will analyze cfDNA from subjects scheduled for prostate biopsy and is designed
      to validate the results obtained in the above-mentioned retrospective study. If validated,
      the prostate cfDNA determination test will provide a non-invasive test to aid in the
      diagnosis of prostate cancer, as well as provide guidance on whether a biopsy should be
      performed.

      With regard to the study procedures used, the study subject will undergo routine venipuncture
      and ~20 millilitres of blood (approximately 2 tablespoons) will be collected. The blood will
      then be processed by the Sponsor's laboratory and sent to the Sponsor's testing facility in
      Gottingen, Germany.
    
  