
    
      More than 12,000 children are diagnosed with cancer in the United States each year and the
      majority of these children will experience pain throughout their illness. Children with
      cancer are required to undergo repeated invasive medical procedures, including bone marrow
      aspirations (BMA) and lumbar punctures (LP), which have been described by children as the
      most distressing and painful aspect of their illness. The experience and memory of procedural
      pain can have a lasting effect and impact distress in future procedures; children learn to
      anticipate pain and show increased distress and decreased cooperation at subsequent
      procedures. Moreover, childhood medical distress has also been linked to adults' reports of
      pain and fear around medical events and even avoidance of future health care. Early painful
      procedures have also been associated with behavioral changes to medical events later in life,
      a finding that is supported by recent physiological evidence indicating that activation of
      the pain processing system in the brain can change neuropathways, which leads to increased
      sensitivity to later stimulation of pain systems. Therefore, it is vital to develop
      strategies to minimize the pain and distress that children undergo through cancer treatment
      and understanding the impact of children's memory on pain is a crucial step in this process.

      To address this important need, this study involved identifying the strategies that children
      use to cope with distress that promote positive memories of medical events, examining how
      these strategies impact their immediate physiology (via salivary biomarkers) and
      self-reported pain, and understanding how these coping strategies change children's distress
      over time during future medical procedures. Specifically, certain coping strategies change
      the way that children interpret stressful medical procedures, which affects the emotional
      response to future procedures. These objectives were accomplished by the following specific
      aims:

      Aim 1: Identify emotion-regulation (i.e., coping) strategies that promote more positive
      memories of distressing medical procedures in children with cancer.

      Aim 2: Assess the impact of emotion-regulation strategies on children's distress response to
      painful procedures over time.

      This project will provide specific means for impacting children's pain and distress during
      medical procedures. Specifically, because the emotion regulation strategies described in this
      protocol are modifiable and teachable, they provide direct implications for clinical practice
      in pain management by identifying strategies that can decrease children's pain and anxiety
      throughout their course of cancer treatment.
    
  