
    
      This protocol is an interventional study for HAI therapy at Duke. The protocol is essentially
      for clinical treatment and the Investigator is not collecting safety and effectiveness data
      on the device itself. There are three primary indications for the hepatic artery infusion
      pump. The first are patients with unresectable, metastatic, liver-only or -dominant
      colorectal cancer. Although conversion to resection is a primary goal in these patients, most
      of these patients will die of liver disease and therefore controlling liver disease is a
      secondary goal to improve survival. The second group of patients are those with resectable,
      but high risk metastatic, liver-only or -dominant colorectal cancer. These patients are at
      high risk for liver recurrence, and HAI has demonstrated significant improvement in outcomes.
      The last group are patients with unresectable primary liver cancer, primarily intrahepatic
      cholangiocarcinoma. These patients have central tumors that are rarely resectable.

      Eligible patients will have the following procedures performed during this study.

        1. On the day of surgery, the Synchromed II pump will be implanted and the Codman® catheter
           placed for chemotherapy infusion.

        2. During the hospital stay, patients will have:

             -  Daily physical examination to evaluate for the development of complications

             -  Daily blood tests to evaluate blood cell counts and liver function

             -  Initiation of a proton-pump inhibitor, if not already a home medication, which will
                continue indefinitely

             -  Assessment of side effects

      Follow-Up Visits

      Clinic visits and study activities will take place every 2 weeks after surgery, and include:

        -  Routine blood tests for blood cell counts, kidney function, and liver function

        -  Nuclear medicine SPECT/CT scan to confirm the pump and catheter are working properly.
           This is a type of scan where the images or pictures from two different types of scans
           are combined together.

        -  Start hepatic artery infusion (HAI) chemotherapy (at 2 week post-op).

      HAI includes:

        -  Floxuridine (FUDR)

        -  Dexamethasone

        -  Heparin: (If heparin allergy, fondaparinux will be added)

        -  Normal saline

        -  Evaluation and treatment, including blood work and refilling the pump, every 2 weeks,
           until treatment is discontinued.

           • Systemic chemotherapy (every 2 weeks after HAI started)

        -  Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer will receive systemic chemotherapy that will
           consist of either FOLFIRI, FOLFOX, or Irinotecan/oxaliplatin.

        -  Patients with cholangiocarcinoma will receive Gemcitabine/Oxaliplatin or Gemcitabine
           alone

      When the chemotherapy regimen has completed, the Synchromed II pump will be reprogrammed
      every 4 weeks indefinitely.
    
  