
    
      The perimenopause is commonly defined as a time of hormonal fluctuation that typically occurs
      in women 40-55 years of age with changes in menstrual patterns (Soares et al. 2001; Cohen et
      al. 2003). Women are at a particularly high risk for depressive symptoms during the
      perimenopause, as demonstrated by epidemiological data that support a higher risk in
      perimenopause (15-18% prevalence rates) than premenopause (8-12%) (Bromberger et al., 2003).
      Women may be especially vulnerable to depressive symptoms during perimenopause due to
      declining levels of estrogen. Estrogen interacts with the neurotransmitter serotonin and its
      receptor expression, and may have antidepressant effects; estrogen monotherapy may alleviate
      depressive symptoms and has been associated with improved quality of life (Soares et al.
      2001; Cohen et al., 2003). Of great practical clinical importance, hormone replacement
      therapy has become increasingly controversial in light of the findings of the Women's Health
      Initiative study (Roussouw et al.,2002). Soares et al. (2003) found that women with
      perimenopausal and postmenopausal depression responded well with treatment with citalopram
      alone and in combination with estrogen. Venlafaxine, mirtazapine, escitalopram, and
      duloxetine appear efficacious in open pilot studies for perimenopausal depression (Ladd et
      al., 2005, Joffe et al. 2001; Freeman et al., 2006; Joffe et al., 2007). However,
      antidepressant medications may be associated with significant side effects. Clinicians,
      researchers, and patients are now seeking alternative treatments for menopausal-related
      emotional and physical symptoms.

      Investigators have demonstrated promising results with omega-3 fatty acids as a treatment
      intervention for MDD (Major Depressive Disorder). Overall, treatment data in MDD support a
      role for EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) and DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) in combination or EPA as
      the omega-3 fatty acid intervention. The majority of published trials that have utilized EPA
      and DHA in combination or EPA alone have demonstrated a significant benefit in MDD.

      Omega-3 fatty acids (sometimes abbreviated n-3 fatty acids) are nutritional compounds with
      widely established health benefits. Omega-3 fatty acids are polyunsaturated fatty acids. The
      American Psychiatric Association's (APA) Committee on Research on Psychiatric Treatments
      conducted a meta-analysis of placebo-controlled treatment studies of MDD and bipolar
      depression and found a significant benefit for omega-3 fatty acids (Freeman et al., 2006).

      Treatment with estrogen compounds, such as oral contraceptive pills or oral estrogen
      replacement therapy, has been shown to increase levels of DHA in women, theoretically from
      the upregulation of DHA synthesis from dietary precursors (Giltay et al., 2004). Increased
      EPA and DHA in plasma due to hormone replacement therapy have been proposed to account for
      its antidepressant effects (Sumino et al., 2003). Should decline in endogenous estrogen
      levels, therefore, lower the amount of omega-3 fatty acids available to the brain,
      supplementation in the perimenopause may be of particular importance.
    
  