
    
      Alkaptonuria is a rare metabolic disease in which homogentisic acid (HGA), an intermediary
      metabolite in tyrosine catabolism, accumulates due to deficiency of the enzyme homogentisic
      acid oxidase. Patients with alkaptonuria exhibit homogentisic aciduria and ochronosis, or
      dark pigmentation of various tissues due to binding of HGA and its oxidized metabolites. The
      ochronosis results in debilitating destruction of cartilage, arthritis, lumbosacral
      ankylosis, limitation of motion, and bone deterioration in later life. No effective therapy
      exists for alkaptonuria. However, a compound named 2-(2-nitro-4-trifluoromethylbenzoyl) - 1,
      3-cyclohexanedione (nitisinone, NTBC, Orfadin) inhibits 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase,
      the enzyme that produces HGA. Nitisinone, at doses of approximately 1 mg/kg/day, has proven
      safe and effective in tyrosinemia type I, which causes fatal liver disease in infants and
      children. Under protocol 97-HG-0201, we treated 9 alkaptonuria patients with nitisinone; for
      the 7 who received 1.05 mg twice daily, the HA fell from 4.0 plus or minus 1.8 g/24h to 0.2
      plus or minus 0.2 g/24h (normal 0.028 plus or minus 0.015 g/24h, n=10). Plasma tyrosine
      levels rose from 67 plus or minus 18 micro M to 760 plus or minus 181 micro M. The current
      protocol (05-HG-0076) is a randomized, controlled clinical trial to determine if nitisinone
      (2 mg daily) is beneficial for the joint symptoms of alkaptonuira. Patients are examined at
      the NIH Clinical Research Center every 4 months for 3 years. Hip joint range of motion serves
      as the primary outcome parameter, and nitisinone (Orfadin) is provided by Swedish Orphan
      International through an IND obtained by William A. Gahl. Forty patients (20 with nitisinone
      treatment and 20 untreated) have been enrolled for at least 16 months, and an interim
      analysis shows promising results. Serious adverse events in patients on nitisinone have
      included a death from myocardial infarction, keratopathy, and elevated liver function tests
      related to gallstones.
    
  