
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is often complicated by peri-procedural myocardial
      injury, with widespread adoption of sensitive cardiac biomarkers assays allowing detection of
      smaller amounts of myocardial necrosis (1, 2). Peri-procedural cardiac troponin elevation has
      been associated with new irreversible myocardial injury, detected by delayed-enhancement
      magnetic resonance imaging (3), and even though the prognostic significance of
      peri-procedural cardiac troponin elevation has been highly debated (4), several studies have
      reported that peri-procedural injury is associated with worse prognosis (5, 6).

      Peri-procedural myocardial injury attenuation is expected to improve cardiovascular outcomes
      following PCI, and this could be achieved through such cardioprotective interventions as
      ischemic preconditioning (IPC) (2). Converging experimental and clinical evidence suggests
      that the long-established therapeutic potential of remote IPC or ischemic perconditioning may
      find clinical use in the setting of elective PCI or ST-elevation myocardial infarction
      (MI)(7-9). Nevertheless, recent clinical trials suggest that the cardioprotective effect of
      remote IPC is moderate (10, 11), thus demonstrating the need to explore methods to augment
      it.

      The ischemic conditioning signal is considered a summation of signals derived from multiple
      disparate receptor-ligand interactions, which reaches a threshold once sufficient combined
      signals are generated (12, 13). Adenosine, with its plasma levels increasing after cellular
      stresses and ischemia, is a crucial trigger of the preconditioning cascade (14), however it
      is rapidly taken up by cells through sodium-independent equilibrative nucleoside transporters
      (ENT 1/2) and sodium-dependent concentrative nucleoside transporters (CNT 2/3) (15).

      Experimental data suggest that ticagrelor inhibits cellular reuptake of adenosine, thereby
      increasing systemic and tissue adenosine levels (15-17). Moreover, the antiplatelet effects
      of ticagrelor have been shown to be partly mediated by increased extracellular adenosine
      levels and ticagrelor enhances the hyperemic response to adenosine (16, 18). Clinical
      evidence suggests that in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) ticagrelor treatment
      is associated with higher adenosine levels and an augmentation of coronary blood flow
      velocity in response to adenosine (19, 20). The investigators hypothesized that ticagrelor
      treatment would potentiate the effects of remote IPC and would thereby reduce peri-procedural
      myocardial injury and the incidence of post-PCI MI.
    
  