
    
      Mechanical ventilation is commonly used in patients admitted to intensive care units.
      Clinical studies have investigated some of the aspects associated with its utilization, and
      have contributed to improve the knowledge and management of patients with acute respiratory
      failure. In 1998 the invesgtigators conducted the first international study on mechanical
      ventilation, including 5183 patients who were mechanically ventilated longer than 12 hours
      (Esteban A. JAMA 2002). Six years later, the investigators carried out the second
      international study on mechanical ventilation including 4968 patients. These studies allowed
      us to analyze the evolution of mechanical ventilation and to judge the concordance of
      practice with results of randomized trials (Esteban A. Am J Respir Crit Care 2008). The main
      finding of this study was the high degree of concordance between observed changes in
      mechanical ventilation practice and changes predicted from reports of randomized controlled
      trials. However, despite apparently beneficial changes in ventilatory practice, the
      investigators were not able to detect significant differences in clinical outcomes over this
      time period. Our results serve as an updated benchmark on the usual care and outcomes of
      mechanically ventilated patients in a 'real-world' setting.

      The investigators now propose to conduct a third international study of mechanical
      ventilation, 6 years after the 2nd study and 12 years after the original. This will again be
      a prospective, multicenter single-cohort study, which will enroll consecutive patients who
      have received mechanical ventilation for at least 12 hours during a 1-month period, and will
      follow each patient for the duration of mechanical ventilation, up to 28 days. With this 3rd
      study the investigators aim: 1) to determine if the observed changes that the investigators
      reported previously are maintained over time; 2) to evaluate if the changes implemented have
      impacted outcomes; 3) to analyze some aspects related to withdrawal of mechanical
      ventilation; and implementation non-invasive positive pressure ventilation; and 4) to
      evaluate what differences may occur between geographical areas.
    
  