
    
      Randomization and blinding. Physicians will screen infants based on inclusion/exclusion
      criteria. The site coordinator will confirm eligibility with the treating physician and input
      patient data into the web based system. Once data is inputted, the coordinator will randomize
      eligible families 1:1 using web-based block randomization stratified by study site to receive
      EA or placebo. Multiples (i.e. siblings) will be randomized to the same treatment arm.
      Randomization will be sent to the investigational pharmacy via email, where study drug will
      be drawn. Participants, treating clinicians, and study staff will all be blinded to
      allocation. Outcome assessors and statistical summaries for trial monitoring will be unaware
      of group allocation. Unblinded data evaluation during the trial will be restricted to a
      designated study statistician and the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). Investigators
      will be unblinded and analyses initiated only after all data collection forms are completed,
      data queries resolved, and data are locked for analysis.

      Intervention. Following randomization, the coordinator will contact the attending physician,
      nurse practitioner and/or other providers as appropriate, and nurse to inform them that
      randomization has been completed. The intervention consists of administering either
      conventional EA or placebo while completing an evaluation for early onset sepsis. Timing of
      drug administration will be closely monitored. Enrolled subjects will receive EITHER
      ampicillin and gentamicin at site approved dosing guidelines OR volume matched equivalent of
      normal saline. These dosing regimens are derived from updated published guidelines for
      neonates. No masking is required as each of these solutions is clear.

      The study drug will be ordered and in many cases discontinued just as EA would normally be
      ordered and discontinued; specifically, this means that the drugs will be ordered and
      administered within 4 hours of life and then discontinued at the discretion of the attending
      neonatologist. Typically this occurs when blood culture results are deemed negative (expected
      in > 95% of study subjects). The study protocol will allow the first dose of study drug to be
      administered as late as 4 hours after delivery. Research coordinators will follow daily
      orders on all study subjects.

      Fecal sample collection. Samples will be obtained exclusively for research purposes, and
      there will be no testing of patients beyond obtaining microbiome samples, and recording
      demographic data and clinical history. Spontaneously expelled fecal samples for microbiome
      analyses will be obtained weekly from study subjects through the first 8 weeks of life, and
      monthly thereafter until death or discharge.

      Infant blood draw. An additional research blood sample for genetic analysis will be drawn one
      time and should be done at the time of clinical blood draws. However, if this blood draw is
      missed, it can be done in the neonate's first week of life. A volume of 0.3 to 0.4mL will be
      drawn in EDTA tubes and shaken well. After the sample is collected, it will be frozen for
      shipment. The blood draw will be performed by NICU personnel who routinely draw blood on
      preterm babies. It will be either the bedside nurse or the respiratory therapist depending on
      whether the blood is drawn from an umbilical catheter or by heelstick.

      Maternal vaginal swab and rectal swabs at delivery will be collected. If a rectal swab was
      not collected at the time of delivery, a maternal fecal sample during the first week
      postpartum will be collected in its place. Samples will be cryopreserved at -80C.

      An electronic database will be used to track sample collection and storage history.
    
  