
    
      Systemic Sclerosis is a rare disease characterized by microvascular affection and cutaneous
      fibrosis. The digital ulcers are a severe and very invalidating complication. The vascular
      dysfunction is a key element in the pathogenesis of this disease, preceding the fibrosis. The
      physiopathology involves a vascular ischemia and mechanical factors or cutaneous calcinoses,
      or local trauma. The treatment of the digital ulcerations of the Systemic Sclerosis is at
      first preventive within the a good cutaneous and ungual hygiene, with recourse, as a
      preventive measure, to Bosentan, an endothelin antagonist. Iloprost by intravenous route is
      the recommended curative treatment, but patients present very frequent and dose - limiting
      side effects (headaches, vasomotor flushing, nausea, vomiting, maxillary pains, myalgia).

      The paradox is that the decrease of the capillary density and the lower microvascular
      reactivity limits the distribution of the drug at its site of action when it is administered
      by intravenous route. High doses are then necessary to reach a sufficient concentration in
      the region of the wound, which generates side effects. The local administration of the drug
      could allow to by-pass this problem.

      The investigator uses a technique for the topical administration of a vasodilator close to
      iloprost, treprostinil. This technique is iontophoresis. In the previous clinical trials
      INFLUX-IT and TIPPS, the investigator showed that the local cutaneous administration of
      treprostinil by cathodal iontophoresis at 0.03 milliAmper(mA)/cm2 is well tolerated (no local
      or systematic side effect in healthy volunteer, Systemic Sclerosis patients and diabetics).
      Iontophoresis induced a steady increase of the cutaneous blood flow of fingers. The
      investigator also showed that treprostinil was detectable in the dermis until 8 hours after
      the iontophoresis, without significant increase in the plasma. Thus, daily repeated
      iontophoresis on 10 days on ulcerated areas could allow to obtain therapeutic tissular
      concentrations.
    
  