
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cardiovascular disease mortality has declined more than 30 percent in the last thirty years.
      Almost two-thirds of this decline occurred between 1970 and 1980. Despite this decreased
      mortality, cardiovascular disease is still the leading cause of death. It is also the disease
      category associated with the most rapidly rising health care costs. Secular trends in
      lifestyle, self-care, improved access to medical care, and improvements in diagnostic and
      curative medicine have all been implicated. An understanding of the mechanisms contributing
      to this decline is necessary in order to develop a scientific basis for palliative and
      preventive care. Also, the dramatic decline in cardiovascular disease mortality has raised
      the issue of the quality of life among the survivors. The question is raised whether more
      people are surviving but with worsening health in terms of increased incidence and prevalence
      of disease as well as increased levels of functional limitation.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Five hypotheses were tested to address the issue of secular trends in lifestyle, self-care
      and medical care which may have influenced cardiovascular disease mortality. These were:
      differences in risk factor levels among similarly-aged birth cohorts influenced mortality by
      lessening the severity of disease or by improving recuperative capacity; mortality among the
      later birth cohorts declined due to less comorbid disease at the time of the disease event;
      long-term case fatality declined because the progression of disease was slower as evidenced
      by a reduction in disease recurrence; medical intervention reduced mortality by eliminating
      lethal sequelae in the later birth cohorts; decreased mortality resulted from medical
      innovations in diagnosis and therapy. Three hypotheses were tested to address the issue of
      worsening health among the survivors in the later birth cohorts. These were: although more
      individuals in the later birth cohorts survived 13 years of follow-up than did members of
      similarly-aged birth cohorts in earlier periods, they had higher rates of morbidity and were
      hospitalized more often; survivors in the later cohorts exhibited more disability in
      functional limitations; more survivors in the later cohorts were institutionalized in chronic
      care hospitals or skilled nursing facilities. Data on risk factors, co-morbidity, and
      recurrent cardiovascular disease in the three birth cohorts were already computerized. Data
      on medical interventions, improvement in case management, and the use of various
      technological innovations were abstracted from medical records and linked with the data on
      disease events. Data on functional limitations were available both by type and extent of
      disability from the Disability Analysis of Health Data, a study supported by the Social
      Security Administration. This data file was merged with the file for disease events to
      determine if general differences in functional health existed among the three birth cohorts
      at intake, and if between-cohort differences existed among survivors.

      The study was renewed as a Shannon Award in Fiscal 1991.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  