
    
      Has been designed a clinical trial with an experimental and a control arm, with 2
      experimental subjects per control (2:1), we will have to study 98 experimental subjects and
      50 control subjects, in total 148 patients. Randomization will be performed using a
      centralized electronic system (IVRS) with 2: 1 randomized concealed assignment. This
      randomization will be done by permuted blocks.

      The study population will be patients with fibrosing lung sequelae after recovery from severe
      COVID19 pneumonia.

      This is a double-blind, masked, placebo-controlled clinical trial: the patient and the
      investigator are unaware of the assigned treatment the patient receives.

      Patients will follow a total of 5 clinic visits; V0 (screening, -1 days - +42 days from
      signing the Informed Consent), V1 (randomization), V2 (week 12), V3 (week 24 or end of
      treatment), V4 (week 28 or follow-up).

      Visits Plan

        -  V0 - Screening: Initially, the informed consent will be collected. Subsequently, we will
           proceed to collect clinical variables, blood tests and radiological characteristics
           (chest CT scan; radiological signs of fibrosis such as tractional bronchiolectasis,
           honeycombing, loss of lung volume and reticulation).

        -  V1 - Randomization: Before starting the drug:

      Control analytics Serum pregnancy test for all women of childbearing age KBILD quality of
      life test. This validated questionnaire will be completed by the patient following the
      instructions of the staff.

      Spirometry (CVF) and plethysmography (DLCO) TM6m. Extraction of blood for DNA isolation (in
      those cases that have specifically signed the IC for genetics) and proteins (serum).

      Once the screening evaluation has been completed, eligibility will depend on meeting the
      inclusion criteria and not presenting any exclusion criteria. Those cases that are not
      eligible will be informed and an adequate explanation will be provided.

        -  V2 - 12 weeks after starting medication. The patient's clinical status will be collected

        -  V3 - 24 weeks (end of treatment period). Clinical data and quality of life test (KBILD)
           will be collected, and chest CT scan, spirometry-plethysmography and TM6m will be
           performed. Blood will be drawn for protein isolation (serum).

        -  V4 - 28 weeks (follow-up). Clinical and analytical variables will be collected.

      Patients will have the telephone number of the main researcher or someone from the team where
      they can call 24 hours, which will be specified on the patient's card (where it will be
      identified that the patient participates in this study). In case of presenting any problem or
      side effect in the period between visits, the patient will go to the center and an additional
      visit will be made.

      Study treatment:

      Pirfenidone Name: Esbriet 267 mg hard capsules Dosage: 267 mg (capsules) Manufacturer: Roche
      Pharma AG

      Study drug administration schedule: The study medication will be started at incremental
      doses, starting with 1602 mg / day (divided into three doses every 8 hours, 267 mg capsules
      with each meal) and, if there is no liver or associated serious events, will be increased on
      the 7th day to full doses of 2403 mg / day. The dose increase can be extended for one more
      week if the investigator considers it safer (slight elevation of liver enzymes, digestive
      discomfort or clear anorexia). Subsequently, 2403 mg / day will be maintained (3 capsules in
      each meal during the day) except if it is necessary to reduce the dose or suspend the drug
      due to adverse effects or associated problems (at the discretion of the researcher).

      Concomitant treatments prohibited:

      The use of the following therapies is prohibited during study treatment:

        -  Cytotoxic, immunosuppressant, cytokine modulators, including but not limited to
           azathioprine, bosentan, ambrisentan, cyclophosphamide, cyclosporine, etanercept,
           iloprost, infliximab, leukotriene antagonists, methotrexate, high doses of
           corticosteroids (more than 15 mg / day of prednisone or equivalent for more than 20
           days), mycophenolate mofetil, tacrolimus, montelukast, tetrathiomolybdate, TNF-α
           inhibitors, imatinib mesylate, interferon gamma-1b, and tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

        -  Strong CYP1A2 inhibitors (eg, Fluvoxamine, Enoxacin), P-glycoprotein inhibitors (eg,
           Ketoconazole, erythromycin) or CYP3A4 (eg, Ketoconazole, erythromycin), or their
           inducers (eg. Eg, rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin).

        -  Any investigational therapy in an active clinical trial.

        -  Because moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors (eg, Ciprofloxacin) increase the systemic exposure of
           pirfenidone (Esbriet® US label 2014), if ciprofloxacin is administered, it should be
           limited to 250 or 500 mg daily (QD), and the patient should be closely monitored.

      Prohibited foods: The consumption of grapefruit juice will be prohibited during the study.

      Additional restriction: The use of any form of tobacco consumption will be prohibited.

      Criteria for patient withdrawal from the study Participation in the study is voluntary and
      the subjects can withdraw at any time without having to give explanations and without this
      implying a detriment to the healthcare they receive in the future.

      For her part, the researcher must withdraw a subject from the study:

        -  Adverse event or clinical situation of the patient that, in the clinical opinion, makes
           it necessary to withdraw from the study. Patients can interrupt the medication for up to
           14 days, returning to the previous dose without requiring titration. If they interrupt
           for more than 14 days, they have to gradually increase the dose. If the patient cannot
           tolerate the minimum dose, then the treatment will be withdrawn, allowing study visits
           to be completed.

        -  Request for withdrawal by the patient.

        -  Serious violation of protocol.

        -  Loss of follow-up.

        -  Pregnancy during the study. When a subject withdraws from the study, the investigator
           will record the reason or reasons for withdrawal in the original documents in the
           Medical Record.

      End of clinical trial is defined as the date the last recruited patient completes the last
      visit (LPLV). The last patient is expected to complete the last visit 4 weeks after the last
      patient has completed treatment, which is expected to happen 14 months after the start of the
      study.
    
  