
    
      Mylotarg is a novel immunoconjugate directed against the CD33 antigen found on most leukemia
      cells. This humanized murine IgG4 monoclonal antibody is tagged with the toxin,
      calicheamicin. In equal molar concentrations, calicheamicin is about 3200 times more potent
      than adriamycin. In a Phase I study involving adult patients with relapse AML, Mylotarg has
      been shown to have significant anti-leukemia activity with little toxicity. The most
      concerning side effects of Mylotarg were prolonged neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. Phase II
      studies have also demonstrated good efficacy with little toxicity.

      The goal of this proposal is to include Mylotarg in a nonmyeloablative preparative regimen
      similar to FAI used at MD Anderson Cancer Center. The hypothesis is that Mylotarg will
      provide potent anti-leukemic effects without adding toxicity to the mini-allogeneic bone
      marrow transplant regimen. A more potent anti-leukemic response may increase the complete
      remission rates and induce a state of minimal residual disease (MRD). Therefore, the Graft
      vs. Leukemia (GVL) effect of allogeneic transplantation will have a better chance for
      success. In addition, the administration of donor cells after Mylotarg should ameliorate the
      cytopenias previously associated with Mylotarg. This medication likely will be
      well-tolerated.

      Patients with high-risk hematopoietic malignancies that express CD33 (i.e. AML, ALL, CML and
      MDS) will be included. We will enroll older patients (>55 years old) or medically infirm
      patients who are unable to tolerate standard allogeneic bone marrow transplant. Patients will
      be evaluated at 28 days post-transplant for evidence of response. Those with residual disease
      may be eligible for additional Mylotarg given together with donor lymphocyte infusions.
      Additional courses of Mylotarg may improve overall survival in this poor prognosis group.
    
  