
    
      Liver transplantation (LT) is a well-established procedure for the treatment of end stage
      liver disease. Many improvements in the surgical technique rendered this operation relatively
      safe. Most important operative innovations after the initial introduction of LT in the
      clinical Routine undertaken by Starzl include the use of veno-venous bypass in LT, the
      piggy-back technique with preservation of the recipients' caval vein and it's modification
      which was introduced by Belghiti with side-to-side cavo-caval anastomosis. Nevertheless very
      few improvements have been introduced in the surgical technique with regards to tissue
      preparation and sealing the blood vessels during recipient hepatectomy. Due to end stage
      liver disease and both the recipients' general and coagulatory condition, the hepatectomy
      carries the risk of severe blood loss which can impair the outcome after LT. Usually the
      recipient hepatectomy is carried out as a combination of sharp dissection of the hepatic
      adhesions to the abdominal wall and the diaphragm and clip or suture ligature of small
      retrohepatic caval vein branches.

      With advances in surgical procedures and equipment, modern technologies have been introduced,
      which have shortened operation time and improved surgical outcomes. Exquisite equipment for
      liver parenchyma transection, such as Cavitron ultrasonic surgical aspirator, ultrasonic
      dissector (USD), LigaSure (LS) and Tissue Link can also be used to reduce hemorrhage in liver
      resection. The ultrasonic scalpel (Ethicon) is a new USD that cuts and coagulates tissue
      using ultrasound at frequencies higher than those used by an ultrasonic aspirator. This
      device can also serve as a grasper and basically utilizes a blade which oscillates at 55 kHz,
      thus producing heat and enabling coagulation of vessels. Recently, its use and potential
      advantages in open liver resection have been demonstrated. The main technical advancement in
      this field relates to decreased intra-operative bleeding. Results of using USD (Harmonic
      Scalpel) during recipient hepatectomy showed that this method is safe compared with
      conventional knot tying ligation regarding intra- and postoperative bleeding rate. The
      electrothermal bipolar vessel sealing device LS is another alternative, which applies
      electrothermal bipolar coagulation and dissection in one step. The LS dissection device seals
      the tissue first before it is divided (both Tasks are performed with the same device). This
      may prevent severe bleeding. Furthermore, the sealing device is capable of coping with the
      small liver veins which can be sealed and divided safely without the need for sutures or
      clips. Especially the latter of which is known for interfering with sufficient "tangential"
      clamping of the inferior caval vein (IVC) for side to side cavo-cavostomy during piggy-back
      LT. It was reported that the use of LS devices for recipient hepatectomy in LT. It was
      concluded that, LS vessel sealing was an efficient method and that vessel sealing of the
      caval and Portal veins as well as other structures could be safely performed in the setting
      of end-stage liver disease.

      To our knowledge, no randomized clinical trial has been conducted to compare various
      innovative dissection methods against the standard techniques used for recipient hepatectomy.
      While LS and USD have been proven to be used safely in several major surgical procedures,
      including liver resection, their ability to reduce blood loss in liver transplant recipient
      hepatectomy has not yet been evaluated systematically.
    
  