
    
      The project will utilize a randomized control trial design. Ethics approval will be sought
      from the Western Research Ethics Board. Participants with chronic neck pain will be recruited
      from the SJHC Pain Clinic.

      Eligible candidates who consent to study participation will be block randomized using
      presealed envelopes into two groups (A or B). All patients will be blinded both before and
      after injections as to which therapy they receive. Group A will receive an intra-articular
      (IA) injection of autologous PRP (0.5 mL per level) and Group B will receive IA injections of
      corticosteroid (1.5 mL per level).

      PRP: PRP preparation will occur at St. Joseph's Hospital using a standard 2-step
      centrifugation method. The coordinator (AR) will draw 5-10cc of venous blood under sterile
      conditions (all patients) and subsequently centrifuge these samples at 200g for 10 minutes at
      room temperature. The plasma will then be separated from the sedimented erythrocytes and
      centrifuged again at 400g for 10 min to remove additional platelet-poor plasma. This residual
      sample of PRP will be tested to ensure that the platelet concentration is 4-5 times greater
      than that in peripheral venous blood. Finally, 1-2cc of PRP will be prepared for
      intra-articular injection. To maintain blinding, those in Group B will also have blood
      collection done, although their samples will not be injected.

      Corticosteroid: A mixture of 1 mL 2% lidocaine and 0.5 mL of 10 mg/mL dexamethasone per facet
      joint (up to 6 mL total volume for 4 facet injections) will be prepared by AR.

      Depending on randomization, the appropriate syringe will be delivered to the SJHC Pain Clinci
      interventional suite immediately after preparation. All injections will be performed by the
      same physician under fluoroscopic guidance at the same level(s) as the prior successful
      medial branch blocks. A small amount of contrast will be injected ensure IA placement. It is
      recognized that IA placement may not be possible in every situation. It will be noted by the
      physician whether the injection is felt to be peri- or intra-articular.

      Follow-up: Primary and secondary outcomes will be collected via phone or in person,
      pre-injection, and at 1, 3, and 6 months post-injection. If there is ongoing benefit ≥2
      points on the NRS at 6 months, additional follow-up of primary and secondary outcomes at 9
      and 12 months will be done.
    
  