
    
      For inpatients, the investigators wish to collect biological samples from each patient once
      daily for the first seven days of their admission. 25mls of blood will be taken daily for
      research purposes, at the same time at routine clinical samples to reduce discomfort from
      additional venepuncture. One urine sample will be taken daily (which can be taken from a
      catheter if the patient has a catheter in place), and a sample of stool if the patient moves
      their bowels. The investigators wish to collect breath for analysis, at one point during the
      first seven days of admission. Breath analysis requires the patients to be fasted for four
      hours (with the exception of water) prior to the test. If the patient undergoes liver
      transplantation during their admission, a small sample of explanted liver tissue will be
      obtained for later analysis.

      For outpatients (acute liver injury, stable cirrhotics, non-cirrhotic liver disease), the
      investigators will ask them to attend the ward or the outpatient department for collection of
      biological samples. The investigators will take 25 mls of blood as above, along with a urine
      and stool sample if they are able to provide this at their first attendance. Breath analysis
      will also be undertaken during this visit to the hospital, after a 4 hour fast (with the
      exception of water). Outpatients will then be asked to return one month later, when further
      blood (25mls), urine and stool samples will be collected.

      As a pilot study, the investigators wish to perform MRI scanning on a subset of 10 patients
      with paracetamol induced acute liver failure. Paracetamol induced acute liver failure is
      associated with a particularly rapid course, characterised by hepatic encephalopathy and
      renal impairment. In view of the potential for renal impairment, intravenous contrast will
      not be used for these scans, but alternative techniques employed such as artertial spin
      labelling.

      The participant does not need to consent to each individual part of the study to be able to
      take part.
    
  