
    
      The investigators previously developed a new neuropsychological test for the objective
      measurement of inattention in delirium, which was implemented on a purpose-built computerised
      device (Delbox). A prototype software application (DelApp) for smartphones has now been
      developed based on the same test.

      The DelApp has many advantages over existing tests, including objectivity, automated scoring
      and ease-of-use. Studies in 30 hospital patients showed highly comparable performance between
      the Delbox and DelApp. Further proof-of-principle single-rater studies using the DelApp in
      more than 200 hospital patients have provided additional evidence of good performance of the
      DelApp.

      Though there are strong positive findings from investigator pilot studies, larger-scale
      formal studies with blinded raters and more representative patient samples are now required.

      The proposed study is part of a larger programme of work funded by the Medical Research
      Council (grant value £1.01M) on the optimisation and clinical validation of the DelApp, which
      consists of three stages: Phase A - optimisation of the DelApp and feasibility testing (REC
      no 15/SC00/19); Phase B - case-control studies in selected patients; and Phase C - validation
      studies in unselected patients. Ultimately investigators aim to generate a software product
      which will be fully licensed and commercially available to healthcare organisations.

      The proposed Phase B studies will be carried out in hospitalised patients in general and
      acute medical wards and ICU. The objectives of these studies are (a) to assess diagnostic
      performance of the DelApp in discrete patient groups and to inform optimal cut-points (Phase
      B); and (b) to evaluate the diagnostic performance of the DelApp in unselected patients
      (Phase C). The studies will also contribute to a better understanding of the nature of
      neuropsychological deficits underlying delirium. At the end of these studies, the DelApp may
      be modified depending on the study results. Investigators will select the stimuli and
      subtests that provide the best balance of sensitivity and specificity.

      Two case-control studies will be conducted involving patients recruited from general and
      acute wards (Study B.1) and ICU (Study B.2). Each study will run in two sites, i.e. the Royal
      Infirmary of Edinburgh (RIE) and the Glasgow Royal Infirmary (GRI). The performance of the
      DelApp (index test) against reference standard diagnosis will be independently assessed by
      two trained raters, with one pair of raters on each site. As in our prior case-control
      studies, convenience samples will be used, where clinicians are asked to identify patients in
      the target groups.

      Hospitalised patients will be asked to undertake a number of tests at their bedside. These
      tests will be administered to patients once only. Patients will be visited by two different
      researchers on the same day, with a gap of approximately 15-60 min between assessment visits
      assuming that consent is provided in the first visit. The first visit will involve assessment
      of capacity and (in those thought likely to be capable of giving consent) obtaining informed
      consent, as well as assessment of delirium (reference tests) and cognition. The second visit
      will involve the DelApp assessment (index test). Thus, the index test and reference tests are
      administered by independent raters. Where the patient is unable to provide consent for
      themselves, proxy consent will be sought, and if granted, the same visits as above will
      occur.

      The Phase C formal validation studies have a similar design to the case-control studies. The
      main difference is that unselected samples of patients will be recruited from general and
      acute medical wards (Study C.1) and ICU (Study C.2) in the GRI and RIE.

      A subset of patients in studies C.1 and C.2 (N=60 combined) will undergo up to 4 repeat
      assessments (at least one day apart), along with the reference standard, to explore the
      performance of the DelApp in tracking change in cognitive function.

      In the longitudinal assessments, researchers will ask patients able to provide consent at the
      time of recruitment if they consent to subsequent assessments even if at the time of these
      subsequent assessments the patient lacks capacity. However, during the subsequent
      assessments, it will be carefully checked if the patient assents to continue their
      participation in the study. In patients who initially lack capacity and have been included
      through consent from a legal proxy, and who are undergoing serial assessments, researchers
      will seek informed consent from patients at the beginning of each new testing session. If the
      patient regains capacity after the final assessment, the investigators will seek
      retrospective consent from the patient where possible.
    
  