
    
      The major challenge in thyroid and parathyroid procedures, is the safe identification of the
      recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) and the localization of the parathyroid glands (to be
      preserved or to be selectively removed). Iatrogenic injuries to the parathyroid glands during
      thyroid surgery (resulting in transient or permanent hypocalcemia) or to the RLN (resulting
      in hoarseness, dysphonia, dyspnea) do still occur, requiring often specialized management.

      The percentage of incidental parathyroidectomies, in specialized endocrine centers, is around
      16%. In these cases, it is more likely to observe clinical relevant hypocalcemia than after
      planned parathyroidectomy for hyperparathyroidism. Therefore, there is a critical need for an
      intra-operative method enabling a precise, real-time parathyroid identification.

      Recently, it has been demonstrated that the parathyroid gland shows a significant
      autofluorescence, which is caused by the optical properties of a still unknown intrinsic
      fluorophore. When the gland is excited by a light source with a wavelength ranging from
      750-785 nm, it emits a fluorescence peak around 820 nm. Taking advantage of this property,
      Falco et al., using a commercially available NIR camera (Fluobeam®, Fluoptics©, France),
      could clearly visualize the parathyroid glands by contrast-free fluorescence imaging and
      could easily discriminate them from the thyroid and the surrounding tissue. The drawback with
      this autofluorescence-based imaging is that it lacks real-time quantification of the
      fluorescence intensity.

      The hyperspectral imaging (HSI), which is a technology that combines a spectrometer to a
      camera system, examines the optical properties of a large area in a wavelength range from
      near infrared (NIR) to visual light (VIS). It provides diagnostic information about the
      tissue physiology, composition and perfusion. The fact that the HSI produces pictures, thus
      providing spatial information real time, in a contact-free, non-ionizing manner, makes it
      potentially a very valuable tool for the intraoperative use.

      HSI has exhibited its great potential in the medical field especially in the diagnosis of
      various neoplasia (e.g. of the cervix, breast, colon, brain), in the detection of perfusion
      pattern in patients with peripheral arterial disease and in the area of wound diagnostic.

      As previously shown, it is possible to discriminate the thyroid from the parathyroid glands
      according to the spectral characteristics, but the HSI technology would add the spatial
      information, thus enormously enhancing the intraoperative performance.

      In collaboration with the University of Leipzig, Germany, the investigators performed a
      clinical pilot trial on 8 patients, which showed promising results. Hyperspectral images
      during benign endocrine surgery procedures were able to demonstrate that thyroid and
      parathyroid have specific hyperspectral signatures. Furthermore, the parathyroid glands
      showed usually less oxygenated than the thyroid. A discrimination of the parathyroid glands
      based on these characteristics is proven to be possible.

      The aim of the proposed study is to identify the spectral features of the important neck
      target structures, in particular the parathyroid glands, using an appropriate deep learning
      algorithm, to perform an automated parathyroid recognition. Additionally, this study proposes
      to compare the detection rate of the hyperspectral based parathyroid recognition with the
      already existing NIR autofluorescence based recognition.
    
  