
    
      Older adults with multi-morbidity and complex care needs (CCN) are among those most likely to
      experience frequent care transitions between settings, particularly from hospital to home.
      Many of these community-dwelling older adults fall into the category of high-cost users, who
      account for the majority of year over year healthcare spending in Ontario, Canada and
      internationally. The complexity of these individuals stems not only from their multimorbidity
      disease profiles, but also the social, environmental and contextual issues that make it
      difficult for them to manage their physical health needs. It is often the interaction of
      these challenges which results in frequent visits to the hospital.

      When patients leave the hospital, they face challenges as they attempt to cope and adjust at
      home. Krumholz coined the term 'post-hospital syndrome' to describe this acquired, transient
      period of vulnerability post-discharge due to impaired physiological systems and depleted
      reserves. This depletion limits patients' ability to adjust and manage their health issues,
      often leading to hospital re-admission within 30 days with an acute medical illness unrelated
      to the original diagnosis. Poor communication and incomplete information transfer between the
      various clinicians and organizations providing care to CCN patients as they transition from
      hospital to home can impede access to needed support and resources during this vulnerable
      time. Studies have demonstrated that insufficient communication during the transition process
      can lead to poor patient outcomes and higher rates of readmission for older adults with CCN.

      While improving clinician communication is important, the quality and content of that
      communication with patients also matters. Patients with CCN benefit most from person-centred
      delivery models that can adapt to their unique needs and engage them as partners in their
      care. Person-centred approaches have been shown to improve discharge from hospital to home by
      emphasizing partnership between patient and provider, improving patient self-efficacy, and
      through improving communication between patients, providers and within care teams. For
      patients with CCN, incorporating ongoing support for self-care after they return home as part
      of that communication can offer additional support and benefit. In sum, communication that
      enables person-centred care and supported self-management may offer the greatest advantages
      as the investigators support older adults with complex care needs transitioning from hospital
      to home.

      Digital health technologies offer a promising and appealing solution to support this type of
      person-centred communication across inter-professional teams working within and between
      health care organizations. A systematic review of inter-professional communication in
      transitional care models found that information systems, as well as multi-professional care
      coordination support higher satisfaction and subjective quality of life for older adults. A
      key strength of digital solutions is their ability to foster shared situational awareness of
      inter-professional teams. An essential component of interdisciplinary communication, shared
      situational awareness is a group or team's ability to understand the "big picture" and work
      together towards a common goal, like transitioning a patient from hospital to home.

      While these examples demonstrate the potential of digital communication platforms to improve
      team communication and functioning, there remain a number of issues that limit the value of
      current systems. First, the majority of communication systems exist within single teams or
      organizations, and rarely span those boundaries. Second, many available communication systems
      do not inherently support person-centred care delivery, as few are co-designed with patients
      and providers. As such, many of the available systems are not well suited to supporting the
      communication needs of care teams, patients and families during the time of transition from
      hospital back to the community. Finally, many existing systems have only been evaluated over
      short-periods with insufficient attention to implementation as a means to support both
      evidence of effectiveness as well as transferability of findings.

      This project will address these three gaps by implementing and evaluating a Digital Bridge to
      support person-centred health care transitions for older adults with complex care needs. The
      Digital Bridge will: 1) span organizational and professional boundaries by enabling
      communication between inter-disciplinary teams working in hospital and primary care, with
      patients and caregivers; 2) support person-centred delivery through adoption of co-design
      methods to establish a workflow; and 3) be evaluated through an implementation science lens.

      The Digital Bridge will integrate two tested and validated technologies that are currently in
      use in hospital and community settings: 1) Care Connector and 2) The electronic Patient
      Reported Outcomes (ePRO) tool. Care Connector is an inter-professional communication and
      collaboration platform initially designed in the hospital setting to support clinical teams
      caring for patients with CCN. The tool includes discharge communication supports like Patient
      Oriented Discharge Summaries (PODS), to support clinician communication and collaboration in
      the community and across care settings. The ePRO tool is a primary-care facing technology,
      co-designed with patients with CCN, their primary care providers and family caregivers to
      enable communication on patient-oriented goals. The investigators hypothesize that these two
      technologies will work synergistically by both supporting the communication and collaboration
      needs of clinicians and patients at the critical time of care transitions (Care Connector)
      and engaging patients to set goals and monitor their progress with clinicians starting in the
      hospital and through their transition back into the community over the longer term (ePRO).
    
  