
    
      Reading is fundamental to children's successful participation in school and a prerequisite to
      success in a myriad of adult occupations later in life. A student who is reading below grade
      level at the end of third grade is four times more likely to drop out of high school, which
      frequently leads to a cascade of deficits including unemployment, reduced wages, poverty,
      incarceration, and poor health outcomes. 64% of fourth graders and 66% of eighth graders
      nationwide are currently reading below grade level, with low readers existing
      disproportionately in low-income communities. Parental engagement in literacy activities at
      home with their children has decreased in recent years, thus rendering children less prepared
      to succeed at school. The purpose of this study is to assess a nine-week literacy support
      program in a low-income community, targeting the parents of elementary school children who
      are reading below grade level. The program intends to equip parents with strategies to
      incorporate literacy participation with their children into their home routines, thus
      increasing their children's exposure to print, reinforcing academic skills at home, and
      providing opportunities for positive associations with literacy. Participants will establish
      times in their daily schedules for reading, identify locations in their homes to organize and
      store reading materials, and experience a variety of pleasurable ways to engage in reading,
      including game playing, recipe following, neighborhood walks, and trips to the library. Ten
      sets of parents will be recruited to participate in this study. Qualitative data will be
      extracted from field notes taken during intervention sessions and from parent interviews. It
      is anticipated that study results will provide information to occupational therapists to help
      parents better support their children's literacy development.

      Week 1: (Group Session at School) Meet & Greet - Food, Reading Games, Brainstorming, 60
      minutes Week 2: (Group Session at School) Meet & Greet - Food, Reading Games, Introduction to
      Take-home Reading Kit, 60 minutes Week 3: (Home Session) Make Your Own Personal Library -
      Create a Bookshelf, Receive a Book & Reading Game to keep, 60 minutes

      Week 4: (Home Session) Read Instructions to Create a Fun Project:

      Food, Slime, Crafts Project, etc., 60 minutes

      Week 5: (Home Session) Read Instructions to Create a Fun Project:

      Food, Slime, Crafts Project, etc.,60 minutes Week 6: (Home Session) Library Visit &
      Neighborhood Word Identification Game, 90 minutes Week 7: (Home Session) Return to Library &
      Neighborhood Word Identification Game, 90 minutes Week 8: (Home Session) Book Making - Arts &
      Craft Session, 60 minutes Week 9: (Group Session at School) Wrap-up and Reinforcement - Food,
      Feedback & Reinforcement! 60 minutes Week 10: (Home Session) Interview and Reflection about
      Program, 35 minutes
    
  