
    
      This is a two centre Phase I trial evaluating two intermittent dosing schedules of RO5126766
      alone and then in combination with everolimus.

      Part I (COMPLETED): Patients will be given RO5126766 (4mg) twice weekly or three times per
      week in treatment cycles of 4 weeks to investigate a safe and tolerable dose of the drug.
      Upto six patients will be enrolled to each dosing schedule and once they have completed 1
      cycle of treatment the Safety Review Committee (SRC) will review their safety data, PK and PD
      data and define the optimal schedule to be taken forward into Part II.

      On the basis of the previous Phase I trial, dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) are not expected
      at a dose of 4 mg but in the event of ≥ 2 DLT's occurring in (a) the 2 x weekly arm, then no
      further patients will recruited into that arm and the schedule will not be taken forward to
      Part II, or (b) the 3 x weekly arm, a single dose reduction to 3.2mg on the same dosing
      schedule will be implemented and 6 patients enrolled at the reduced dose. If 4 mg given 3 x
      weekly is considered non-tolerable then the SRC may decide to enrol patients to the 3.2 mg
      dose level in the absence of dose limiting toxicity.

        -  If both the 2 x weekly (Mon & Thurs) and 3 x weekly (Mon, Wed & Fri) schedule are
           tolerated at 4 mg i.e. < 2 DLT's out of a 6 patients in each schedule, then the 3 x
           weekly schedule will be selected.

        -  If the 3 x weekly schedule requires a dose reduction to 3.2 mg and the 2 x weekly
           schedule is tolerated at 4 mg then PD data will be evaluated relative to AUC to aid the
           selection.

        -  If ≥2 DLT's occur out of 6 patients in both schedules (despite the 3 x weekly arm being
           dose reduced), Part II will not be initiated and the study will be terminated.

      Selection of the optimum schedule from Part I will be made by the Safety Review Committee and
      will be the schedule that delivers the highest, tolerable, cumulative weekly dose.

      Part II: Once the optimal dosing schedule has been established in Part I, the following
      groups of patients will be enrolled:

      Part IIA (COMPLETED) - 20 patients with documented RAS-RAF-MEK pathway mutant solid tumours
      (including KRAS, NRAS or BRAF).

      Part IIB - 10 patients with documented KRAS, NRAS or BRAF multiple myeloma. NB: In order to
      accommodate steroid use for patients with multiple myeloma, the optimal dosing schedule as
      determined in Part I will be administered for 3 weeks followed by a week interruption.

      Part IIC (COMPLETED) - An additional 6 patients with RAS-RAF-MEK pathway mutant solid tumours
      (including but not exclusive to KRAS, NRAS or BRAF) will be enrolled at the MTD determined in
      Part I however, upon occurrence of Grade 2 drug-related skin rash, CPK elevation or diarrhoea
      the dosing intensity will be reduced to 3 weeks followed by a week interruption. Of the six
      patients in Part IIC, at least three patients should have KRAS mutant lung cancer.

      Part IID - a maximum of 34 patients with documented RAS-RAF-MEK pathway mutant solid tumours
      (including KRAS, NRAS and/or BRAF) will be administered with the combination of R05126766 and
      everolimus.
    
  