
    
      Intensive care units; They are units where advanced technological tools and equipment are
      used to provide the highest level of benefit to life-threatened patients, and physicians and
      nurses specializing in the treatment and care of patients are involved. Intensive care
      patients; '' To prevent patients who are at risk due to physiological decompensation and
      patients who are physically physiologically fluctuating, need a treatment to be carried out
      with the harmony between physician and nurse to ensure survival, the application of this
      treatment without showing waves, especially details and care, and unexpected adverse events.
      and patients who require continuous monitoring to provide immediate intervention by the
      intensive care team. Intensive care patients, as can be understood from the definition, are
      the patients whose general conditions change rapidly due to the presence of a
      life-threatening condition, due to the impact of several systems that require close
      monitoring and control vital functions.

      Respiratory, cardiovascular, neurological, etc. Many conditions, such as chronic diseases,
      genetic, individual and environmental factors, of patients who are in danger of life due to
      many important health problems can affect the prognosis of the patients. In addition to these
      factors, although there is insufficient evidence, blood groups are reported to be effective
      in the survival of intensive care patients. Whatever the underlying situation is, the most
      important thing is undoubtedly the blood for the maintenance of a healthy life. It is known
      to affect human health in many cases, from the amount of blood circulating in the vein to the
      structure of blood cells.

      It was found for the first time in the years of 1899 and 1900 that human blood differs from
      individual to individual due to some physiological features. These different blood groups
      discovered are A, B and AB. Later, with the discovery of the Rh factor along with the O
      (zero) blood group, studies on the effects and differences of blood groups on humans have
      increased rapidly. Today, studies on the relationship between blood groups and diseases are
      ongoing.

      As a result of some studies; It has been determined that the AB blood group plays a role as a
      risk factor in both venous thromboembolism and coronary artery disease. The risk of both
      arterial and venous thrombotic events in the AB blood group There is evidence that it has
      high levels of vonWillebrand factor (vWF) and factor VIII. Depending on the limitation of
      mobilization in intensive care patients, it may increase the negative effect of the blood
      group on the patient compared to the patients hospitalized in other clinics. However, in
      patient groups with a high risk of bleeding, this may provide additional benefit for patients
      with AB blood group with higher levels of vonWillebrand factor (vWF) and factor VIII. In
      their research, Franchini et al. Reported that bleeding rate increased significantly in
      patients with O blood group, especially in surgical procedures with high risk of blood loss.
      Therefore, it has been observed that patients with AB blood group are more likely to survive
      after major heart surgery and this situation is explained in relation to the decrease in the
      number of blood transfusions. The results of metaanalysis study of Dentali et al. Also
      pointed out that having an O blood group in terms of bleeding may be an important genetic
      factor. It is important that the intensive care nurse includes this information in patient
      care.

      In a study conducted to determine the link between ABO blood group, lipid profiles and
      coronary artery disease and to determine the effect size of the link, patients in the A blood
      group were found to have higher total cholesterol rates while lower LDL rates. Jiang et al;
      They found that ABO blood groups were not associated with age, gender, and blood pressure in
      stable coronary artery patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention, but blood
      groups were associated with 2-year cardiac death.

      Although it is known that genetic diversity affecting the prognosis of patients is a factor
      in determining survival after being taken into intensive care, it can be difficult and costly
      to evaluate in a short time in clinical practice. Also, to predict the prognosis of critical
      patients in intensive care units today. it is still very difficult. In this context,
      individualized medicine; It can provide a better understanding of patients' risks arising
      from genetic, environmental and social factors and better planning of the results of
      treatment. At the onset of critical illness, knowing all possible risk factors to effectively
      manage patients creates a chance to achieve more successful treatment and care outcomes. more
      difficult to determine the effect on survival of genetic diversity, although there is nothing
      for a long time consuming and costly, ABO blood group of the survival effect according to the
      risk classification system, the addition of both easier, additional benefits to the patient
      to be quickly and cost-free by the Ministry of Health in sağlayabilir. Türkiye APACHE II
      (Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation) is the most commonly used scale to calculate
      the expected mortality rate according to the severity of the disease that is approved and
      admitted to intensive care.

      The relationship between patients' blood groups and mortality is thought to exist as a result
      of research. In the research of Slade et al; After the patients were admitted to the
      intensive care unit, the relationship between blood groups and mortality was evaluated in the
      90-day period; It has been determined that patients with intensive care with AB blood group
      have a higher 90-day survival time compared to other blood group patients. In line with this
      result, there is a need for studies for the risk assessment scales and the addition of the
      blood group factor for intensive care patients.

      Quality nursing care is an important factor affecting the prognosis of patients. It is
      predicted that the application of individualized patient care will positively affect the
      physiological, psychological and social health of the patient. Nurses are healthcare
      professionals who are in key condition next to the patient in any case in intensive care
      units. Higher quality care of nurses at the center of many interventions in the intensive
      care unit has been associated with improved patient outcomes, including mortality. In line
      with this information, the research was planned to determine the effect of different blood
      groups on the 90-day survival of intensive care patients who were treated and maintained for
      the first time in the intensive care unit.
    
  