
    
      Background/rationale: The development of POI is a common complication of surgery that is
      detrimental to patient well-being and ultimately leads to significant healthcare costs.
      Coffee is a popular drink among Canadians and appears to exert a positive effect on GI
      motility. This beverage may provide an inexpensive, easily administered and well-tolerated
      intervention to accelerate post-operative GI recovery, and thus reduce POI. The current
      literature, while promising, is insufficient and merits further investigation in the form of
      a high-quality randomized controlled trial.

      Objectives: Before embarking on a definitive RCT, this pilot trial has five specific
      feasibility objectives:

        1. To assess our ability to accrue patients using the IMPACTS Program platform, at multiple
           institutions, over the course of one year.

        2. To assess our ability to adaptively randomize patients and deliver the randomized
           assignment using the IMPACTS Program platform, over the course of one year.

        3. To assess our ability to collect complete data directly from participants (patients and
           clinicians) on time to first flatus and time to first bowel movement over the course of
           one year.

        4. To examine our ability to carry out data linkages using the IMPACTS Program platform
           over the course of one year.

        5. To estimate the change in time to first flatus to inform the sample size calculation for
           the definitive trial.

      Study design: This is a multicentre, pragmatic, 3-arm parallel group Vanguard feasibility
      randomized controlled trial. Patients will be randomly assigned to consume coffee,
      decaffeinated coffee, or warm water. If feasibility is demonstrated during the pilot trial,
      we will plan to conduct a definitive trial. If there are only minimal changes to the
      protocol, we will include data from the pilot phase into the definitive trial analysis (i.e.
      a Vanguard design).
    
  