
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Examine the safety and toxicity when ex vivo expanded cord blood cells are infused as an
      off-the-shelf non-human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matched product with the goal of providing
      rapid but transient myelopoiesis in the setting of a single or double umbilical cord blood
      transplant.

      II. Examine the in vivo persistence of the ex vivo expanded cord blood product. The kinetics
      and durability of hematopoietic reconstitution will be determined and the relative
      contribution to engraftment of the expanded cord blood product and the unmanipulated cord
      blood unit(s) in early and long-term engraftment will be determined by frequent determination
      of donor chimerisms in the peripheral blood.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

      I. Estimate the incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD)
      in patients receiving off-the-shelf ex vivo expanded and cryopreserved cord blood cells.

      II. Estimate the incidence of transplant related mortality at day 100.

      III. Estimate the incidence of malignant relapse and probabilities of overall and event-free
      survival at 1 and 2 years post transplant.

      IV. Obtain preliminary data on the incidence of infections/viral reactivation from the start
      of conditioning to 100 days post transplant and then at 6 months, 1 year and 2 years post
      transplant as possible.

      V. Obtain preliminary data on the phenotype and function of immune cells recovering in
      patients receiving expanded and unmanipulated cord blood grafts.

      VI. Examination of possible immunologic factors leading to emergence of a dominant unit.

      OUTLINE:

      MYELOABLATIVE CONDITIONING: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 1
      hour on days -8 to -6 and cyclophosphamide IV on days -7 and -6. Patients undergo total-body
      irradiation (TBI) twice daily on days -4 to -1.

      TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo unmanipulated single- or double-unit umbilical cord blood
      transplantation on day 0 and receive ex vivo-expanded cord blood progenitor cells IV over 4
      hours following the last unmanipulated cord blood infusion.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients initially receive cyclosporine (CSP) IV over 1 hour beginning on
      day -3. CSP may be given orally (PO) when the patient can tolerate oral medications and has a
      normal gastrointestinal transit time. CSP is given until day 100, and may taper on day 101 if
      there is no graft versus host disease. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) IV
      every 8 hours on days 0 to 7 and then may receive MMF PO beginning day 8 to 30. MMF is
      continued for a minimum of 30 days or until 7 days after blood counts recover whichever is
      later. If there is no evidence of acute GVHD and donor cluster of differentiation (CD)3
      engraftment is at least 50% from one donor MMF may be tapered.
    
  