
    
      Trigeminal neuralgia is a paroxysmal extreme pain that occurs in the region dominated by
      facial trigeminal nerve. It is characterized by repetition and irregularity. Once the disease
      occurs, the pain is generally unbearable. Carbamazepine or other drugs is the main treatment
      methods. However, most patients will experience side effects so that drug treatments for
      trigeminal neuralgia has its limitation limitation. Surgical treatments have better efficacy
      but with greater risk.

      The efficacy of acupuncture for pain treatment has been widely demonstrated by many clinical
      trials. A recent meta analysis has demonstrated that significant differences of efficacy
      between true and sham acupuncture indicate that acupuncture is more than a placebo. However,
      there are few clinical randomized controlled trials reporting the efficacy of acupuncture on
      trigeminal neuralgia.

      Histamine H1 receptor antagonists are commonly used for treating allergy. Recently, we found
      that histamine H1 receptor antagonists at relatively low doses facilitate electroacupuncture
      (EA) analgesia in the acetic acid-induced abdominal writhing test. We have also conducted a
      clinical trial to demonstrate that H1 receptor antagonists facilitate EA analgesia in healthy
      volunteers. The study recruited 40 healthy normal subjects we found that EA at bilateral ST36
      and GB34 plus high-dose dexchlorpheniramine (4 mg) produced greater pain threshold increases
      as than EA alone groups, suggesting the combination use of H1 antihistamine can facilitate
      acupuncture analgesia in humans.

      This study aims to investigate whether antihistamine dexchlorpheniramine can also facilitate
      the analgesic effect of acupuncture in patients with trigeminal neuralgia. The experimental
      design is as follows: This experiment will recruit 40 healthy subjects, randomly divided into
      4 groups, each group of 10 patients (1) sham acupuncture + placebo tablet group, (2) true
      acupuncture + placebo tablet group , (3) true acupuncture + antihistamine group and (4) sham
      acupuncture + antihistamine group. The treatment duration is one week for 3 acupuncture/sham
      acupuncture treatment. Dexchlorpheniramine (4 mg) or placebo tablets will be administered at
      the sleeping time the day before acupuncture treatment.
    
  