
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial investigating whether adding an informational handout
      to the standard surgical consent will improve patient understanding, recall and satisfaction
      with their surgery. The primary outcome will be the patient's knowledge of her surgical
      details immediately before surgery. The secondary outcomes will be the patient's
      satisfaction, regret scale and the patient's postoperative knowledge of her surgery details.

      A member of the research team will recruit eligible patients at their preoperative clinic
      visit during the signing of consent for their TOT surgery. Verbal counseling for the TOT
      surgical consent is the current standard of practice in the investigator's office. After the
      patient is counseled in the usual fashion and signs the consent for her planned TOT surgery,
      the patient will be offered participation in the study.

      Eligible patients will be consented verbally by the investigators. After enrollment, patients
      will be randomized using a computer-generated block randomization scheme to allocate
      participants in a 1:1 ratio; randomization will be stratified by provider.

      Participants will be randomized to one of two study arms:

        1. Control Group: Participants will receive only the standard verbal TOT surgical consent
           counseling described above.

        2. Intervention Group: Participants will receive the standard verbal TOT surgical consent
           counseling plus a handout describing their surgical intervention.

      All participants will be asked to complete a baseline questionnaire at the enrollment visit.
      Participants randomized to the control group will be finished with this initial study visit
      after completing the baseline questionnaire. Participants randomized to the intervention arm
      will be given a handout describing the TOT procedure, risks and benefits, post-operative
      recovery and alternative treatment options, as discussed in the verbal surgical consent. The
      patient will be asked to read the handout and will then be given the handout to take home.
      The provider will answer any questions the patient has after reviewing the handout.

      The next study encounter will occur in the preoperative area immediately prior to surgery. At
      this time all participants will be asked to complete a second questionnaire with questions
      similar to those in the baseline questionnaire.

      The final study encounter will occur at the post-operative visit that occurs approximately
      six weeks after surgery. At this visit all participants will be asked to complete a final
      questionnaire. This questionnaire will be the same as the one administered immediately before
      surgery. All participants will also be asked to complete an additional questionnaire asking
      about satisfaction, regret and surgical experience.
    
  