
    
      A pragmatic, community based, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised trial to determine
      whether low dose aspirin accelerates venous leg ulcer healing at 24 weeks when used in
      addition to compression. Participants in have compression therapy (system of choice guided by
      patient and/or clinical preference) as delivered through district nursing services at the
      study centres as a background treatment. Low dose aspirin (150 mg) or placebo will be taken
      once daily as an oral capsule.

      Participants will be district nursing service patients in five study centres in New Zealand
      with prevalent or incident venous leg ulcers. A venous leg ulcer will be defined as a wound
      on the lower leg that has remained unhealed for 4 or more weeks, appears to be primarily
      venous in aetiology with other causative diseases ruled out. If the participant has two or
      more venous leg ulcers, the largest ulcer will be the reference ulcer.

      Participants will receive three visits from the research nurse - visit 1 to screen for
      eligibility, visit 2 to consent and randomise the participant, visit 3 to collect outcome
      data. District nurses will continue to visit the participant (about weekly or more frequently
      if required) to provide routine care between research nurse visits.

      Block randomisation will be used, stratified by study centre and prognostic index (ulcer size
      greater than 5cm2 and ulcer duration greater than 6 months) to ensure a balance of
      participants within study centres and for participants likely to be slow healers. Research
      nurses in the study centres will contact a central telephone answering service, provide
      information on inclusion criteria, exclusion criteria, and relevant clinical history on
      consented participants. Randomised participants will receive a bottle of 168 capsules of
      study medication identified only by unique code and will take the capsule until the reference
      ulcer heals or up to 24 weeks, whichever occurs sooner.

      Participants will take the study medication for up to 24 weeks or until the reference ulcer
      heals. If the participant has a serious adverse event, needs to start taking aspirin, or must
      stop taking aspirin to use other medications, they will be withdrawn from treatment, although
      they will still be followed up at 24 weeks.
    
  