
    
      Background: Osseous metastatic disease causes significant pain, decreased functioning, and
      decreased quality of life. Progressive bone destruction can lead to pathologic fractures or
      spinal cord compression leading to orthopedic surgery, paralysis, and/or patients becoming
      bedridden. Opioids can alleviate pain but have neurologic and gastrointestinal side effects
      that further decrease quality of life. Radiation therapy can effectively reduce pain and
      opioid use and prevent further bone destruction, however, its use is limited because the
      current workflow frequently requires one week for planning and two weeks for delivery.
      Additionally, typical palliative radiation plans for osseous metastases lack conformality of
      dose to the tumor volume, and therefore, result in radiation-induced toxicity to large
      volumes of adjacent normal tissue. Recent software and hardware advancements provide the
      opportunity to revolutionize the palliative treatment of osseous metastases. The
      investigators propose to investigate a novel TomoTherapy-based workflow, called STAT RT,
      which includes same day CT simulation, treatment planning, and quality assurance measurements
      coupled with highly conformal treatment delivery for patients with osseous metastases in a
      pilot clinical trial.

      Objective: The overall goal of this STAT RT proposal is to develop a more rapid, convenient,
      and effective palliative radiation approach for patients with osseous metastases that is less
      toxic and less expensive than current treatment regimens. The investigators have already
      optimized the conformality of TomoTherapy-based radiation doses for osseous metastases, and
      the investigators have developed a STAT RT workflow that condenses standard of care
      simulation, planning, quality assurance, and treatment delivery into 5-6 hours. Additional
      optimization and integration of new radiation therapy computing processes will allow for real
      time simulation, planning, and delivery via a novel Scan-Plan-Treat STAT RT workflow that
      will ultimately require only 30 minutes. In this study the investigators will evaluate the
      effectiveness of the current STAT RT workflow, and the investigators will investigate
      techniques for further optimization that will be needed to create a 30 minute Scan-Plan-Treat
      STAT RT workflow.

      Primary Specific Aim/ Hypothesis: The investigators will quantify the time for pain relief,
      amount of pain relief, opioid use reduction, functional scores, quality of life, and
      satisfaction of patients treated with STAT RT for osseous metastases. The investigators
      hypothesize that these patients will have rapid and significant pain relief, improved quality
      of life, and high patient satisfaction.

      Secondary Specific Aim/ Hypothesis: The investigators will optimize the integration of
      commercially available and in-development software to develop the Scan-Plan-Treat STAT RT
      workflow. Specifically, the investigators will A) optimize rigid and deformable
      co-registration of pre-contoured diagnostic image sets to MVCT simulation scans and compare
      the accuracy to the same pre-contoured diagnostic image sets co-registered to kilovoltage CT
      (kVCT) simulation images and then kVCT simulation to MVCT scan co-registration, B) optimize
      CT-detector-based exit dose measurement algorithms for quality assurance and compare to
      standard of care phantom-based quality assurance, C) optimize the accuracy of an in-house
      real time infrared tracking system for intrafractional patient position monitoring to ensure
      accurate patient treatment. The investigators hypothesize that these new components will
      provide effective and efficient methods for treatment planning, quality assurance, and
      patient position monitoring that can be used in a future 30 minute Scan-Plan-Treat STAT RT
      workflow.

      Study design: The investigators will recruit 30 cancer patients with 1-3 painful osseous
      metastatic lesions (target sites) who are candidates for palliative radiation therapy.
      Patients will receive 1-5 fractions of 5-8 Gray (Gy) (minimum biologic effective dose of 25
      Gy) of conformal radiation therapy delivered to the target sites via the Helical TomoTherapy
      system using the STAT RT workflow. Data will be collected to evaluate the effectiveness of
      our novel image co-registration techniques, CT-detector-based exit dose calculations, and
      infrared patient position monitoring. These novel techniques for image co-registration,
      radiation dose calculations, and patient position monitoring will not alter or replace
      standard of care techniques. Using validated surveys the investigators will record patient
      pain, analgesic use, function, quality of life, and patient satisfaction prior to treatment
      and at 1 week, 4 weeks, 8 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months after therapy.
      Radiation-induced treatment related toxicities will be captured during treatment and at the
      above time points.
    
  