
    
      Subject recruitment. Patients with acute, traumatic C-SCIs, scheduled to receive
      intramuscular diaphragm pacing OR who have recently received a diaphragm pacer (within past
      5-days) will be recruited from two Level-1 trauma hospitals serving North Florida - UF Health
      Shands Hospitals in Gainesville and Jacksonville, Florida.

      Enrollment. Patients with acute, traumatic C-SCIs (AIS A-C, affecting C1-C6 segments) who are
      scheduled to undergo or who have recently received implantation of diaphragm pacing
      electrodes (within recent 5-days) will be identified by the investigators.

      After obtaining informed consent for participation in the study, members of the study team
      will review the participant's medical records to obtain study-related data and verify that
      the participant meets the study criteria. Clinical tests of sensory and motor function also
      may be conducted to verify the participant's SCI classification and extent of SCI. The tests
      of sensory and motor function are part of the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA)
      Impairment Scale and the International Standards for Neurological Classification of Spinal
      Cord Injury. These clinical assessments are part of standard clinical care and include tests
      of sensation (dermatomes) and muscle strength via manual muscle testing (myotomes). These
      tests are done to clinically determine which segmental levels of the spinal cord demonstrate
      normal or impaired function. These tests also aid in determining if the SCI is clinically
      complete or incomplete. Determination of complete versus incomplete is based on the sensory
      and motor function in the lowest sacral segments which control sensation and motor function
      at the anal sphincter. Respiratory function will be assessed by measurement of maximal
      expiratory pressures and standard spirometry (tidal breathing, maximal voluntary ventilation
      and flow-volume curves).

      Following enrollment and implantation of diaphragm pacing electrodes, individuals will be
      assessed at regular intervals. Assessments will include: a.) clinical ASIA neurologic
      examination of sensory and motor function (as described above) b.) recording of intramuscular
      diaphragm EMGs c.) measurement of diaphragm muscle strength via standard clinical assessment
      of maximal inspiratory pressures and d.) standard clinical measures of respiratory function.

      Up to 5 assessments will be conducted in the acute hospital setting; up to 5 assessments
      during inpatient rehabilitation (Brooks Rehabilitation); up to 4 assessments will be
      conducted after discharge to the home setting.

      ASSESSMENT OVERVIEW: The examination will allow investigators to characterize longitudinal
      changes in segmental sensory and motor function. Diaphragm electromyogram (EMG) will be
      recorded from the intramuscular diaphragm pacing electrodes and respiratory function will be
      assessed during non-stimulated respiration (diaphragm pacing unit turned off). Diaphragm EMGs
      will be recorded from the intramuscular pacing electrodes with a custom connector that
      attaches to the external pacing electrode wires and interfaces with an EMG acquisition
      system. Concurrent with EMG recordings, each assessment will include tests of maximal
      inspiratory pressures to assess diaphragm muscle strength.

      Assessment of the neuromuscular activation of the diaphragm will be performed. Neuromuscular
      activation of the diaphragm will be assessed by recording diaphragm EMGs from the
      surgically-implanted intramuscular stimulating electrodes. This approach will allow for
      comparisons of EMG recordings across time and reduces the methodological limitations
      associated with surface or percutaneous EMG approaches. EMGs will be recorded during
      non-stimulated respiration (diaphragm pacer turned off) and simultaneously with assessments
      of respiratory function. These assessments may include maximal inspiratory pressures; sniff
      nasal inspiratory pressure, maximal expiratory pressure, assessments of resting tidal
      breathing, inspiration to total lung capacity, maximal voluntary ventilation and measurement
      of flow volumes using standard spirometry.

      During the assessments, photographs and/or video recordings may be obtained. These recordings
      will be done with the participant's knowledge and consent for the type of recording being
      obtained. Photographs and video recordings will be used to communicate study procedures with
      the study team and to monitor the assessment process. Video and photographic data will be
      used to assess how individuals with SCIs perform and respond to the testing and to
      communicate the study procedures. Video and photographic information will be used in a manner
      based on the level of consent obtained from each participant.

      Primary outcomes to characterize neuromuscular activation of the diaphragm and assess changes
      in diaphragm activation associated with intramuscular diaphragm stimulation will include:
      amplitude and timing characteristics (raw, filtered EMGs and normalized); neural respiratory
      drive to evaluate diaphragm muscle activation during tidal breathing relative to activation
      capacity during maximal inspiratory maneuvers; and time-frequency characteristics of the
      diaphragm EMGs (wavelet analysis).
    
  