
    
      Patients and medical workers in the event of an pandemic infectious disease usually
      experience extreme fear, which requires quick and immediate management of mental health. In
      2015, the risk of post-traumatic stress disorder in isolated MERS patients and medical staff
      was very high. Even 4 ~ 6 months after the quarantine was over, anxiety was still lingering
      in 3% percent of patients and anger in 6.4 % of patients. The negative emotions and stress
      experienced by the medical staff for MERS patients were characterized by such events as
      mistakes and delays caused by communication problems. Also, people who were not infected with
      MERS experienced anxiety at 7.6 percent and anger at 16.6 percent during the quarantine
      period.Therefore, the need for psychological support for infected patients, isolated people,
      medical staff and the general public had been proposed during these infectious disease fad
      periods since MERS. Since the recent spread of coronavirus infection-19 (COVID-19) that began
      in Wuhan, China in December 2019, thousands of confirmed and dozens of deaths have been
      reported in South Korea and the number is on the rise. Thus, quarantine measures are
      currently being taken in Korea to reduce and treat the spread of COVID-19. Thus,
      psychological support and crisis intervention are needed in the early stages of stressful
      times to reduce anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. In response, Daegu
      Catholic university hospital psychiatry department conducted active psychiatric counseling
      for medical patients who are hospitalized in Corona's management hospital for confirmation of
      coronavirus infection. In this study, the content and results of the psychiatric consultation
      on patients in Corona Care Ward were verified retroactively, and the effects of COVID-19
      patients' emotional state and psychological support and crisis intervention were assessed on
      their emotional state.

      Patients who are admitted to the COVID-19 care unit of the Catholic University of Daegu
      Hospital are subject to consultation with the psychiatrist. By retrospectively reviewing the
      medical records of the request and the results of the subjects, We collected
      Socio-demographic information, medical severity (oxygen saturation, chest x-ray readings,
      medication being administered), clinical psychological scale (PHQ-9, GAD-7, PC-PTSD-5, AIS,
      P4, SF-36, SCL-90-R) This study evaluates whether there is a difference in psychological
      scale according to differences in socio-demographic status and medical severity, and compares
      psychological psychological measures before and after referral to mental health medicine to
      evaluate the effectiveness of psychiatric counseling.
    
  