
    
      Will be recruited through media resources at least 50 elderly people aged between 60 and 89
      years.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      Being literate; Age between 60 and 89 years; Ability to perform moderate-intensity exercises
      determined by the American College Sports Medicine (ACSM) assessment questionnaire; Medical
      certificate stating that the elderly are able to exercise; Sign the informed consent form.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Perform any other systematic practice of physical exercise, in addition to regular physical
      activity, such as walking; Present serious cardiovascular pathologies; Present serious
      neurological pathologies; Present use of crutches, walking sticks, walkers, wheelchairs or
      other similar utensils; Present self-report of locomotion difficulties to carry out the
      intervention practice.

      These will have three moments of evaluations. Baseline, pre intervention (3 months) and post
      intervention (6 months) since the elderly will be controls themselves. They will perform
      anthropometric measurements, answer physical activity questionnaires, sedentary behavior,
      sleep quality, anxiety and depression, quality of life, cognition evaluation, body
      composition measurements, functional capacity, autonomic cardiac modulation, hemodynamics,
      flow and thickness of arteries, as well as flow-mediated dilatation. After the second-step
      measures (pre intervention 3 months), they will be randomized into two groups: Muay Thai and
      functional training. The functional training will be performed 3 times a week, for 12 weeks,
      during 60 minutes, being that will be divided into 20 min of general exercises, 20 min of
      specific exercises and 20 min of play activities. The activities will be carried out in a way
      adapted for the elderly. Will be carried out neuromotor control / coordination, balance,
      flexibility and static and dynamic stabilization. They will also have acceleration and
      deceleration activities, rotation and counter-rotation, extension and counter-extension,
      flexion and counter-flexion. The Muay Thai training will be performed 3 times a week, for 12
      weeks, during 60 minutes, being that will be divided into 20 min of general exercises, 20 min
      of specific exercises (punches, kicks, knees, elbows, defenses and dodges) and 20 min of
      fight simulation and / or play activities. The activities will be carried out in a way
      adapted for the elderly. Will be used kickers, gauntlets, thorax and head protectors, shin
      guards, gloves, and other devices.
    
  