
    
      The current standard of care for treating early stage pancreatic cancer involves surgery
      followed by chemotherapy and / or chemoradiotherapy using conventional fractionated external
      beam radiation therapy (EBRT). Despite the the incorporation of multi-modality adjuvant
      therapy following surgery, patients with surgically resected pancreas cancer have a high
      likelihood of recurrence of their cancer and/ or death from their disease. Patients with more
      advanced pancreatic cancers experience even worse outcomes in the face of unresectable
      disease or lower likelihood of achieving a negative margin resection. In these particular
      group of patients, chemotherapy and radiation given prior to surgery may help select patients
      who are more likely ultimately to benefit from a pancreaticoduodenectomy and may improve the
      rate of margin negative resection, factors which may influence their outcome.

      Systemic chemotherapy traditionally used in the treatment of pancreatic cancer has included
      drugs such as gemcitabine or 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Recently, a multi-agent chemotherapy
      regimen called FOLFIRINOX has shown significant efficacy in patients with advanced pancreatic
      cancer with improved tumor responses and improved overall outcomes with a reasonable toxicity
      profile.

      Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) is a unique radiation technique that allows higher
      doses of radiation to be delivered to the cancer over a significantly shorter period of time
      compared to conventional radiation. SBRT's advantages over conventional radiation include:
      shorter duration of therapy (one to three days versus two to five weeks) as well as the
      ability to deliver full doses of chemotherapy. In treating patients with pancreatic cancer,
      SBRT has been tolerated and has been effective when compared historically to conventional
      radiation. SBRT has been combined with chemotherapy and has also been very well tolerated in
      patients with pancreatic cancer.

      This study will ask whether giving chemotherapy with FOLFIRINOX followed in short sequence by
      radiation therapy using Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) is safe and feasible. This
      study will also begin to ask what is the effect of this approach on the rate of margin
      negative resection in patients who may subsequently undergo surgery for their pancreatic
      cancer.
    
  