
    
      BACKGROUND: The acquired form of heterotopic ossification (HO) is the most common type of
      extraskeletal ossification and usually precipitated by a trauma such as total hip
      arthroplasty [THA] or spinal cord injury. After THA the incidence of HO is as high as 50%,
      but may reach up to 90% in high risk populations leading to severe functional impairment with
      ankylotic loss of joint mobility. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and external
      radiation have been used in preventing HO. Specifically, patients with surgical resection of
      HO at the hip have a high postoperative relapsing rate. Best results were observed after
      prophylactic radiation treatment with disease recurrence in 33-45% of patients. Data on the
      effect of bisphosphonates in the prevention of postoperative HO are scarce and mainly limited
      to the use of the first generation bisphosphonate etidronate. In a retrospective
      observational study we observed a marked beneficial effect of pamidronate infusions: none of
      the high risk patients with established HO undergoing surgical removal presented with disease
      recurrence.

      AIM: We therefore aim to prospectively confirm our findings and to evaluate the efficacy of
      pamidronate for the prevention of recurrent HO after surgical removal of ipsilateral HO.
      Clinical, biochemical and radiological treatment outcome will be compared to standard
      clinical practice using preoperative external radiation.

      ENDPOINTS: Primary endpoint is the radiological HO recurrence rate. Secondary endpoints are
      the clinical, functional and biochemical outcome (as assessed by several clinical and
      laboratory markers).

      METHODS: This prospective, randomized trial will be carried out at the University Hospital in
      Basel/Buderholz in collaboration with the Orthopedic Clinic of the Swiss Paraplegic Centre in
      Nottwil. Patients who are admitted to the one of the participating orthopedic clinics for
      removal of HO at the hip will be included in the study. A total number of 40 consecutive
      patients will be recruited (recruitment phase 24 months) and randomized in a "bisphosphonate
      group", treated with peri- and postoperative pamidronate infusions (1.0 mg/kg/day for 3 days)
      and in a "radiation group", treated with external radiation with a single dose of 7 Gy within
      24 hours prior to surgical intervention. Additionally, both groups will be treated with
      NSAIDs for 14 days.

      EXPECTED RESULTS: We hypothesize that in treating patients at risk, therapy with pamidronate
      will be superior in reducing the recurrence rate of established HO as compared to external
      radiation after surgical resection.

      SIGNIFICANCE: Because of the high prevalence in selected risk patients and significant
      morbidity of HO, this study will offer potential for improving the management of HO. Our
      study is targeting patients with high risk to develop HO were highly effective prevention is
      still lacking. Furthermore, a diagnostic marker to identify patients at risk to develop HO
      would optimize disease management and would allow for early, more successful treatment.
    
  