
    
      HIV cannot be eradicated and keep latent in anatomical and cellular reservoirs. In fact,
      patients undergoing antiretroviral treatment (ART) interruption rapidly experience plasma
      viral load rebound. The current alternative therapeutic strategies to antiretroviral
      treatment have the aim to achieve the eradication or permanent remission of plasma viral
      load, also known as functional cure, in the absence of ART, as occurs in persistent HIV
      controllers. In this scenario, new drugs associated to ART that allow the achievement of
      permanent plasma viral remission after ART withdrawn are needed.

      The main targets of HIV infection are the memory CD4+ T-cells. This cell subset is mainly
      located in gut associated lymphoid tissue (GALT). These lymphocytes are recruited to the gut
      thanks to the expression of the integrin α4β7. The Env protein gp120 binds to α4β7 and enable
      the dissemination of HIV in the gut. At the same time the envelope of HIV is enriched in α4β7
      coming from the plasma membrane of the host cells favoring its pathogenicity. Recently, the
      administration of a monoclonal antibody against α4β7 was shown to achieve significant
      protection for HIV transmission before and after low dose intravaginal inoculation of SIV in
      Rhesus Macaques. Surprisingly, long-term virological protection has been documented in
      SIV-infected macaques after ART interruption after administration and withdrawal of the
      monoclonal antibody against α4β7. The mechanisms through which this antibody has achieved the
      permanent remission of plasma viral load are not fully understood. The success of these
      findings in the simian model makes the antibody against α4β7 a good candidate as ART adjuvant
      with the aim to reach a functional cure and/or persistent virological remission in humans.
      Currently, there is a monoclonal antibody against α4β7 with known safety and security
      profiles in humans, this antibody is commercially available under the name of Vedolizumab.
      This antibody is used for the treatment of ulcerative colitis and Crohn Disease. In fact,
      there are already two clinical trials that are using Vedolizumab in HIV-infected patients
      (NCT02788175 y NCT03147859). In these clinical trials Vedolizumab is administered in the
      chronic phase of the infection in subjects with undetectable viral load during at least two
      years on ART. There are not clinical trials administering Vedolizumab in early stages of
      infection in naïve HIV-infected subjects for ART. Potentially, this strategy of early
      antibody treatment may increase the success of the therapy and decrease the time on ART of
      the individuals. The aim of the present clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and efficacy
      of Vedolizumab combined with ART to achieve permanent virological remission in naïve
      HIV-infected individuals after ART interruption.
    
  