
    
      Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) is lateral curvature of the spine with an unknown cause
      in children 10-16 years old. Without treatment, skeletally immature children with idiopathic
      curves of 20°-40° risk curve progression. Treatment of these patients is focused on either
      observation or bracing. Although bracing has been shown to be more effective than
      observation, success is contingent on patient adherence and has the potential for further
      optimization with adjunct therapies.

      Little research is available concerning adjunct therapies that may be used during bracing of
      AIS patients. One therapy in particular, abobotulinumtoxinA (BTX) injection, has been poorly
      studied. Injection of BTX into the paraspinal musculature of the concave aspect of the major
      curve may result in a more malleable curve and thus optimize brace treatment. If BTX
      injections are found to improve outcomes in this way, a new standard of nonoperative care
      could be established for AIS patients, potentially reducing the number of patients who
      undergo surgery.

      The aim of this study is to assess whether BTX injections (administered as Dysport® (Ipsen
      Pharmaceuticals)) in the paraspinal musculature at the site of the major scoliotic curve
      decrease curve progression in skeletally immature AIS patients who are concurrently treated
      with bracing. Dysport® will be evaluated primarily as an adjunct treatment to bracing.

      Hypotheses

        1. Dysport® injections into the concave-side paraspinal muscles will decrease the rate of
           curve progression, with a lower rate of curve progression in patients treated with both
           Dysport® injections and bracing compared with those treated with only bracing.

        2. Quantitative physical and mental health scores will improve to a greater extent in
           patients treated with Dysport® and bracing compared with patients treated with only
           bracing.
    
  