
    
      Various treatments have been used for patient with spontaneous intracranial hypotension, but
      there is not definite approach. Some patients, fortunately, improve spontaneously. Bed rest
      and increased fluid intake have been advocate. The effectiveness of the caffeine has been
      shown in some studies, but durable beneficial effect is doubtful. The efficacy of steroids
      has not been established. However, although there have been no controlled studies, autologous
      epidural blood patch (EBP) can be considered the treatment of choice for patients. The
      success rate of EBP for a post lumbar puncture headache is about 90%, but for SIH, is very
      less about 50% after the first one and 77% after the second. The amount of blood injected
      must be sufficient. On the other hand, the leak is usually located on dorsal, above the
      prolonged rest must be respected. One study, have demonstrated, without randomization, a
      success rate of 90% with a prolonged Trendelenburg after EBP. We decided to do this study, to
      confirm a superiority of a 24 hours prolonged Trendelenburg position.

      It's a monocentric study of parallel randomized open blind groups. Patients will be recruited
      by investigators in our headache emergency room. If the diagnose of SIH is confirmed
      (orthostatic headache from more than 5 days and less than 28 days with a normal MRI or with
      sign of SIH) study will be proposed.

      After a signed information, the patients will be randomized in 2 groups, the investigator is
      blind of the randomized arm of patient

        1. EBP with 24 hours bed rest

        2. EBP with 24 hours Trendelenburg position

      V1: inclusion V2 : 24 hours before EBP (headache, associated symptoms, HIT6) V3 :
      randomization and EBP V4 : first evaluation 30 minutes after standing (headaches, associated
      symptoms) V5 : phone evaluation (safety) D7 V6 : Evaluation at D15 (headache, associated
      symptoms, safety) V7 : Evaluation at D30 (headache, associated symptoms, control cerebral
      MRI, HIT6, safety) V8 : last evaluation D60 (headache, associated symptoms,HIT6 safety)

      Collection of 2nd EBP, 3rd EBP, 4th EBP throughout the study up to J 92 maximum
    
  