
    
      This is a pilot study that include 30 patients with liver cirrhosis and portal vein thrombus
      which don't fulfill the criteria of malignancy by imaging technique. The patients involved in
      the study were and will be admitted to Specialized Medical Hospital, Mansoura University
      Hospitals.

      Study end-points:

      • 24 months from the start of the research (cases will be collected over 18 months).

      Methods:

      Patients will be included in this study will be subjected to the following:

      І. The study will be explained to all participants in the study, and an informed written
      consent will be obtained from them before starting the study.

      ІІ. Medical history:

      Detailed history was taken with stress on:

        -  Signs of cachexia (unintentional weight loss, progressive muscle wasting, and a loss of
           appetite)

        -  Low grade fever

        -  Recent onset fatigue

        -  Abdominal pain

        -  Dyspepsia

        -  Hematemesis and melena

        -  Back ache

      ІІІ. Full clinical examination with special stress on:

        -  Vital signs including: pulse, arterial blood pressure, temperature, respiratory rate.

        -  Abdominal Lumps and/or tenderness

      IV. Laboratory investigations:

      Complete blood count, International Normalized Ratio, Liver enzymes, Serum albumin, Serum
      bilirubin and Serum creatinine.

      V. Radiology: Abdominal ultrasound for initial assessment, Abdominal CT (Contrast Enhanced)
      (Number of HCC nodules if present, diameter of largest HCC nodule in centimeters, nature of
      PVT, presence of abdominal metastases if present ), Non contrast CT chest to exclude
      pulmonary metastasis, Bone survey for indicated or complaining cases.

      VI. EUS-FNA:

      EUS-FNA will be performed in standard fashion. Under EUS guidance, the main, left and right
      portal veins will be identified. After verifying flow signal by Doppler, a 25-gauge EUS-FNA
      needle will be advanced from the duodenal bulb or second part of the duodenum into the portal
      vein, 1-2 passes through portal vein thrombus will be taken to ensure adequate cellularity
      for histopathology. The puncture site will be monitored under EUS for complications.

      Study outcomes:

      Histopathology of biopsies taken from bland portal vein thrombus which diagnosed by triphasic
      CT abdomen to evaluate the possibility of malignant PVT that was not discovered by imaging
      technique (Abdominal ultrasound and triphasic abdominal CT ).
    
  