
    
      Participants with bilateral central scotomas will be selected for this study during their
      routine clinical visits at the University of Minnesota Eye Clinic. Written consent will be
      obtained from all participants.

      Each participant will have their scotomas mapped using a Nidek MP-1 microperimeter housed in
      the psychology department to give exact size and shape information. This allows for the
      extent of each eye's scotoma to be put into the remapping software, and their intersection
      used in remapping calculation. Comparisons will be made between participants with small
      scotoma, less than 5 degrees, and participants with large scotoma, larger than 5 degrees.
      Experiments to be performed with the device are also divided into two categories. Category 1
      involves reading of naturalistic text, and everyday task performance. Category 2 involves
      studying the effects of practice with the device on performance in category 1 experiments.

      Participants will schedule an initial one-hour session for testing. During testing,
      participants will be told about the device and its functionality. Main instructions include
      what patients can expect to experience and see when wearing the HMD. Following this, the
      participants will be instructed on how to wear the HMD. If they have any glasses/ corrective
      lenses, they can be kept on. Once the patients don the HMD, testing will begin.

      Initially, a calibration-free mode will be tested. This will entail asking the subject to
      focus on a particular point on the screen and checking if the gaze point determined by the
      eye tracker corresponds to this point. If good calibration is obtained, the investigators
      proceed with testing. Otherwise, a 3-point calibration sequence will be initiated following
      instructions on the software program. For the 3-point calibration sequence, the participant
      will be instructed to fixate at 3-5 different points on the screen one at a time. Following
      this calibration sequence, testing will resume and visual performance such as reading speed
      in words/minute will be measured as the primary outcome measure, with and without remapping.
    
  