
    
      Study Design This study will utilize a repeated measures quasi-experimental case control
      design structure. Subjects will be placed into two groupings, those who have a history of
      prior lower extremity injury and those who have no history of lower extremity injury. The two
      groupings will be age and gender matched. Subjects who have no prior history of lower
      extremity injury will be matched to subjects with a prior history of injury. There will be an
      equivalent number of participants per group with similar demographic information in both
      groups in order to reduce the number of variables influencing the results of the experiment.
      Within each of these groupings, specific interventions will be clustered and performed as a
      set. These clusters of interventions will be randomized to minimize internal testing error.
      Both groups of participants will be exposed to the same interventions (baseline, pain
      pressure, visualization of pain pressure and prior injury, and mental challenge test).
      Investigators responsible for testing and outcome measurement will be blinded to the
      groupings of subjects (past history or no prior history of injury). It is anticipated that
      the testing, including initial set up, will take between 60 and 75 minutes. All testing will
      take place at the Mount St. Mary's College physical therapy exercise and research lab or in a
      private room at Knight Physical Therapy Inc.

      Study Methods Initial Set Up (25 minutes) Upon commencement of the study, subjects will be
      asked to fill out the Tampa Kinesiophobia Questionnaire, Fear Avoidance Belief Questionnaire,
      Fear of Pain Scale, Pain Catastrophizing Scale, and the Vividness of Visual Imagery
      Questionnaire. This should take approximately 10 minutes. Following completion of these
      questionnaires, they will be introduced to the investigators and then asked to lie supine
      upon the treatment table. A pillow will be placed under their head for comfort. Surface EMG
      rRecording electrodes will be placed upon the belly of the tibialis anterior muscle. An
      electrode will be placed upon the medial tibia and will serve as a ground for the other two
      electrodes. Placement of electrodes will correspond to the side of injury (i.e. prior injury
      to the right ankle would result in electrode placement on the right tibialis anterior and
      right anterior deltoid muscles). In subjects without history of injury, side of electrode
      placement will be predetermined and randomized. Also at this time, subjects with a prior
      history of injury will be asked to identify the location of the injury. The tester will then
      palpate the area of previous injury and will locate the tender point in this area. This point
      will be marked with a pen for later use. In subjects with no prior injury, the anterior
      talofibular ligament, the lateral knee joint line, or the lateral belly of the gastrocnemius
      muscle will be located and marked on the side of testing. The site will be randomized so as
      to blind testers. Testers will be informed of the side to be tested through the sealed
      envelope that is opened prior to testing. They will be blinded as to prior injury grouping.

      At this point, the subject will be walked through the procedure and an initial pain pressure
      threshold measurement will be taken and a simulated break test (see below for description of
      break test) will be performed at the foot / ankle in order to familiarize the subject with
      the test procedures and also to ensure that all equipment is functioning optimally. This
      process should take approximately 10 minutes.

      Following this procedure, a timer will be set and the subject will rest in this position for
      five minutes to acclimate to the environment and to normalize their autonomic system.

      Autonomic System Response (10 minutes) Following the five-minute acclimation period, heart
      rate variability (HRV) data will be recorded, marked, and used as a baseline measurement. The
      HRV data will be collected throughout each testing procedure. Initially, at the site of
      previous injury (or randomized pressure site for subjects with no prior history of injury),
      the tester will use their thumb to apply pressure to the site. The pressure will increase
      until the subject reports their maximal pain level. Prior to the application of pressure, the
      subject will be informed that they are to experience the maximum pain tolerable and to inform
      the tester when that level is reached. The subject will next be instructed to notify the
      testers when they have reached the maximum tolerable pain. Once achieve, the pressure will be
      maintained for 10 seconds in order to get a baseline HRV recording. After 10 seconds, the
      pressure will be released and the HRV recording will be marked. At this time, the subject
      will be asked to report their level of pain on a scale of 1 to 10. The subject will then rest
      for three minutes to return their HRV to baseline values. At this point, the subject will be
      instructed to close their eyes and imagine the pain pressure in their leg that was just
      applied. HRV and pain values will be marked and recorded. The subject will rest for another
      three minutes and then they will once again be asked to close their eyes. In this instance,
      they will be asked to visualize the details of their prior injury. In subjects with no prior
      injury, they will asked to visualize the muscles, bone, and blood flow of their tibia. Like
      before, HRV and pain values will be marked and recorded. Following another three minute rest
      period, the subject will be asked to complete a mental challenge test. This test will require
      subjects to count backwards as quickly as possible from 100 by 7. HRV and pain values will be
      marked and recorded. With this test, and with all testing, the subject will be allowed to
      withdrawal from the test for any reason and without repercussions.

      Pressure Pain Threshold (10 minutes) The amount of pain and the force required to elicit the
      pain response will be applied and monitored by a Wagner Force Ten™ FDX Digital Force Gauge
      Pain Algometer. The algometer is a device designed to measure sensitiveness to pressure and
      in pain studies; the algometer is used to measure sensitiveness to pain as a product of
      pressure. The Wagner Force Ten Digital Algometer is a portable unit with a small 1
      cm2-rubberized tip capable of applying pressures up to 50 lbs./ft. The unit is capable of
      remembering multiple data points and storing peak force and force-averaged data that will be
      retrieved after testing for later analysis. During each of the five test components
      (Baseline, Pain Pressure, Visualization of Pain Pressure, Visualization of Prior Injury, and
      Mental Challenge Test) the testing procedures will be identical to those applied earlier,
      except instead of measuring muscle performance or HRV, pain pressure will be recorded. The
      tip of the pain algometer will be placed upon the site of prior injury or upon the anterior
      talofibular ligament. Pressure will be applied through the algometer and the subject will be
      instructed to inform the tester when they first begin to experience pain. This value will be
      recorded along with HRV values.

      Neuromuscular Response (15 minutes) During the next phase of testing, a small rolled up towel
      will be placed under the test ankle. The towel will be utilized to raise the foot from the
      table in order to facilitate testing. At this point, the tester will stabilize the lower
      extremity by grasping the calf approximately 12 inches above the malleolus. This hand will
      provide a counter force to the forces applied by the test hand. In the test hand, a Hoggan
      Scientific Microfet 2TM Handheld Muscle Tester will be placed upon the lateral aspect of the
      fifth metatarsal bone of the foot. The placement will be proximal on the metatarsal
      approximately at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The position of the sensor will be
      marked to standardize test position and measured for later force measurement purposes. The
      subject will be instructed to isometrically resist the force applied by the tester. At this
      point, Surface EMG and Force recording will commence simultaneously. The Surface EMG will be
      utilized to measure action potential propagation. Surface recording electrodes are placed
      upon the skin to measure these action potentials. At no time will needles be utilized to
      collect data and therefore, no penetration of the skin is required. The initiation of the
      test will also be noted on the HRV recording. A steady but increasing amount of force will be
      applied slowly and gradually to the foot in a medially and slightly caudal direction until
      the subject can no longer resist the force. This process is called the "break test" because
      the muscle is tested until it can no longer resist the force. The subject will rest for 30
      seconds after which the break test and associated data recordings will be repeated two more
      times with a 30-second rest period in between tests.

      The subject will be allowed to rest for three minutes prior to beginning the next portion of
      the study. HRV testing will be started and then the tester as previously described will place
      pain pressure upon the site of previous injury. The location of this site has been previous
      marked for consistency of application. In subjects with no prior history of injury, the
      pressure will be applied to the anterior talofibular ligament. When pain pressure has reached
      it's maximal levels, a second tester will perform a break test on the subject. Following the
      test, the subject will rest for 30 seconds and the process will be repeated two more times
      with a 30 second rest period in between tests. Force, EMG, HRV, and pain values will be
      recorded during each of the break tests.

      Following a three minute rest period, the subject will asked to visualize the pain pressure
      placed upon the leg (or visualize their tibia as previously described) and three break tests
      will be performed during the visualization process. Force, EMG, HRV, and pain values will be
      recorded during each of the break tests. This process will be repeated for visualization of
      prior injury and for the mental challenge test.
    
  