
    
      A randomized, open-label clinical trial, at one center, a 1100-bed academic hospital, Vall
      d'Hebron Hospital Universitari, in Barcelona, Spain. Patients who met the enrolment criteria
      were randomly assigned, in a 1:1 ratio, to be followed by the Farmalarm app or the primary
      care setting.

      Farmalarm is an app for smartphones designed to increase stroke awareness and treatment
      compliance through visual and audible alerts. The application's software offers versatility
      to modify the parameters to be monitored and the information to be sent, which were adapted
      to our purpose.

      Intervention was started after the patient was discharged and underwent randomization. At
      this moment, patients assigned to the study group were given a personal access code ensuring
      data privacy, and they were lent an intelligent pulse oximeter (SMART PULSE OXIMETER OL-750,
      LifeVit, Guangdong Biolight Meditech CO., LTD, China). In a 15 minutes interview they were
      trained in the use of the app, the use of the pulse oximeter and the measurement of some
      vital signs.

      On that same day, the healthcare professional uploaded and scheduled on the web-based
      platform a personalized program for the following 2 weeks.

      To maintain close control of respiratory evolution, patients registered at least 2 times a
      day their heart rate, respiratory rate, temperature and peripheral capillary oxygen
      saturation. The intelligent pulse oximeter allowed data to be downloaded directly to the WP
      every time the patient used it. They also had to answer a symptom survey every day for the
      same period. The WP allows scheduling alarms and so, in case one of the vital signs or survey
      responses were altered, the healthcare in charge automatically received a notification, being
      able to contact immediately the patient. A private chat between the patient and the
      healthcare responsible for WP was attended every day from 8 AM to 5 PM to answer any doubt.

      Patients assigned to control group received regular follow-up at the Primary Care, which used
      phone calls to monitor patients' symptoms. Depending on the availability of human resources
      of each Primary Care Centre and the care pressure of the moment, these phone calls were made
      every 2 days, weekly, or just once during the whole follow-up period.

      All patients were followed for two weeks. At the end of follow-up, all patients answered an
      end-of-follow-up questionnaire and a Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System
      (PROMIS) questionnaire about global health. The end-of-follow-up interview of experimental
      group patients was carried by videoconference through the app. Control group patients were
      telephonically contacted. All patients also answered a Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale
      (HADS) the same day of discharge and again at the end of follow-up. 12
    
  