
    
      Inclusion criteria for the study will be an individual > 18 years old with a diagnosis of
      cirrhosis (either by history, serology or imaging), with medium or large esophageal varices
      on variceal screening esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), and no prior history of
      gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, as related to portal hypertension. Exclusion criteria will be
      the following: pregnant females; patients on beta blockers or nitrates for any underlying
      condition; allergies to carvedilol; mean arterial pressure < 55 mm Hg or pulse < 55 beats per
      minute at baseline; presence of hepatocellular carcinoma; presence of portal vein thrombosis;
      patients with severe, uncontrolled respiratory disease (asthma, COPD); patients with complete
      heart block or other significant arrhythmias; those with significant renal disease (CKD stage
      III or higher); patients who are unable to provide consent; and patients who in the opinion
      of the principal investigator are not suitable for participation in the trial.

      Patients will be randomized to one of the following three treatment groups: (1) carvedilol
      group, (2) variceal band ligation and (3) combination therapy (carvedilol plus variceal band
      ligation). Since the standard of care at University Hospital is use of beta blocker
      medications, the carvedilol group will serve as the control group.

      After consent has been obtained for the EGD and research study and patients have met the
      non-endoscopic inclusion and exclusion criteria mentioned above, they will undergo a
      screening EGD to look for varices. Varices will be graded by the 2-group classification
      system of "small" and "large". Varices are graded as large if > 5mm and small if < 5mm in
      size. A biopsy forceps will be inserted through the biopsy channel of the gastroscope and
      opened. An open biopsy forceps measures approximately 5mm in diameter. This will be used to
      measure the size of the varices and will be confirmed by two physicians. If a patient is
      found to have small esophageal varices, they will be excluded from the study and managed as
      per the standard of care. Once a patient has been identified in having large esophageal
      varices, he or she will undergo randomization during that initial endoscopy. A random number
      generator will be used to randomize the patient into one of the three treatment groups
      described above. If a patient is randomized to the carvedilol group, the endoscopic procedure
      will be terminated and the patient will be given a prescription for carvedilol at the time of
      discharge. He or she will then be followed up in our Gastroenterology clinics in a regular
      fashion where medication can be titrated and symptoms can be assessed. If a patient is
      randomized to the variceal band ligation group, the patient will undergo banding of the
      esophageal varices with a Wilson-Cook multi-banding device. He/she will be started on a
      proton-pump inhibitor post-procedure to minimize the risk of post-banding ulcers, a known
      complication of variceal banding. Once the patient has been treated with VBL, this procedure
      will be scheduled and repeated every two weeks until the obliteration of varices (ie once
      varices cannot be detected on endoscopy). The first surveillance EGD after obliteration will
      then be performed 1-3 months after obliteration and then every 6 months to check for variceal
      recurrence. If a patient is randomized to the combination group, the patient will undergo the
      banding protocol described above. The patient will then be given a prescription for
      carvedilol and a proton-pump inhibitor on discharge and followed in our clinics as scheduled.
    
  