
    
      Anorexia nervosa (AN) is an eating disorder with high morbidity and lifetime mortality. This
      eating disorder is mainly characterized by restricted food intake despite a severely low body
      weight. Given the pronounced self-starvation in AN, the investigation of homeostatic food
      processing, and its interaction with the reward system is of great scientific interest.
      Previous research in AN patients has almost exclusively focused on cortical, non-homeostatic
      (e.g., reward related) food processing. Therefore, the primary aim of the present study is to
      investigate metabolic gut-brain signaling by focusing on the responsivity of the hypothalamus
      (i.e., the core region of homeostatic control) and the mesocorticolimbic reward system. A
      secondary aim is to study the interaction between the mesocorticolimbic reward system and the
      homeostatic (i.e., hypothalamus) system. Metabolic gut-brain signaling will be assessed by
      applying a single-blind, randomized, crossover design of intragastric infusion of glucose or
      water. This approach allows the study of gut-brain signaling to the hypothalamus and the
      reward system by controlling for sensory aspects of food intake (sight, smell, and taste) in
      AN patients and healthy controls. Furthermore, we will measure how cognitive strategies to
      control the desire for visual food cues (top-down control) affect the mesocorticolimbic and
      hypothalamic systems in AN patients differently than in healthy controls. The interaction
      between the hypothalamus and the mesocorticolimbic reward system will be investigated using
      an effective connectivity analysis. Functional magnetic resonance imaging with high spatial
      resolution and with an optimized protocol for the investigation of the hypothalamus and the
      mesocorticolimbic reward system will be used to study for the first time homeostatic and
      non-homeostatic food cue processing in AN patients.
    
  