
    
      Stroke is a significant cause of morbidity, mortality, and loss of independence worldwide. In
      Denmark 12,000 people have a stroke per year. About one fourth of patients admitted with a
      stroke have had previous strokes or transient ischemic attack (TIA). The risk of recurrent
      stroke is highest in the first weeks and decreasing with time.

      In the last decades there has been an increased focus on the importance of health behaviour
      in the public and among patients in relations to prevention of vascular diseases. There is
      solid scientific evidence of the harmful effects of lifestyle factors, such as smoking,
      physical inactivity, and alcohol overuse.

      Hypertension is one of the leading risk factors for vascular diseases, including stroke and
      TIA. Lowering of the blood pressure is therefore an essential part of stroke treatment.
      Smoking cessation, physical activity, and adherence to antihypertensive and antithrombotic
      medication is highly recommended in patients with minor stroke and TIA.

      There is still a lack of knowledge about how to support patients in making suitable choices
      to prevent recurrence and progression of their disease. Previous research has shown varying
      results and it is therefore difficult to point out any specific intervention or element of
      interventions which would be feasible to implement in clinical practice.

      The hypothesis of the study is that early client-centred patient counselling with repeated
      follow-up sessions after discharge can reduce the blood pressure through smoking cessation,
      physical activity, and improved adherence to preventive medication in patients with minor
      stroke and transient ischemic attacks compared to simple encouragement to lifestyle change.

      The overall purpose of our research is to develop effective and clinically feasible
      interventions to prevent recurrent strokes in patients with minor stroke and transient
      ischemic attacks, and identify unmet needs in the newly discharged patients and their
      relatives.

      The PhD study will comprise of 1) a randomized feasibility trial (n=40) aiming to test a
      combined behavioural and clinical intervention with follow-up sessions post-discharge with
      3-4 weeks intervals in 12 weeks on reducing blood pressure in patients with minor stroke and
      transient ischemic attack 2) a qualitative study to explore the patients attitudes and
      experiences towards medicine adherence, lifestyle changes, social support, and self-efficacy.
    
  