
    
      The primary study objectives are the following:

        -  To assess the safety, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the dose limiting toxicity of
           cabazitaxel when combined with cisplatin and Follow-Up (FU) induction chemotherapy in
           patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN).

        -  To establish the phase II recommended dose of cabazitaxel when combined with cisplatin
           and Follow-Up induction in patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the
           head and neck.

      The secondary study objectives, in regards to the combined Cabazitaxel-Platinum Fluorouracil
      regimen in patients with newly diagnosed squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, are
      the following:

        -  To assess the toxicity profile

        -  To assess best Overall Response Rate (complete and partial responses) after completion
           of 3 cycles of treatment

        -  To assess Progression Free Survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS) after 3 years
           Analysis of the secondary variables will be primarily descriptive in nature due to the
           small sample size. All results will be considered hypothesis generating to be confirmed
           in a future study.

      Patient, for whom an informed consent has been obtained and who have met the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria after having the screening evaluation performed within a
      one-week window, will be assigned to a dose level according to the dose escalation rule
      described in the protocol. Treatment consists of an Induction chemotherapy period, which is
      the period when the patient will undergo 3 cycles of Cabazitaxel-Platinum Fluorouracil (PF).
      The Induction chemotherapy will be followed by Consolidation Therapy, which is 6-7 weeks of
      Chemoradiation treatment or Surgery + Recovery time, depending on their primary site and
      overall medical condition. Both treatment periods will consist of approximately 16 weeks (9
      weeks of Induction and 7 weeks of Consolidation, if Chemoradiation Radiation Therapy (CRT)),
      or shorter than 16 weeks, if surgery. After three cycles, the patients will be assessed for
      clinical, radiographic, and pathologic response to Cabazitaxel-Platinum Fluorouracil before
      beginning Chemoradiation Radiation Therapy or surgery. Patients, who do not complete three
      cycles of Cabazitaxel-Platinum Fluorouracil for reasons of toxicity, progressive disease,
      choice, or other medical necessity, will be treated with standard Chemoradiation Radiation
      Therapy or surgery depending on their primary site and overall medical condition. Once the
      Consolidation treatment is completed, the follow-up of patients will be for 3 years.
    
  