
    
      Diagnosis and monitoring iconographic lung infection is essentially limited to chest
      radiography. But this one to bed is a source of information generally unreliable routine.

      Lung ultrasound is now an additional technique for confirmation of diagnosis and followed by
      community acquired pneumonia and monitoring of ventilator-associated pneumonia. The specific
      pathophysiology of VAP makes particularly efficient lung ultrasound in the diagnosis and
      monitoring of these attacks. The patient mechanically ventilated, the colonization of the
      airways is responsible for a continuous seeding of the tracheobronchial tree. As the lesions
      are scattered throughout the lung parenchyma and are centered on a bronchiole; although there
      is a predominance of households in the areas most dependent lung. VAP is therefore
      characterized by inflammatory tissue expansion to the periphery, predominant at the lower
      lobes and partnering with a ventilation loss varies with the severity of the pneumonia.

      Thus, it can be found at an early stage some cells infected around a bronchiole in contact
      with infected acini normally ventilated. At an advanced stage, this extension to the whole
      parenchyma results in the widespread presence of small outbreaks in pleural. They are easily
      and specifically detected by ultrasound in the form of vertical artifacts irregular spacing
      (irregular Lines B) or small pictures (<0.5 cm) rounded HYPOECHOIC (jucta pleural
      consolidation) for reliable diagnosis of VAP. The success of an antibiotic is detected by the
      disappearance of B lines and pleural jucta consolidations. The failure of antibiotic therapy
      by the appearance of new jucta pleural consolidations which may merge giving lobar
      consolidation. Community-acquired pneumonia is characterized by the spread of infection in a
      home adjacent pulmonary segments by providing a systematized typical lobar reached. The
      diagnosis and monitoring of community-acquired pneumonia is mainly based on monitoring the
      number and size of household lobar consolidation which is not sufficient for pneumonia
      Ventilator. This latest study shows that the intensity ultrasound signs is proportional to
      the extension of outbreaks (lobar consolidations homes and mini homes jucta pleural
      consolidation). Moreover unlike biological biomarkers such as procalcitonin, it does not
      reflect the intensity of inflammation.
    
  