
    
      The current COVID-19 pandemic is caused by the novel coronavirus (SARS-Cov-2). The virus
      origins have been studied and evidence so far suggests it originates in bats, with spread to
      humans likely mediated by an intermediate mammalian. Bats have a dampened Nod-like receptor
      family, pyrin-containing 3 (NLRP3)-mediated inflammation. Dampening NLRP3-mediated
      inflammation has been associated with the asymptotic viral status, therefore it is plausible
      that the pathogenic inflammatory response of SARS-CoV-2 might be associated with activation
      of NLRP3 inflammasome. Data show that the natural extract of Açaí Palm Berry (Euterpe
      oleracea Mart.) is a potent inhibitor of NLRP3. This is a safe, inexpensive, and readily
      available natural health supplement which could be a rapid response treatment intervention
      for patients with COVID-19.

      Our primary objective is to establish whether açai palm berry extract (Euterpe oleracea),
      given to community-dwelling adult patients diagnosed with COVID-19, compared to placebo,
      improves outcomes over 30 days on the 7-point ordinal scale described by Cao et al, and which
      is being used widely in COVID-19 trials with the aim of harmonizing endpoints. This study
      will be a prospective, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, randomized, multicentre clinical
      trial of Açaí Palm Berry extract in adult patients tested positive for SARS-Cov-2 in the last
      7 days and that are currently being treated in the outpatient setting. The intervention group
      will receive 3 capsules of 520mg (one capsule every eight hours) of Acai Palm Berry extract
      (Nature's Way, NPN80038874) for 30 days. The non-intervention group will receive placebo
      pills, on top of standard clinical care. Our main endpoint will be the 7-point ordinal scale.

      This project has the benefit of offering a safe and widely used natural extract as a
      potential treatment strategy to decrease inflammation and improve disease outcomes in
      patients with COVID-19. With no vaccine currently available, the search for effective
      treatments is a timely approach. The potential impact of such a therapeutic agent, if
      effective, can be quite vast given that it can be readily used by anyone and, most
      importantly, is affordable in many countries.
    
  