
    
      The Helen Joseph Hospital ED has a constant influx of critically ill and injured patients 24
      hours a day. On average, 170 - 200 patients are triaged and evaluated per day - approximately
      60 000-70000 patients per annum.

      EDs world-wide are constantly looking for ways to decrease patient over-crowding and waiting
      times. Suggested solutions have included the hiring of additional personnel, creating
      observation units, ambulance diversion and triage. Some have even tried to improve patient
      flow by placing a senior consultant in the triage area.

      In South African EDs, the South African Triage Scale (SATS) is utilised to assess severity
      and acuity of patients presenting to the ED. The target time for patients to be seen is
      dictated by their triage category. Patients triaged Red should ideally be seen immediately,
      Orange within 10 minutes, Yellow within 1 hour and Green within 4 hours of arrival. Whilst
      patients may initially be evaluated within these time frames, there may be delays in their
      final disposition due to time lags in obtaining results from special investigations.

      Traditionally, investigations in the ED take place after the doctor has evaluated the
      patient. Patients (and doctors) then have to wait for the results of the investigations.
      Further decisions on the patients' ultimate disposition (i.e. either discharged home or
      admitted for inpatient care) are thus contingent upon the results of the investigations.

      POC blood testing (as opposed to sending blood to the laboratory to be analysed) has been
      shown to be accurate and assist in expediting patient management by decreasing the turnaround
      time for results. Low dose x-ray (LODOX®) has been marketed as a quick and easy radiological
      screening tool for trauma patients that can even be used as a triage tool. The LODOX can
      produce a full body antero-posterior x-ray image within 19 seconds. It is much quicker and
      exposes the patient to less radiation than a standard radiograph/x-ray. It can therefore also
      be categorised as the x-ray equivalent of a POC test. Its use has never been evaluated as a
      tool for non-trauma patients in the ED. Electrocardiograms (ECGs) are commonly used in
      clinical medicine as a POC test to evaluate the heart.

      The aim of this study is therefore to assess whether, individually or in combination,
      upfront, early POC blood tests, ECGs and/or LODOX can decrease waiting times, reduce costs
      and improve patient flow in the ED.
    
  