
    
      Primary outcome: the physical dimensions in health status. The intervention could lead to an
      improvement of 50% in the physical health score on the SF-36 questionnaire.

      Theoretical frame of reference: the nursing intervention in this study was based on the
      Murray and Maslow's theories of motivation combined with Piaget's theory of development in
      which the main goal is to promote and maintain patients' active involvement in their own
      care.

      Intervention: All patients received the standard postoperative procedure in the hospital,
      which means discharge after 5-7 days and a clinical control in the outpatient department
      after 3 months. But the intervention group also received telephone support and counselling 2
      and 10 weeks after surgery. The intervention was performed by the same nurse using a
      structured interview guide to identify the patients' perceptions of their current situations
      and need for further support and counselling of importance to their health status. Together
      the patients and the nurse assessed the patients' situation and areas of improvements. The
      assessment focused on eight main dimensions referring to the patients' situation after Total
      Hip Replacement (THR). (1) Wellbeing. (2) Expectations as to PF after surgery. (3)
      Expectations as to PF compared with those before surgery. (4) Symptoms (pain, leg-oedema,
      vertigo, sleep disturbance, nausea and other concerns) and (5) Problems with eating and
      appetite. (6) Fluid intake. (7) Ability to follow prescribed activity and exercise. (8) Need
      of support from family. For each of the problems identified,individual solutions were
      suggested and practical counselling was given by the investigator.

      Statistical analysis: Data were processed by using the statistical program Statistical
      Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 13.0 (Boston, MA, USA). Ratio-scaled data from
      both groups (intervention and control) were compared by using parametric methods if data were
      normally distributed, but if not, nonparametric methods were used. Nominal scaled data were
      compared by using the chi-square test or using 95% CI around the association measure.

      Categorical variables were compared using Pearson's chi-square test if appropriate. For
      continuous data, changes within the groups were analysed by using a paired t-test. Groups
      were compared using an unpaired t-test (for normally distributed data). p < 0.05 were
      considered statistically significant.
    
  