
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) are two principal subtypes of inflammatory
      bowel disease (IBD). Disease behavior, prognosis, and therapy differ substantially between
      these two subtypes. However, up to 15% of patients may have misclassification of their IBD
      subtypes leading to significant delay in appropriate management and prognostication. The
      misclassification of CD and UC is due to limitations in contemporary modalities used to
      diagnose these diseases. While CD involves transmural inflammation and UC is limited to
      mucosal inflammation, the combination of endoscopy, histology, and cross-sectional imaging
      typically used to establish the diagnosis do not reliably distinguish mucosal from submucosal
      inflammation. Consequently, disease reclassification often occurs at the time of surgery when
      transmural inflammation can be determined from the surgical specimen. At that time, medical
      therapy has already failed. The optimal time for accurate IBD classification would be at the
      initial diagnosis, allowing for appropriate targeted therapy to achieve optimal disease
      outcomes.

      Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) can provide detailed information about luminal wall layers. To
      date, the use of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) for colorectal disease has been limited to
      staging of subepithelial lesions and examining CD-related perianal complications. The
      ultrasound miniprobe device (UM-2/3R, Olympus) is a thin ultrasound catheter that can be
      passed through the colonoscope's accessory channel to perform detailed ultrasonic assessment
      of any colon wall segments. Prior studies have demonstrated that the submucosal layer is
      significant thicker in active CD compared to active UC, while active UC has thicker mucosal
      layer comparatively. This study tests the hypothesis that the addition of the miniprobe
      ultrasound catheter at the time of colonoscopy will help to differentiate active CD with
      colonic involvement and UC from non-IBD controls by comparing the differential thickness in
      the mucosal and submucosal layer among these groups of patients. Furthermore, the
      investigators hypothesize that the thickness of differential wall layers in CD and UC
      patients will correlate to clinical and endoscopic disease activity. The significance of
      these findings will help establish an accurate diagnosis of IBD subtypes early in the disease
      course and provide for a reliable method to monitor disease activity not only at the mucosal
      layer but also in deeper luminal wall layers.
    
  