
    
      Pneumonia is the most common serious infection in childhood. In the United States (US),
      pneumonia accounts for 1-4% of all emergency department (ED) visits in children (3-28 per
      1,000 US children per year) and ranks among the top 3 reasons for pediatric hospitalization
      with >100,000 hospitalizations per year (15-22 per 100,000 US children per year)2-5.
      Pneumonia also accounts for more days of antibiotic use in US children's hospitals than any
      other condition.

      Safely reducing inappropriate antibiotic use is critical to slow the progression of
      antimicrobial resistance, and childhood pneumonia is a key area where substantial
      improvements can be made. In the 2011 Pediatric Infectious Diseases Society/Infectious
      Diseases Society of America (PIDS/IDSA) pneumonia guideline, appropriate use of antibiotics
      was an important area of emphasis. For presumed bacterial pneumonia, recommendations
      emphasize the use of a single, narrow-spectrum antibiotic (i.e. amoxicillin or ampicillin).
      In children <6 years of age treated in the outpatient setting, the guideline recommended
      considering withholding antibiotics, recognizing that pneumonia in this population is most
      often caused by viruses. Both of these recommendations were graded as strong and supported by
      high-quality evidence. Nonetheless, in a large database study we conducted just prior to
      release of the 2011 guideline, use of broad-spectrum antibiotics was very common among
      children hospitalized with pneumonia, with substantial differences in antibiotic selection
      patterns among the various hospitals. In that study, use of narrow-spectrum ampicillin was
      rare (<5%). High rates of broad-spectrum antibiotic use were also noted in a study of
      children with pneumonia treated and released from US EDs, with <30% of children receiving
      narrow-spectrum therapy.

      Emergency care for childhood pneumonia, including hospitalization rates, varies widely across
      the nation. A study examining hospital admission rates at 35 US children's hospitals from
      2009-2012 showed marked differences in severity-adjusted pneumonia hospital admission rates
      (median 31%; range 19-69%). Extending these findings, Florin et al. detected great
      hospital-level variation in the use of diagnostic tests for children presenting to the ED
      with pneumonia. It was reported that high test-utilizing hospitals had a nearly 2-fold
      greater odds of hospitalization compared with low test-utilizing hospitals. Using the same
      database as Florin et al., we previously reported similar institutional variation in
      diagnostic test utilization in children hospitalized with pneumonia. The range across
      hospitals for even the most common diagnostic tests was very wide with some hospitals
      performing specific tests in <30% of children and others performing those same tests in >75%
      of children. There was also an association between high test-utilizing hospitals and
      increased average hospital length of stay.

      Provider preferences and inaccurate risk perceptions contribute to differences in
      hospitalization rates. Within the Intermountain Healthcare System in Utah, a collaborating
      site for this study, Dean et al. exposed large differences in admission rates (range 38-79%)
      among 18 individual emergency department providers providing care for >2,000 adults with
      pneumonia. Differences were not explained by patient characteristics or illness severity and
      higher rates of hospitalization did not reduce hospital re-admissions or mortality. In
      another multi-center study of 472 adults with pneumonia at <4% risk of 30-day mortality
      estimated using objective severity scores, providers overestimated the risk of mortality in
      5% of outpatients (range across institutions 0-12%) and 41% of inpatients (range across
      institutions 36-48%). These studies suggest that risk perceptions are often inaccurate, and
      potentially lead to unnecessary or prolonged hospitalizations and intensive therapies.
      Similar studies have not been performed in children because no valid prognostic tools exist
      to reliably predict pediatric pneumonia severity.

      Extensive variation in both antibiotic use and hospitalization decisions is evident among
      clinicians caring for children with pneumonia, with high potential for avoidable harm. In the
      investigator's prior study, one-third of children were hospitalized for less than 48 hours
      and nearly 10% less than 24 hours. Some of these hospitalizations were likely unnecessary.
      Most of these children also received broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy instead of the
      narrow-spectrum agents recommended by the national guideline. Conversely, one-third of
      children admitted to intensive care were initially managed on a general ward, earlier
      transfer for more intensive therapy may have improved outcomes for some of these children.
      New strategies to inform decision making are needed, and the combination of risk
      stratification using objective tools and clinical decision support in the emergency
      department setting are innovative and promising approaches to achieve this goal.

      Specific Aim 1: To test the hypothesis that electronic antibiotic decision support increases
      guideline-concordant antibiotic use compared with usual care in the emergency department.

      The primary outcome is the proportion of children exclusively receiving guideline-concordant
      first line antibiotic therapy during the first 24 hours of care. Secondary outcomes include
      exclusive use of concordant antibiotic therapy for the entire episode, any use of concordant
      antibiotic therapy during the first 24 hours of care and for the entire episode, and
      emergency department revisits and hospitalizations within 72 hours and 7 days of the index
      discharge.

      Specific Aim 2: To test the hypothesis that the delivery of severity information generated by
      a prognostic tool leads to more appropriate site of care disposition compared to usual care.

      The primary outcome is appropriate site of care disposition. Surveillance for subsequent
      emergency department visits and hospitalizations to our institutions as well as escalation to
      higher levels of care will be captured within the electronic health record data extracted by
      the decision support application. Secondary efficacy and safety outcomes include the overall
      site of care disposition (emergency department discharge, ward, intensive care unit), and
      emergency department revisits and hospitalizations within 72 hours and 7 days of the index
      discharge.

      In these studies, conducted at two experienced academic centers, the investigator will
      implement and evaluate an electronic health record based clinical decision support
      application to promote antibiotic use in concordance with the 2011 PIDS/IDSA guideline in a
      pragmatic, cluster randomized crossover trial. Next, the investigator will incorporate risk
      stratification using a previously developed prognostic tool into a second electronic health
      record based decision support application, testing its impact on site of care disposition
      compared to usual care in a pragmatic randomized trial. In both studies, all subjects will
      receive standard of care. Decisions regarding management, including antibiotic selection and
      site of care, will be at the discretion of the treating provider and will not be restricted
      or altered in any way. Thus, this study poses no greater than minimal risks to participants.
      Due to the nature of the research, waiver of informed consent has been provided, as it has
      been done in similar pragmatic studies at the institutions.
    
  