
    
      Both HIV infection and antiretroviral nucleoside analogues (nucleoside reverse transcriptase
      inhibitors or NRTIs) are known to affect mitochondrial DNA content and mitochondrial
      function. A number of important clinical syndromes observed in HIV-infected persons relate to
      mitochondrial dysfunction including lactic acidosis, myopathy, cardiomyopathy, pancreatitis,
      peripheral neuropathy, and possibly lipodystrophy. Fatigue, one of the most prevalent
      complaints among persons with HIV infection, may also be the result of mitochondrial
      toxicity, though this has not been clearly established.

      Availability of minimally invasive tests to assess mitochondrial toxicity would greatly
      facilitate understanding of the contribution of mitochondrial dysfunction to clinical
      syndromes. Mitochondrial dysfunction ultimately results in lactic acidosis; however, venous
      lactate measurements are neither adequately sensitive nor specific for identification of
      early mitochondrial dysfunction. Muscle and liver biopsies are currently considered to be the
      reference standards for the evaluation and diagnosis of mitochondrial toxicity in muscle and
      liver, but these invasive tests are impractical for routine and repeated evaluations. The
      recent development of a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay to accurately
      quantify the mtDNA copy numbers per cell in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) may
      allow non-invasive assessment of mitochondrial toxicity. This technique has been applied in a
      limited fashion to muscle, adipose tissue and liver samples as well.

      This pilot study seeks to examine the relationship between fatigue and other clinical
      parameters and markers of mitochondrial dysfunction. The goals of this study are threefold:
      1) to investigate the relationship between subjective fatigue ratings and mitochondrial
      dysfunction through measurements of mtDNA depletion in skeletal muscle 2) to determine
      whether there is a relationship between evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction in muscle and
      evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction in lymphocytes or adipose tissue suggesting that
      examination of lymphocytes or adipose tissue may be adequate for the accurate diagnosis of
      mitochondrial dysfunction and 3) to identify genes and proteins as potential biomarkers for
      fatigue and mitochondrial toxicity. For this cross-sectional study, three groups of
      participants will be enrolled: HIV positive patients on NRTI-containing and
      protease-inhibitor sparing regimens (n=30), HIV patients currently taking no antiretroviral
      medications (n=30) and healthy controls (n=15). HIV patients on NRTIs will be stratified
      according to their fatigue level (0-3, 4-7 or 8-10). Participants will complete a battery of
      questionnaires regarding fatigue and undergo muscle and adipose tissue biopsy.
    
  