
    
      OBJECTIVES

      To compare the effects of various hemostatic methods on the ovarian function of patients
      subjected to laparoscopic surgery for ovarian endometrioma through AMH and ultrasound antral
      follicle count (AFC).

      METHODS

      Study design

      An open-label randomized clinical trial will be performed to compare the impact of hemostatic
      techniques like bipolar coagulation versus laparoscopic suture versus hemostatic matrix
      during laparoscopic surgery for ovarian endometrioma on the ovarian follicular reserve.

      Study setting

      The study will be conducted at the endoscopic gynecology unit of Lauro Wanderley University
      Hospital, Federal University of Paraíba in Brazil.

      Study and data collection period

      The study will be performed from September 2017 to August 2020. Data will be collected from
      October 2017 to April 2020.

      Study population

      Patients with ovarian cysts suggestive of endometrioma on ultrasound cared for at the
      outpatient clinic of the HULW endoscopic gynecology unit during the study period.

      Sample

      In compliance with the eligibility criteria, consecutive convenience sampling will be
      performed among patients with ovarian cysts suggestive of endometrioma on ultrasound
      subjected to laparoscopic surgery and randomized to receive different hemostatic techniques
      during surgery: bipolar coagulation, laparoscopic suture or hemostatic matrix.

      Sample size. The sample size was calculated through resources available on the Laboratory of
      Epidemiology and Statistics website of the Dante Pazzanese Institute. The calculation was
      based on data provided by Sönmezer et al. In this article, the investigators detected
      significant difference in the first month postoperative, with 2.72±1.49 AMH measurement among
      patients who receive hemostatic matrix versus 1.64±0.93 among patients who receive bipolar
      coagulation. Then the statistical assume that the 1.49 standard deviation for AMH measurement
      in the first month was significant and was the number that provide a greater sample size when
      compared with other values from that article. The difference to be detected is 1.08, which
      corresponds to the mean difference in AMH in the first month between the patients who receive
      hemostatic matrix and bipolar coagulation. On those grounds, and to achieve adequate
      statistical power 80%; p=0.05, each group should consist of 23 participants. Considering
      possible losses, the sample will be increased by 20%, corresponding to 28 participants per
      group and a total of 84 women.

      Following inclusion, the participants will be randomized as described below. The sample will
      be divided into three groups according to the hemostatic technique used:

        1. Bipolar coagulation (bipolar tweezers, Astus Medical ©, Copyright 2015, Tampa FL, USA)
           with 30 W power and a Valleylab generator Medronic ©, Copyright 2017, Medtronic Parkway,
           Minneapolis, USA; the number of coagulated points will be counted, and the time for
           coagulation will be measured in seconds.

        2. Laparoscopic suturing with simple suture 2-0/Vicryl polyglactin absorbable synthetic
           suture; Ethicon Inc., New Jersey, USA; the number of sutures will be recorded.

        3. Hemostatic matrix Surgicel® Original Absorbable Hemostat, Ethicon, USA.

      Procedures for randomization. Randomization to receive the various hemostatic techniques
      bipolar coagulation, laparoscopic suture or hemostatic matrix during laparoscopic surgery for
      endometrioma will be performed based on a list of sequential numbers from 1 to 84 total
      number of participants to be randomized generated by a statistician using Random Allocation
      Software version 2.0 and the letters A, B and C; the statistician will be blinded as to their
      meaning.

      Another individual not participating in the study will receive the list of random numbers
      prepared by the statistician and will attribute a letter to each technique bipolar
      coagulation, laparoscopic surgery and hemostatic matrix through the lottery method. Next,
      this same individual will prepare opaque envelopes numbered from 1 to 84, which will contain
      the group of allocation.

      At the time of inclusion, each participant will be assigned a number corresponding to their
      order of entrance in the study. The envelope with the corresponding number will be opened by
      a nurse at the surgical theater at the time of hemostasis during surgery. Thus, allocation
      will remain concealed before surgery.

      Procedures for assessment of the ovarian reserve. The ovarian reserve will be assessed
      through measurements of AMH levels and ultrasound antral follicle count. The AMH levels will
      be quantitatively measured via ELISA, Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay Diagnostic Systems
      Laboratories, Webster, TX, with a detection sensitivity of 0.006 ng/mL.

      The participants' sera will be obtained from blood samples after centrifugation for 10
      minutes to separate the cell contents and debris. Each serum sample will be transferred to
      polypropylene tubes and stored at -70ºC. Venous blood samples will be collected before
      surgery on the day ultrasound is performed for antral follicle count, approximately 1 month
      before surgery and 1, 3 and 6 months after surgery.

      The participants will also be subjected to transvaginal ultrasound for antral follicle count
      before surgery 1 month before surgery and 1, 3 and 6 months after surgery. This test will be
      performed during the early proliferative stage days 3 to 6 of the menstrual cycle; the size
      of the endometrioma and the ovary volume will be recorded, and functional cysts or suspected
      malignant cysts will be ruled out. For measurement of cysts, the average diameter of the
      three perpendicular ovary dimensions will be considered. For antral follicle count, the total
      number of follicles with diameters under 9 mm will be considered. The ovary and cyst volumes
      will be calculated using the equation 4/3 x π x (d/2)3, where d is the average diameter. All
      ultrasound tests will be performed by the same operator using the same device.

      Procedures for laparoscopic surgery. Surgery will be performed by the same surgeon, with the
      participants under general anesthesia and in a semi-lithotomy position. A 10-mm umbilical
      puncture will be performed for the camera after insufflation of the pneumoperitoneum; three
      additional 5-mm punctures will be performed on the right iliac fossa, left iliac fossa and
      suprapubic area for instruments. The intra-abdominal pressure will be kept at approximately
      15 mmHg.

      Endometriosis will be categorized according to the classification formulated by the American
      Society for Reproductive Medicine - ASRM. In all of the groups, endometrioma will be removed
      by means of the traction and countertraction techniques. Adhesiolysis will be performed to
      separate the ovary from the adjacent structures as needed. In case of cyst rupture, the
      contents will be aspirated, and the site where the endometrioma contents fell will be
      exhaustively rinsed.

      In the group allocated to receive bipolar coagulation, hemostasis will be performed using
      bipolar tweezers as few times as possible, just to control any considerable bleeding, at 30
      W; the number of coagulated points will be recorded, and the duration of the procedure at
      each bleeding point will measured. These parameters will help elucidate possible flaws in
      previous studies, in which assessments were subjective, without specification of the duration
      of the coagulation in each point or the number of coagulated points.

      In the group allocated to receive hemostasis by means of laparoscopic surgery, bipolar
      coagulation will not be performed, and the procedure will involve simple intraovarian sutures
      1 or 2 knots with 2-0 Vicryl; the number of sutures will be counted.

      In the group allocated to receive hemostasis by means of hemostatic matrix, bipolar
      coagulation will not be performed, and the sealant will be applied on the ovarian wound
      surface.

      Procedures for data collection

      Data collection instrument. The data will be recorded on standardized forms containing
      closed-ended questions pre-encoded for entry into the computer.

      The information corresponding to categorical variables will be pre-encoded. Continuous
      variables will be expressed in the corresponding numerical values; only at the time of
      analysis will some be categorized.

      The forms will be duly stored in specific folders before and after typing and analysis. This
      task will be under the responsibility of the investigator, who will complete the forms at
      various time points.

      Data collection. The data will be collected by the investigator and a collaborator, who is a
      student from the Institutional Program of Undergraduate Research Scholarships. The
      collaborator will apply the checklist to candidates according to the eligibility criteria.
      Next, the study protocol will be applied, and the forms will be completed to record all
      necessary information.

      Once completed, the forms will be rigorously reviewed by the investigator to check the
      collected information against that in the medical records. The time-points for data
      collection, adequate form completion and review will comply with those indicated in the
      schedule.

      Data analysis. Statistical analysis will be performed by the investigator, her supervisors
      and a statistician using Excel software and the statistical software SPSS for Windows,
      version 19.0.0. Originally, SPSS was the acronym for Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences, but at the present time, it is a part of the software name IBM SPSS®, without
      indication of any particular meaning.

      Numerical variables will be compared by means of one-way analysis of variance ANOVA or the
      Kruskal-Wallis tests according to the normality or non-normality of the distribution. The
      chi-square or Fisher's tests will be used for categorical variables.

      DISCUSSION

      The reduction of ovarian function among patients with endometrioma is still a subject of
      study, and its cause requires further elucidation. Some authors consider that the presence of
      endometrioma itself accounts for the impairment of ovarian function. According to other
      authors, the factor associated with such impairment is the hemostatic method used following
      stripping of the endometrioma capsule, as some studies indicate that bipolar coagulation
      causes greater ovarian damage. However, no study has objectively assessed either the number
      of points requiring coagulation or the duration of coagulation; furthermore, the energy used
      is not standardized among studies. The present study intends to assess the ovarian function
      of patients with endometrioma subjected to laparoscopic surgical treatment, comparing
      different hemostatic techniques (bipolar coagulation versus suture versus hemostatic matrix)
      with objective assessments of bipolar coagulation to avoid bias. Thus, the investigators
      expect to contribute data likely to dispel doubts on the subject.
    
  