
    
      Before the research starts

        -  After signing this consent form, the participant will be asked to answer some questions
           about their health and ability to exercise to find out if the participant can be in the
           research study.

        -  If these tests show that the participant is eligible to participate in the research
           study, the participant will be able to participate in the research study. If the
           participant does not meet the eligibility criteria, the participant will not be able to
           participate in this research study.

        -  After the screening procedures confirm that the participant are eligible to participate
           in the research study.

        -  The participant will be scheduled to come to Dana-Farber to complete a number of study
           measures at baseline and at 16 and 32-weeks after the participant enrolls in the study.

        -  We will ask the participant to complete a number of study questionnaires that will
           include questions about: diet and exercise habits, medical history and quality of life
           (social support, thoughts and feelings).

      It should take the participant about 30 minutes to complete the questionnaires. Some of the
      questions on these questionnaires are personal - the participant can refuse to answer these
      if the participant wishes. The information the participant provides is for research purposes
      only and will remain strictly confidential. The individuals (e.g. doctors, nurses, etc.)
      directly involved in the participant's care will not usually see their responses to these
      questions-if the participant wishes them to know this information please bring it to their
      attention.

      Study staff will also record the participant's height and weight and will also ask the
      participant to undergo a walking test to measure how far the participant can comfortably walk
      in 6 minutes.

      The participant will have an X-ray examination, called a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry
      (DEXA) scan that measures your body fat and bone mass at baseline and 16-weeks after
      enrollment. The DEXA scan involves lying still for about 10 minutes on a padded table. The
      scanner will not touch the participant and the participant will not feel any discomfort. The
      test does not require the participant to undress. If the participant wishes, we will provide
      your doctor with a copy of your DEXA scan.

      Randomization (assignment to a group):

      Because no one knows which of the study options is best, the participant will be "randomized"
      into one of the study groups: Immediate Weight Loss Program Group or Delayed Weight Loss
      Program Group. Randomization means that the participants are put into a group by chance. It
      is like flipping a coin. The central office that is coordinating the study will assign the
      participants to one of the two treatment groups. Neither the participant nor your doctor can
      choose what group the participant will be in. The participant will have an equal chance of
      being placed in either group.

      Immediate Weight Loss Program Group If the participant is placed in the Immediate Weight Loss
      Program group, the participant will participate in the weight loss program soon after signing
      up for the study. The program consists of 15 sessions focused on reducing calories and
      increasing exercise. Sample goals of the program include reducing weight by 1-2 pounds per
      week and increasing exercise to at least 150 minutes of moderate exercise (such as walking)
      per week. Weight loss sessions will take place once per week for 15-weeks at Dana-Farber. The
      participant will meet with a dietician and exercise specialist weekly during the sessions to
      set diet and exercise goals for the week. Each session will consist of discussion of a diet
      and/or exercise topic for 30 minutes and 30 minutes of group exercise, such as moderate-paced
      walking or step aerobics. The participant will also be given the opportunity to be weighed,
      either as part of the group or in private with one of the weight loss study staff members, at
      each session in order to track their progress.

      As part of participating in the weight loss program, the participant will be provided with a
      weight loss workbook with materials to supplement the weekly sessions. The participant will
      also be given a pedometer to help keep track of their exercise and a journal to keep track of
      their exercise and the food eaten each day. The participant will bring the journal to each
      weight loss session to review with study staff.

      Delayed Weight Loss Program Group If the participant is placed in the Delayed Weight Loss
      Program group, he/or she will be offered the opportunity to participate in the weight loss
      program after an initial 15-week waiting period. During this waiting period, the participant
      is welcome to work on weight loss on your own, but the investigators will not provide the
      participant with the weight loss program materials or counseling until after the initial
      15-week waiting period is over.
    
  