
    
      Temporomandibular disorders (TMD) are the most prevalent orofacial pain source of nondental
      origin. Those disorders can be due to a heterogeneous group of pathologies affecting the
      temporomandibular joint (TMJ), the jaw muscles, or both. TMD symptoms prevalence has been
      reported between 10 to 33% of the population. The most common symptoms include pain, joint
      sounds, limitation of mandibular movement, facial deformities, condyle dislocation and
      recurrent headaches. These symptoms can negatively affect the quality of life. Surgical
      treatments for TMD are reserved for specific cases, however with the popularization of
      mini-invasive surgical techniques such as TMJ arthroscopy, more patients have been eligible
      for these mini-invasive techniques, amplifying the scope of TMJ surgery. In diagnostics such
      as ankylosis, tumors and growth abnormalities, TMJ open surgery is strongly recommended.
      However, those diagnosis and relatively uncommon. TMJ internal derangement involving disc
      position/integrity and osteoarthrosis are more frequent, but the surgical indication is
      relative.

      From all the open surgery techniques, TMJ discectomy without interposal material is probably
      one of the most popular procedures. Recently, was showed that bilateral discectomy can induce
      severe TMJ changes detected with both imaging and histopathologic analysis in black Merino
      sheep. Besides, the critical histological and imaging results, functional masticatory
      alterations were not influenced by TMJ degenerative changes. Also, in other preclinical
      study, disc and fibrocartilage removal lead to traumatic TMJ ankylosis. It is interesting to
      observe the role of the condyle and temporal fibrocartilage, balancing the disc function. In
      humans, short-term studies on TMJ discectomy were associated with good results. In fact, in
      other retrospective study was showed discectomy without replacement is effective improving
      the preoperative maximum mouth opening (MMO). Despite the good clinical outcome, some studies
      have observed degenerative changes in imaging analysis. Together, clinical and preclinical
      results showed TMJ discectomy is a suboptimal technique, and an effective disc substitute,
      acting as a cushion between the condyle and temporal fossa could, in theory, improve these
      results. Despite extensive research in the field of tissue engineering, currently no
      appropriate disc substitute has demonstrated safety and efficacy. In fact, the last
      guidelines do not recommend disc replacement because nonvalid option showed superiority over
      discectomy alone. While there is no effective disc substitute, discectomy is often used when
      the disc is partial or total damaged and cannot be salvaged and/or and when symptoms fail to
      improve with other techniques. The inclusion criteria heterogeneity in previous studies,
      retrospective studies and non-randomization makes it difficult to draw clear conclusions
      about this technique. The investigators designed a rigorous prospective study for patients
      with: 1) unilateral TMJ disc perforation or 2) unilateral TMJ disc fragmentation. Those
      patients were proposed to unilateral TMJ discectomy. Most of the times, when the disc is
      damaged, the bone fibrocartilage is distorted and the authors wanted to understand the role
      of discectomy is those patients.
    
  