
    
      Methotrexate is one of the commonly used conventional systemic treatment for moderate to
      severe psoriasis as well as psoriatic arthritis. It is also used as co-therapy with
      TNF-antagonists to improve efficacy and reduce neutralizing drug antibodies formation. Apart
      from the bone marrow suppression, which can largely be avoided with careful dosing,
      monitoring and avoidance of certain drug interaction, hepatotoxicity is one of the major
      side-effects. Short term rises in hepatic transaminases are well recognized with
      methotrexate, which is largely reversible. However, the insidious development of liver
      fibrosis and ultimately cirrhosis is of greater clinical concern given this may be
      irreversible with significant impact. Methotrexate-induced liver fibrosis is still a concern
      especially in patients who received high cumulative dose and those with comorbid risk factors
      such as diabetes and obesity. The prevalence of significant fibrosis and cirrhosis were
      reported to be 4.5 - 33.3% and 0 - 25.6%, respectively, in liver biopsy series of psoriasis
      patients on methotrexate. The results were so variable owing to the facts that many studies
      were old with poor reporting and variable histological scoring system making interpretation
      difficult.

      According to the NICE guideline and British Association of Dermatologist's guideline ( 2016),
      liver biopsy remains the gold standard in the assessment of liver fibrosis, however, it is a
      relatively invasive procedure, with potential sampling error and inter-observer variability,
      leading to decreasing use of liver biopsy as routine for monitoring methotrexate
      hepatotoxicity . Non-invasive methods to assess liver fibrosis are therefore advocated,
      including serum indices as well as transient elastography.

      Transient elastography has been shown to correlate well with liver fibrosis in chronic
      hepatitis and has been widely adopted as a noninvasive method to assess liver fibrosis in
      various chronic liver disease, but not yet in this specific Psoriasis patients on
      methotrexate. There is increasing trend to use transient elastography for detection of
      methotrexate-associated liver fibrosis. However, only few studies included adequate number of
      patients with concomitant liver biopsy and transient elastography. Data from a study
      including a relatively high number of patients with liver biopsy (24 psoriasis patients)
      reported successful scan rate of 83.3% and high negative predictive value of 88% for
      significant fibrosis. Alternative, Serum procollagen III level (PIIINP) for liver fibrosis is
      only available in selected specialist centres oversea but not in HK and is costly. Currently,
      psoriasis patients on methotrexate with cumulative dose of 3000mg of above are advised to
      have USG guided Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) liver biopsy to assess the presence of liver
      fibrosis with severity grading , according to American Academy of Dermatology Guideline in
      Methotrexate dosing. For patient with liver fibrosis grading of 3 a or above ( Roenigfk
      classification) , they are advised to stop methotrexate and switch to alternative medication.
      In view of the demand of a safer and reliable non-invasive test to detect advanced liver
      fibrosis in psoriasis patients receiving methotrexate, we propose to recruit these patients
      for a paired transient elastography assessment and liver biopsy.
    
  