
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of everolimus in combination with
           temozolomide and 3D-conformal radiotherapy or intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT)
           followed by adjuvant temozolomide with or without everolimus in patients with newly
           diagnosed glioblastoma. (Mayo Clinic Rochester [MCR] AND Mayo Clinic Jacksonville [MCJ]
           patients only) (Phase I)

        -  To assess and describe the adverse events of everolimus in combination with temozolomide
           and 3D-conformal radiotherapy or IMRT followed by adjuvant temozolomide with or without
           everolimus in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. (MCR and MCJ patients only)
           (Phase I)

        -  To assess treatment effectiveness of everolimus in combination with temozolomide and
           3D-conformal radiotherapy or IMRT followed by adjuvant temozolomide with or without
           everolimus, until progression, in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. (all North
           Central Cancer Treatment Group [NCCTG] patients) (Phase II)

        -  To characterize the toxicities of everolimus in combination with temozolomide and
           3D-conformal radiotherapy or IMRT followed by adjuvant temozolomide with or without
           everolimus in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. (all NCCTG patients) (Phase
           II)

        -  Evaluate whether suppression of fludeoxyglucose F18 (18FDG) uptake in tumor and normal
           brain can be used to determine a biologically effective dose for efficient penetration
           of everolimus through the blood-brain barrier. (MCR and MCJ patients only) (Phase I)

        -  Correlate everolimus levels with 18FDG uptake suppression in tumor and normal brain.
           (MCR and MCJ patients only) (Phase I)

        -  Assess the relationship between efficacy endpoints (i.e., survival, progression-free
           survival, and response) and changes in 3'-deoxy-3'-[18F]fluorothymidine (18F-FLT) uptake
           for patients treated at MCR. (all NCCTG patients) (Phase II)

        -  Assess the relationship between efficacy endpoints (i.e., survival, progression-free
           survival, and response), and phospho-Akt, PTEN status, and MGMT expression and promoter
           methylation status. (all NCCTG patients) (Phase II)

        -  Assess the relationship between efficacy endpoints (i.e., survival, progression-free
           survival, and response) and baseline gene expression signatures from paraffin embedded
           pre-treatment tumor samples. (all NCCTG patients) (Phase II)

        -  Correlate gene expression between paraffin and frozen samples. (all NCCTG patients)
           (Phase II)

        -  Evaluate potential mechanisms of therapy resistance in recurrent tumor samples obtained
           at the time of surgery for recurrent disease. (Phase I and II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of everolimus followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Phase I (Mayo Clinic Rochester [MCR] AND Mayo Clinic Jacksonville [MCJ] ONLY):

             -  Concurrent therapy (courses 1 and 2): Patients receive oral everolimus once weekly
                in weeks 1-7 or 1-8 and oral temozolomide once daily in weeks 2-7 or 3-8. Patients
                also undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week in either weeks 2-7 or 3-8. Four to six
                weeks later, patients proceed to adjuvant therapy. This rest period is defined as
                course 2.

             -  Adjuvant therapy with everolimus and temozolomide (courses 3-8): Patients receive
                oral everolimus on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and oral temozolomide on days 1-5.
                Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression
                or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Adjuvant therapy with everolimus alone (courses 9 and all subsequent courses):
                Patients receive oral everolimus on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every
                28 days in the absence of disease progression our unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase II (Open to MCR center ONLY) (All North Central Cancer Treatment Group [NCCTG]
           centers closed to accrual as of 02/17/11):

             -  Concurrent therapy (courses 1 and 2): Patients receive oral everolimus and oral
                temozolomide and 3D-conformal radiotherapy or IMRT as in phase I. Patients will
                undergo a 4-6 week rest period in course 2 and then proceed to adjuvant therapy.

             -  Adjuvant therapy with everolimus and temozolomide (courses 3-8): Patients receive
                oral everolimus and oral temozolomide as in phase I.

             -  Adjuvant therapy with everolimus alone (courses 9 and all subsequent courses):
                Patients receive oral everolimus as in phase I.

      All patients undergo fludeoxyglucose (FDG)- or fluorothymidine-labeled PET/CT scans at
      baseline and periodically during treatment.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for pharmacological studies. Samples
      are analyzed for everolimus blood levels and correlated with 18FDG uptake suppression in
      tumor and normal brain via LC-MSMS. Previously collected tumor tissue are analyzed for
      protein biomarkers including PTEN gene expression levels via fluorescence in situ
      hybridization (FISH) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) and phosphorylation on Ser473 and Ser308
      of Akt and MGMT expression and promoter methylation via IHC. Samples are also analyzed for
      DNA sequencing. Some samples are banked for future studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year, every 3
      months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 138 patients (24 patients in phase I and 114 patients in phase
      II) will be accrued for this study.
    
  