
    
      The optimal management of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma typically involves primary
      surgical resection, and the indications for adjuvant radiotherapy are based on pathologic
      markers of intermittent - and high-risk disease, which include positive margins,
      extracapsular nodal extension, lymphovascular invasion, and perineural invasion (1-3).
      Trismus is one of long term sequelae of radiotherapy for head and neck cancer patient. The
      prevalence of trismus after head and neck oncology treatment could be as high as 42% (4). It
      is significantly reducing nutrition due to impaired mastication (5). The loss of function
      appears to be related to damage and fibrosis to the muscles of mastication. Radiation therapy
      involving the temporomandibular joint, the pterygoid muscles, the temporalis or the masseter
      muscle is most likely to result in trismus (5, 6). Moreover, there may be scar tissue from
      radiation or surgery, nerve damage, or a combination of these factors (6, 7). In addition,
      the doses of RT levels in excess of 60 Gy (8) or the configuration of the radiation field
      increasing (9) are more likely to cause trismus. These data were documenting the clinical
      results of conventional radiotherapy (RT).

      Recently, extensive data suggest that intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) is safe
      and efficacious in the adjuvant setting for oral cavity cancer (OCC) (10-12). Hsiung et al.
      (13) and Chen et al. (14) confirmed that radiation induced trismus progressed over time and
      improved by IMRT. Hsiung et al. (13) found the averages of normalized maximal interincisal
      distance (MID) were 94% and 98.1% at 5 ms and 12 ms post-IMRT, respectively. In addition,
      only 0.2 mm the deterioration of radiation-induced trismus in the period from 12-18 months
      post-IMRT was noted. Moreover, Chen et al. (14) also confirmed that radiation induced trismus
      progressed over time and improved by IMRT. However, Kent et al. (15) examined the incidence
      of trismus in IMRT group compared to conventional radiotherapy group. There was no
      significant difference in the maximum vertical dimension between the IMRT and the
      conventional RT groups, (38.8 ± 9.0 vs 33.7 ± 10.1 mm, respectively, p = 0.11).

      Helical tomotherapy (HT) is conceptually regarded an image-guided IMRT. HT was designed and
      developed with advantages in sharper dose gradients and better normal tissue sparing. Our and
      the other clinical experience of using HT for locally advanced head and neck cancer had
      achieved encouraging results along with less toxicity, such lower percentage of dermatitis
      and xerostomia when compared with previous reports (16-18). HT provides better normal tissue
      sparing and sharper dose gradients than IMRT (19, 20).Chen et al. (19) compared HT and IMRT
      for nasopharyngeal carcinoma and noted that HT significantly reduced dose to the
      contralateral parotid gland and improved dose homogeneity to the PTVs. Additionally, HT
      reduced mean doses to brainstem (p = 0.02), larynx (p = 0.03), and oral cavity (p = 0.03).
      Similarly, for head-and-neck cancer, HT plans also provided favorably results compared with
      the step-and-shoot IMRT plans. They are expected to be able to reduce the parotid normal
      tissue (average 6.5 Gy) complication probability further, keeping similar target dose
      homogeneity (21). Furthermore, HT provided better mandible sparing than IMRT with mean dose
      decreased from 34.9 Gy (IMRT) to 30.7 Gy (HT) (20). However, can HT provide better normal
      tissue sparing to reduce the incidence of trismus? It's still an interesting issue to
      discuss.

      In our 4-year initial clinical experience of 39 postoperative OCC patients treated with HT,
      we noted the incidences of grade 1 and grade 2, 3 trismus [according to the Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v3.0 (CTCAE v3.0) ] appear inversely trend in time
      sequence with post-HT treatment (Fig. 1). These observations hint the possible of decreasing
      late complications of HT by better normal tissue sparing and sharper dose gradients (16-18)
      and responses to radiation induced trismus improved by IMRT (13, 14).

      According to previous study (6), Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) could provide advantage
      findings in masticator structures in patients with trismus developing after radiotherapy for
      nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). The abnormalities comprising radiotherapy-induced masticator
      muscle fibrosis or inflammation, denervation atrophy of the masticator muscles secondary to
      mandibular nerve damage, osteoradionecrosis change of mandibular rami, perimasticator
      fibrosis extending into the masticator space and post RT damage of the parotid gland. The
      presence of several MRI abnormalities in the masticator structures of patients with trismus
      after radiotherapy suggests that trismus is multifactorial. However, there was no good
      correlation data between the severities of trismus with these image findings and thus these
      changes may possible due to non-specific inflammatory and fibrosis reactions after radiation.
      Also, there was no correlation data between radiation dosages with these abnormality, so all
      these findings may also result from other causes such as surgery or chemotherapy. Therefore,
      we try to evaluate MRI examinations performed in patients before and after trismus
      establishing following radiotherapy for OCC patients, in order to identify the range and
      frequency of underlying diseases that may cause this complication. We retrospect the OCC
      patients using MRI signal abnormality scores (SA score), separating the patient according to
      their clinical trismus grading into three groups, the mean SA score of grade 0 patient is
      8.5, grade 1 is 6.76 and grade 2 is 4.87. Compared with group 2 patients, there are
      statistically significant differences between group 1 (p= .04) as well as group 0 (p= .02),
      respectively. It means the SA score could correspond to the trismus grade (Fig. 2).

      Rehabilitation training can improve swallow function and slow down the progress of trismus in
      NPC patients following radiotherapy. The efficacy rate (percentage of patients with excellent
      or effective results) of rehabilitation group was higher than that of control group (77% vs.
      43%), and the difference was statistically significant (p = 0.02). The efficacy rate of
      trismus in the rehabilitation group was significantly higher than that of the control group
      (64% vs. 28%, p = 0.02) (22). Using Therabite Jaw Motion Rehabilitation System (Therabite
      Corporation, Bryn Mawr, PA) for maintaining and/or improving mandibular range of motion in
      post-irradiated patients had been reported (23). They noted net increase in maximal
      interincisal distance ( MID) of Therabite group (13.6 mm [+/- 1.6 mm]) was significantly
      greater than unassisted exercise group (6.0 mm [+/- 1.8 mm]) and mechanically assisted
      mandibular mobilization with stacked tongue depressors combined with unassisted exercise
      group (4.4 mm [+/- 2.1 mm]) (P < .05) at week 6 and thereafter. These data supported the
      benefits of rehabilitation for trismus following RT. However, rehabilitation following new RT
      techniques have synchronic effect to improve patient's quality of life are another
      interesting points need to discuss.

      Acupuncture is an ancient Chinese method to treat diseases and relieve pain.
      Electro-acupuncture (EA) is one of many physical measures used to relieve musculoskeletal
      pain and to improve the associated restricted range of motion. Furthermore, electrical
      stimulation via skin patch electrodes is as effective as EA. Low frequency (2 Hz) and high
      frequency (100 Hz) of EA selectively induces the release of enkephalins and dynorphins in
      both experimental animals and humans. Clinical studies suggest its effectiveness for the
      treatment of various types of pain and spinally induced muscle spasm (24). In addition,
      acupuncture-like stimulation exerts physiologic effects on the central nervous system,
      mediated presumably by muscle afferent fibers. The effects may be relevant to relief of
      muscle spasm and musculoskeletal pain, and restoration of mobility (25). Moreover, the
      combined method of acupuncture with pressure on otopoints (the combination group) was used to
      treat with facial spasm. The total effective rates of the combination group, the acupuncture
      group and the pressure on otopoints group were 95.4%, 92.1% and 62.5% respectively; and the
      cure rates were 38.4%, 15.8% and 5% respectively. The differences in results of the three
      groups indicated that the therapeutic effectiveness of the combined method of acupuncture
      with pressure on otopoints is better than the other two therapeutic methods (26).These data
      hit the potential benefits of combination of EA and physical therapy. Moreover, electrical
      stimulation via skin patch electrodes is as effective as EA (24). Therefore, the effects of
      physical therapy combined with skin patch electrodes with different frequency maybe better
      than physical therapy alone following CCRT or RT are another interesting issue to discuss.
      Therefore, we designed the current prospective measurement study with 3 years of follow-up to
      evaluate the incidence and severity of radiation-induced trismus after IMRT and HT following
      physical therapy with or without electrical stimulation via skin patch electrodes using MRI
      to assess relevant pretreatment factors, treatment-related factors, and dosimetric
      parameters.

      Specific Aims:

      For Year 1:

        1. To clarify the optimal doses of each muscle for those who with mild or non-trismus
           treated by IMRT or HT with retrospective clinical data

        2. To testify whether MRI findings can have good correlation with the radiation dose and
           also clinical severity of trismus.

        3. To testify whether IMRT or HT plan can achieve the optimal doses by re-plan same
           patients with new constrains. .

      For Year 2:

        1. To clarify whether newly planning techniques of IMRT or HT can decrease the incidence
           and progression of trismus for head and neck patients.

        2. To testify whether MRI findings can serve as predictors for trismus during follow.

        3. To clarify whether adding rehabilitation can provide synchronous benefits for trismus
           following newly RT planning techniques.

      For Year 3:

        1. To clarify whether HT can provide better clinical results for decreasing trismus for
           head and neck patients than IMRT.

        2. To clarify whether MR image abnormalities of head and neck patient after IMRT will
           change after early introduction of rehabilitation.

        3. To clarify whether electrical stimulation via skin on specific points combined with
           rehabilitation can provide synchronous benefits than rehabilitation alone for trismus
           following newly RT planning techniques.
    
  