
    
      Prebiotics, probiotics and passive immunoprophylaxis are classes of dietary supplements that
      are lawfully marketed in the US for maintenance of gut health (GH). This randomized,
      double-blind, clinical trial will evaluate three commercially available dietary supplement
      products: (Bimuno, federally registered with the United States [US] Patent and Trademark
      Office [®]), probiotic (Florastor®), and passive immunoprophylaxis (Travelan®) product, each
      compared with placebo, to assess their ability to maintain normal gut function during travel.
      The results of this clinical trial will be used to evaluate the use of dietary supplements to
      maintain GH during deployment and travel and is not intended to support a marketing
      application of any dietary supplement as a drug or biological product for human use. This
      study is a multi-site, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind clinical trial conducted
      on travelers and deployed US and United Kingdom (UK) military personnel. The study will test
      three dietary supplement products: Bimuno®, Florastor®, and Travelan®, each compared with
      placebo for maintenance of GH during and immediately after travel. Enrollment of 1320
      deployed military personnel or travelers will occur at sites within the Uniformed Services
      University of the Health Sciences (USU) Infectious Disease Clinical Research Program (IDCRP)
      network, the UK military, and at a civilian travel clinic in New York City over a 2-year
      period. Subjects will be randomized to receive a masked regimen of Bimuno®, Florastor®,
      Travelan®, or placebo taken as 1 sachet twice daily with meals. Chemoprophylaxis will be
      started 3 days prior to arrival and maintained for a duration of 10 days during travel or
      deployment. Stool smears collected during travel will be used for evaluating the microbiome
      and for gut pathogen identification. A follow-up electronic survey completed at 3- and
      6-months post-travel/deployment will assess and record whether there are known or unknown
      diseases associated with GH deficits such as incident functional gastrointestinal disorders
      (FGD) and reactive arthritis (ReA). Paired (pre and post-supplement administration) sera and
      stool samples (pre- and post-supplement administration) will be collected for testing of
      exploratory objectives. Primary Endpoint (Efficacy): The primary efficacy endpoint is the
      combined endpoint of incidence of GH deficiencies (defined as 3 or more unformed stools in a
      24-hour period) OR 2 or more unformed stools an d one or more associated symptoms (nausea,
      vomiting, abdominal pain, fever, bloody stool) in a 24-hour period OR antibiotic treatment
      for diarrhea per subject report, focusing on a 10 day window of prophylaxis during travel.
      Primary endpoint data will be obtained from review of the Travel Diary. Secondary Objectives:
      Secondary endpoints will include an evaluation of compliance with each dietary supplement and
      tolerability (e.g. taste, bloating, flatulence, etc.); these will be assessed using the
      Travel Diary. Differences in GH associated enteropathogen distribution among the four
      treatment groups will be determined by testing stool smears collected by subjects during a GH
      deficit using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay. Risk of incident FGD and ReA in
      subjects in the dietary supplement arms vs. placebo will be assessed using electronic surveys
      administered 3- and 6- months following return from travel/deployment. Exploratory objectives
      related to changes in the gut microbiome with dietary supplement use and proteomic signatures
      of the host-pathogen interaction will be addressed contingent on the availability of
      additional funding.
    
  