
    
      As MRSA in more likely to be isolated from a SSTI than is a β-lactam susceptible organism at
      Parkland Hospital in Dallas, Texas, we performed a randomized, prospective, open-label
      investigation in our emergency department to determine the efficacy of empiric therapy using
      off-patent oral antibiotics (trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 160 mg/800 mg twice daily or
      doxycycline 100 mg twice daily for 7 days) for the outpatient treatment of SSTI abscesses,
      requiring wound packing after incision and drainage but not requiring hospitalization. Only
      SSTI requiring wound packing were enrolled to eliminate the inclusion of smaller SSTI not
      requiring wound packing.

      This investigation was approved by The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
      Institutional Review Board and included adults (≥ 18 years old) who were willing and able to
      provide informed consent. Inclusion criteria included being able to return for follow-up at 2
      to 5 days after enrollment and being accessible by telephone for follow-up assessment at 10
      to 14 days and 28 to 35 days after enrollment. Exclusion criteria excluded patients with
      contraindications or history of hypersensitivity reaction to any of the study treatment
      regimens, an infected prosthesis or device, concomitant bacteremia or deep infections (e.g.
      osteomyelitis, necrotizing fasciitis, endocarditis), diabetic foot infections, known
      immunodeficiency, pregnant or breastfeeding, requirement of additional antimicrobial agents,
      and those who did not obtain assigned antibiotics.

      The primary endpoint of this study was clinical failure defined as subsequent hospital
      admission, administration of intravenous antibiotics, or change in oral antibiotics over a
      period of 10-14 days after initial emergency department presentation. Repeated outpatient
      incision and drainage of the SSTI at 2 to 5 days after enrollment was not considered a
      clinical failure, if antibiotics were not changed and intravenous antibiotics were not
      administered. The trial enrolled patients from October 2005 to May 2006. Method of
      randomization was by generation of random numbers using www.randomizer.org, and alternately
      assigning these to the two treatment groups, and then sorting the numbers consecutively to
      determine the sequence of assigning treatment group to consecutively recruited patients.
      Statistical analysis was performed with SigmaStat 3.0 software (SPSS Inc., Chicago,
      Illinois). This investigation had no external funding.
    
  