
    
      Study Design: TREND-study design (Transparent Reporting of Evaluations with Non-randomized
      Designs-TREND):

      A multicenter prospective, non-randomized, controlled study of the intracorporeal mechanical
      side-to-side isoperistaltic anastomosis versus extracorporeal anastomosis in laparoscopic
      right hemicolectomy. TREND-study.

      Study procedure

      Intracorporeal anastomosis group The laparoscopic right hemicolectomy with intracorporeal
      mechanical side-to-side isoperistaltic anastomosis. In this procedure, intracorporeal
      division of the mesoileum and transverse colon is performed, as shown in the animation. The
      ileum and transverse colon are divided with the Endopath® Echelon Flex ™ 60 stapler. The
      specimen is inserted in a plastic bag. Side-to-side isoperistaltic mechanical anastomosis is
      performed using the same endostapler. A running suture is performed of the mechanical suture
      orifice, with another reinforcing suture with Monocryl ™ (poliglecaprone 25) or with
      STRATAFIX ™ Spiral Knotless barbed suture. The specimen is extracted through a Pfannestiel
      minilaparotomy (3.5-4 cm) Wound Protector Extracorporeal anastomosis group according to the
      usual technique in each center.

      Expected duration of subject participation; what is done and when: Duration of the study two
      years.

      Population

      Patients diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the right colon up to the hepatic angle after
      complete colonoscopy, biopsy, and chest, abdominal and pelvic CT, and chest radiography, of
      the participating hospitals.

      Recruitment Plan

      Centers intracorporeal group: Parc Taulí University Hospital, Spain. Hospital Universitario
      Joan XXIII de Tarragona, Spain. Hospital de Cancer de Barretos. Brazil

      Centers extracorporeal group: Consorcio Hospitalario de Terrassa (Barcelona), Spain. Hospital
      de Universitario de Vich (Barcelona), Spain. Hospital Universitario Arnau de Vilanova de
      Lleida, Spain. Hospital Santa Tecla de Tarragona, Spain. Hospital Universitario Sant Joan de
      Reus (Tarragona), Spain.
    
  