
    
      1. Primary Objective: Conduct a prospective, observational pilot study that assesses the
           frequency and severity of anesthesia charting fidelity weaknesses in three separate
           clinical environments (Cardiac surgical operating room, cardiac surgical intensive care
           unit, and electrophysiology laboratory) as assessed by a customized error scoring system
           that focuses on the magnitude of errors among multiple continuous, categorical and
           dichotomous variables. The errors are being assessed in order to identify the most
           common charting inaccuracies so that target areas appropriate for testing of improvement
           strategies may be isolated.

             1. Cardiac surgical operating room: Any cardiac surgical procedure that involves the
                use of cardiopulmonary bypass and planned postoperative intensive care unit
                admission in an electronic supplemented anesthesia charting environment

             2. Cardiac surgical intensive care unit: The cardiac surgical intensive care unit
                environment during the first 2-3 hours following procedures referenced in section
                I,A,1

             3. Electrophysiology laboratory: select electrophysiology laboratory based procedures
                that employ a paper anesthesia chart

        2. Secondary and Exploratory Objectives:

             1. Identify environmental variables that contribute significantly to medical record
                errors.

             2. Identify clinical role of individual responsible for charting

             3. Investigate time of day/patterns that charting errors occur

             4. Relationship of clinical acuity and event occurrences

             5. Role of equipment malfunction and event frequency

             6. Role of social distracters and event frequency

             7. Role of monitor infidelity and event frequency

             8. Role of delayed charting of event and frequency of errors

             9. Identify/quantify the awareness of clinicians to their execution of medical record
                errors through use of simple, multiple choice 4 question survey that clinicians
                will be asked to fill out following a case study

            10. Examine the relationship between the assessed environments and the frequency of
                medical charting errors

            11. Identify the areas of anesthesia charting most in need of improvement in order to
                address designing ways to potentially improve these weaknesses.

      Error scoring system:

        1. The degree of charting fidelity error in this study will be converted via a
           classification system to make data analysis more efficient. All types of errors that
           involve continuous variables will be assessed with mean, median and standard deviation
           as well as range. Numerical data points related to time will be classified into four
           separate categories.

             1. Class It: temporally accurate data will less than 2 minutes or 3.3% deviation from
                actual time of event/observation.

             2. Class IIt: temporally inaccurate data with between 2-3 minutes or 3.3-5% deviation
                from actual time of event/observation.

             3. Class IIIt: temporally inaccurate data with between 3-6 minutes or 5-10% deviation
                from actual time of event/observation.

             4. Class IVt: temporally inaccurate data with greater than 10% deviation (6 min) from
                actual time of event/observation.

        2. The degree of charting fidelity error observed with respect to hemodynamic parameters
           will be classified as follows:

             1. Class Ih: accurate hemodynamic data with less than 3% deviation from the
                representative value recorded by the scribe.

             2. Class IIh: inaccurate hemodynamic data with between 3-5% deviation from the
                representative value recorded by the scribe.

             3. Class IIIh: inaccurate hemodynamic data with between 5-10% deviation from the
                representative value recorded by the scribe.

             4. Class IVh: inaccurate hemodynamic data with greater than 10% deviation from the
                representative value recorded by the scribe.

        3. The degree of charting fidelity error observed with respect to whether a procedure which
           was performed by anesthesia provider was charted will be assessed as a dichotomous
           variable, Yes or No.

        4. The degree of charting fidelity error observed with respect to whether a significant
           intraoperative event, or intra-procedural event for the electrophysiology laboratory,
           was charted will be assessed as a dichotomous variable, Yes or No.

        5. The degree of charting fidelity error observed with respect to drug dosing will be
           assessed as a dichotomous variable, Yes or No.

        6. The degree of charting fidelity error as related to procedural details will be assessed
           as a dichotomous variable, Yes or No.

        7. Full statistical analysis making all possible comparisons of collected data will be
           performed with the assistance of a trained statistician.
    
  