
    
      Type 1 Diabetes (T1DM) is one of the most common chronic medical conditions that occur in
      children. More than two-thirds of these young patients struggle to maintain optimal glycemic
      control. On a seemingly unrelated front, insufficient sleep has become a public health crisis
      as less than 30% of youth achieve the recommended number of hours on school nights. Prior
      research has supported that sleep disturbances contribute to elevated glucose levels and have
      a significant impact on memory, attention, and planning. These skills are essential to
      effective diabetes management. Despite the link between sleep and diabetes, no research has
      examined the benefits of an intervention to help these youth achieve a healthy sleep
      duration. To that end, our primary objective is to determine the effect of sleep extension on
      glycemic control and psychosocial functioning. Our secondary objective is to determine
      mediators and moderators of effect. The central hypothesis is that an increase in sleep
      duration will lower glucose levels and improve behavioral ratings (internalizing,
      externalizing, and classroom behaviors). Our primary study aims are to (1) Test if
      lengthening sleep improves glycemic control and psychosocial function in youth with T1DM; (2)
      Assess putative mechanisms for the effects of sleep extension on glucose and psychosocial
      function; and (3) Examine the possible moderating effect of pre-existing sleep parameters and
      sociodemographic variables that modify the impact of sleep extension. A secondary aim is
      exploratory to examine additional pre-selected mediators and moderators. In the proposed
      randomized study, up to 175 youth with T1DM will be assigned to a Sleep Extension or a
      supportive routines condition. The Sleep Extension lengthens youth's time in bed to allow for
      a healthy sleep duration on a consistent basis, whereas the supportive routines condition
      reinforces daytime and nighttime activities. We will test the impact of sleep extension on
      key indices of glycemic control (average glucose levels and % time hyperglycemia using
      continuous glucose monitors and HbA1C) as well as putative mechanisms of effect (e.g., heart
      rate variability and salivary cortisol levels) and participant characteristics that might
      mitigate the benefits of sleep extension (e.g., sleep-disordered breathing, adherence, and
      SES). Once our aims are achieved and a causal link is established, the proposed Sleep
      Extension intervention will advance knowledge about the role of sleep in diabetes management
      and provide a beneficial intervention to help youth with T1DM.
    
  