
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) is a broadly-defined neurological disorder that encompasses brain injury
      or malformation in a child's brain that occurs before, during, or immediately after birth and
      results in impaired motor control. Because of the broad definition of CP, people with CP can
      exhibit a very wide range of symptoms, and no two people with CP will exhibit the same
      symptoms. However, people with CP generally have difficulty moving parts of their bodies
      normally because of muscle weakness or paralysis, impaired muscle coordination, and/or
      spasticity. Impaired motor control can also be accompanied by intellectual impairment,
      seizures, or sensory impairment.

      Physical impairment can severely limit participation in physical activity by people with CP,
      as is true for anyone with physical impairments. Lack of physical activity can lead to the
      development of any number of chronic diseases, especially in children with disabilities like
      CP. Exercise is an effective method for mitigating the negative secondary health effects of
      neuromuscular diseases like CP, but how can someone with CP exercise despite their impaired
      motor control, especially when 31% of children with CP have limited walking ability.

      Cycling is an exercise that challenges the muscular and cardiovascular systems, potentially
      leading to improved health, fitness, and well-being. Cycling with functional electrical
      stimulation (FES) has been primarily used by people with spinal cord injury; improvements
      have been seen in bone mineral density, muscle strength (force-generating capacity), and
      cardiorespiratory measures. Recent reports indicated benefits for people after stroke;
      improvements in strength and motor control were seen when an FES cycling program was added to
      traditional rehabilitation. However, there have been no reports of FES cycling for children
      with CP.

      Cycling with FES may be a suitable intervention for with CP because the seated position
      decreases balance demands, and FES can create or augment pedaling forces. Many people with CP
      may be incapable of generating sufficient forces during cycling to reach the exercise
      intensity needed for optimal fitness-related outcomes and musculoskeletal benefits.
    
  