
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of palm oil on blood lipids,
      cardiovascular health and inflammation. Potential subjects will be screened until 24
      qualifying healthy participants are enrolled. After enrollment participants will undergo a
      baseline battery of tests including blood draws, body composition, measures of height and
      weight, blood lipid profile (cholesterol, lipoprotein particle size, quantity and fatty acid
      composition), insulin sensitivity using a static index, inflammation, antioxidant status and
      measurement of energy expenditure and substrate oxidation by indirect calorimetry.
      Participants will be randomly divided into one of two arms/tracks, either a low carbohydrate
      diet arm or a high carbohydrate diet arm. Each diet arm consists of 3 phases a low saturated
      fat control diet where the primary cooking oil is canola oil and two saturated fat diet
      phases where the primary cooking oil is either palm oil or butter.

      Participants will begin with the low saturated fat diet phase first which consists of 50% of
      fat calories derived from canola oil for 3 weeks. At the end of this control diet phase the
      battery of tests completed at baseline will be repeated. After a 2-week washout period
      participants will then proceed in random order into either the palm oil or butter diet phases
      of their diet arm/track. The palm oil and butter diet phases are also 3 weeks in duration and
      separated by a 2 week washout period. The palm oil and butter diet phases will derive 50% of
      the fat calories from either palm oil or butter. Both oils are high in saturated fat but
      differ in the quality of saturated fat. At the end of each diet phase the testing battery
      completed at baseline will be repeated. The subjects will never be exposed to more than
      minimal risk and in return will receive 9 weeks of food, individualized reports of their
      study results and a monetary stipend. The study will help us better understand how the
      quality of saturated fat and the quantity of carbohydrate interact to impact blood lipids and
      cardiovascular health. This knowledge can be used to aid dietary recommendations for
      cardiovascular health and control of blood lipids.
    
  