
    
      eHealth is a model for the delivery and receipt of healthcare services with an expanding
      evidence base that suggests great potential to increase access and support the transition
      from episodic to continuous care. In this model, patients, their families, and clinical team
      members use eHealth technologies that support functions (e.g., communication, behavior
      support, transactions) that are critical to disease prevention and health management which in
      turn influences behaviors, processes and outcomes.

      In October 2016, the existing Office of Telehealth and the Connected Health Office will merge
      to create a single Office to oversee the implementation and evaluation of eHealth
      technologies across VHA. The new combined Connected Health/Telehealth Office will manage the
      full spectrum of technologies included in the current Offices of Telehealth (e.g., clinical
      video telehealth, home telehealth, tele-ICU) and Connected Health (e.g., patient portal,
      secure messaging, mobile apps), as well as new technologies that span these offices (such as
      the new Automated Telehealth Texting System). Recognizing the importance of rigorous
      evaluation to its mission, the Connected Health/Telehealth Office is pledging funds for an
      eHealth Partnered Evaluation Initiative (PEI) to support the further implementation of
      eHealth technologies across VHA, and to measure their impacts on dimensions of access, as
      well as Veteran and clinical team experiences, healthcare processes, and Veteran health
      outcomes.

      Developed in close consultation with Connected Health/Telehealth Office leadership, the
      proposed objectives of the eHealth PEI are to (1) implement a patient-level "supported
      adoption intervention" for secure messaging and evaluate the impact of secure messaging use
      through a rapid, one-year randomized trial; and (2) evaluate the initial rollout of VHA's
      automated telehealth text messaging system to Veterans and clinical team members. The
      evaluation work associated with each of these two objectives will be guided by the Practical,
      Robust Implementation and Sustainability Model (PRISM).

      The implementation and evaluation of eHealth technologies is not just the mission of the new
      Connected Health/Telehealth Office, it is also the vision of VHA. In addition to addressing
      the needs of the investigators' operational partner, the aforementioned objectives map to key
      strategies and transformational actions detailed in the Blueprint for Excellence, and align
      with a recently developed Virtual Access Strategy Document intended to guide the efforts of
      the Connected Health/Telehealth Office. The proposed eHealth PEI team includes leadership and
      investigators from the eHealth Quality Enhancement Research Initiative (QUERI) who are
      recognized authorities in informatics, implementation science, and mixed methods evaluation,
      and have longstanding, collaborative relationships with constituents in the Connected
      Health/Telehealth Office.
    
  