
    
      RATIONALE: Virologic failure and adverse effects associated with current highly active
      antiretroviral therapy (HAART) warrant continuing search for novel combination therapeutic
      options. Raltegravir's (RAL) was recently shown to be a potent antiretroviral (ARV) agent
      with a favorable safety profile. If future reports continue to show positive data on this
      first-in-class integrase inhibitor, there may be a paradigm shift in the currently
      recommended first line HAART to regimens that will include integrase inhibitors.

      Combining RAL with a drug that has a high genetic barrier to resistance, such as
      lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) may offer a number of advantages. Both agents are potent and
      should produce durable virologic suppression. Because their combination is reverse
      transcriptase inhibitor (RTI) class sparing, its tolerability might be superior. In addition,
      RAL is not metabolized by the cytochrome P-450 enzymes, therefore, a compatible
      pharmacokinetic profile is expected with this combination. Pairing LPV/r with RAL in early
      ARV regimens as is proposed in this application may provide a HAART regimen that is highly
      efficacious and durable, with less resistance and adverse drug events.

      DESIGN: This is single center, open label, randomized, controlled, study designed to assess
      the tolerability, pharmacokinetic compatibility, and the durability of virologic suppression
      of the RTI sparing combination therapy of LPV/r + RAL. HIV-infected subjects who are
      virologically suppressed (HIV-RNA PCR < 50 copies/ml) on current HAART regimen will be
      randomized in a 2:1 fashion to be switched to a regimen consisting of LPV/r + RAL,
      intervention arm A (n=40), or to be continued on their pre-study HAART regimen, control arm B
      (n=20). The primary endpoint will be proportion of subjects with sustained virologic
      suppression (HIV-1 RNA PCR < 50 copies/ml) through week 48. The immunoreconstitution,
      toxicity profile, and pharmacokinetic profile of the RAL and LPV/r in this novel combination
      therapy will be evaluated.

      DURATION: 48 weeks after the enrollment of the last participant. Enrollment is expected to
      take about 10 months.

      SAMPLE SIZE: 60 subjects.

      POPULATION: HIV-infected individuals (male and female), Age > 18 years, who are virologically
      suppressed (HIV-RNA PCR < 50 copies/ml) on their current HAART regimen for > 6 months.

      REGIMEN: For Arm A= LPV/r 400/100 mg (2 tablets) twice daily + RAL 400 mg (1 tablet) twice
      daily taken by mouth. For Arm B=Pre-study HAART regimen.
    
  