
    
      Rectal cancer is a common form of cancer. Standard treatment for locally advanced rectal
      cancer is a long course of neoadjuvant radiation combined with chemotherapy (CRT) followed by
      resection. However, neoadjuvant CRT induces downsizing and downstaging, resulting in a
      complete response in 15-20% of the patients. In these patients surgery may be omitted. In the
      investigators previous study the investigators obtained good results with an organ saving
      treatment. Although the mortality and morbidity associated with radical surgery is avoided,
      the irradiated rectum remains in situ, possibly causing functional problems.

      The primary objective is to describe the functional outcome of patients that choose for organ
      saving treatment. Functional outcome will be evaluated with questionnaires (quality of life)
      and manometric measurements (maximal resting pressure, maximal squeezing pressure, sphincter
      length, percentage asymmetry of the resting sphincter, sustained duration, length of the high
      pressure zone, rectoanal inhibitory reflex, rectal sensory threshold, and rectal compliance).

      Secondary objectives include: the estimation of the cumulative risk of local failure within 5
      years, the estimation of the cumulative risk of disease-free, distant-metastasis-free and
      overall survival within 5 years, determine the percentage of patients that chooses organ
      saving treatment instead of standard resection, determine the compliance to intensive
      follow-up, and compare the cost-effectiveness of organ saving treatment to standard surgical
      resection over a period of 5 years. These objectives will be assessed by frequent revision of
      the electronic patient file, as the patient is followed up to four times per year.

      Study design: prospective observational registration study with 'invasive diagnostic
      procedures' Study population: The population will consist of patients, aged 18 years or
      older, with locally advanced rectal cancer who after chemoradiation have a clinical complete
      response (ycT0N0) or very good response (ycT1-2N0).

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study endpoint is the functional outcome scores
      based on questionnaires and manometric measurements Nature and extent of the burden and risks
      associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: The questionnaires take
      approximately 20 minutes to complete. There is a relatively low rate of side effects
      associated with manometric measurements. Results of this study will contribute to better
      understanding of functional complaints after rectal cancer treatment.
    
  