
    
      Primary Objectives:

      The study will be conducted in two phases with the following aims: (1) To passively assess
      the adherence to hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir using a
      wireless pill monitoring device in 33 patients (Phase 1, months 1-3). (2) To test the impact
      on adherence of using the active wireless pill monitoring device in conjunction with the
      HepCure web-based tool kit in 66 patients (Phase 2, months 4-9). Participants in phase 2 will
      be randomized 1:1 to one of two conditions: (a) Patients using the HepCure patient app linked
      to a provider using the HepCure Provider Dashboard; AdhereTech passively monitoring
      adherence. (b) Patients using the HepCure patient app linked to a provider using the HepCure
      Provider Dashboard; AdhereTech actively monitoring adherence (chimes and reminders enabled).

      Secondary Objectives:

      The study design allows us to compare the additive effect on adherence of the HepCure
      provider toolkit and the HepCure provider toolkit + active AdhereTech reminder system.

      Primary Endpoints:

      The primary study endpoints are taking and timing adherence as assessed by electronic
      monitoring. There are numerous methods of assessing adherence to medication. They each have
      their strengths and weaknesses, and some are only feasible in the research but not clinical
      setting. The most commonly used methods of assessing adherence are (1) provider assessment,
      (2) structured self-report (3) pharmacy refill data (4) electronic monitoring (5) pill counts
      and (6) directly observed therapy. Electronic monitoring technology has been widely used in
      research studies of HIV medication adherence and is regarded by many as the most accurate
      method of assessing medication adherence (Weiss et al. 2009). In this method, the medication
      bottle cap has a microchip which records all openings and closings of the bottle. This
      microchip provides the researcher with a precise record of the date and time of each bottle
      opening. This method has been shown to be closely associated with random home pill count
      (Bangsberg et al., 2001a), viral suppression (Bangsberg et al., 2000; Paterson et al., 2000;
      Arnsten et al., 2001; Walsh et al., 2002b; Moss et al., 2004), and drug resistance (Walsh et
      al., 2002b). Studies have consistently found that provider assessment of adherence is poor
      (Bangsberg et al., 2001b; Gross et al., 2002; and Miller et al., 2002). Self-reported
      adherence tends to provide an over-estimate of actual adherence (Weiss et al. 2009). Pharmacy
      refill data is best employed when patients use one pharmacy for all prescriptions, pharmacy
      data are easily accessible to the clinician by computer, and prescriptions are not
      automatically delivered without the patient needing to request them or pick them up. Patients
      in clinical research studies are often asked to bring their medication to study visits so
      that the change in the number of pills (accounting for refills) since the last visit can be
      used to assess adherence. Potential problems associated with these announced pill counts are
      that patients may forget to bring their medication to study visits, and nonadherent patients
      may throw out pills prior to the visit ("pill dumps") to avoid being labeled nonadherent.
      While directly observed therapy (DOT) provides a highly accurate assessment of adherence, the
      cost and intrusiveness of observing all doses of medication ingestion make it an impractical
      method of ARV adherence assessment, except in very specific settings (e.g., prisons or
      nursing homes).
    
  