
    
      Ticagrelor has been shown to significantly reduce the rate of cardiovascular disease (CVD)
      events and death compared with clopidogrel in patients having prior acute coronary syndrome.
      A number of outcome studies have demonstrated the risk of major CVD events increased with
      blood viscosity. Stroke patients and those with stroke risk factors were shown to have
      chronically elevated blood viscosity relative to healthy controls. Based on prior
      observations, the rationale for this study is to demonstrate that both aspirin-ticagrelor and
      ticagrelor monotherapy will be superior to aspirin monotherapy in the reduction of whole
      blood viscosity at the end of each 4 week treatment period.

      The primary objectives for this study is to: (1) Compare the effect of aspirin-ticagrelor
      with aspirin in a double blind, randomized, cross-over study design (weeks 1-4, weeks 6-10,
      and weeks 12-16) on blood viscosity at both low (5 s-ยน) and high (300 s-ยน) shear rates at the
      end of each 4-week treatment period; and (2) to compare the effect of ticagrelor mono-therapy
      with aspirin in a double blind, randomized, cross-over study design (weeks 1-4, weeks 6-10,
      and weeks 12-16) on blood viscosity at both low (5 s-ยน) and high (300 s-ยน) at the end of each
      4-week treatment.

      The secondary objectives for this study include: (1) a determination as to whether there are
      differences in low and high shear rate dependent viscosity with treatment by ticagrelor alone
      and combination aspirin-ticagrelor. Additionally, investigated will be the effect of the
      treatment on peripheral arterial blood flow using pulse volume recordings, ankle brachial
      index, and toe pressures.

      The general approach to evaluation of drug efficacy will be through blood samples collected
      with a standard venipuncture for viscosity testing. Blood viscosity will be measured using an
      automated scanning capillary tube viscometer across a physiologic range of shear rates of
      1-1000 s-1 in increments of 0.1 s-1. Blood viscosity levels at 5 s-1 will be reported as
      low-shear viscosity, and blood viscosity measurements at 300 s-1 will be reported as
      high-shear viscosity. Additionally, pulse volume recordings will be simultaneously obtained
      at the level of the ankle, metatarsal and toe bilaterally according to standard protocol, and
      Continuous-wave Doppler will be used to determine ankle-brachial indices or toe-brachial
      indices, and flow velocity profiles.
    
  