
    
      To date, patients over the age of 60 yrs represent 25% of the population and are at increased
      risk of surgical repair. Reduction of postoperative morbidity and mortality are now two main
      concerns for medical research. Dependence on caregivers and cognitive impairments are two
      major risks in the elderly and even more in frail patients after surgery under general
      anesthesia. In this context continuous monitoring of the depth of anesthesia through
      bispectral index may reduce its occurrence with better control of too deep sedation periods
      (vasopressors…). Previous studies by the investigators' team suggest a better duration in the
      expected interval of Bispectral Index with automated control of administration of intravenous
      anesthetics guided by Bispectral Index. This method remains to be tested in this high-risk
      population. As a consequence, a randomization into two groups will be carried on elderly
      patients (> 70 yrs): manual administration of anesthetics guided by Bispectral Index (manual
      group) or automated administration (automated group). Complete preoperative assessments will
      determine the FRAIL status (with a decrease in the physiological reserve) and abilities of
      the patient according to the self-sufficient scale. At six months a follow-up will determine
      the geriatric status of the patient to explore the rate of impairment and to examine
      predictive factors in the preoperative assessment. Finally, the influence of the method of
      administration will be reported. Four hundred and thirty patients will be included in this
      multicenter study with 215 patients per group and stratification of the presence of a cancer
      and of the abdominal repair. The follow-up in this study allows the patient or his/her
      relatives to keep in touch with a physician and to prescribe some therapy early if frailty or
      any other cognitive impairment appears.
    
  