
    
      In 2001, a study titled, "A Multi-Center Trial of Academic Hospitalists" began at the
      University of Chicago Hospital along with five additional academic institutions. The study is
      currently and successfully collecting data solely at the University of Chicago Medical
      Center.

      The comprehensive aim of this proposed research is to measure and analyze the effects of
      hospitalists on patient outcomes, costs, and medical education on the general medicine
      services at the University of Chicago Medical Center (UC). The comprehensive aim of this
      research will be pursued through five specific aims:

      Specific Aim #1- To assess whether hospitalists affect the cost and quality of inpatient
      care. This will be accomplished by analyzing the outcomes of 50,000 patients assigned to
      hospitalists or non-hospitalists using a quasi-randomized design based on day of the week of
      admission. Outcomes will include in-hospital and post-discharge mortality, readmission,
      emergency room use, and patient satisfaction.

      Specific Aim #2- To assess the mechanisms by which hospitalists may effect the cost and
      quality of care. Understanding these mechanisms is essential if hospitalist programs are to
      be designed in ways that permit them to achieve their desired benefits. We will develop
      measures to assess the whether these possible mechanisms by which hospitalists may have their
      effects are related to costs and outcomes.

      Specific Aim #3- To assess the effects of hospitalists on housestaff and student education
      and satisfaction. This will be accomplished by surveys administered to medical students and
      housestaff.

      Specific Aim #4 - To attempt to quantify primary care providers' (PCP's) satisfaction with
      the frequency, promptness, manner, and content of communication with the in-hospital
      healthcare team, and to assess differences in PCP satisfaction with teams led by hospitalist
      and non-hospitalist attending physicians. We hypothesize that deficiencies in such
      communication may impair continuity of care with outpatient physicians during hospitalization
      and at the time of discharge, and may be improved when the attending physician is a
      hospitalist.

      Specific Aim #5- To assess the quality of care for vulnerable elders for specific geriatric
      syndromes and diseases by modifying our current surveys and chart abstraction tools in our
      project with questions aimed to address these issues.
    
  