
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the event-free survival rate in pediatric patients with standard-risk
           medulloblastoma treated with conventional vs hyperfractionated radiotherapy and
           vincristine followed by maintenance with cisplatin, lomustine, and vincristine.

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the pattern of relapse, especially local relapse (tumor bed or posterior fossa
           outside tumor bed), in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the toxicity of surgery and whether there are identifiable factors that
           correlate with toxicity in these patients.

        -  Determine the impact of any surgical complications on commencement of adjuvant therapy
           and event-free survival of these patients.

        -  Compare late sequelae, in terms of health status, endocrine deficiencies, and hearing
           loss, in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      country. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Within 28-40 days after surgical resection, patients undergo conventional
           fractionated radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 6-7 weeks. Patients also
           receive vincristine IV once weekly for 8 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Beginning as in arm I, patients undergo hyperfractionated radiotherapy twice
           daily, 5 days a week, for 6-7 weeks. Patients also receive vincristine as in arm I.

        -  Maintenance chemotherapy:Six weeks after completion of radiotherapy, all patients
           receive cisplatin IV over 6 hours and oral lomustine on day 1 and vincristine IV on days
           1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 8 courses.

      Patients are followed at least every 6 months for 3 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 316 patients (158 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 4 years.
    
  