
    
      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a technique in which low intensity
      electrical current is applied over the skull in order to excite the underlying brain tissue.
      It has been studied in many populations (stroke, spinal cord injury, learning disability,
      migraine, memory) and may be a useful counterpart to traditional rehabilitation of
      neurological injuries. Preliminary studies from members of the investigator's lab group have
      indicated beneficial, single-session effects of tDCS on hand function in people with spinal
      cord injury. Longer-term, multi-session trials are now warranted.

      Another approach that has research support for augmenting the effects of hand function
      training is peripheral nerve somatosensory stimulation (PNSS). Unlike tDCS, which excites
      brain tissue directly, PNSS excites the brain via an indirect approach. Members of the
      investigators' lab have found the combination of PNSS and fine motor training to be more
      effective in improving hand function than either intervention alone. Multi-session trials of
      PNSS have been conducted; however it has not yet been compared with another clinically
      accessible adjunctive therapy, like tDCS, in a multi-session trial.

      The investigators plan to study the comparative effects of tDCS and hand function training to
      PNSS and hand function training and hand function training alone in people with neck-level
      spinal cord injuries. People with both acute/subacute (<6 months post-injury) and chronic (>1
      year post-injury) injuries will be enrolled, in order to look at responses to tDCS at
      different stages of recovery.

      Before beginning training, participants will complete approximately three hours of testing of
      their arm/hand function and self-reported perception of their overall function. Participants
      will then be randomly assigned to receive either tDCS, PNSS, or sham tDCS in combination with
      personalized fine motor training. This training will take place 3 times/week, for a total of
      3 hours of training/week, for 4 weeks. Fine motor training will be based on principles that
      have been shown to optimize neuroplasticity (changes in the brain and/or spinal cord), yet
      customized, in order to allow participants to work towards individualized goals. At the end
      of 4 weeks, participants will complete a three-hour post-test using the same measures as
      before to examine any changes in arm and hand function. Participants will be asked to return
      to Shepherd Center 4 - 6 weeks following the post-intervention assessment to complete the
      post-intervention assessment.
    
  