
    
      Specific Aim: Compare the difference in the contralateral peak-to-peak N1-P1 amplitude and N1
      latency between the belly tendon electrode montage with the conventional infraorbital
      electrode montage in otologically normal patients grouped by decade with the goal of
      developing normative values to use clinically.

      The oVEMP is a short latency (~10 ms), negative polarity evoked myogenic potential that is
      recorded from the extraocular muscles. The oVEMP test is well-tolerated by patients and is
      simple to administer. Whereas the recording of the cVEMP to air-conducted stimuli represents
      a means for evaluating the function of the saccule and inferior vestibular nerve, the oVEMP
      in response to mechanical, and probably air conducted stimuli, is now felt to represent a
      method for assessing the functional integrity of the utricle and superior vestibular nerve.

      The oVEMP response is recorded from beneath both the ipsilateral and contralateral eyes, but
      the largest response is typically seen in the contralateral recording. The contralateral
      utricular-ocular pathway terminates on the inferior oblique muscle, the electrical field of
      which can be recorded by an electrode placed at the midline of the lower lid and having the
      subject gaze upward (i.e. which results in the inferior oblique muscle becoming more
      superficial to the location of the surface electrode.

      The the absolute oVEMP N1 peak-to-peak amplitude has become the most important measurement
      for diagnostic purposes. Typical oVEMP latencies are ~11 ms for the negative peak (N1) and
      ~15 ms for the following positive peak (P1) .

      Variables that may confound recording oVEMPs include body position and electrode montages.
      Regarding electrode placement, there are three different electrode montages that have been
      studied and implemented clinically. The vast majority of clinics favor the electrode montage
      reported in the early papers describing the oVEMP. The authors reported that the
      non-inverting electrode was placed infraorbitally at the margin of the lower eyelid. The
      inverting electrode was placed 2 cm inferior to the location of the non-inverting electrode.
      Two additional electrode montages that have been reported include: 1) the noninverting
      electrodes placed at the margin of the lower eyelid slightly lateral to midline and the
      inverting electrode placed rostral to the inner canthus of the eye, and, 2) the noninverting
      electrodes placed at the middle of the lmargin of the lower eyelid and a single common
      inverting electrode placed on the chin. A report by Sandhu et al. (2013) indicated that the
      maximal oVEMP amplitude was recorded with the former electrode montage. In this montage, the
      inverting electrode is placed over a tendon, which is believed to be (relatively)
      electrically neutral.

      Skin surface electrodes are sensitive to the desired muscle activity (i.e. signal) recorded
      locally as well as non-stimulus-related electrical activity (i.e. noise) that can be both
      endogenous and exogenous. Where the signal is common to both the inverting and non-inverting
      electrodes this activity routed into a differential electrode can result in cancellation of
      some or all of the desired signal.

      Recently published data from our laboratory has shown that the Sandhu montage (i.e. the
      "belly-tendon electrode montage) in the sitting position is the optimal method for testing
      patients who are otologically and neurologically normal. This montage is associated with a
      larger N1 amplitude and a larger peak-to-peak amplitude for oVEMP measurements for young,
      normal patients. Due to the knowledge that the amplitude of the oVEMP response decreases with
      age, however, normative values based on decade would be necessary to have the oVEMP response
      be as clinically useful as possible.

      Significance and Potential of the Research:

      Establishing normative values based on decade will allow for higher sensitivity and
      specificity to vestibular impairments affecting the utricle and superior portion of the
      vestibular nerve, as well as increase the sensitivity and specificity to disorders such as
      Superior Semicircular Canal Dehiscence Syndrome.

      Methods:

      Subjects: Participants will include groups of patients between 20-90 years of age. The groups
      will be composed of 10-15 subjects per group to allow for normative data to be calculated.
      Participants will be recruited by phone using databases housed in the Odess Otolaryngology
      Department at Vanderbilt Bill Wilkerson Center, via flyers posted at Vanderbilt University
      Medical Center, and through Research Match email blasts. The study protocol will undergo
      review by the Vanderbilt Institutional Review Board (submitted-see Appendix).

      oVEMP Recording: For the oVEMP recording (utricular assessment), subjects will be seated in a
      comfortable reclining will be compared during this study. First, an electrode montage and
      recording parameters similar to those reported by Chihara et al. (2007) will be used to
      record the oVEMP. Disposable silver/silverchloride electrodes will be placed infraorbitally
      beneath each eye (i.e., infraorbital 1 cm) representing the non-inverting amplifier inputs
      and 3cm infraorbitally will serve as the location for the inverting electrode. A second
      electrode montage with recording parameters similar those reported by Sandhu et al. (2013)
      will be used simultaneously to record oVEMP responses. Disposable silver/silverchloride
      electrodes will be placed on the belly of the inferior oblique muscle representing the
      non-inverting amplifier inputs and the tendon of the inferior oblique muscle will serve as
      the location for the inverting electrode. The ground electrode will be placed at Fpz for both
      electrode montages.

      When recording the oVEMP, the subjects will be seated and instructed to keep their head at
      midline and gaze at a target positioned ~30° upward at midline. During the recording, the
      investigator will monitor to ensure the subject's chin is parallel to the horizon. Stimuli
      for the oVEMP recordings will be presented monaurally through Etymotic ER-3A insert earphones
      or a B81 bone conductor and consist of 500 Hz tone bursts presented at a rate of 5.1/sec. The
      tone burst will have a 2 cycle rise time, 1 cycle plateau and a 2 cycle fall time. A
      Neuroscan (Herndon, UA) multi-channel evoked potential recording system will enable us to
      record simultaneously the oVEMP response from each of the two electrode montages. EMG
      activity will be amplified by 100,000 times and signal averaged over 100 msec. A minimum of
      120 individual samples will be collected for each recording. Each tracing will be replicated
      at least one time so that the waveform reproducibility can be estimated. Order effects will
      be eliminated by counterbalancing the order of the starting ear. oVEMPs from the two
      electrode montages will be recorded simultaneously, so counterbalancing the electrode montage
      will be unnecessary. A minimum of two amplitude measures will be completed for each electrode
      montage condition in each position, for a total minimum of 8 recordings per subject. The
      subject will be given 1-2 minutes to rest their eyes between recordings.

      Stimulus level will be calibrated in dBpeak SPL using a 2-cm3 coupler to a sound-level meter
      (Bruel & Kjaer). The stimulus waveforms and amplitude spectra will be measured by routing the
      air conduction output of the sound-level meter to a spectrum analyzer.

      Statistical Methods:

      Analysis: Summary statistics will be provided for all demographic and clinical variables,
      along with 95% confidence intervals and side-by-side boxplots. Between-group differences in
      categorical variables will be assessed via chi-squared tests while differences in continuous
      variables will be assessed via the Wilcoxin rank-sum test (using significance level alpha =
      0.0125 in primary analysis as per the power calculation above). Hotelling's T-squared
      distribution will also be used as an omnibus or simultaneous test that the groups are the
      same for all variables in the primary analysis. Amplitude differences obtained using each
      montage will be calculated as a change expressed in percentage using the formula below:

      (n1-p1 amplitude montage2 - n1-p1 amplitude montage 1)

      --------------------------------------------------------------- n1-p1 amplitude montage 1

      All statistical analyses will be performed with SPSS 23.

      Facilities Available: The Vanderbilt Balance Disorders Laboratory is located in the Bill
      Wilkerson Center. The Balance Disorders Laboratory is equipped with state-of-the art
      equipment for comprehensive assessment of vestibular and auditory disorders. The facility
      includes a sound treated room, five diagnostic audiometers, five compact disk players for
      speech audiometry, five immittance meters, three otoacoustic emissions devices, two rotary
      vestibular test chairs, three videonystagmography systems, a computerized
      electronystagmography system, a computerized dynamic posturography system, a Neuroscan evoked
      response system with capability for 64 channel simultaneous brain signal acquisition, and 4
      2-channel clinical evoked potentials systems.
    
  