
    
      This is an open, randomised, three-arm multicenter phase II clinical trial investigating the
      safety, tolerance and plasma pharmacokinetics of caspofungin, liposomal amphotericin B and
      the combination of both agents as empirical antifungal therapy in adult patients following
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

      Eligible patients are those with profound granulocytopenia (≤ 500 neutrophil granulocytes)
      and persistent or recurrent fever despite broad-spectrum antibacterial therapy of a minimum
      of 36-48 hours duration. Patients are stratified according to the type of the transplantation
      (human leukocyte antigen [HLA] matched/related versus HLA-mismatched/unrelated) and
      randomized into one of the following treatment arms: Caspofungin alone (50 mg/day with a
      loading dose of 70 mg on day 1), liposomal amphotericin B alone (3 mg/kg/day), or the
      combination of caspofungin and liposomal amphotericin B (similar dosages as in the
      single-drug treatment arms).

      Caspofungin and liposomal amphotericin B are administered once daily as an intravenous
      infusion. Serial plasma samples for determination of pharmacokinetic parameters are collected
      on days one and four of treatment. Safety and tolerance of the randomised intervention are
      evaluated daily, following the last dose of study drug and at 14 days after last dose of
      study drug according to current NCI-CTC criteria. Antifungal efficacy and survival are
      evaluated following the last dose of study drug and at 14 days after the last dose of study
      drug.

      Treatment with study drug is continued until either:

        1. treatment limiting intolerance or toxicity;

        2. hematopoietic engraftment (≥ 500 neutrophil granulocytes on three consecutive days) and
           defervescence; or

        3. the occurrence of a probable or proven invasive fungal infection using current EORTC/MSG
           criteria.

      Febrile granulocytopenic patients with probable or proven invasive fungal infections are not
      eligible for this study. Patients who develop a probable or proven breakthrough infection are
      taken off study and receive standard therapy. Breakthrough infections are defined as probable
      or proven invasive fungal infections that occur during treatment with study medication.

      Twenty-five patients with a minimum duration of treatment of four days will be randomised per
      study arm. Patients who receive at least one dose of study drug are eligible for analysis of
      safety, tolerance and pharmacokinetics. For the analysis of the secondary endpoints of
      antifungal efficacy and survival, two separate cohorts will be analysed. These include:

        1. patients who received at least one dose of study drug; and

        2. patients who received ≥ four doses of study drug.
    
  