
    
      Research Design and Methods:

      General Approach: This study is a prospective, non-randomized, unblinded case series of
      comatose patients presenting with cardiac arrest to either Essentia East (St. Mary's Medical
      Center or Miller-Dwan Medical Center) or Essentia West (Innovis Health).

      Methods and Materials: Patients will be enrolled over a 60-month period by the PI, Sub-I, or
      study coordinator. The enrollment goal is 100 patients. The study will collect demographic,
      clinical and outcome data on comatose patients presenting with cardiac arrest only, and does
      not prescribe any clinical testing or therapies including PCI or hypothermia. All clinical
      decisions are left to the discretion of the attending providers.

      Consent Process: This study will seek a waiver for informed consent as the patients, by study
      inclusion criteria, will not be able to provide informed consent, and this study uses a
      minimal risk design. In the spirit of transparency, attempts will be made to inform the
      patient, patient representative or family when possible of enrollment in the study within 48
      hours of enrollment. The patient or appropriate patient representative identified from the
      EMR will be spoke to in person or by phone by the PI, sub-PI, or study coordinator.21 The
      patient and/or family will then have the opportunity to decline participation in the study.
      The conversation will be documented in the medical record by the PI, sub-PI or study
      coordinator.

      Randomization Process: The study is a prospective, non-randomized, unblinded case series.
      Patient will be followed as a single cohort, and no randomization is required.

      Study Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint:

      • Death from any cause at 30 days from admission.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        -  Death from any cause at 30 days from admission stratified by SCAI22 score

        -  Death from any cause at 30 days from admission stratified by presence or absence of PCI

        -  Neurological status at time of discharge using the Glasgow-Pittsburgh Cerebral-Perfusion
           Categories23,24

      Observational and Data Collection:

      Demographic and clinical data will be collected by a study investigator or study coordinator
      within 24 hours of admission. Potential candidates for participation will be identified by
      the PI, sub-PI, or study coordinator every morning by contacting the attending critical care
      or cardiology attending physicians every morning. Once identified, the study PI, sub-PI, or
      study coordinator will begin the chart review for data collection. Diagnostic and therapeutic
      management is left to the discretion of the attending providers. The protocol mandates no
      evaluation or therapies outside the usual practice of the attending providers. Baseline
      Demographic data will include:

      Date of birth/Age Gender LVEF prior to admission Presence or absence of coronary artery
      disease Presence or absence of Comorbidities including COPD, diabetes, renal failure active
      malignancy, dementia, anemia Presence of congestive Presence of angina and CCS functional
      class heart failure and prior to admission NYHA functional Ethnicity class prior to admission

      Baseline Clinical Variables that will be obtained include:25

      Vitals signs on presentation to receiving facility including blood pressure, heart rate,
      respiratory rate, weight, height Witnessed or unwitnessed arrest Presence or absence of
      bystander CPR Resuscitation attempted by trained emergency personnel prior arrival at initial
      facility (receiving or transferring) Initial Rhythm prior to ROSC (for a pulseless arrest,
      the initial rhythm when the AED is placed) Therapies applied during resuscitation including
      CPR, defibrillation, medications, intubation Estimated time from initial arrest to initial
      ROSC Initial electrocardiogram characteristics including presence or absence of ST elevation,
      rhythm, corrected QT interval, QRS width Initial perfusing rhythm following resuscitation
      Time from arrival of medical personnel at scene of arrest to arrival at receiving facility.
      If the patient is brought to the receiving facility by someone other than medical personnel,
      then time is set to 0. Time to arrival to referral center from receiving facility. If
      referral center is also the receiving facility, then the time is set to 0. Time to arrival
      from receiving facility to intensive care unit or cath lab if the cath lab precedes the ICU
      Time to arrival to cath lab from the receiving facility Presence or absence of significance
      obstructive lesions and list of involved vessels if patient undergoes coronary angiography
      during hospitalization PCI performed and vessels treated if patient undergoes PCI during
      hospitalization Presence of absence of any ST elevation on an electrocardiogram within 24
      hours of admission to referral facility Any use of mechanical support within 24 hours of
      admission to referral facility Any use of therapeutic cooling within 24 hours of admission to
      referral facility Any use of vasopressor agents within 24 hours of admission to referral
      facility Admission hemoglobin, creatine, and cardiac troponin, bicarbonate, pH, pO2 Glasgow
      Coma Score Presence or absence of cardiogenic shock within 24 hours of admission to referral
      facility Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction determined during the hospitalization and Closest
      to the time of death or discharge

      During the clinical stay, pertinence clinical data will be collected including recurrent
      cardiac arrests, need for coronary angiography or revascularization more than 24 hours from
      admission, or implantation of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator prior to discharge.
      Other significant clinical events will also be recorded including need for transfusion or
      other surgeries. A SCAI risk score22 will be calculated from the collected data by a study
      investigator or coordinator within 24 hours of admission. If the patient dies prior to
      discharge, the date and cause of death will be noted. Transfer to hospice or referral for
      comfort care will be recorded. If the patient is discharged alive, a Glasgow-Pittsburgh
      Cerebral Perfusion Category as a measurement of neurological function at time of discharge
      will be assessed. Disposition site (home, hospice, skilled nursing facility, or transfer to
      higher level of care) will be recorded. Thirty day follow-up will be performed by review of
      the medical record, review of public death records, or phone call as appropriate to assess
      vital status. If a recorded height or weight is not available within the first 24 hours, then
      estimations by either the staff caring for the patient or study coordinator may be used. The
      study will only collect data and will not include interaction with subjects.
    
  