
    
      Corneal transplantation is the most commonly performed transplant surgery in the world today.
      Immunologic rejection is the leading cause of graft failure, with about 25% of graft
      recipients experiencing at least one episode of rejection. Of these episodes, about 20% are
      irreversible. The rate of corneal graft rejection in high-risk eyes, such as corneal
      neovascularization, has been reported to be 50% to 70%. Vascularized corneas have a much
      higher rate of graft rejection than avascular corneas. Whereas the normal cornea is devoid of
      blood and lymphatic vessels, both can invade the cornea secondary to a variety of corneal
      diseases and after surgery. This not only reduces visual acuity, but also renders such a
      cornea high-risk, if subsequent corneal transplantation is performed.Anti-angiogenesis, the
      pharmacologic inhibition of new blood vessel growth and formation, is a new treatment
      strategy under active and vigorous investigation. Multiple growth factors have been shown to
      contribute to the molecular events involved in the regulation of blood vessel growth
      Similarly, it is assumed that angiogenic growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF), considered a major pro-angiogenic factor, could play a role in the
      pathogenesis of neovascularization.

      Several approaches can be taken to neutralize VEGF. Bevacizumab (Avastin) is a full-length
      humanized murine monoclonal antibody against the VEGF molecule.It binds to and inhibits the
      biologic activity of human VEGF preventing the interaction of this molecule to its receptors
      on the surface of endothelial cells. The interaction of VEGF with its receptors leads to
      endothelial cell proliferation and new vessel formation.

      There is evidence that triamcinolone acetonide (TA) inhibits vasogenic edema and
      inflammation, decreases vascular leakage, reduces the secretion of VEGF by pigment epithelial
      cells during oxidative stress and, down-regulates the expression of the VEGF gene in vascular
      smooth muscle cells Furthermore, TA decreases the paracellular permeability of cultured
      epithelial cells and down-regulates the inflammatory expression of endothelial adhesion
      molecules.
    
  