
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare disease-free survival and overall survival of postmenopausal women
      with node-positive, estrogen and/or progesterone receptor-positive adenocarcinoma of the
      breast randomly assigned to postoperative adjuvant treatment with long-term (5 years)
      tamoxifen vs. CAF (cyclophosphamide/doxorubicin/fluorouracil) plus concurrent and long-term
      tamoxifen vs. CAF followed by long-term tamoxifen. II. Compare the relative toxicities of
      these three regimens.

      OUTLINE: Randomized study. All patients are randomized on Arms I, II, and III. Lumpectomy
      patients must receive radiotherapy on Regimen A. At the discretion of the physician,
      mastectomy patients may receive radiotherapy on Regimen B for a tumor greater than 5 cm in
      diameter, 4 or more positive nodes, or extranodal extension of the tumor into the axillary
      fat. Patients randomized to Arm I who are to receive radiotherapy should begin as soon as
      feasible postoperatively; these patients may be irradiated while receiving tamoxifen.
      Patients on Arms II and III who are to receive radiotherapy are treated either
      postoperatively prior to registration or after completion of and recovery from 6 courses of
      CAF. Arm I: Antiestrogen Therapy. Tamoxifen, TMX, NSC-180973. Arm II: 3-Drug Combination
      Chemotherapy followed by Antiestrogen Therapy. CAF: Cyclophosphamide, CTX, NSC-26271;
      Doxorubicin, DOX, NSC-123127; Fluorouracil, 5-FU, NSC-19893; followed by TMX. Arm III: 3-Drug
      Combination Chemotherapy plus Concurrent Antiestrogen Therapy. CAF; plus concurrent TMX.
      Regimen A: Radiotherapy. Irradiation of the breast and underlying chest wall and (optionally)
      of the supraclavicular area and, if indicated, the axilla, using megavoltage equipment with
      photon energies of up to 6 MV followed, if indicated, by a tumor bed boost using either
      electrons or iridium-192 (192-Ir) implants. Regimen B: Radiotherapy. Irradiation of the chest
      wall using either megavoltage photons via a tangential field or electrons via a direct field
      plus (optional) photon irradiation of the supraclavicular area and, if indicated, the axilla.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 350 patients will be randomized to Arm I and 530 patients each will be
      randomized to Arms II and III. Accrual should be completed in about 4 years, and 4 additional
      years will be required for follow-up.
    
  