
    
      Since March 2004, and as part of routine clinical practice, protocol renal allograft biopsies
      are routinely performed at implantation and at 3, 12 and 24 months after transplantation, in
      all patients who receive a kidney transplant at the University Hospitals Leuven, unless there
      is a medical contra-indication or patient refusal to undergo this procedure. The biopsies are
      scheduled using a dedicated Microsoft Access database ("Biopsy Database"), that is maintained
      on the central servers of the University Hospitals Leuven. Patients who have an unexplained
      change in renal allograft function, undergo additional clinically indicated indication
      biopsies. These biopsies are also recorded in the aforementioned Microsoft Access Database.

      All clinical data, including pretransplant donor and recipient characteristics, and
      post-transplant follow-up data are directly stored and maintained in a prospectively
      collected electronic database (CCL database until 06/2012, transferred to the central KWS
      database in 2012). This electronic database is the only existing clinical database for these
      patients, and contains all clinical patient charts. No written records are collected.

      All renal allograft biopsies will be rescored by a single renal pathologist according to the
      most recent Banff classification, blinded for the clinical parameters and timing of the
      biopsy. These rescoring data are directly entered in the dedicated Microsoft Access database
      ("Biopsy Database").

      Just prior to performing a renal allograft biopsy with ultrasound guidance, and as part of
      the routine clinical procedure, duplex measurements are performed by the radiologist who will
      perform the biopsy. The peak systolic velocity (Vmax) and the minimal diastolic velocity
      (Vmin) are determined in each patient in two to three representative interlobar arteries. The
      resistive index is calculated as [1 - (V min/V max)]. This procedure is repeated at three
      different places in the kidney (lower, interpolar and upper pole). These data are directly
      entered in the central electronic clinical database system (KWS, see above).

      All electronic data will be transferred to a SAS database at time of data extraction.
    
  