
    
      Introduction

      Thumb base osteoarthritis is a widespread and disabling chronic condition. Over 1 in 20 women
      above age 60 have consulted a physician for trapeziometacarpal osteoarthritis (TMC OA) of the
      thumb. Considering that the TMC joints are often involved in hand osteoarthritis, the overall
      lifetime risk is estimated to be above 40%, presenting a major clinical and public health
      challenge. Given an aging general population, these challenges are further intensified,
      particularly amongst women, who are disproportionally affected. The lack of a cure for OA
      means that trapeziectomy and its variations are the de facto standard in end-stage TMC OA
      treatment within the United States (US). Pain management following trapeziectomy typically
      consists of prescription opioids, which given the overall lifetime risk of TMC OA, exposes
      millions of people to opioid use throughout their life.

      Early adequate pain management is critical as acute post-operative and post-traumatic pain
      are strong predictors of chronic pain and disability. Options for managing early
      post-operative acute pain, however, are limited. No commonly used method for acute pain
      control clearly aids functional recovery. Chronic pain also generates financial burdens
      related to direct medical care and disability, and further increases exposure to opioids.
      Perioperative opioid use is a major risk factor for developing opioid use disorder, a
      condition central to the nation's opioid epidemic. The opioid epidemic in the US has led to
      an increased premature death rate and avoidable morbidity, resulting in a declaration of
      national public health emergency. Over 90% of surgical patients receive opioids after
      surgery, consequently increasing the risk of chronic opioid use. The opioid epidemic has
      urged the need of finding new strategies to manage post-operative pain. Identifying
      evidence-based non-addictive alternatives to mitigate pain is essential to combat this
      epidemic.

      Considering the promising results of opioid reduction efforts and the volume of thumb base
      osteoarthritis patients, we aim to battle the opioid epidemic and reduce the use of
      prescribed opioids by exploring the use of non-narcotic analgesics as a replacement for
      postoperative pain management after trapeziectomy.

      This study is a double-blind randomized, controlled trial that assesses whether a combination
      of ibuprofen and acetaminophen can replace the use of opioids in pain management
      post-trapeziectomy.

      We hypothesize that daily pain scores after trapeziectomy, including the PROMIS pain
      interference score and the QuickDASH score, do not differ significantly between patients
      receiving opioids from those receiving non-opioid medications for pain management.

      Aims

      Aim 1: To assess the 30-day efficacy of an ibuprofen/acetaminophen combination vs. oxycodone.
      We hypothesize that there will be no difference in daily pain scores between the two groups
      receiving these therapeutics.

      Aim 2: To assess the 60-day influence of an ibuprofen/acetaminophen combination vs. oxycodone
      on patient-reported outcomes: we will assess the influence of ibuprofen/acetaminophen
      combination versus oxycodone in the first 8 weeks post-trapeziectomy on pain interference
      (PROMIS), pain relief, upper limb functioning (QuickDASH), and the need for rescue
      prescription. We hypothesize that there will be no difference in pain interference, pain
      relief, upper limb functioning, or need for rescue prescription between the two groups
      receiving these therapeutics.

      Study procedures

      - Participant population

      Based on the power analysis conducted by the department's statisticians, the anticipated
      number of subjects participating is 121. Participants will be otherwise healthy hand clinic
      patients undergoing trapeziectomy due to osteoarthritis of the thumb. Recruitment will not
      specifically target subjects amongst disadvantaged populations, students, or employees,
      however, it is possible some may be enrolled in the study.

      - Pre-screening

      The clinical team or treating physicians will conduct a brief electronic chart review of all
      of their English literate/speaking patients scheduled for trapeziectomy to pre-screen them
      for past medical history.

      - Recruitment

      All pre-trapeziectomy patients that pass the pre-screening will be asked by the treatment
      team, at or before their hand clinic pre-op appointment, whether they are interested in
      participating in this research study. Following an affirmative answer, the patient will be
      briefly counseled on the expectation of pain post-surgery by the care team. Afterward, they
      are introduced to one of the study personnel at the pre-op visit who describes the details of
      the study. At this time the patient may either choose to go through consent and screening or
      opt-out.

      For those patients where there is no planned return to the clinic prior to surgery, suitable
      candidates will be contacted by someone on the treatment team to assess if they are
      interested in being contacted by one of the study personnel. In case of an affirmative
      response, a member of the study team contacts the patient by phone or video-conference call
      to go over the details of the study and its consent form and confirm that the patient would
      like the consent, in which case the form is mailed to them. The patient may either choose to
      go through the consent process or opt-out.

      Potential subjects are asked whether they are currently participating in other clinical
      trials. Participants may be enrolled in multiple studies depending on the nature of the other
      study protocols. Patients participating in other studies related to pain management are
      potentially excluded.

      - Consent

      In clinic: the consent form will be fully reviewed with patients expressing interest in the
      study. They will be given sufficient time to ask additional questions. The patient can then
      decide to sign the consent, decline to sign, or take home the consent with an addressed
      envelope for further consideration. The signed consent must be received by the study
      coordinator 3 days prior to surgery for a participant to be enrolled in the study.

      For patients contacted by phone: if the patient is interested in participation, a copy of the
      informed consent is mailed for review. The study coordinator or PI will follow-up via phone
      to review the consent form and answer any additional questions before signatures are
      collected. The signed consent must be received by the study coordinator 3 days prior to
      surgery for a participant to be enrolled in the study.

      - Pre-surgical research assessments

      Via Stanford's REDCap system or paper survey, those consenting to participate will be asked
      to fill out a variety of self-reported measures of pain and hand function, prior opioid use
      in the last 5 years, demographic and contact information, and current health status and
      screening questions. Their charts are then re-reviewed for basic medical history and current
      medications. If any exclusion criteria are found the patient will be contacted to let them
      know that they have been dropped from the study and they will be contacted by the clinical
      team to write them a pain medication prescription at their pharmacy of choice.

      - Randomization

      The investigational pharmacist performs the randomization of the medications according to a
      randomization table provided through consultation with the department's biostatisticians. The
      rest of the study team will remain blind to which group patients are randomized to.

      - Medication dispensed

      On the day of surgery, the pharmacist dispenses the assigned study drug labeled "study drug
      A, B, and rescue medication" along with the patient's name printed on the label. Rescue
      medication is to be used if the pain is unbearable while using the study medication. Patients
      receive the medication prior to discharge and are informed about proper medication usage.

      Alternatively, the research pharmacy mails the study drug to the subject in the week
      preceding the surgery.

      Patients are instructed to contact their care team if the pain is severe and not well
      controlled with the study medication, there are severe side effects, or if they have taken 2
      of 4 rescue medication tablets. If necessary, the study PI may ask the subject to stop taking
      medication and may prescribe alternative pain medications. The patient will be off treatment
      but will continue to complete all study assessments.

        -  Return of unused study medication

      At the one-month clinic visit, the patient will return all study medication bottles to the
      clinical research coordinator (CRC) or care team for counting all unused medication and final
      disposition.

      - Post-surgical research assessments

      Daily pain assessment (post-op days 1-30): patients will receive daily, automated, text
      messages via Stanford's REDCap system to survey numerical pain rating scores and pain relief
      scores, and the number of study and rescue pills taken.

      Hand pain and function research assessments over the phone (post-op weeks 1,3,4 and 8):
      patients will receive a call from the clinical research coordinator to capture pain and hand
      function related outcome measures.

      - Study endpoint

      Once the desired patient number is reached, the study will end. Each patient will complete
      the study at the time of their 8-week follow-up phone call.

      The study will be terminated if more than 40 patients have been told to stop taking their
      study medication within the first-week post-operative period due to serious adverse effects
      (SAEs) and/or additional opioids are ordered by the clinical care team due to inadequate pain
      control.

      - Risk mitigation

      Patients are called by the clinical care team in the first 48 hours after surgery and
      monitored either by phone or video visit or in-person at weeks 2 and 4 during the study. They
      will also be called and monitored by the CRC at weeks 1, 3, 4, and 8. The CRC will offer to
      contact the protocol director (PD) if they have concerns about the study medication. In the
      unlikely event that an SAE arises during the experiment, prompt medical treatment will be
      provided by the treating facility. If the treating physician decides that it is important to
      know the patient's treatment assignment, that patient will be unblinded by the research
      pharmacist.

      All project staff has undergone significant annual training on the protection of human
      subjects, research methods, and the importance of integrity in the research process.

      - Confidentiality

      The main risk of this project is unauthorized access to patient data. Patient data will be
      recorded with a unique study identification (ID) number, assigned to each patient through a
      master enrollment log. Due to the longitudinal follow-up required for this study, patient
      names and contact information will be kept in the patient's folder containing follow-up data.
      At the point of electronic data entry and analysis, identifiers will be stored on HIPAA
      compliant media. All research data will be coded for data entry so that a patient's identity
      cannot be determined in the dataset. All computerized files will be password protected and
      available only to those involved with the research on Stanford compliant computers.

      The health information related to this study includes, but is not limited to, name, date of
      birth, medical record number, the information provided on patient questionnaires (thumb/hand
      pain intensity, interference and hand function), post-surgical pain, medication history,
      medical history related to CMC thumb osteoarthritis, surgical and anesthesia notes, physical
      exams, and pain-related information.

      The use of Protected Health Information (PHI) is minimized by using coded identification
      numbers for data entry and paper files. PHI will only be disclosed to research team members.

      Stanford's REDCap system is used to enter a limited set of data. No other PHI will be
      transmitted between sites with the exception of unblinding and SAEs which may be reported
      through secure email or other compliant media.
    
  