
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Recent studies have found that diets with higher fiber intake are associated with a reduction
      in cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, the association does not prove that dietary fiber
      is actually responsible for lower CVD risk nor does it illuminate potential mechanisms of
      lower risk if present. Since the diet-CVD connection is strong, and given that CVD is a major
      contributor to morbidity and mortality, additional information would be valuable. Our
      preliminary studies and the work of others suggest that there is a significant association
      between C-reactive protein (CRP) and dietary fiber intake. These observations led us to the
      following unifying hypothesis: Diets high in fiber are associated with lower levels of
      inflammatory markers. Our long-term goal is to determine whether inflammation is a key
      mediator in the link between fiber intake and cardiovascular disease risk.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The three specific aims of the project are 1: To determine whether total dietary fiber and or
      fiber supplementation is associated with levels of inflammatory markers (CRP, fibrinogen,
      WBC) among adult participants with obesity, hypertension, or diabetes in the National Health
      and Nutrition Examination Survey 1999-2000; 2: To determine whether 3 weeks on a diet
      naturally high in fiber (30g/day), or on a diet high in fiber through supplementation, will
      significantly reduce inflammatory markers compared to a diet low in fiber, in a clinical
      trial among 30 lean and 30 obese adult hypertensive volunteers; and 3: To determine whether 3
      months on a diet supplemented with moderate fiber (extra 7g/day), or high fiber (15g/day),
      will significantly reduce inflammatory markers compared to a usual diet low in fiber (average
      10-15g/day) in a three-month long clinical trial among 180 obese adult volunteers.

      To accomplish these aims, three related studies will be conducted. The first will utilize
      existing data contained in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, a national
      database of 5773 non-institutionalized adults. The second study will be an additional
      procedure and laboratory examination to an existing R01 by one of the investigators, to
      examine the impact of a diet naturally high in fiber on CRP and other inflammatory markers.
      The third study will consist of new primary data collection in 180 volunteers to evaluate the
      effect of different levels of fiber supplementation on CRP, fibrinogen, WBC, and
      interleukin-6. By using existing data, taking advantage of an ongoing protocol, and adding
      new information through primary data collection, the investigators hope to dramatically
      increase their understanding of the association between dietary fiber and cardiovascular
      inflammatory markers. This information could serve to guide constructive changes in
      nutritional guidelines for reducing CVD risk for millions of at-risk individuals.
    
  