
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Test the comparative-effectiveness of the interventions (i.e., website +/- navigator or
      genetic counseling +/- navigator) in a randomized controlled trial, using colorectal cancer
      (CRC) cases as the unit of randomization/analysis on adherence to individualized CRC
      screening recommendations.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Examine the cost effectiveness of the interventions, assessing the effect of the
      interventions on subgroups (i.e., Lynch syndrome positive vs. Lynch syndrome negative;
      probands vs. relatives; older vs. younger patients, etc), and barriers to adherence, as well
      as how the navigators resolve barriers.

      II. Overscreening will be explored.

      OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 study components based on LS status. Within each
      component, participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      COMPONENT #1 (Lynch Negative Proband and their first degree relatives (FDRs):

      ARM I: Participants access a website to deliver a "personalized prescription for CRC
      prevention" based on age, Lynch Syndrome status, cancer history, age of 1st degree relative
      with CRC, and personal CRC screening history.

      ARM II: Participants access a website as in Arm I and receive the services of a patient
      navigator to address individual barriers to adhering to the "personal prescription" within 1
      month.

      COMPONENT #2 (Lynch Positive Proband and their FDRs):

      ARM III (Lynch positive proband): Participants use genetic counseling to discuss medical and
      family history and genetic risk of CRC, including genetic factors such as deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA) mismatch repair genes, autosomal dominant inheritance, cancer risks associated
      with LS, screening recommendations, and genetic testing.

      ARM IV (Lynch positive proband): Participants use genetic counseling as in Arm III and
      receive the services of a patient navigator to address individual barriers to adhering to the
      CRC screening recommendations within 1 month.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12-14 months.
    
  