
    
      This is a multicenter study involving asymptomatic and symptomatic subjects who are at risk
      or suspect possible exposure to CT and/or NG. Approximately five (5) clinics will participate
      in the study. The clinics selected will be located in diverse geographical regions in order
      to represent populations with both high and low incidences of CT and NG and to represent
      different extremes in climate. The initial phase of the study enrolled approximately 500
      qualifying subjects. An interim analysis was performed to determine whether changes in the
      study protocol were necessary. Changes to the protocol were identified and are incorporated
      in this amendment (amendment 4) of the study protocol. Specifically, males in the study will
      still collect urine specimens whereas women will now self-collect a vaginal swab specimen.
      Study subjects will only undergo one clinic visit rather than two as indicated in prior
      versions of the study protocol. The proposed study phases outlined in this amendment of the
      study protocol will include at least 200 qualifying subjects with intermittent suspension of
      the study to allow data analysis. The present study will continue until 200 CT positive test
      results (approximately 100 male and 100 female) are obtained. Of these 200 positive results,
      approximately 50% will be from symptomatic subjects and 50% from asymptomatic subjects. Since
      the positivity rate is presumably lower for asymptomatic subjects, the ration of symptomatic
      to asymptomatic subject enrollment for each study phase will be determined by the sponsor and
      will be made known in writing to each study site.

      It is expected that approximately 3,000 subjects will be required to meet the overall study
      objectives. It is anticipated that the total number of subjects enrolled for testing
      throughout the study will yield approximately 30 positive NG samples (approximately 15 males
      and 15 females) with no requirement for a specific ratio of symptomatic to asymptomatic
      subjects. Subjects who are at high risk of exposure or suspect exposure to CT or NG, but are
      not currently being treated, will be recruited for enrollment.
    
  