
    
      Several studies document underutilization of outpatient specialty mental health services by
      African Americans. However, African Americans with depression are just as likely as whites to
      receive care in primary care settings. Despite their use of primary care services, African
      American patients are less likely than whites to be recognized as depressed, offered
      pharmacotherapy, and to initiate or complete pharmacotherapy or psychotherapy for depression.
      Compared to whites, African American patients express stronger preferences for counseling and
      more negative attitudes toward antidepressant medication, the most common form of treatment
      of depression used by primary care physicians. African Americans are also more likely to see
      depression and its treatment through a spiritual or religious framework. Studies show that
      African Americans receive less optimal technical and interpersonal health care than whites
      for many conditions. Depression is a common chronic condition that results in substantial
      morbidity, functional disability, and resource use. Despite the proven efficacy of
      pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy for treatment of depression, the gap between research
      findings and clinical practice is wide for management of depression in primary care. Recent
      intervention work has shown that quality improvement strategies for depression in primary
      care are effective. Research also shows that cultural adaptations can improve adherence and
      retention in care for ethnic minority patients. We have created a patient-centered adaptation
      that includes many of the components of recent successful quality improvement interventions
      for depression in primary care. The proposed study compares a standard depression
      intervention for patients (delivered by a depression case manager) and physicians (review of
      guidelines and structured mental health consultation) to a patient-centered intervention for
      patients (incorporates patient activation, individual preferences, and cultural sensitivity)
      and physicians (incorporates participatory communication skills training with individualized
      feedback on interactive CD-ROM). Thirty physicians and 250 patients will be randomized to
      either the standard interventions or the culturally tailored interventions. The main
      hypothesis is that patients in the patient-centered, culturally tailored intervention group
      will have higher remission rates from depression and lower levels of depressive symptoms at
      12 months than patients in the standard intervention care group. Secondary outcomes will
      include patient receipt of guideline concordant care, patient and physician satisfaction with
      care, patient-physician communication behaviors, patient and physician attitudes towards
      depression, and self-efficacy in managing depression. This study will add to knowledge about
      how to effectively engage African American patients in care of depression and serve as a
      prototype of how to incorporate patient-centeredness in programs to reduce racial and ethnic
      disparities in health care for common conditions.
    
  