
    
      Our previous work indicates that a combination of neurophysiologic, symptom, and cognitive
      measures may predict response more accurately than brain functional measures alone. The
      purpose of this study is to replicate results from our earlier work using a similar study
      design (96-06-291-11), and also to prospectively gather additional information to
      substantiate that a more comprehensive approach to subject assessment will yield more
      accurate and reproducible prediction of treatment response.

      One of the major challenges involved in clinical trials for major depressive disorder (MDD)
      is that of placebo response. The placebo response rate has been estimated at 20 - 50% of
      those subjects who enter a standard clinical trial for MDD. This high rate of response to
      placebo, which may not differ substantially from the response rate to medication, can make it
      difficult to demonstrate the efficacy of new antidepressant compounds. Identification of MDD
      subjects with a placebo responder (PR) phenotype, either at the beginning or end of a
      clinical trial, could have two major potential benefits. First, identification of placebo
      responders prior to enrollment in a clinical trial might make it possible to have restrictive
      entry criteria, excluding such subjects from the trial. Segregation of PR phenotype subjects
      a priori could reduce variance in the outcome data and increase the drug-placebo difference.
      This exclusion could reduce the number of subjects required for clinical trials and render
      the trials more efficient. Second, identification of a PR phenotype during a clinical trial
      could make it possible to distinguish "true medication" from placebo response. This
      distinction could make it possible to identify subgroups in the trial, enhancing precision in
      the study of medication effects.

      Our research group has performed a series of placebo-controlled treatment trials in MDD and
      has used a combination of behavioral ratings, self-report, and neurophysiologic measurements
      with quantitative electroencephalography (QEEG) to identify predictors of both placebo
      response and medication response. The preliminary results from previous studies suggest that
      a combination of neurophysiologic, symptom, and cognitive measures may be useful for
      pretreatment prediction and/or early treatment detection of different types of treatment
      response.

      In this study our primary goal is to assess the neurophysiologic, behavioral, and cognitive
      assessments of subjects with MDD in the setting of a clinical trial to replicate
      prospectively these initial results and more completely identify the characteristics of
      different types of treatment response in a clinical trial.
    
  