
    
      This study examined 231 schoolchildren (118 boys, 113 girls) aged six to 12 years, carrying a
      traditional BP to manipulate loading (Crossing Backpack Children Arpenaz 7 Litres, Junior Red
      Quechua). The inclusion criteria were: age between six and 12 years, no pain in the lower
      limb and back at the time of examination. The exclusion criteria were: recent injury to the
      lower limb and back, alterations in the foot bones, congenital structural changes to the
      ankle, flatfoot associated with cerebral palsy, surgical treatment of foot or lower leg, or
      any genetic, neurologic or muscular conditions.

      The parents were provided with information about the study, and those consenting for their
      children to participate, also completed a questionnaire. The children were fully informed of
      the procedures involved and gave assent. All procedures were in accordance with the ethical
      standards of the institution of University of Malaga (CEUMA 91/2016H) and with the 1964
      Helsinki declaration.

      Load was added to the BPs in increments of 5%, 10%, 15% and 20% of the child's body weight.
      Spatio-temporal parameters were measured with the OptoGait® system.

      Two examiners were responsible for the system software and collecting data. General
      information, including height and weight, were recorded. To measure gait parameters, the
      protocol used for the Optogait reliability testing was used. This involved the children
      walking on a walkway at a comfortable speed, repeating this walk three times and calculating
      the mean speed. Prior to data collection, the children performed one familiarization trial
      for five minutes. Children were asked to walk naturally, facing forward, with their hands out
      of pockets; wearing light, comfortable clothes, with the BP placed correctly. As the children
      started walking, the researchers selected the foot of the first step inside the bars, in the
      Optogait software. After being instructed to 'walk slowly at a comfortable speed', the
      children walked from a point two metres in front of the bar and stopped at a point two metres
      behind the last bar, to minimize effects of acceleration and deceleration
    
  