
    
      Knee osteoarthritis is a disabling problem affecting over 15 million adults in the United
      States. Many people who have knee arthritis also experience painful meniscal tears. There are
      a number of different treatments that can be used to address meniscal tears in the presence
      of knee arthritis. These include surgically removing the damaged part of the meniscus;
      strengthening exercises; manual therapy including massage and mobilization; and others. The
      combination of surgery and exercise therapy was long thought to be the best treatment.
      However, recent studies have shown that surgery followed by physical therapy leads to similar
      levels of pain relief as physical therapy alone.

      While physical therapy appears to be useful in knee osteoarthritis and meniscal tear,
      research is needed to determine what type of physical therapy is best for people with these
      conditions. The "TeMPO" Trial will compare 4 different non-operative regimens in order to
      gain a better understanding of how physical therapy works and to determine which regimen will
      best reduce participants' pain and improve their function. The four arms in this trial will
      contain different combinations of therapeutic treatments including in-clinic supervised
      exercise therapy, in-clinic topical therapies, and exercises to be completed at home. Some of
      the arms will also receive text messages designed to improve adherence to assigned exercises.
      All arms include therapies that have been previously shown to work in clinical settings. One
      arm also contains some placebo treatments. The placebo treatments will help identify the
      aspects of physical therapy that make people feel better.

      The four arms in the TeMPO study are as follows:

        1. Home Exercise Program

        2. Home Exercise Program + Motivational SMS messages

        3. Home Exercise Program + Motivational SMS messages + In-Clinic topical therapy

        4. Home Exercise Program + Motivational SMS messages + In-Clinic Exercise Therapy
    
  