
    
      Pakistan is the 6th most populous country of the world with population over 188 million;
      Almost 35% of population is under the age of 14. Country cannot afford to ignore mental
      health of this large group. School experiences are important for children emotional,
      psychological and social development World Health Organization (WHO) also identifies
      promotion of emotional health and well- being as a core feature of their Health promoting
      school initiative. Schools can play an important role in promoting positive mental health,
      reducing stigma, raising awareness among teachers, parents and children about mental health
      issues as well as identifying and supporting youth experiencing mental health difficulties.
      Furthermore, mental health initiatives in schools help teachers to feel less stressed and be
      more satisfied with their role and save costs. Educational interventions involving teachers
      have shown significant improvement in teachers knowledge and attitudes regarding mental
      health & better accuracy of teacher identification of children and adolescents with mental
      health problems. Although importance of schools for mental health promotion and early
      identification for mental health problems has been evident for quite some time, it is almost
      nonexistent in developing countries including Pakistan with only a handful of studies
      focusing one aspect of health promoting school or on one disorder. World Health Organization,
      Eastern Mediterranean Region (WHO-EMRO) has developed a concise and practical manual of
      school mental health in December 2014.This manual is primarily intended for all stakeholders
      involved in the educational process including teachers. It aims for helping educators to take
      practical steps that can be implemented at low costs in school settings.

      OBJECTIVE:

      To assess the effectiveness of locally adapted WHO school mental health Manual based
      intervention in improving mental health literacy among school teachers through a randomized
      controlled trial.

      Secondary objectives include

        1. To assess whether school mental health Manual based intervention leads to better self-
           efficacy among school teachers.

        2. To determine if mental health training of teachers would lead to an indirect improvement
           in students outcome measure (emotional and behavioural difficulties) and school
           psychosocial environment.

      STUDY PHASE 1: Interaction with key stakeholders to do a current situational analysis /
      identify priority problems.by using WHO Questionnaires & in depth Interviews.

      STUDY PHASE 2: Randomized controlled trial to assess effectiveness, feasibility &
      acceptability of the adapted manual delivery in school settings.

      STUDY PHASE 3: Process Evaluation by feedback from Teachers.
    
  