
    
      Hypertension has become one of the most common diseases in the world and considered a public
      health challenge due to its association with morbidity and mortality and increased cost to
      society. Hypertension is the most important risk factor for cardiovascular diseases such as
      coronary heart disease, stroke, congestive heart failure, and peripheral vascular disease.
      One fourth of adults in the United States have high blood pressure and among these, the
      blacks and the elderly have higher incidence of hypertension. This condition is characterized
      by abnormally high blood pressure with the systolic greater than 140 mmHg and diastolic
      greater than 90 mmHg (1).

      Lowering blood pressure has been linked to 35% to 40% reductions in the incidence of stroke,
      20%-25% in myocardial infarction, and 50% in heart failure. Management of hypertension
      includes lifestyle modifications and pharmacological therapy and antihypertensive drugs.
      Lifestyle modifications such as weight reduction in overweight and obese individuals, 8-week
      diet of fruits, vegetables, low-fat dairy products, whole grain, poultry fish and nuts with
      limited fats, red meat and sweets, reduction in dietary sodium, physical activity, and
      moderation of alcohol consumption have been shown to lower blood pressure. There are several
      classes of antihypertensive drugs, including angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors,
      angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) β-blockers (BBs), calcium channel blockers (CCBs) and
      the thiazide-class diuretics. Among these, the diuretic based therapy was more effective than
      other treatments in preventing cardiovascular diseases as demonstrated by the
      Antihypertensive and Lipid-lowering Treatment to prevent Heart Attack (ALLHAT) trial (1, 2).

      Blood pressure can be lowered without using prescription drugs. Nutraceuticals have found
      their application in the treatment of hypertension. Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids,
      omega-9 fatty acids, garlic, seaweed, and various vitamins and minerals have been shown to
      reduce blood pressure significantly (3).

      Animal studies have demonstrated the potential benefits of onion in hypertensive rats. In one
      study involving rats fed with a control diet or a high-fat high-sucrose diet with or without
      Welsh onion for 4 weeks, lower blood pressure was observed in rats with onion diet,
      especially the green-leafy type. In addition, these rats have higher levels of nitric oxide
      (NO) metabolites in the urine and plasma, lower activity of NADH/NADPH oxidase in the aorta,
      and suppressed angiotensin II production (4). The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of
      onion probably involves increased saving of NO (4, 5). A randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blind trial also demonstrated significant decrease in arterial blood pressure and
      reduction in plasma viscosity five hours after administration of a formulation containing
      onion and olive oil (6).

      Pumpkin has been used as a traditional medicine and it is known for its antidiabetic,
      antitumor, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and antihypertensive properties (7). Animal
      studies confirmed that pumpkin seed oil supplementation resulted in lower systolic and
      diastolic blood pressure as well as improvements in lipid profile in both non-ovariectomized
      and ovariectomized rats (8). Using enzyme assays, it was demonstrated that pumpkin have
      moderate to high alpha-glucosidase and ACE inhibitory activities (9). A recent clinical trial
      involved postmenopausal women and the effects of supplemented pumpkin seed oil in cholesterol
      levels. The results of this trial showed that 12-week administration of 2g/day pumpkin seed
      oil led to a significant increase in HDL cholesterol and significant decrease in diastolic
      blood pressure. Pumpkin seed oil also improved menopausal symptom scores by decreasing hot
      flushes, headaches, and joint pains (10).

      This open-label, adaptive-design, pilot study was designed to evaluate the effect of
      Onion-Pumpkin Extract in supporting healthy blood pressure as assessed by the change in
      systolic and diastolic blood pressures. The effect of the product on glucose metabolism,
      lipid levels, and antioxidant levels would also be determined. Tolerability and safety of the
      study product would also be investigated.
    
  