
    
      Women with high-risk pregnancy may experience anxiety and low prenatal attachment due to many
      problems with pregnancy and hospitalization. It is reported that anxiety can have negative
      effects on prenatal attachment. The anxiety during pregnancy may adversely affect the health
      of the pregnant woman and fetus.

      During the study period, 777 pregnant women were admitted to the clinic and 125 of them with
      high-risk pregnancy were assessed for eligibility for the study on 2 days a week. The
      pregnant women (n=76) who met the inclusion criteria and agreed to participate in the study
      were recruited. Participants were randomized in equal numbers to the intervention (n=38) and
      control groups (n=38) by withdrawing computer randomized sampling numbers (using Microsoft
      Excel 2010) from concealed envelopes to determine their group status. Participants were
      numbered according to their order of admittance to the hospital. After obtaining informed
      content and collecting baseline data, main researcher randomly chose one code for each woman.
      Data was collected together until the sample size was reached.

      Participants were recruited by simple random sampling from the perinatology clinic at a state
      hospital in Turkey. An estimation of sample size was calculated at an effect size of 2.43
      with a 5% level of significance on the primary outcome of anxiety in a sample study.
      According to G*power 3.1 31, each group required 30 participants. During the study, 125 women
      were assessed for eligibility, 49 of them were excluded. Some participants withdrew due to
      preterm birth (n=5), referral to another hospital (n=1) or discharged from hospital (n=10).
      Finally 60 participants who completed the lullaby intervention were included in data
      analysis. As a result of the study, the power of the test (α=0.05, 95% confidence interval)
      was 99.9% for each group n=30.

      The preliminary study included five women at risk of preterm delivery who met the inclusion
      criteria. They were subjected to a lullaby intervention, and their study variables were
      evaluated. The women in the preliminary study were not included in the main study.

      The IG listened to lullabies, and accompanied by lullabies touched their abdomen and thought
      about their babies. The CG received only the usual care of the hospital.

      The lullaby recital consisted of 10 different lullabies with a mean duration of two minutes,
      for a total of 20 minutes.The lullabies were among the best-known ones from the Turkish
      culture. At the place of study, an academician of the Music Education Department of the
      University, Fine Arts Faculty was consulted regarding the lullaby recital.The pregnant women
      in the intervention group listened to the lullabies for 20 minutes per day, for two
      successive days using an MP3 player. To provide a homogeneous intervention and to avoid bias,
      the personal lullaby preferences of the pregnant women were ignored.

      This intervention was performed in single patient rooms during bed rest, when the
      participants were available and felt ready. The doors and windows of the room was closed, and
      the participants were left alone. A disposable ear-tip was used for each participant. Before
      the initiation of the recital, the MP3 player was checked and the participants were
      instructed in the operation of the MP3 player (turning on, turning off, adjusting volume).
      The tempo of the lullaby was concordant with the normal heart rate (about 60-70 beats per
      minute), the participant determined and adjusted the volume to suit.

      The control group received only the usual care of the hospital, resting in reclined position.
      All of the participants in both groups were ensured to have empty bladders and closed their
      cellphones, and none received any medical interventions during the lullaby intervention/usual
      care.

      The study data was collected between 11:30 and 13:30 after lunch when no medical care,
      diagnostic tests or routine follow-up were administered. Initially, sociodemographic and
      obstetric data were collected by face-to-face interviews with participants. Intervention
      effect outcomes were anxiety and attachment which were measured at baseline. Anxiety was
      measured by the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) and attachment was measured by the
      Prenatal Attachment Inventory (PAI). Before pregnant women filled the STAI and PAI, the
      instructions were read aloud to them and then they responded the questionnaires in silence.
      The STAI and PAI were reassessed at the end of the study (day 2) after the lullaby
      intervention/usual care. Vital findings were also measured on each study day, both before and
      after the lullaby intervention/usual care. The systolic and diastolic blood pressures and
      pulse rates of all participants were measured using a digital sphygmomanometer. The
      respiratory rate was measured by observing the chest and count the number of respirations out
      loud for one full minute using a digital watch while at bed rest (the same device was used
      for each participant). The level of satisfaction with listening to lullabies was assessed
      after the lullaby intervention at the end of the study using a 10-point Likert-type scale.

      After the purposes and procedures of this study was explained, signed informed consent was
      obtained from all participants. Participants were assured of privacy and that their identity
      was protected. The study was based on voluntariness. Usual care and treatment of pregnant
      women in each groups were not intervened during the study period.

      Data were analyzed by IBM SPSS v.23. Categorical data were analysed using the chi-square test
      for homogeneity of characteristics between two groups. Parametric tests were used if the data
      was normally distributed, but if not, nonparametric tests were used. A Pearson Chi-square
      test, Fisher's exact test, and Yates' continuity correction were used to compare the
      categorical data. The continuous data was compared using a Student's t or Mann-Whitney
      U-tests. A Paired sample t-test or Wilcoxon Signed Rank test were used to compare the paired
      scores of the STAI and PAI and the vital findings within the groups. The relationship between
      these three parameters was analyzed using a Spearman-correlation test. Statistical
      significance was considered p<0.05.

      There are also some limitations in this study. Firstly, only state anxiety of the pregnant
      women was assessed, and future studies would benefit from taking also trait anxiety into
      consideration. It was a single-center study; therefore, the generalizability of the results
      to other women with high-risk pregnancy is unclear. Since the perinatology clinic where the
      study was carried out was newly opened, there were some disruptions and most pregnant women
      were transferred from this clinic to other clinics of hospital and discharged from hospital
      before the required hospital stay; therefore, the study could only be performed with pregnant
      women hospitalized for 3 days.
    
  