
    
      Obstetric hemorrhage has been identified as a contributory cause for the United States'
      suboptimal and inequitable outcomes among pregnant women. As such, obstetric hemorrhage has
      become a formal focus point in a national agenda to improve maternal outcomes. Strategies to
      identify maternal hypovolemia and treating obstetric hemorrhage are undergoing organized
      scrutiny in many states including Texas. Tranexamic acid (TXA) treatment is receiving
      increased emphasis in obstetric care because TXA inhibits fibrinolysis. Increased clot
      stability offers the possibility of preventing blood loss (prophylaxis) as well as mitigating
      ongoing hemorrhage. TXA therapy has been principally studied in nonpregnant populations;
      results of studies in pregnant women have been lacking.

      Tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic agent that acts as a competitive inhibitor at the
      lysine binding sites of plasminogen and inhibits the ability of protease plasmin to cleave
      the fibrin clot. In large randomized controlled trials, it has been reported to be effective
      in decreasing perioperative blood loss in a variety of circumstances primarily involving
      trauma patients. Shakur and co-authors in a trial of 20,000 non-pregnant trauma patients
      reported a significant reduction in all-cause mortality after TXA administration. In another
      large study (WOMAN Trial), 20,000 pregnant women with hemorrhage were randomized to TXA or
      placebo. TXA was associated with a significant decrease in death due to bleeding.

      Tranexamic acid's role in treating hemorrhage have been widely studied in non-pregnant
      populations. Studies of TXA in obstetrics are limited. The American College of Obstetricians
      and Gynecologists believes the data is insufficient to recommend tranexamic acid for
      prophylaxis.

      The investigators designed a randomized placebo-controlled trial comparing TXA dosing prior
      to incision for cesarean delivery with a repeat dose given at placental delivery. The purpose
      is to quantify blood loss during uncomplicated repeat cesarean deliveries with and without
      TXA. The investigators elected to study scheduled elective cesareans because such procedures
      are at low risk for profound hemorrhage. It is the intent to have a study cohort where the
      two treatment groups (TXA or placebo) are as comparable as possible, so the efficacy of TXA
      is not tested in women with highly variable volumes of obstetric hemorrhage.
    
  