
    
      The main obstacle for organ procurement in brain dead patients in France is organ donation
      refusal by the next of kin. When refusal is reflecting the patient's position, ending the
      organ donation procedure respects the bioethic French laws. Nevertheless, the actual position
      of the deceased patient often remains unknown. In these cases, organ donation refusal does
      not necessarily respect the deceased wishes. Many factors have been associated to next of kin
      organ donation refusal in such situations. Among those factors, some concerning the meeting
      with the next of kin have been isolated. French data on this subject are lacking.

      A dedicated guide for the conduct of meetings with the next of kin has been elaborated by a
      working group of our network. Its diffusion will take place last quarter of 2016. The purpose
      of our study is to evaluate its usefulness through an observational multicenter before-after
      study, concerning every situation of brain dead patient where the next of kin are met by the
      medical staff. The refusal rate will be assessed over the first period (before the diffusion
      of the guide), from july 2012 to june 2014, and compared to that assessed over the second
      period (after the diffusion of the guide) from january 2017 to december 2018, using the
      national database of Biomedicine Agency. A comparison of this change in refusal rate will be
      made between centers of our network and the remaining centers in France nationwide. Anxiety
      of professionals will be assessed prospectively after each meeting conducted in one of our
      network centers, over 2 periods, before (from July to October 2016) and after (starting in
      january 2017) the diffusion of the dedicated guide for the conduct of the meeting with the
      next of kin. Compliance to the guide by the physicians and organ procurement nurses will be
      assessed after its diffusion in the centers of our network.
    
  