
    
      After you have given your consent to participate in this study, your study doctor will
      perform some tests to confirm that you are eligible to participate. These tests may take
      place up to 21 days before the surgery to remove a liver tumor, which will be used to create
      the vaccines. Many of the following examinations are commonly done to determine diagnosis
      and/or stage of disease and you may have already had some or all of these evaluations. They
      may or may not have to be repeated. These tests include a medical history, performance
      status, blod samples, routine blood tests, tumor assessment and blood pregnancy test (if
      applicable). If these tests indicate you are eligible for this study and you agree to
      participate, you will be referred to a surgeon for the surgical removal of tumor tissue from
      which the vaccine will be made.

      The surgery will be performed at Massachusetts General Hospital. You will be asked to sign a
      separate consent form to give permission to the surgeon to perform this operation. That
      consent will describe the risks of the operation which involves removing the tumor cells from
      your liver.

      After your surgery, there is a possibility that your physician will recommend other treatment
      before starting the vaccines if he or she feels it would be beneficial to your care and
      medically appropriate. This part of the treatment would not be experimental (for example,
      chemotherapy or radiation therapy).

      Then, in this case, the vaccines made from your cancer will not be administered to you until
      at least 4 weeks after your last chemotherapy or radiation treatment. If the time between
      your operation and the first scheduled vaccine injection is 8 weeks or longer, we will ask
      you to undergo another chest, abdomen and pelvic CT scan and clinical blood work to confirm
      that it is still safe for you to proceed with the vaccines. After this 4 week rest period,
      vaccine administration will occur as previously outlined.

      If these tests indicate you are eligible for this study and you agree to participate, you
      will be referred to a surgeon for the surgical removal of tumor tissue from which the vaccine
      will be made.

      It is important to know that sometimes we are unable to collect enough cells from the tumor
      collection. In those cases we can try to grow the tumor cells for a short period of time to
      get enough cells to make a vaccine, but we can not guarantee that we will always be able to
      produce vaccine for every participant who undergoes tumor cell collection.

      The vaccines created from your colorectal cancer cells are scheduled to be given to you on
      days 1, 8, 15 and then every two weeks after that until 6 total vaccines have been
      administered. The amount of vaccines is dependent on the total amount of cells collected when
      your colorectal cancer liver metastasis is processed and prepared into vaccine in our lab. It
      is hoped that you will receive at least six vaccines. All scheduled treatment will occur in
      the outpatient clinic.

      The vaccines will be administered in two injections that will be placed underneath your skin.
      The two injections will be given at the same place on your body. The recommended sites are
      your arms, thighs or trunk area and the sites will rotate per vaccine.

      Day 1 is the first day of treatment on study. The following procedures are planned on this
      day: update of medical history, physical exam, blood samples for routine labs, required blood
      sample for immune studies, vaccine administration, and, if enough cells can be grown, you
      will receive an injection of cancer cells that have been killed but not able to secrete
      GM-CSF. This is done to measure the amount of reaction of your immune system caused by the
      vaccine alone.

      Punch biopsies will be obtained 2 days after the first and fifth vaccinations. A DTH
      injection will also be administered at the first and fifth vaccine. Two days after the
      vaccine and DTH administration punch biopsy will be taken. DTH injections are Delayed-type
      Hyper-sensitivity Tests. This injection inserts a small amount of the vaccine under your skin
      to determine if you have any allergic reactions to the vaccine. This will consist of a small
      piece of skin tissue removed under local anesthesia. A small stitch will be placed after the
      biopsy. You will sign a separate consent form for this procedure.

      The following procedures are planned for Days 8 and 15: update of medical history, weight and
      vital signs, blood samples for routine labs and immune studies, and vaccine administration.

      On day 29 and every two weeks (until no more vaccines are available) you wil undergo an
      update of medical history, physical exam, weight and vital signs, blood samples for routine
      labs and immune studies, punch biopsy and vaccine administration. With vaccine #5, you may
      receive a second DTH injection. Two days after the vaccine and DTH injection, punch biopsies
      will be taken off both sites to further evaluate your body's response to the treatment.

      After the final dose of study drug, your treating physician will determine if you are
      eligible to receive a second series of vaccinations. In addition, there must be sufficient
      numbers of cells for vaccine remaining from the original harvest or a new liver metastasis
      has occurred and been removed to make more vaccine.

      If you give consent to participate in the repeat dose phase, you will be required to repeat
      the screening tests to see if you are still eligible to participate in the study.

      It is possible that additional rounds of vaccine therapy may be offered after the second
      round, as long as it is appropriate in the opinion of your treating physician and additional
      tumor is available to make vaccine and you continue to meet the eligibility criteria.

      Participants will be monitored every 3 months with a blood test for the first 3 years and
      then every 6-12 months for a total of 5 years. Staging CT scans will be performed 3 months
      after the last vaccination, then every 6 months for the first three years and then yearly to
      year 5. After 5 years imaging will be at the discretion of the treating physician. Blood
      draws for immune research studies will occur every 3 months for 2 years after completing all
      vaccinations.
    
  