
    
      The investigators investigated the effect of a vestibular exercise program designed to help
      people with MS with two common problems: fatigue and difficulties with balance while standing
      and walking. Our primary aim was to compare the results from persons with MS that
      participated in the vestibular exercises (Experimental group) to individuals who participated
      in a more typical rehabilitation exercise program consisting of stretching and endurance
      exercise (Exercise Control group) or people who did not receive exercise treatment (Control
      group).

      The study was a 14-week randomized controlled trial. Thirty eighty participants were followed
      for four weeks before being randomly assigned to one of the three groups. Each participant
      had an equal chance of being assigned to either the Experimental group, Exercise Control
      group or the Control group. The Experimental group received a standardized vestibular
      exercise program that included upright postural control (balance) and eye movement exercises
      (6 one-hour sessions over 6 weeks). The Exercise Control group received endurance training
      using a stationary bicycle and leg stretching exercises (6 one-hour sessions over 6 weeks).
      Both exercise groups received the same 5 minutes of fatigue management education.
      Measurements of self-reported fatigue, dizziness and depression, and performance of a
      computerized, standing upright postural control test and walking capacity test were measured
      to determine benefits from the interventions. Participants in the Control group did not
      exercise, however if they chose, received the treatment within the clinical setting upon
      completion of their participation in the study.

      The investigators hypothesized that: 1) participants in the Experimental group would improve
      significantly in fatigue and balance; 2) improvements found in the Experimental group would
      be significantly greater than improvements in the Exercise Control group and Control group.

      Results: Analyses occur at: Baseline; at 10 weeks of follow-up (Baseline to
      post-intervention; and at 14 weeks of follow-up (post-intervention to post-four week
      unsupervised follow-up.
    
  