
    
      Medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) is considered worldwide a rare cancer. It derives from the
      parafolicular C-cells representing about 5-10% of all thyroid cancer. MTC is diagnosed as
      sporadic form (sMTC) in most of the patients, although in 20-30% of cases it could be
      hereditary and transmitted as an autosomal-dominant trait due to the germline mutations of
      the RET proto-oncogene. RET tyrosine kinase receptor is involved in the regulation of
      differentiation, proliferation, survival and cell motility processes through several
      intracellular signalling pathways, including MAPK and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways.

      Vandetanib has been approved for patients with unresectable and/or metastatic MTC by the Food
      and Drug Administration, by the European Medicines Agency and, very recently, it has been
      licensed also by the Italian Regulatory Agency (AIFA) for the use in Italy. Vandetanib is an
      orally tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor
      (VEGFR), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and RET signaling. In a randomized phase
      III trial, response rate to vandetanib ranged from 31% to 55% with a predicted median
      progression-free survival (PFS) of 30.5 months while data on overall survival were still not
      available at the time of publication. These results suggest that approximately half of the
      patients could benefit from this compound whose activity is in every case limited in the
      time. Activity of vandetanib seems to be influenced by several factors, including RET
      mutational status and tumor genetic heterogeneity (clonal versus non-clonal RET mutation
      distribution). Recent analyses of circulating miRNAs in tumor patients have suggested that
      miRNA signatures may be useful as diagnostic/prognostic/predictive as well as pharmacodynamic
      markers for several tumor types.

      No clinical neither biological data are currently available to identify which patients could
      really get a benefit from a TKI. In other words, some metastatic patients could suffer from
      an indolent disease, not requiring a TKI upfront and up to date, we are still not able to
      identify this selected group of patients Circulating miRNAs levels could be influenced by the
      treatment procedures, as it has been described in lung cancer where miR-21 and miR-24
      resulted significantly lower in the post-operative period respect to the pre-operative one in
      paired samples. We hypothesize that a TKI therapy could influence the levels of circulating
      miRNAs as well.

      Aim of this project is to seek non-invasive molecular markers potentially useful as
      prognostic tools for metastatic MTC patients.
    
  