
    
      Each participant who is offered an induction of labor from the University of California (UC)
      Davis Obstetrics and Gynecology clinics will be screened for inclusion criteria. If the
      participant meets inclusion criteria the participant will be given general information about
      the study and asked if they would like to participate. If so, research coordinators will meet
      the participant either during the current clinic visit or a subsequent clinic visit to
      consent and enroll the participant in the study. During this meeting, the participant will be
      randomly assigned to Group 1 or Group 2 by using randomization.com and subject number.

      Group 1: Treatment

      The participant will be given an appointment for fetal monitoring and transcervical foley
      catheter placement at the Antenatal Testing Unit of the UC Davis Ambulatory Care Center. This
      may be a same-day appointment. Once the participant presents for her appointment, participant
      will undergo a routine cervical examination, and routine ultrasound examination for fetal
      presentation and deep vertical pocket. The participant will also have vitals taken and
      undergo a brief interview with a provider to rule out rupture of membranes, significant
      vaginal bleeding, and other perinatal concerns. In order to undergo outpatient cervical
      preparation, the participant must meet the following criteria: Bishop's score <6 on cervical
      exam; Normal deep vertical pocket; Cephalic presentation; Negative standard interview to
      screen for vaginal bleeding, rupture of membranes, labor, and pre-eclampsia; and Blood
      pressure below 160 bpm systolic and 110 bpm diastolic.

      If the participant meets the above criteria for outpatient cervical preparation, a 30 mL
      transcervical foley catheter will be placed. If the participant does not meet criteria,
      participant will be sent to Labor and Delivery for possible admission. The participant may
      elect to receive pain medication intramuscularly for pain management before or after foley
      catheter placement. After catheter placement the participant will undergo a nonstress test
      (NST), and if there is no evidence of tachysystole or non-reassuring fetal well-being,
      participant will be discharged home with a prescription for tylenol. Upon discharge home, the
      participant will receive instructions on keeping catheter on gentle traction and walking. The
      participant will be instructed to return once the foley is expelled, or after 24 hours with
      the foley in place. The participant will also leave with return precautions including rupture
      of membranes, vaginal bleeding, decreased fetal movement, labor, severe pain, and signs or
      symptoms of preeclampsia. As a safety measure, the participant will be counseled to call an
      24 hour advice nurse line if participant experiences any of the following: Severe pain or
      discomfort (greater than 8 out of a 10 point scale); Vaginal bleeding; Loss of fluid;
      Contractions more than 5 minutes apart; Decreased fetal movement; Fevers or chills; Severe
      headache; Abdominal pain under right rib area; and Spots in vision or blurry vision.

      The remaining procedures in this group will follow the standard Labor and Delivery hospital
      procedures at UC Davis

      Group 2: Control The participant will be admitted to Labor and Delivery. The remaining
      procedures in this group will follow standard Labor and Delivery hospital procedures at UC
      Davis

      The duration anticipated to enroll all study subjects is 10-14 months after Institutional
      Review Board approval. Approximately 30-40 participant are admitted each month to UC Davis
      Labor and Delivery. On average, half of these participants are nulliparous. If approximately
      5- 10 participants are recruited to each group each month, it will take 10-14 months to reach
      the goal number of subjects. The duration of an individual subject's participation in the
      study will be from time of foley catheter insertion (Group 1) or hospital admission time
      (Group 2) to the time of hospital discharge. Electronic medical records will be accessed
      during and after this time period only pertaining to the participant's labor including
      intrapartum and postpartum complications. In addition, participants will be asked survey
      questions at the time of study enrollment and on postpartum day 1. The estimated date for the
      investigators to complete this study is two months after enrollment has ended.
    
  