
    
      This is a multicenter, prospective, randomized, open-label study assessing the interest of
      the association of the WALANT local infiltration technique with analgesic troncular blocks
      (TRONC) at the wrist, for the endoscopic CTR.

      This study compares two groups:

        -  CONTROL group (usual technique) : TRONC (using a long-acting LA : Ropivacaine) +
           Tourniquet

        -  WALANT group (experimental technique) : TRONC (using a long-acting LA : Ropivacaine) +
           WALANT ( using a short-term LA : Lidocaine + epinephrine)

      RA procedures will be systematically performed under ultrasound guidance, 45 min befor
      surgery. Before each procedure, a skin disinfection will be carried out using an alcoholic
      iodine solution. The needle approach will be in-plane (IP) or out-of-plane (OOP). Efficiency
      will be assessed before transfer to the operating room.

        -  Troncular blocks (TRONC) Patients will be installed in supine position, the arm at 90°
           of abduction and in external rotation. The probe will be positioned to have an axial
           view of the nerves at the wrist. The initial identification of the median (nM) and ulnar
           (nU) nerves will be systematically done before each TRONC. The nM will be located on the
           anterior forearm. The nU will be visualized in contact with the ulnar artery in the
           forearm. The operator will inject 3 to 7 mL of Ropivacaine 3.75 mg/ml per nerve. An
           infiltration of 2 ml of Ropivacaine 3.75 mg/ml will be performed laterally above the
           flexion fold of the wrist in order to block the branches of the lateral cutaneous nerve
           of the forearm, the terminal sensory branch of the musculocutaneous nerve (nMC). A 22
           Gauge x 50 mm needle will be used for TRONC.

        -  WALANT infiltration ("WALANT" group) An infiltration of the subcutaneous area in front
           of the transverse ligament will be performed between the thenar and hypothenar
           eminences, from the flexion fold of the wrist over a length of 5 cm. The path of the nM
           in the palm of the hand will be checked before each procedure. 3 to 7 ml of 1% lidocaine
           (10 mg/ml) combined with 0.005 mg/ml epinephrine and 8.4% sodium bicarbonate (1 ml per
           10 ml of lidocaine) will be injected. The addition of sodium bicarbonate will reduce the
           pain due to lidocaine injection. A 24 Gauge x 50 mm needle will be used for WALANT.

        -  Usage of pneumatic Tourniquet A pneumatic tourniquet will be placed at the root of the
           arm in all patients. A cuff with size and shape adapted to the patient will be used. The
           tourniquet will be inflated in all patients of "CONTROL" group, and if necessary,
           corresponding to the failure of the WALANT technique, in patients of "WALANT" group. The
           inflation pressure will be determined according to the patient's systolic blood pressure
           (SBP). It will be inflated 75 to 100 mmHg above SBP
    
  