
    
      This 24-month study aims to develop and validate a theoretically founded patient-reported
      outcome measure for use in routine HIV care with patients on antiretroviral therapy (ART).
      Eight clinical sites will be involved (4 in Canada and 4 in France). The measure will centre
      on patients' reported barriers to ART adherence and will be adapted for administration via
      electronic tablet. The study has four main steps. The psychometric validation of the tool and
      core of the study will be conducted in Step 3. The Observational -Prospective design applies
      to the field test and retest phase of Step 3. The four steps are nevertheless described
      below.

      Step 1 -Development of the measure's conceptual framework (Start: October 2015)

        1. A scoping review of existing HIV-specific patient-reported outcome measures

        2. A meta-ethnography of qualitative research on HIV-positive persons' reported barriers to
           antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence

        3. A content analysis of qualitative interviews with HIV-positive patients on ART about
           their perceived barriers to adherence (n = 30 patients) The meta-ethnography and content
           analysis will serve to develop the conceptual framework on which the tool will be based.
           It will not only define the tool's conceptual domain but outline its relationship to
           other concepts that will be verified statistically as a part of the tool's validation.
           Once the framework is completed, the measure will be specified and a bank of items will
           be generated.

      Step 2 -Linguistic validation of the preliminary measure The tool's linguistic validation
      will involve the professional harmonization of the English and French versions and the
      creation of a universal French version adapted to all French sites.

      Step 3 - Exploration and validation of the measure's psychometric properties

        1. During the pilot phase, we will administer our measure and other measures to a small
           sample size (n = 80) and conduct a number of " cognitive interviews " with participants
           (n = 8). This will mainly help improve our measure before the field test phase (e.g., by
           examining missing data, incoherent responses, any problems with question comprehension).

        2. The field test (n = 160) will be done with the revised measure of the pilot phase and
           will include exploratory and confirmatory analyses to examine, among other aspects, the
           correspondence between the collected data and the conceptual framework developed in Step
           1. Here we will also examine the sub-dimensions of our measure and verify the concurrent
           (e.g., viral load, intention to adhere to ART), convergent (e.g., beliefs about
           antiretroviral medication) and discriminant (e.g., quality of life) validities of the
           tool.

        3. For the retest phase, the field test participants will be recalled either 1 week or 4
           weeks later for another round of data collection to assess the measure's reliability. In
           this phase an additional measure not included in the previous phase will be included in
           the questionnaire (adherence to ART). This new measure will be used to verify the
           predictive validity of the tool.

      Step 4 -Pilot the clinical use of the instrument Here, the finalized tool will be applied in
      a clinical setting with a small sample of HIV-positive patients under ART (n = 24) and their
      clinicians (n = 8).The aim is to collect data on the tool's perceived utility from the
      perspective of both populations in order to provide an initial assessment of the feasibility
      of the tool's wider implementation.

      Statistical analyses planned Statistical analyses of the quantitative pilot test phase (n =
      80)

        -  Response coherence

        -  Analysis of item score distributions

        -  Analysis of missing data

        -  Principal components analyses Statistical analyses of the field test phase (n = 160)

        -  Exploratory analyses

        -  Confirmatory analyses

        -  Verification of the measure's convergent, discriminant and concurrent validities
           Statistical analyses of the retest phase (a random sample of n = 160)

        -  Principal components analysis and internal consistency through Cronbach's alpha in order
           to verify whether the factors obtained at the retest phase are the same as those
           obtained from the field test phase

        -  Descriptive statistics and multivariate analyses will be carried out in order to compare
           score means and to verify whether the factors associated with the I-score are the same
           in phases 2 and 3 Statistical analyses of the Pilot of the instrument's clinical use (n
           = 24 patients; n = 8 HIV clinicians)

        -  The statistics produced for this step of the study will be descriptive (e.g.,
           percentages, averages) and comparative. For comparative analyses between patients and
           their doctors (e.g., on the tool's appreciation), tests will be adapted according to
           whether the variables used are continuous (e.g., t-tests) or categorical (e.g.,
           chi-square).

        -  Furthermore, patient and clinician data will be analyzed with a multi-level model to
           examine, for example, if patient appreciation (or non-appreciation) of the tool is
           associated or not with differences in the clinicians' perceptions (estimation of
           individual and structural factors associated with appreciation or non-appreciation).
    
  