
    
      The project is designed to achieve five specific aims: (1) To determine the feasibility of
      attracting African Americans into Health Promotion Research studies;(2) To determine whether
      clinically recorded information can be used as a guide for recruitment inclusion in Health
      Promotion Studies from an active epidemiological research cohort;(3) To measure the ability
      to retain African Americans recruited into Health Promotion Studies from an active research
      cohort;(4) To measure the adherence to various protocols within a Health promotion Study;
      and(5) To provide informed estimates of effect sizes for designing future Health Promotion
      Research.

      A total of 375 study participants from the Jackson Heart Study (JHS) cohort, all of whom are
      African American, will be randomly assigned to one of five, equally-sized study arms: (1)
      practicing yoga three times per week; (2) practicing yoga two times per week; (3) practicing
      yoga one time per week; (4) walking briskly three times per week; and (5) attending a weekly
      healthy lifestyles class.

      All study arms will include a 24-week intervention. In addition, participants will have a
      total of four clinical visits with members of the study team baseline, 12 weeks, 24 weeks,
      and 48 weeks) in which the following measures will be recorded:

        1. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rates

        2. Highly sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP) - serum, fibrinogen - plasma (sodium
           citrate), homocysteine (plasma), and interleukin-6 levels (IL-6) (serum).

        3. Fasting total cholesterol, low density (LDL), direct high density lipoprotein (HDL), and
           triglyceride levels - all serum

        4. HbA1c level

        5. BMI, waist circumference

        6. Medication and supplement use and dosages

        7. Results of a study survey designed to measure participants' changes in their reported
           health-related quality of life, perceived stress, health behaviors, sleep patterns, and
           impact of pain on everyday life

      In addition, we will also record systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rates before
      and after each intervention session for all five study arms.
    
  