
    
      Unlike adjuvant chemotherapy, primary (preoperative) chemotherapy will shrink tumor and allow
      more patients to become candidates for conservative surgery and avoid mastectomy. It also is
      an in vivo chemosensitivity test and the result is a predictive marker for clinical outcomes.

      Paclitaxel has been shown to be an effective agent in the treatment of breast cancer.
      Gemcitabine is a cytosine arabinoside prodrug analog and shows response rates of 15% to 46%
      as a single agent with very low toxicity. The combination of paclitaxel and gemcitabine (PG)
      resulted in improvement in objective response rate, time to progression and overall survival
      compared to paclitaxel monotherapy in patients with metastatic breast cancer. In addition,
      primary chemotherapies with PG and PGH (PG + trastuzumab) showed significant activity and
      very low toxicity in phase II studies performed at National Cancer Center, Korea (ASCO 2007
      and SABCS 2008, respectively).

      Sunitinib is an oral small molecular tyrosine kinase inhibitor that exhibits potent
      anti-angiogenic and antitumor activity. Sunitinib is a rationally designed small molecule
      that inhibits members of the split-kinase domain family of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs)
      including the vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs) types 1, 2, and 3, platelet-derived
      growth factor receptor (PDGFR)-α, and -β, stem cell factor receptor (KIT), colony stimulating
      factor 1 receptor (CSF-1R), Fms-like tyrosine kinase (FLT-3), and glial cell line-derived
      neurotrophic factor receptor (RET). Inhibition of these RTKs blocks signal transduction,
      thereby affecting many of the process involved in tumor growth, progression, metastasis, and
      angiogenesis. Angiogenesis plays a vital role in the growth and metastasis of solid tumors.
      Preclinical and indirect clinical evidence has accumulated to support the role of
      neo-angiogenesis in the pathogenesis and progression of breast cancer. Breast cancer
      neo-vascularization, as measured by an increase in microvessel density, is correlated with
      the extent of disease and is associated with vascular invasion of the tumor, a prerequisite
      for blood-borne metastasis. VEGFR signaling is also implicated in the pathobiology of breast
      cancer. Breast cancer patients exhibit high levels of circulating VEGF and other RTKs are
      very likely implicated in breast cancer pathogenesis.

      Interestingly, a phase II study (Study A6181002) of single-agent sunitinib (50 mg/d on
      schedule 4/2) in breast cancer patients with anthracycline- and taxane-refractory metastatic
      disease revealed a response rate of approximately 14% in 51 assessable patients, leading to
      additional accrual.

      When sunitinib is combined with paclitaxel, significant activity was noticed with tolerable
      toxicity profile in a phase I trial (SABCS 2007). Based on this trial, phase III trial of
      paclitaxel and sunitinib is ongoing. In addition, phase I trials of gemcitabine and sunitinib
      combination are ongoing.

      Based both on the significant activity of PG combination regimens in the neoadjuvant and
      metastatic setting and on the phase I trials of combination regimens with
      sunitinib-paclitaxel and sunitinib-gemcitabine, we plan to conduct a phase IB/II study of
      primary chemotherapy with sunitinib, paclitaxel and gemcitabine in patients with
      HER2-negative stage II/III breast cancer. The goal of this phase IB/II study is to define the
      recommended dose and maximum tolerable dose of paclitaxel and gemcitabine in combination with
      sunitinib, and explore the activity of this combination as preoperative chemotherapy in
      patients with HER2-negative operable breast cancer.
    
  