
    
      The Facilitated Angioplasty with Tirofiban or Abciximab Study (FATA Study) is a prospective
      multicentre study, randomized in 2 groups (high dose Tirofiban or Abciximab), on a sample of
      700 patients with acute myocardial infarction for whom primary angioplasty is indicated.
      Patients will be enrolled in the Emergency Room or in the Intensive Care Unit and other
      hospital departments or externally in the event of intervention by the Emergency Ambulance
      Service 118. For all these patients it must be possible to administer a IIb/IIIa inhibitor
      immediately after ECG and clinical diagnosis, before transfer to the cath lab for the primary
      angioplasty procedure. Patients arriving directly in the cath lab without being randomized
      before transfer will also be included.

      Major exclusion criteria are: Complete left bundle branch block, Previous myocardial
      infarction at the same site, Post-anoxic coma, Known thrombocytopenia or leucopenia, Previous
      episodes of hemorrhagic diathesis or allergy to ASA or thienopyridine; Anticoagulant therapy
      with dicumarol with INR > 2; Previous treatment with thrombolytics (within the previous 48
      hours).

      Randomization will take place as soon as possible after the diagnostic ECG and will be
      performed by means of a centralized automatic system using SMS messages sent by ordinary cell
      phones.

      The primary endpoint is ST resolution 90 minutes after opening of the affected vessel.
      Secondary endpoints include: Patency of the vessel at the first selective angiography, no
      reflow phenomenon during the procedure, TIMI 3 flow at the end of the procedure, MACE (death,
      reinfarction*, urgent TVR°) at 30 days, MACE (death, reinfarction*, TVR°) at 6 months, major
      bleeding requiring transfusion or surgery, or a reduction in Hb of more than 5 g%, Ictus and
      intracranial hemorrhage.

      To demonstrate the study hypothesis, i.e. that Tirofiban is equivalent to Abciximab in
      facilitating primary angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction, with sufficient statistical
      significance, the necessary number of patients for each drug was calculated on the basis of
      the methods used in equivalence studies and was fixed in 350 pts per group.

      390 patients have been randomized (as of Sept 15th, 2006). Results are expected by the end of
      2007.

      This study will establish whether in primary angioplasty a high dose of Tirofiban has an
      equivalent effect to Abciximab, first in terms of microcirculation protection and then of
      long-term clinical results. If this hypothesis is confirmed, Tirofiban could be used as an
      alternative to Abciximab, with considerable savings given its much lower cost.
    
  