
    
      Hip fractures are a common entity in the realm of orthopedic trauma care and make up about
      20% of the average workload of a trauma center. The lifetime risk of sustaining a hip
      fracture is significant; in women the range is 40-50% and among men it is 13-22%. Among all
      hip fractures, intracapsular femoral neck fractures (FNF) account for approximately 50% and
      are a significant undertaking for both the patient and treating physician. As the average age
      of the general population increases, the incidence of FNF in the worldwide population is
      likewise expected to rise (1.66 million observed in 1990 and 6.26 million projected 2050)
      with profound societal and economic impact.1

      Operative indications and the methodology of surgical intervention in cases of femoral neck
      fractures are well established. Generally speaking, treatment options can be divided in two
      groups: reduction with internal fixation or arthroplasty. This treatment decision depends on
      patient factors and fracture characteristics. Within the realm of internal fixation, advances
      in the quality of modern implants have yielded largely good surgical outcomes. However,
      internal fixation of femoral neck fractures is not without complications. Osteonecrosis of
      the femoral head (ONFH) and nonunion are the major causes of morbidity and economic burden.2
      The rate of ONFH in a recent meta-analysis was 0-22% (mean 6.9%) with a trend towards higher
      rates in women, patients less than 60 years of age, and those treated with cannulated screw
      fixation.1,3,4 Identifying measures to minimize the risk of osteonecrosis and nonunion would
      be beneficial to patient outcomes. Prior studies have noted correlations between residual
      displacement of the femoral head or varus malreduction with fixation failure (13-fold
      increase).1,5 In both cases, it is suspected that failure to restore normal anatomy of the
      femoral head and neck compromises the biomechanical alignment of the hip, and most
      importantly, its blood flow.

      To date, there has not been a well-described intra-operative method to assess femoral head
      perfusion in adults, or to correlate these finding with late complications such as
      osteonecrosis. The diagnosis of osteonecrosis is typically made late in the patient's
      post-operative course when it becomes apparent on radiographs. Some investigators have
      studied the utility of select imaging studies at predicting femoral head perfusion and found
      single photon-emission computerized tomography (CT) to be accurate, but not easily available
      in all centers.6 MRI is felt to be superior to radiographs for early detection, but still not
      reliable in the first few weeks after injury.7 While the use of post-operative MRI and CT to
      elucidate femoral head perfusion has been investigated, neither can provide a real-time,
      intra-operative, measure of blood flow to the femoral head. If a real-time perfusion
      assessment tool was available, surgeons could determine the necessity for, and adequacy of,
      intraoperative reduction. Lack of perfusion could alter a surgeon's operative plan and might
      prompt an attempt at improving the reduction or a change in surgical management.

      The purpose of this prospective study is to establish an intra-operative technique to monitor
      femoral head blood flow in patients with femoral neck fractures. The investigators'
      hypothesis is that by utilizing an intracranial pressure (ICP) monitor to detect the presence
      or absence of waveforms in the femoral head, investigators could reliably assess the
      perfusion levels within the femoral head and possibly reduce the incidence of osteonecrosis.
      Primary outcomes will be osteonecrosis and fracture union. The implications of this study may
      lead to changes in post-operative management, the intra-operative surgical plan if little to
      no epiphyseal perfusion is present and potentially new treatments for FNF patients to avoid
      the dreaded complication of osteonecrosis.

      The intracranial pressure monitor will be utilized during the standard operative fixation of
      displaced and non-displaced FNF patients. This will allow a real-time assessment of femoral
      head perfusion pressure following reduction and fixation of these fractures. Correlations
      will be made to patients' blood pressure, demographic data, and injury characteristics. The
      monitor uses a sterile transducer that contains a pressure-monitoring catheter. This produces
      an artifact free, high fidelity waveform tracing without the need for a "fluid-filled"
      system. In the proposed application, the monitor would quantify perfusion pressure in the
      femoral head rather than cerebral tissue pressure. Following the investigators' protocol, the
      ICP monitor will be inserted through the cannulated screw used for fracture fixation and then
      removed after the measurement has been recorded.

      Dr. Tim Schrader, the principal investigator, currently utilizes this ICP monitor as standard
      of care for all patients being treated for unstable slipped capital femoral epiphysis, a
      pediatric condition of the hip that similarly has an associated risk of osteonecrosis. He has
      demonstrated that the presence of femoral head perfusion as detected by a waveform on
      intra-osseous placed ICP monitor has been associated with the absence of osteonecrosis
      post-operatively.8
    
  