
    
      Outcome measures: The primary outcome will be complete resolution of the lesion defined as:
      clinical absence of verruca vulgaris with redevelopment of skin lines on the dorsal surface
      and dermatoglyphics (ridges of the skin) on the inner surface of the palms and feet, as
      determined by a blinded clinician investigator blinded to the treatment will evaluate each
      lesion and determine whether the lesion. A secondary outcome will include: time to complete
      resolution of the lesion.

      2. Objectives and Specific Aims 1.1. Primary objective: To evaluate the efficacy of the
      Cutera CoolGlide 1064nm Nd:YAG laser in the treatment of verruca vulgaris of the hands and
      feet versus conventional therapy with liquid nitrogen cryotherapy.

      2. Research Design and Methods This a single site double blind (faculty observer and patient
      blinded; operator/clinician non-blinded), randomized controlled clinical trial to evaluate
      the efficacy of the Nd:YAG laser (Cutera) in the treatment of verruca vulgaris of the hands
      and feet versus conventional therapy with liquid nitrogen in 52 patients.

      2.2 Study Procedures Informed consent A signed informed consent form will be obtained from
      each patient prior to entering the study

      Physical examination A brief physical examination of the skin including the affected area
      will be performed. Photographs will be taken of affected areas, prior to and after each
      treatment from baseline through the fifth treatment follow-up. The investigator will document
      the number, size and location of each lesion.

      Laboratory tests No laboratory testing will be performed for this research project.

      Procedure Visit

      Initial Visit (DAY 1):

      Prior to the clinic visit and treatment:

        1. The patient will be screened for inclusion by a study team member using a screening
           questionnaire (Appendix A).

        2. A sub-investigator will review the screening criteria to validate that the patient meets
           eligibility criteria.

        3. Written informed consent will be obtained from the patient before participation in the
           study (Appendix B).

      Treatment 1:

        1. The qualifying eligible patient who has consented to participate in the study will be
           assigned to receive either Nd:YAG laser treatment or liquid nitrogen therapy using a
           previously established block randomization schema prepared by the research statistician.

        2. All lesions will be evaluated and pared with a #15 surgical blade if thickness, a
           callous, crust or debris is noted, or if hyperkeratosis or other skin thickening is
           evident which would impede evaluation of the wart.

        3. The attending faculty physician will confirm the diagnosis with use a dermatoscope and
           will be blinded to the treatment assignment.

        4. Photos will be taken of the lesions, after paring with a #15 blade to remove any crust
           or thickened skin above the wart, prior to treatment, and after treatment. A consistent
           photography procedure (Appendix C) will be used. Each wart will be numbered; size and
           location will be documented on the Dermatology Study Wart Assessment and Treatment
           Records (Appendix D). Photographs will be taken before and after treatment.

        5. All lesions will be anesthetized with topical lidocaine (LMX 4%) applied under occlusion
           for 15minutes prior to treatment.

        6. All patients will be prepared for treatment in the same manner. They will wear the
           protective goggles used in laser treatment and will use head phones to muffle the sound
           of treatment. Both treatment modalities will be turned on prior to the treatment so
           sounds may not be predictive of the treatment.

      8. The patients that have been randomly selected to receive Nd:YAG laser treatment will be
      fully treated with the following parameters for the laser. If the warts are greater than 3mm
      the following settings will be used: 20 millisecond pulse width, fluence 180 J/cm2, spot size
      5 mm. If warts are 3mm or less in diameter, the laser settings will be: 180 J/cm2, spot size
      3mm, pulse width 15 milliseconds. No laser gel will be used during treatment. After each
      laser pulse, the treated area can be briefly cooled with the tip of the laser. If more than
      one pulse is needed to cover the entire area of the wart, 10% overlap will be used and area
      outside of the wart border will not be treated.

      9. The patients that have been randomly selected to receive liquid nitrogen treatment will
      receive liquid nitrogen spray gun for 5-7 seconds creating and maintaining a 1-2 mm freeze
      halo around lesion for the duration of the application. Use nozzle extender for warts less
      than 3 mm.

      10. Patients will be instructed to avoid treating the warts at home, but they may use
      vaseline, aquaphor, or plain petrolatum and a band aid as needed for comfort until the next
      visit .

      11. Patients will schedule a return visit in two weeks for assessment of the effects of
      treatment.

      12. Patient treatments will be documented on the appropriate Dermatology Study Wart Treatment
      Record (Appendix D). Revision of the Dermatology Study Wart Treatment Record is attached with
      the Request for Revision.

      12.1 Document the patient's medications on the Master Medication Record 12.2 Document the
      patient's warts on the Master Record of Warts

        1. Treatments #2, 3, 4, 5 (DAY 14, 28, 42, 56; +/- 7 days) Patient will return at 2week
           intervals for evaluation and documentation of lesions.

        2. An objective faculty observer blinded to treatment, will evaluate wart persistence or
           clearance at treatments #2, 3, 4, and 5, after the lesion is pared. Faculty will
           document findings on the Wart Study Attending Faculty Observer Assessment Tool Appendix
           E).

        3. Photos will be taken after paring lesions with a #15 blade; number, size, and location
           of lesions will be documented, as well as occurrence of any new warts.

             1. If the patient has no clinical lesions present as determined by a blinded faculty
                clinician, the patient will move on to follow up phase, see below.

             2. If there is still clinical evidence of persisting lesions the patient will be
                retreated with the same randomized modality as in treatment #1.

             3. If new warts are identified, the investigators will document the number, size, and
                location of the warts, and photograph the new warts before and after treatment.

             4. Treatment of new warts will be with the same randomized treatment modality to avoid
                patient un-blinding.

        4. All lesions will be anesthetized with topical lidocaine (LMX 4%) applied under occlusion
           for 15 minutes prior to treatment.

        5. All patients will be prepared for treatment in the same manner. They will wear the
           protective goggles used in laser treatment and will use head phones to muffle the sound
           of treatment. Both treatment modalities will be turned on prior to the treatment so
           sounds may not be predictive of the treatment.

        6. Proceed with treatment of warts in the same manner as randomization. Complete steps 9-
           11 as listed under the initial treatment.

      Follow-Up Phase: Clinical Clearance Once a lesion is clinically clear, the patient will move
      on to the follow up phase. No lesion will be treated more than 5 times. Patients who do not
      clear after the evaluation of the 5th treatment will be considered treatment failure and will
      be removed from the study. Patients who fail study treatment will be offered continuing
      treatment outside of the study through Dermatology Clinic. The patient will be responsible
      for standard charges for any additional treatment through Dermatology Clinic.

      Patients who clear will return to the clinic for evaluation at 1 and 2 months after clinical
      clearance to determine continued clearance or recurrence. Recurrence will be defined as a new
      clinical evident lesion that appear in the same location(s) as the previously treated wart(s)
      up to 2 months post treatment.

      1 and 2 Month Follow Up

        1. Clinician will perform an examination of the treated areas as in previous visits.

        2. Photos will be taken.

        3. Size and location of new lesions, if any, will be documented.

        4. Recurrence of previously treated lesions will be documented.

      4 Month Follow-up

      At 4 months following the clearance date, a structured telephone interview will investigate
      the status of the lesion(s). If the patient is unsure of the status of clearance, the patient
      will be asked to return for evaluation by the sub-investigator. If the wart recurs or
      persists, the patient will be offered additional treatment using other options and will be
      billed for any post-study treatment.

      3. Data management and statistical analysis Data Collection and management Data will be
      collected on paper Case Report forms by the resident physician treating the subject. See data
      collection tools (Appendix D) and rules in the Procedure Book. Double data entry will be
      provided by data entry staff into two separate excel spread sheets. Data comparison will be
      completed by the research statistician. Any discrepancies will be reviewed by the study team.
      Issues in need of adjudication will be decided by the PI.

      Sample size determination: Sample size was calculated based on a formula for effective sample
      size in a randomized clustered design with binary outcomes. On average, patients will present
      with approximately three lesions (usually between 1 and 5) requiring treatment. An estimate
      of a 50% cure rate, using cryotherapy for plantar warts, was drawn from a Cochrane review
      published in 2006 [10, 11]. We will consider a clinically significant improvement, if at
      least 80% of the warts treated by Nd:Yag laser are completely resolved at the 6 month visit.
      We will assume a moderate intra-cluster correlation coefficient of 0.3. Given the cluster
      design, enrolling 52 patients with, on average, 3 warts each, randomized to one of two
      treatments, will be needed to provide 84% power to show a statistically significant
      difference in cure rate. Significance will be set at p<0.05.

      Data Management and Analysis All analyses will be done using SAS® 9.2. Demographic and
      clinical variables will be summarized using means, medians and percentages, as appropriate.
      To determine whether the primary outcome, complete resolution of each lesion at 2 and 4
      months follow-up, is different between treatment groups, we will use a generalized linear
      mixed model with a binomial distribution, and with initial lesion size and duration, as
      covariates in the model. The correlation of outcomes within patient will be modeled using a
      random effect. The secondary outcome, time to complete resolution will be analyzed using a
      using a multilevel survival model with patient as a random effect and initial lesion size and
      duration as covariates in the model. To see whether the results are sensitive to missing
      data, both models will be analyzed with and without the self-reported 4-month outcomes.
    
  