
    
      Anxiety disorders are the most prevalent psychiatric disorders, occurring in among 15% to 20%
      of children. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is currently the first-choice treatment for
      anxiety-disordered children. Despite proven efficacy, almost half of them do not respond,
      causing prolonged suffering. Children with persistent anxiety have an increased risk for
      other psychiatric disorders, school dropout, social isolation, alcoholism, and suicide
      attempts. Another concern is that only a small proportion of anxiety-disordered children
      actually receive treatment. These negative consequences in combination with the limited
      accessibility of treatment endorse the urgent need to develop more effective and accessible
      treatments that can enhance effectiveness of current treatment options.

      A newly emerging and promising childhood anxiety treatment is Attention Bias Modification
      Treatment (ABMT). ABMT is build upon evidence that anxious children tend to selectively focus
      their attention on threatening information in the context of other non-threatening
      information, and that attention bias is related to development and maintenance of anxiety
      disorders. Children with an attention bias scan their environment for potential threat or
      danger thereby starting a cascade of subsequent processing biases in interpretation and
      memory, resulting in heightened anxiety.

      Hence, as attention bias is an underlying mechanism of anxiety, treatment that diminishes
      attention bias toward threat in anxiety-disordered individuals should alleviate anxiety.
      Subsequently, several researchers began to examine the effect of ABMT, which implicitly
      trains anxiety-disordered individuals to attend away from threat toward neutral information.
      This is a different approach than CBT, which does not target early and automatic information
      processes, but addresses later stages of information processing that are under volitional
      control. Several studies highlighted the potential of ABMT in reducing anxiety levels in
      adults. A meta-analysis revealed that ABMT in adults produces significantly greater
      reductions in anxiety than sham control training, with a large effect size in clinical
      populations. A previous study found that 72% of the adults were free from their primary
      anxiety disorder after ABMT as compared to 11% after sham attention training, which is far
      more than CBT. These training effects were maintained at 4-month follow-up. Importantly, ABMT
      also modifies neural systems that are involved in the control of attention to emotional
      stimuli, in particular the lateral prefrontal cortex.

      Despite the promising results in adults, ABMT has been scarcely examined in children. A few
      studies demonstrated a significant anxiolytic effect of ABMT, but not of the sham control
      condition. A major limitation of previous studies is that sample sizes were quite low and
      that a limited number of training sessions were provided. It has been shown that more
      training sessions enhance the magnitude of treatment effect. This is the first study that
      examines the effectiveness of a 9-session web-based ABMT in a large sample of
      anxiety-disordered children as well as examines the additive effect of web-based ABMT on CBT.

      As reviewed above, childhood anxiety disorders are highly prevalent and debilitating, and
      there is an urgent need for improvement of current treatment strategies. An innovative, but
      scarcely examined, treatment option for childhood anxiety disorders is ABMT. A randomized,
      sham-controlled, double-blind trial of web-based Attention Bias Modification Treatment for
      childhood anxiety disorders will be conducted. One hundred twenty-eight children will be
      randomly allocated to a 9 session internet-delivered ABMT or sham attention training. The
      primary aim is to compare ABMT-augmented CBT with CBT as monotherapy on recovery rates for
      anxiety disorders and changes in anxiety. The secondary aim is to compare ABMT with sham
      attention training on anxiety disorder recovery rates and changes in anxiety.
    
  