
    
      This study was performed with the aim of determining the effect of supportive interventions
      on maternal stress levels among mothers with infants hospitalized in the NICU.

      This was a randomized pre- and post-test controlled trial was conducted to determined the
      effect of planned educational and supportive nursing interventions given to mothers with
      infants in the NICU on the stress, anxiety and beliefs of mothers in the NICU of Women and
      Pediatrics Training and Research Hospital. This study was conducted at a state hospital's
      NICU in the east part of Turkey. According to the criteria of the T.R. Ministry of Health,
      the unit in which the study was performed was a Level I NICU. The unit had 10 incubators and
      10 nurses were employed in the NICU. The nurses in the NICU worked in groups of three, in two
      shifts, providing care and treatment of the newborns in the unit. This part of Turkey is
      geographically located in a rural area in the east. The mothers with infants in the NICU were
      informed by the physicians and nurses on certain days of the week about the hours at which
      they were allowed to visit their infants.

      Power analysis of the sample number used the G*Power (v. 3.1.9.2) program and was based on
      previous studies. According to Jacob Cohen's effect size coefficients, assuming large effect
      size in assessments between two independent groups (d=0.40), with α=0.05 and 1-β=0.95 (90%
      power), each group was required to contain at least 39 people. Considering data loss, each
      group included 50 mothers. As saliva samples were insufficient in 10 mothers in the
      experiment group and 5 mothers in the control group, this data was excluded from the study.
      The research was completed with 85 mothers, comprising 40 subjects and 45 controls chosen at
      random (Fig. 1).

      2.3. Randomization: sequence generation, type, allocation concealment mechanism, and
      implementation Randomization was performed using a computer program. To ensure the mothers
      were not influenced by each other, the mothers were divided into those who visited their
      infants for the first time on Monday and Wednesday, as the intervention group, and on Tuesday
      and Thursday, as the control group.

      Data collection used the "Mother and Neonate Descriptive Information Form", "Parental
      Stressor Scale: Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (PSS:NICU)", "NICU Parent Belief Scale (NICU
      PBS)", State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI TX-2)" and "saliva cortisol analysis".

      Before the mothers first visits to their infants, the mother and neonate descriptive
      information form, PSS: NICU, STAI TX-2 and NICU Parent Belief scale were completed by the
      researcher during face-to-face interviews with the mother and first saliva samples were taken
      from mothers. Mothers in the group with supportive nursing interventions completed the
      PSS:NICU, NICU-Parent Belief Scale and STAI-TX-2 again and had the post-test saliva sample
      taken when their infants were discharged from the NICU.

      Supportive and educational nursing interventions about reducing maternal stress levels in the
      experimental group included the following: the NICU was physically described to mothers on
      the first day they visited their infants, mothers were introduced to team members, and given
      information about how to obtain information about their baby, visiting hours and conditions.
      Special tools and devices required for care like respiratory devices and monitors were
      described, and information was given about treatment of the neonate and general status.
      Mothers of neonates with appropriate clinical status were encouraged to touch their baby and
      hold their hand. Within the rules of the unit mothers were allowed to touch and hold their
      baby. Introduction to the NICU, informing about the baby and contact between mother and baby
      was completed within 30-45 minutes duration. As a guide to training, a 35-page "Care of your
      Baby in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit" training booklet prepared by the researcher based
      on stress among families in the intensive care unit was given to mothers and included topics
      like the NICU environment, features of neonates born prematurely and at term, care, feeding,
      diseases, treatment methods, stress in the NICU, breastfeeding, preparation for discharge and
      baby care at home.

      After the information session on the first visiting day for mothers and babies, seven
      interactive trainings were held each lasting nearly 90 minutes during the neonate's admission
      to hospital. During interactive training, power point presentations prepared by the
      researcher were presented on a large screen in the education salon in the hospital and
      arranged in two 45-minute sessions allowing mothers to share their experiences, excitement,
      sadness and worries. Planned nursing interventions were standardised for each mother with a
      check-list. Mothers were given information training about the NICU environment, features of
      babies born prematurely and at term, care, feeding, disease, treatment methods, stress in the
      NICU, breastfeeding, preparation for discharge and baby care at home. The relevant topics
      were chosen after relevant literature search by the researcher (Konukbay & Arslan, 2011;
      Lonio et al. 2016; Uludağ & Ünlüoğlu, 2012) and the second author's personal experience with
      parents of infants in the NICU. In the second session, the researchers gave training about
      positive thinking, healthy lifestyle, knowing yourself, stress management and relaxation
      techniques developed in the context of the literature within the scope of supportive nursing
      interventions for mothers (Nasiri et al., 2018; Nasiri et al., 2018). Mothers were taught the
      simple but powerful relaxation technique which is easy and can be performed nearly everywhere
      of deep breathing (diaphragmatic respiration). Each session began with this exercise and they
      were encouraged to perform it throughout the day.

      During mothers first visits to their infants, mothers in this group had the mother and
      neonate descriptive information form, PSS: NICU, STAI TX-2 and NICU Parent Belief scale
      applied and first saliva samples were taken from mothers. Mothers did not have any other
      intervention applied by the researchers during routine operation while their infants were in
      the unit. When their infants were discharged from the NICU, mothers completed the PSS:NICU,
      NICU-Parent Belief Scale and STAI-TX-2 again and had the post-test saliva sample taken.
    
  