
    
      Study Protocol, Methods and Procedures to be Applied:

      This study will be carried out as double blinded randomized controlled after the approval of
      the ethics committee of our hospital. By carrying out the Stop Bang questionnaire which is a
      practical and highly sensitive test, 60 patients ranging from 18 to 65 years with a stop bang
      score of 3 and ASA I-II and mallampati I and II scores will be included to the study. The
      patients included in the study will be divided into two groups of 30 people randomly with a
      closed envelope method. Patients who were intubated in the intensive care unit during
      postoperative period, those using CPAP device at home or those who received OSAS therapy, who
      had undergone head and neck surgery or who had head surgery, central nervous system damage
      and cardiovascular or pulmonary stability, neuromuscular disease patients, those with known
      allergies to the anesthetic agents used, those whose written and verbal consent cannot be
      obtained, smokers, pregnants and patients with ASA III and IV will not be included in our
      study. All patients will be seen a day in advance and after performing stop bang test, those
      with test score of 3 and above will be included in the study and their physical examinations
      and laboratory findings will be evaluated. The demographic data of the patients will be
      recorded. The physician performing the anesthesia and the evaluating physician will be
      different people. The evaluating physician will not know which anesthetic agent is used to
      the patients. The group to be performed Esmeron will be named Group E and the group to be
      given Remifentanil will be named Group R. All patients included in the study will be taken to
      the operation room and the hemodynamic parameters (heart rate, mean blood pressure values,
      SpO2) will be recorded by naninvasive monitoring. The data obtained will be considered as
      basal. All patients will be given 2 mg / kg demisolam for the purpose of sedation. General
      anesthesia will be done by connecting the Tof device to the patients. Anesthesia induction
      will be done to anesthesia induction Group R with 1 mg / kg lidocaine, 4 mcg / kg
      remifentanil and 2 mg / kg propofol intravenously. In group E, after the administration of 1
      mg / kg lidocaine, 2 mg / kg propofol, 1 mcg / kg remifentanil and 0.6 mg / kg rocuronium,
      patients in both groups will be intubated and general anesthesia will be performed when the
      Tof value is 0. During intubation; intubation difficulty will be evaluated and recorded by
      intubation scoring system. Anesthesia maintenance in both groups will be provided with 8%
      desflurane, 40% O2, 60% dry air and iv. 0.025 mcg / kg / min remifentanil fusion. During the
      study, the recorded basal hemodynamic parameters of the patients will be recorded in the
      first 20 minutes of the operation with a 5-minute interval and 10-minute interval after the
      20th minute. In case of a change of 20% in any one according to basal, it will be intervened
      immediately. In order to provide the depth of anesthesia before the operation, patients will
      be monitored with TOF device and the depth of anesthesia will be provided. Shortly after the
      end of the surgery, the gases will be cut off and the Tof value of 70% and above will be
      recorded. When Tof is 70%, Group R will be given 10 cc physiological saline intravenously. In
      order to antagonize the muscle relaxant effect in Group E, 2 / mg / kg sguamadex will be
      administered intravenously by diluting with 10 cc physiological saline. Patients will be
      extubated when the tof value of both groups is 90%. The durations from 70% to 90% of the Tof
      value, spontaneous eye opening duration after the patient is extubated, duration of
      extubation, response duration to commands, duration until modified aldrete score is 10,
      surgeon satisfaction (good, bad, moderate) and duration of surgery will be recorded. The
      operation will be terminated by recording whether there is a need for ventilation with sore
      throat, laryngospasm volume restriction, desaturation and mask.
    
  