
    
      Cigarette smoking among adults living with HIV (ALHIV) is a significant public health
      problem, leading to substantial morbidity and mortality in this population. Existing smoking
      cessation interventions are not sufficient, as success rates are relatively low. Poor sleep
      is more prevalent among smokers, more prevalent among ALHIV, can be caused by smoking
      cessation attempts, predicts relapse to former smoking patterns, and represents a parallel
      pathway to morbidity including increased cardiovascular disease (CVD) among ALHIV. Thus,
      unhealthy sleep may make smoking cessation more difficult and increase cardiovascular risk
      and other poor health conditions in ALHIV. The proposed study will supplement an
      empirically-supported smoking cessation program (8-session, 13-week counseling program with
      varenicline) with a pre-determined behavioral health approach to reducing smoking
      intervention developed for smokers. The investigators will test the efficacy of behavioral
      health approach 1 versus behavioral health approach 2 as an active comparator. The
      investigators will also explore the impact of smoking cessation and changes in sleep on
      changes in inflammatory biomarkers of cardiovascular disease risk. Approximately 400 ALHIV
      treatment seeking smokers who have no history of sleep disorders will be screened (through
      history, physical examination, laboratory studies and an overnight sleep test) to identify
      200 eligible subjects to randomize to Intervention Approach 1 versus Intervention Approach 2.
      All participants will concurrently receive standard smoking cessation treatment including
      counseling and 12-weeks of varenicline. Screening and treatment sessions will take place at
      the University of Arizona's Clinical and Translational Sciences Research Center, which is
      well equipped with private examination rooms and phlebotomists. Successful smoking cessation
      will be assessed at end of therapy (13 weeks) and again 6 months later by self reports,
      carbon monoxide breath test, and urine cotinine, a stringent objective marker of tobacco use.
      Sleep will be assessed through sleep diaries, questionnaires and actigraphy (activity sensors
      worn on the wrist). Other markers of CVD risk including lipids, 24 hour blood pressure
      monitoring, and HgbA1C, and biomarkers (IL-6, hsCRP, TNFalpha,ICAM-1, VCAM-1, sCD14, D-dimer)
      will be determined at baseline, end of therapy, and 6 months follow up. Cognitive function
      will be assessed through N-Back (uses images), Psychomotor Vigilance Test (PVT), Abstract
      Matching (AM), and Matrix Reasoning Task (MRT).

      Ultimately, the impact of this work will be to transform clinical guidelines for the
      treatment of nicotine dependence, as well as to provide insights into mechanisms by which
      improved sleep enhances tobacco cessation.
    
  