
    
      Methodology

      Patients: Patients less 40 years of age with a normal ovarian reserve (>10 antral follicle
      count), normal BMI (>18 and <30) and who have had no more than 3 previous IVF cycles
      consulted to have elective single embryo transfer (eSET) will be presented with the
      conditions of the trial. Patients that accept the conditions of the trial will be randomly
      allocated to the two groups of the study; Group 1; no blastocysts (N-blastocyst) aneuploidy
      screened before vitrification and cryostorage, Group 2; patients will have at least 2
      blastocysts biopsied for aCGH aneuploidy screening (S-blastocysts) before all blastocysts,
      are vitrified and cryostored.

      Controlled ovarian stimulation (COS): All patients will be stimulated for multiple follicular
      development using a fixed antagonist protocol with recombinant follicle stimulating hormone
      (rFSH) and human menopausal gonadotropin (HMG). Final oocyte maturation will be triggered
      using a bolus dose of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist.

      Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI): all oocyte inseminations will be done by ICSI, 2-4
      hours after oocyte collection. All resulting 2 pronuclei (PN) zygotes will be cultured to day
      5.

      Blastocyst scoring and selection; Blastocyst will be scored on 3 criteria; on a scale of 1
      (morula/early blastocyst) to 6 (hatched blastocyst) for expansion and on a scale of A to C (A
      for good, B for fair, and C for poor) for inner cell mass (ICM) and trophectoderm (TE)
      morphology. Patients to be included in the study must have at least 2 blastocysts with
      expansion grade 3 on day 5 of culture.

      Exclusion criteria: All patients with less than 5 oocytes collected at the time of oocyte
      pickup (OPU) will be excluded from the study. All patients with <2 blastocysts with expansion
      grade 3 on day 5 of culture will be excluded from the study.

      Vitrification: All suitable blastocyst will be vitrified using the Kitazato cryotop method, a
      single blastocyst per device.

      aCGH: An external laboratory will be used for the screening of the selected blastocyst. All
      biopsies will be performed on day 5 of culture to remove between 3-5 cells from the TE.
      Harvested TE cells will be washed placed in a tube, as directed by the genetic laboratory,
      before being transported to the genetics laboratory.

      Frozen embryo transfer (FET): A natural cycle programmed with the use of E2 and P4
      supplementation to determine time (progesterone day 6) for blastocyst warming and transfer.

      Outcomes measured: pregnancy rate (positive βhCG per blastocyst transfer), implantation rate
      (fetal sac per blastocyst transfer), ongoing pregnancy rate (fetal heart per blastocyst
      transfer), single normal live delivery (baby per blastocyst transfer and baby per positive
      βhCG).

      Setting: Antalya IVF It is advised that before attempting to perform embryo aneuploid
      screening the IVF laboratory should have proven extended embryo (to day 6) culture and embryo
      vitrification proficiency. At Antalya IVF more than 70% of cycles are extended culture cycles
      with a more than acceptable implantation rate of 42% for fresh and 44% for vitrified-warmed
      blastocysts. These reproductive outcomes have been maintained over the last calender year.
    
  