
    
      Patients will be treated with pimecrolimus cream 1% and hydrocortisone cream 1% twice daily
      for 8 weeks on diseased skin in a double-blind, randomized within patient comparison (left
      arm pimecrolimus, right arm hydrocortisone or vice versa). Patients will then enter a 4-week
      treatment free follow-up period. The overall study duration is 12 months.

      The study population will consist of a representative group of 30 adult patients (18 - 70
      years of age) with prurigo nodularis from one center in Germany.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Age: 18 - 70 years

        -  Diagnosis: Prurigo nodularis

        -  Pruritus intensity above VAS 3 (Visual analogue scale 0 to 10)

        -  Nodules on arms and legs (target areas: arms)

        -  No effective current external or internal antipruritic medication

        -  Signed informed consent

      Exclusion criteria

        -  prurigo nodularis with massive excoriations and/or local infections

        -  atopic dermatitis, predisposition for atopic dermatitis

        -  Itch intensity below VAS 4 (visual analoge scale 0 to 10)

        -  Pregnant or nursing (lactating) women, where pregnancy is defined as the state of a
           female after conception and until the termination of gestation, confirmed by a positive
           hCG test. Pregnancy should be ruled out before stating the study by a b-subunit HCG
           test.

        -  Females of childbearing potential and not practicing a medically approved, highly
           effective (low failure rate) method of contraception during and up to at least 4 weeks
           after the end of treatment. 'Medically approved' contraception may include implants,
           injectables, combined oral contraceptives, some IUDs (e.g. intrauterine device), sexual
           abstinence or if the woman has a vasectomized partner.

        -  active psychosomatic and psychiatric diseases

        -  History of active malignancy of any organ system

        -  actual diseases which need therapy and may induce pruritus (e.g. deficiency of iron,
           zinc)

        -  Systemic immunosuppression

        -  Topical use of tacrolimus, pimecrolimus, steroids or capsaicin within 2 weeks prior to
           study entry

        -  current and past (within 2 weeks prior to study entry) systemic use of antihistamines,
           steroids, cyclosporin A and other immunosuppressants, paroxetin, fluvoxamine (selective
           serotonin reuptake- inhibitors, study possible in case of medication since 6 months due
           to depression without having any Antipruritic effect) naltrexone and UV-therapy.

        -  wound healing disturbances, disposition for keloids, current medication which leads to
           increased bleeding during procedure e.g. acetylsalicylic acid (ASS), marcumar (no
           suction blister possible)

        -  History of hypersensitivity to pimecrolimus 1% cream or hydrocortisone 1% cream

        -  Participation in other clinical studies within the last 4 weeks
    
  