
    
      More than 20 years of research in implementing interventions for IDUs indicate that HIV
      transmission among these users can be prevented, slowed, and stopped with the appropriate
      intervention. Intervening early with multiple strategies can prevent epidemic spread and its
      consequences. Even after prevalence has increased substantially, prevention interventions can
      reduce the further spread of HIV in drug-using populations and transmission into other
      populations. Although research results have been promising, it is unknown if self-reported
      behavior change is correlated with reducing rates of HIV transmission. This study will
      determine the efficacy of a peer-educator, network-oriented intervention to prevent HIV
      transmission among substance users and their risk network members. IDUs will be recruited
      using street and community outreach methods in Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai, Thailand and in
      Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

      Individuals at the study clinics will undergo a screening survey and HIV counseling and
      testing; they will return to the clinic to receive their HIV test results, post-test
      counseling, and further screening. Those who are HIV uninfected, meet preliminary eligibility
      requirements, and are willing to participate will be enrolled as index participants. Each
      index participant will be asked to identify and attempt to recruit at least two other people
      (potential network members) whom he/she has had sex with or taken drugs with in the 3 months
      prior to screening. Infected and uninfected network members will be eligible for enrollment.
      Index participants will be randomly assigned with their network members to either the
      intervention group or a control group. All participants will receive HIV counseling and
      regular HIV testing. Index participants assigned to the intervention group attend six,
      two-hour peer educator-training sessions over a period of 4 weeks. The training sessions
      focus on skills building and promotion of risk-reducing behaviors. A one-hour booster
      training session is held for index participants after their 6- and 12-month follow-up
      assessments.

      The study will last approximately 48 months, with enrollment expected to take about 30
      months. Participants will be followed for a minimum of 18 months and a maximum of 30 months.
      Both index participants and network members have follow-up visits every 6 months, at which
      they will complete surveys designed to assess HIV risk behavior, network characteristics, the
      intensity of the intervention delivery, and social harms that may be associated with study
      participation. Average network HIV incidence rates will be compared for the two study groups.

      NOTE: as of January 31, 2006, the HPTN 037 trial was terminated. Participants enrolled in the
      study will continue to be followed at a reduced number of study visits.
    
  