
    
      Serious illness and injury following the September 11, 2001 (9/11) attacks on the World Trade
      Center (WTC) affects thousands of responders who worked on the WTC rescue and recovery
      effort. During this time, these individuals sustained exposure to a vast array of
      environmental toxins and physical hazards. The population of survivors presents a unique
      opportunity to rigorously examine the effects of inhaled particulate matter on risk of
      persistent pulmonary and chronic cardiopulmonary disease.

      Original reports of 9,500 WTC responders examined between July 2002 and April 2004, noted
      abnormal pulmonary function results in one-third of participants. Further studies of this
      population have demonstrated persistent changes in pulmonary function tests 9 years after
      exposure (2010 Annual Report on 9/11 Health). Numerous complex interactions between pulmonary
      and cardiovascular systems exist. In fact, at the molecular level, evidence supports an
      integral role for reactive oxygen species (ROS)-dependent pathways in the instigation of
      pulmonary oxidative stress, systemic pro-inflammatory responses, vascular dysfunction and
      atherosclerosis.

      Studies in animals have shown that inhalation of particles can lead to weakening of the heart
      muscle. In addition, patients who have developed pulmonary disease from inhalation of
      particulate matter may develop increased pressures in the pulmonary arteries, as well as
      dysfunction of the right ventricle of the heart. Finally, patients who have suffered blockage
      of the coronary arteries may exhibit abnormalities in the heart function that may be detected
      by an echocardiogram.

      Preliminary work by our group revealed echocardiographic evidence of cardiac abnormalities in
      a subset of 1190 WTC responders. Diastolic dysfunction, or impaired ventricular relaxation,
      is known to accompany aging and is associated with hypertensive heart disease. In our
      analysis of subjects < 50 years of age, BMI < 30, and lacking a diagnosis of hypertension,
      the investigators found a prevalence of diastolic dysfunction of 47%. Importantly, when the
      population was narrowed to exclude former or current smokers, and those with LV
      abnormalities, 12% had abnormalities of RV diastolic function. The investigators propose to
      analyze the relationship between pulmonary function abnormalities and evidence of diastolic
      dysfunction.

      Persuasive data implicates obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in the development of hypertension,
      arrhythmias, vascular dysfunction and cardiac disease. Webber et al demonstrated an increased
      prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) among firefighters exposed to the WTC disaster,
      and our group has demonstrated a similar prevalence of screen positive for OSA among 2500 law
      enforcement officers present at Ground Zero. The relationship between OSA and risk of cardiac
      disease involves similar pathophysiologic pathways including inflammation and impaired
      vascular reactivity.

      In addition to the traditional risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD), studies have
      indicated that exposure to inhalation of particulate matter (PM) contribute to CV morbidity
      and mortality. The 2010 American Heart Association Scientific Statement on Particulate Matter
      Air Pollution and Cardiovascular Disease provided compelling evidence of increased risk due
      to air pollution. Although the exact mechanisms by which PM cause these toxic effects are not
      adequately understood, and it is likely that different mechanisms are responsible for acute
      and chronic effects. In addition, PM consists of many different components, and different
      components may affect CVD by different mechanisms, such as electrophysiologic changes,
      inflammation, coagulation, endothelial cell function effects and atherosclerosis. In summary,
      thousands of WTC responders sustained exposure to thousands of tons of coarse and fine PM,
      cement dust, glass fibers, asbestos, lead, hydrochloric acid, polychlorinated biphenyls,
      organochlorine pesticides, and polychlorinated dioxins and furans. It is unknown to what
      extent the exposure to PM modified risk of developing atherosclerotic disease, in addition to
      the pulmonary effects and effects on cardiac function.
    
  