
    
      Microdialysis assessment of cerebral energy state during cardiac arrest and cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation in humans

      In comatose patients resuscitated from out of hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA), neurological
      injuries remain the leading cause of death. The in-hospital mortality is reported at 30-50%,
      and the total mortality, although improved substantially over the last decade, remain to be
      significant, in most countries at up to 90%. The brain of a patient resuscitated after
      cardiac arrest (CA) may have suffered ischemia and when spontaneous circulation is
      re-established, the subsequent reperfusion may cause further damage. Brain ischemia and the
      reperfusion injury lead to tissue degeneration and loss of neurological function, the extent
      dependent on duration and density of the insult. Temperature control and Targeted Temperature
      Management (TTM) targeting 33-36°C may mitigate this damage and is recommended in current
      international guidelines. However, managing post cardiac arrest patients are much more
      complicated than TTM alone, and blood pressure measurements and mechanical ventilation as
      part of post resuscitation care is emphasized. An adequate blood pressure must be maintained
      in the post-cardiac arrest patient. Episodes of hypotension can cause secondary injury, in
      addition to any initial insult incurred during the arrest by the brain and other organs. Mean
      arterial blood pressure (MAP) should be above 65 mmHg to reverse the acute shock state, and
      may preferably 80 to 100 mmHg to optimize cerebral perfusion. When determining blood pressure
      goals, clinicians must balance the metabolic needs of an ischemic brain with the potential
      for overstressing a decompensated heart. Cerebral autoregulation is often impaired after
      cardiac arrest, and brain perfusion declines when the MAP falls below 80 to 100 mmHg. Thus,
      maintaining an adequate MAP helps to avoid further brain injury. However, blood pressure
      goals have not been investigated in prospective clinical trials, and remain to be based on
      observational data and extrapolation from experimental data. While experimental studies
      suggest that high mean blood pressure targets are needed for maintaining cerebral blood flow,
      registries on consecutive clinical cases undergoing post resuscitation care suggest that
      lower blood pressure targets are used in clinical practice. But data RCT´s addressing
      specific targets in post resuscitation care have not been performed. The current trial
      addresses these strategies for neuroprotection in using design of two different target blood
      pressure levels. Intervention: 1:1 randomization:

      "Normal MAP" (approximately 65 mmHg) vs. "high MAP" (approximately 75 mmHg) Markers measuring
      global cerebral ischemia caused by cardiac arrest and consecutive resuscitation, and
      reflecting the metabolic changes after successful resuscitation are urgently needed to enable
      a more personalized resuscitation and post resuscitation care.

      It is technically simple and feasible to place a microdialysis catheter in the jugular bulb
      and monitor biochemical variables related to cerebral energy metabolism bedside. The LP ratio
      obtained from microdialysis of cerebral venous blood may be a sensitive indicator of
      impending cerebral damage and might play a critical role in detecting the early responses of
      post resuscitation care. Aim of this study is to investigate the global cerebral metabolic
      changes during CA and post-resuscitation care.

      Aim: The study aim to (I) investigate whether the LP ratio obtained by microdialysis (MD) of
      the cerebral venous outflow reflects a derangement of global cerebral energy state during the
      peri-cardiac arrest period and (II) investigate the correlation between LP ratio and
      neurological outcome among patients with cardiac arrest and (III) investigate the correlation
      between LP ratio and the randomized blood pressure targets.

      Design: Single center randomized trial with allocation of 60 comatose out-of-hospital cardiac
      arrest patients undergoing TTM, to normal or high blood pressure target during ICU stay.
      Secondary a descriptive prospective cohorte study, measuring LP ratio obtained by
      microdialysis (MD) of the cerebral venous outflow, during the peri-cardiac arrest period.

      Primary outcome: Analysis will compare the two target blood pressure groups with respect to
      LP ratio.

      Secondary outcomes: Cerebral Performance Category (CPC) when discharged from hospital, time
      to death, daily cumulated vasopressor requirement during ICU stay and need for combination of
      vasopressors and inotropic agents or mechanical circulatory support. All end-points are
      correlated to the randomized blood pressure groups. A stratified analysis by the following
      pre-defined design variables will also be performed: sex, age above median, median time to
      ROSC, known hypertension, known COPD, shockable primary rhythm.

      Method: Interventions are considered emergency procedures and study blood pressure
      measurement using the study blood pressure modules should be commenced as soon as possible
      after sustained ROSC, screening and randomisation. Study target blood pressure will be
      blinded. Patients will be mechanically ventilated, sedated (propofol/fentanyl) and when
      necessary paralysed with neuromuscular blocking agents to reduce shivering and subsequent
      heat-generation and energy consumption. The core body temperature will be set as quickly as
      possible at the predefined target temperature, according to intervention allocation, with 4°C
      intravenous solutions, and commercially available cooling devices at the discretion of the
      treating physician. The target core temperature is then maintained for 24 h. After the
      maintenance period core temperature is gradually raised to normothermia of 37°C with a
      rewarming rate of no more than 0.5°C/hour. Body temperature is then maintained at
      normothermia 37 ±0.5°C for as long the as patient is comatose until 72 hours from sustained
      ROSC in treatment groups, using pharmacological treatment and temperature management systems
      when applicable.

      The study is targeting low-normal paO2 of 9.5 kPa during TTM and when mechanical ventilation
      is needed. The target PaO2 is reached by adjusting FiO2 and PEEP on the ventilator as long as
      the patient in on controlled ventilation. Patients ventilation is adjusted, targeting
      normocapnia of paCO2 of 4,5 - 6,0 in all patients. Serial arterial blood gas analyses will be
      performed open label using the commercially available equipment adjusted to 37 °C
      (alpha-stat).

      MD catheter (CMA 67, MDialysis AB, Stockholm, Sweden) is placed in a retrograde direction
      into the jugular bulb. A second identical MD catheter is inserted into one brachial artery.
      Both catheters are inserted through a peripheral intravenous 17 GA cannula using ultrasound
      guidance. The positioning of the catheter in the jugular bulb above the inlet of the common
      facial vein is verified on lateral neck radiograph according to accepted principles. MD
      catheters are perfused by MD pumps (CMA 106, MDialysis AB, Stockholm, Sweden) at 0.3 μL/min.
      The perfusates are collected in microvials and analyzed every one hour for 72 hours by
      enzymatic photometric techniques and displayed bedside (Iscus, Mdialysis AB, Stockholm,
      Sweden). The analyses include the variables routinely monitored during intracerebral
      microdialysis: glucose, pyruvate, lactate, glutamate and glycerol.

      Neurological status, according to the CPC-scale, and survival are evaluated every day in the
      intensive care unit and/or at day 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and at hospital (including local
      hospital) discharge, whichever comes first.

      The Danish Regional Committee on Health and Research Ethics approved the study. Trial
      registration: S-20150173 HLP.

      Perspectives The prognosis of patients who are admitted in a comatose state following
      successful resuscitation after cardiac arrest remains uncertain. Although the introduction of
      therapeutic hypothermia (TH), targeted temperature management (TTM) and improvements in
      post-resuscitation care have significantly increased the number of patients who are
      discharged home with minimal brain damage, short-term assessment of neurological outcome
      remains a challenge. The need for early and accurate prognostic predictors is crucial,
      especially since sedation and TH/TTM may alter the neurological examination and delay the
      recovery of motor response for several days. The development of additional tools, including
      electrophysiological examinations (electroencephalography and somatosensory evoked
      potentials), neuroimaging and chemical biomarkers, may help to evaluate the extent of brain
      injury in these patients. Accurate prognostication of comatose patients treated with TH/TTM
      can be obtained only 72 to 96 hours after CA and requires a multimodal approach.

      Markers measuring cerebral ischemia caused by cardiac arrest and consecutive resuscitation,
      and reflecting the metabolic changes after successful resuscitation are urgently needed to
      enable a more personalized resuscitation and post resuscitation care. The LP ratio obtained
      from microdialysis of cerebral venous blood may play a critical role in detecting the early
      responses of post resuscitation care, and may predict in hospital and long term prognosis in
      patients affected by brain injury after CA.

      During the peri-cardiac arrest period the LP ratio obtained by microdialysis of the cerebral
      venous outflow may reflects a derangement of global cerebral energy state. The LP ratio
      obtained from microdialysis of cerebral venous blood in humans may be a sensitive indicator
      of impending cerebral damage among patients with cardiac arrest. Further, the study
      investigates the correlation between LP ratio and the randomized blood pressure targets. In
      the future this might optimize and individualize the management of post cardiac arrest
      patients.
    
  