
    
      The investigators propose a prospective randomized control trial evaluating the use of
      simulation to prepare caregivers for the discharge of children dependent on respiratory
      technology. All caregivers of children who are (1) inpatient with a newly placed tracheostomy
      tube and (2) anticipated to start discharge teaching after the first date of Institutional
      Review Board (IRB) approval will be enrolled, regardless of home ventilator need. Caregivers
      with prior experience caring for tracheostomies within the last 10 years will be excluded.
      Estimated sample size is 60 caregivers (trainees) (2 trained caregivers anticipated per
      child). Trainees must be able to speak and read English.

      All trainees will be randomized by child (up to 4 per child) into one of three arms (Figure
      1), stratified by the need for invasive home ventilation and randomized in blocks of four.
      All trainees will complete our current state of education including bedside education
      provided by Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) or Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU)
      nursing staff and a formal classroom-based skills class (either a 'tracheostomy-only' or a
      'tracheostomy/home ventilator' class) taught by a Children's Hospital of Wisconsin (CHW)
      Tracheostomy and Home Ventilator respiratory therapist or durable medical equipment company
      (DME) respiratory therapist, and an individual scenario-based review of equipment and skills
      workshop with a CHW Tracheostomy and Home Ventilator Respiratory Therapist.

      In addition to the current state of education, the active study group will also undergo
      highly realistic simulation. This involves the use of a highly realistic tracheostomy
      mannequin and audiovisual devices which will be used to replicate emergent clinical
      situations. If home invasive ventilation is anticipated, a home ventilator will be used. The
      active control will undergo low-fidelity simulation that approximates the highly realistic
      clinical scenarios except with the use of a low-fidelity doll equipped with a tracheostomy
      and without the audiovisual inputs. Both active arms will occur in the simulation center or
      sleep lab and replicate the same clinical situations by the simulation instructor. After the
      simulation, participants will be debriefed by the instructor, who will use a tape of their
      session as a teaching tool.

      Commonly encountered emergent outpatient problems to be simulated include 1) obstructed
      tracheostomy tube leading to the need for cardiopulmonary resuscitation; 2) bleeding from the
      tracheostomy tube; 3) acute desaturation and/or bradycardia; and 4) accidental decannulation.
      If invasive home ventilation is anticipated, ventilator alarm troubleshooting for high
      pressure alarms, low minute ventilation alarms, auto-cycling of the ventilator and water in
      the tubing will be included in the simulation.

      All trainees will undergo a teach-back session with a CHW Tracheostomy and Home Ventilator
      Program respiratory therapist during which essential skills and responses to clinical
      situations are assessed. If a trainee passes this session, the respiratory therapist has
      determined that they have met criteria to move onto independent care sessions and the
      trainees have acquired the trach and home ventilator knowledge to provide care in the home.
      If a trainee fails this teach-back session, the information failed will be reviewed and the
      family will repeat the teach-back session until they pass and then move into independent care
      sessions. Independent care sessions are practical demonstrations of all skills needed to take
      care of the child at home. Independent care sessions are repeated until all skills have been
      passed. Teach-back and independent care sessions are part of the current state of education.
    
  