
    
      Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) after myocardial infarction (MI) is an important
      clinical outcome. It allows the definition of health outcomes from a patient's perspective
      and, therefore, offers the potential to collect patient-centered ill-health, which may be
      used as an additional endpoint in the evaluation of care. Many survivors of MI experience
      poor HRQoL, and many patients consider the quality of additional life years gained just as
      important as the length of life. The goal of contemporary therapies, therefore, should be not
      only to extend life expectancy, but also to ensure a high quality long-term health state.
      Accordingly, HRQoL is increasingly being used as an outcome measure in clinical trials
      evaluating both the impact of disease burden and the effectiveness of cardiovascular
      interventions.

      Research has shown that changes in HRQoL are associated with a range of clinical outcomes,
      including death, anxiety and depression, and medications compliance. Changes in HRQoL have
      been reported to negatively impact healthcare costs, and employment. However, there is a
      paucity of information about the relationship between HRQoL and clinical outcomes inherent
      following MI. Moreover, previous research is limited by small sample sizes, poor
      generalisability,selection bias, the use of retrospective cross-sectional designs,and short
      follow-up durations of 6 months - 2 years. For example in our previous studies (EMMACE 3 and
      4 ), we followed up patients for up to 2 years. The EMMACE data analysis showed that over two
      years HRQoL improved for the majority (two thirds) but was significantly worse and more
      likely to decline for women, NSTEMI, and people with long-term health conditions .

      Whilst the analysis of EMMACE demonstrates promising results, the EMMACE data are limited by
      the short follow up period of up to 2 years. We have been funded by the British Heart
      Foundation (Program grant number PG/19/54/34511) to link the EMMACE 3 and 4 data to ONS
      (mortality) and Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) data such that longer-term non-fatal and
      fatal outcomes and healthcare utilisation may be studied. All patients were consented to
      enter the EMMACE 3 and 4 studies and for their self-reported data to be linked to future
      electronic health record data. EMMACE data has already been successfully linked to data from
      the national heart attack registry (Myocardial Ischemia National Audit project, MINAP) thus
      providing information about hospital treatment for MI and comorbidities. This study will
      provide a further follow up of this data so that longer term follow up can be studied.

      To complement our work, and given the paucity on longer term HRQoL data, in this proposal we
      aim to collect > 5 years HRQoL measures data from the participants of EMMACE 3 & 4 studies.
      The longer follow up of HRQoL data (> 5 years) may provide insights into understanding the
      association between long term changes in HRQoL and subsequent clinical outcomes and precisely
      in whom worse (or better) outcomes may occur will permit the design and testing of novel
      intervention to reduce premature death from MI.

      The planned research will provide unique and comprehensive insight into the relationship
      between changes in HRQoL and survival following MI. Health-related quality of life is a
      patient reported outcome measure (PROM) which can detect change in risk of events for
      patients, and potentially serve as a predictor of future risk (using patient-facing data
      capture tools). Understanding the association between changes in HRQoL and health outcomes
      and precisely in whom worse (or better) outcomes may occur will permit the design and testing
      of novel interventions to reduce premature death from MI.
    
  