
    
      Background:

        -  Clinical evidence suggests that hepatic chemoembolization may prolong survival in
           patients with hepatic metastases.

        -  Early studies have indicated that chemoembolization using irinotecan drug eluting beads
           may be more effective in treating hepatic metastases from colon or melanoma primary
           tumors.

      Objectives:

        -  Primary Objective:

           --To determine the safety of hepatic chemoembolization with drug-eluting beads
           containing 100mg of irinotecan

        -  Secondary Objectives:

             -  To determine the serum pharmacokinetics and tumor tissue concentrations achieved
                following hepatic chemoembolization with irinotecan-eluting beads

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients > 18 years of age with pathologically proven hepatic metastases from the
           gastrointestinal tract, or melanoma with unresectable hepatic lesions.

        -  Patients whose extent of hepatic metastases represents <60% of total liver volume AND
           whose extrahepatic metastatic disease is determined to be minimal

        -  Patients must be ECOG performance status of less than or equal to 2 and a life
           expectancy of more than 3 months.

        -  Patients must have adequate organ function.

        -  Patients must not have had chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or biological therapy for at
           least 4 weeks prior to starting study treatments.

        -  Patients are not to receive conventional chemotherapy or therapeutic monoclonal
           antibodies while on study.

        -  Patients must not have an acute, critical illness.

      Design:

        -  A Phase Ib trial in which patients undergo hepatic chemoembolization with drug-eluting
           beads containing 100mg irinotecan.

        -  Up to 15 patients will be enrolled over 1 year to accrue 10 evaluable patients.

        -  Patients will undergo up to 3 chemoembolizations.

        -  Following chemoembolization, patients will have serial serum pharmacokinetic samples
           drawn and tumor biopsies in order to measure serum and tumor tissue concentrations of
           irinotecan

        -  Patients will be followed for one year after completion of the last treatment.
    
  