
    
      This is a randomized (individuals will be assigned by chance to study treatments),
      double-blind (individuals and study personnel will not know the identity of study
      treatments), placebo (an inactive substance that is compared with a drug to test whether the
      drug has a real effect in a clinical trial)-controlled study in approximately 1,000 medically
      or surgically castrated male patients with metastatic CRPC who have shown tumor progression
      and are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. The study period will consist of screening,
      treatment, and follow-up phases. Patients will receive study treatment (abiraterone acetate
      or placebo) plus prednisone until radiographic progression of disease and/or unequivocal
      clinical progression. Efficacy evaluations will be performed throughout the treatment period
      and safety will be assessed until 30 days after the last dose of abiraterone acetate.
      throughout the study. Follow-up will continue for up to 60 months (5 years) or until the
      patient dies, is lost to follow-up, or withdraws informed consent. At the interim analysis of
      overall survival (OS; 43% of death events), the independent data monitoring committee (IDMC)
      reviewed the efficacy and safety data and concluded that all of the data pointed to a
      significant advantage for patients in one arm of the study compared with the other arm
      thereby unanimously recommending unblinding the study and allowing crossover from the placebo
      arm to active therapy. Patients currently receiving placebo will be offered crossover therapy
      to abiraterone acetate. Treatment for patients who were originally randomized to the
      abiraterone acetate treatment group will not change. Patients will be discontinued from long
      term follow-up at the time of the Clinical Cut-Off Date for Final Analysis (CCO-FA); however,
      patients still receiving treatment with abiraterone acetate at the CCO-FA will be offered to
      receive continued treatment for an additional period of up to 3 years or until disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. For these patients, safety assessment will be performed
      while continuing treatment, and for 30 days after the last dose of abiraterone acetate.
    
  