
    
      A total of thirty (30) subjects will be enrolled and assigned to a single treatment arm,
      receiving active treatment clinic, with the visits consisting of three (3) treatment
      administrations and post-procedure visits days 30, 180 and 360. Pre-menopausal and
      post-menopausal women between ages over 18, vaginal delivery, with up to moderate pelvic
      prolapse 2 cm past the hymen, and self-reported vaginal laxity score of "very loose",
      moderately loose", or "slightly loose" as defined by theVaginal Laxity Questionnaire (VLQ)
      will be evaluated and enrolled after having met all inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      The treatment administration phase will consist of three (3) treatments,delivered
      approximately on-month apart. Subjects will be placed on the treatment table in the dorsal
      lithotomy position. The monopolar return pad will be placed on the subject buttock and to the
      RF generator.Coupling fluid will be used as a lubricant and will be reapplied throughout the
      treatment as needed. The treatment area is approximately 20+ cm2 and consist of the outside
      perineum and entire vaginal circumference along the length of the vagina to include the apex.
      For treatment of the labia majora, the treatment tip will be applied across the entire
      anatomical region. The treatment tip is applied to the perineum bilaterally from the lowest
      edge of the mons pubis to the perineal body and laterally to the crural folds to achieve
      vulvar and perineal temperatures of between 40-45 degrees celsius for approximately 5 minutes
      or more of total heat time per area. The labia majora and perineal areas will take
      approximately 10-15 minutes to complete. This is followed by treating the epithelial surface
      of the vaginal opening and advancing to the length of the vaginal canal with the treatment
      occurring along the vaginal walls, floor, and ceiling. The entire vaginal area will be
      treated in a circumferential area by delivering the RF in a systematic fashion at 5 separate
      delivery position starting the most distal portion of the vagina. The probe is slowly
      retracted at 1 cm intervals and circumferentially delivered again at 5 positions on another
      circumferentially manner moving the probe clockwise or counter clockwise or counter
      clockwise. To include the entire length of the urethra and bladder will be included in the
      treatment. Total vaginal treatment time will be 15-20 minutes. Safety measures will include
      monitoring of adverse events including pain or burns or infections during and after the
      procedure. Evaluations will be conducted with the visits at days 30, 90 and 150 days
      post-procedure.

      During and after treatment administration, subjects will be asked to assess the self-
      reported pain experience using a 10 scale VAS, with "0" being no pain and "10" being the
      worst pain imaginable. Descriptive statistics will be generated on all demographic, medical
      history, and physical examination findings including means and standard deviations, for
      continuous, and frequencies and percentages for categorical variables.
    
  