
    
      With the emergence of novel hardware and software image acquisition improvements, magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) has the potential to become an important tool for assessing lung
      structure and function. In particular, the use of a hyperpolarized noble gas such as 129Xe
      has been used to explore structural and functional relationships in the lungs of both healthy
      subjects and patients with lung disease (1,2). In contrast to proton-based MRI imaging, 129Xe
      gas is used as a "contrast agent" to directly visualize the airways, and thus image
      ventilation. Whereas the normal density of gas is too low to produce an easily detectable
      signal, this is overcome by artificially increasing the amount of polarization per unit
      volume using optical pumping (3).

      Hyperpolarized noble gas MR lung imaging is a relatively new imaging method that allows
      depiction of both lung function and morphology [4-9]. Hyperpolarized gases are a new class of
      MR contrast agent which, when inhaled, provide high temporal and spatial resolution MR images
      of the lung airspaces. Since no ionizing radiation is involved, hyperpolarized gas MR imaging
      is ideal for the evaluation of lung diseases. With hyperpolarized gases, the nuclear spins of
      the gas atoms are brought into alignment outside of the MR scanner via a process called
      optical pumping; this yields high polarizations and permits visualization of the lung
      airspaces with MR imaging (despite the low physical density of the gas in the lung). Two
      non-radioactive (i.e. stable) isotopes of noble gases 3He and 129Xe can be hyperpolarized.
      Until recently, higher polarizations could be achieved with 3He than with 129Xe, so in
      humans, 3He was more commonly used for hyperpolarized gas MR imaging of the lungs [10-15].
      Recently, the technology has been developed to provide large quantities of highly polarized
      129Xe [16].

      Several applications of 129Xe MRI imaging are under development, including diffusion-weighted
      and relaxation-weighted imaging (17-19). These techniques take advantage of the fact that the
      rate of loss of 129Xe polarization is significantly influenced by the local blood flow and
      concentration of molecular oxygen, as well as the restriction of 129Xe diffusion by small
      airway space dimensions. These data can be used to create maps of the lung reflecting
      regional ventilation/perfusion and micro-airway sizes. Other data that can be obtained with
      129Xe MRI include the volumes of ventilated and unventilated lungs which can subsequently be
      analyzed to determine the homogeneity of gas distribution within the airspaces (17).

      Objectives of the study are:

        -  To quantitatively evaluate a 3T 129Xe chest coil for image quality and coil
           comfort/performance.

        -  To determine the range of possible novel pulse sequences in combination with the coil
           and inhalation of 129Xe gas in healthy volunteers.
    
  