
    
      Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), previously called idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura, is an
      autoimmune disorder characterized by a severe reduction in peripheral blood platelet count.
      In healthy individuals, normal platelet count ranges from 150-450 × 109/L, while in
      thrombocytopenia counts fall to less than 100 × 109/L ( Provan et al., 2010).

      Based on duration, ITP is differentiated into three phases. Newly diagnosed ITP occurs within
      3 months of diagnosis, persistent ITP is present 3-12 months after diagnosis, and chronic ITP
      lasts >12 months since diagnosis (Roberto, 2011).

      Autoantibodies against platelet glycoproteins (GPs), including GPIIb/IIIa and GPIb/IX, have
      been considered to play a crucial role in ITP (Nomura, 2016) . In addition to platelet
      destruction, impaired maturation of megakaryocytes can be associated with reduced platelet
      production in ITP (Muna et al., 2015).

      Furthermore, considerable attention has been recently paid to the dysregulation of a new
      B-cell subset known as regulatory B cells (Breg) in ITP (Li et al., 2012). This B-cell subset
      is characterized by CD19+CD38+ expression, promoting peripheral tolerance and reducing the
      function of autoreactive T-helper (Th) CD4+ cells via production of interleukin 10 (IL-10)
      (Flores-Borja et al., 2013). So they are an interesting cell population in diseases
      characterized by an unbalance in the immune system, such as autoimmune diseases, chronic
      infections, cancer and graft rejection.( Horikawa et al., 2013).

      In ITP, as a result of the defective function of Breg and also Treg (regulatory T) cells,
      platelet autoreactive Th CD4+ cells undergo clonal expansion (McKenzie et al., 2013). so the
      presence of activated platelet-specific autoreactive T cells that respond to autologous
      platelet antigens participating in autoantibody production in ITP via interaction with
      autoreactive B cells (Solanilla et al., 2005).

      Since the early 1980s, many studies have documented decreased natural killer (NK) cell
      numbers and impairment of NK cell function in the peripheral blood of patients with
      autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, Sjögren's
      syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, and type I diabetes (hussein et al., 2017). Furthermore, in
      many studies, a correlation has been found between NK cell number and activity with disease
      progression or remission in multiple sclerosis (MS) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
      (Riccieri et al., 2000).

      Nk cells are identified by the expression of CD16 and CD56 surface markers, account for 5-15%
      of PB cells in healthy individuals .NK cells have a crucial role in the initial defense
      against infections in innate immunity and are particularly important in responding to viral
      infections (French and Yokoyama., 2004).

      This finding suggests that CD16+CD56+ NK cells may play a role in the pathogenesis and
      prognosis of autoimmune diseases.

      CD11b+ monocytes can regulate adaptive immunity by adjustment of different T-cell subsets
      (Kusmartsev et al., 2000). Recently showed that monocytes derived from the whole blood of
      chronic ITP patients promoted the development of Th CD4+ subset (Zhong et al., 2012).

      Although the majority of these abnormalities can appear as the increased or decreased
      expressions of some CD markers in the involved cells, there have been few studies on the
      prognostic value of CD markers' expressions in immune cells for ITP.
    
  