
    
      Background

      The paravertebral block is a regional anaesthetic technique which can be used for analgesia
      after thoracic, cardiac, breast surgery, upper abdominal surgery or for pain therapy.
      Thoracic paravertebral blockade is performed by injecting a local anaesthetic solution into
      the paravertebral space, which contains the thoracic nerves, their branches and the
      sympathetic trunk. This space is a wedge-shaped area sandwiched between the heads and necks
      of the ribs. The posterior wall is formed by the superior costo-transverse ligament, the
      antero-lateral wall is the parietal pleura with the endothoracic fascia and the medial wall
      is the lateral surface of the vertebral body and disc. Also medially, there is communication
      with the epidural space via the intervertebral foramen. It has been shown, that each space
      communicates inferiorly and superiorly across the heads and necks of the ribs. Thus injecting
      local anaesthetic in the paravertebral space should results to an analgesia corresponding to
      a unilateral epidural anaesthesia.

      Unilateral multisegmental anaesthesia after single-shot paravertebral injection of local
      anaesthetics is well established. On the other hand, a variety of different studies on
      volunteers, patients and cadavers showed conflicting results regarding the vertical spread
      over several adjacent segments after paravertebral injection leading to the recommendation of
      some authors to use a multi-injection technique to achieve a multilevel somatic nerve
      blockade, specially described during breast surgery using paravertebral block alone.

      Can we explain these different contradictory reports and recommendations? Available
      radiologic and anatomic studies show many different patterns of contrast dye spread after
      single shot paravertebral contrast dye injection. One study even reports different
      distribution of dye even after several paravertebral single shots of the same operator in the
      same patient. Some radiological studies report cloud-like contrast dye accumulation without
      significant cranio-caudal spread. This could be due to the restricted intercostal spread or
      to subpleural spread or even to injection of the contrast dye into the autochthonic muscles
      of the back.

      The spread of local anesthetics (or contrast dye as substitute) is affected by nuances of
      differences in the needle placement because of the fine membranes like the endothoracica
      fascia. This might be the major problem during the insertion of catheters. The final location
      of catheter tip is hard to predict. Catheters might dissect during the insertion and possibly
      the difference is only a more medial or more lateral puncture. The placement of catheters
      into the paravertebral space leading to a clear cranio-caudal spread of local anaesthetics
      resulting in multisegmental spread of anaesthesia is the goal of a catheter for paravertebral
      analgesia but it seems not easy to be achieved - despite of an uncontestable clinical benefit
      of paravertebral catheters for pain relief.

      Studies describing the exact emplacement of catheters, distribution of contrast dye and
      correlation of this distribution with the clinical effect after catheter placement by the
      classical land-mark based approach as described by Eason and Wyatt are lacking. We therefore
      aim to describe the different possible emplacements of the catheters, the resulting spread of
      contrast dye after injection through the catheters as well as the corresponding area of
      somatic and sympathetic block.

      Objective

      The aim of prospective observational clinical trial is to evaluate the exact location of
      paravertebral catheter placed for thoracoscopic interventions using the classic landmark
      approach by injecting a small amount of contrast dye (1 ml) through the catheter and
      subsequent fluoroscopic documentation of the catheter tip localisation. Thereafter a larger
      amount (20 ml) of diluted contrast dye will be injected and its spread will be documented
      fluoroscopically.

      Methods

      Once the paravertebral catheter is placed as usual after the end of surgery, 1 ml of contrast
      dye will be injected through the catheter. After fluoroscopic documentation of the catheter
      tip, further 10 ml of diluted contrast dye will be injected and its spread again documented
      fluoroscopically in two planes. All saved pictures, showing the catheter tip position and the
      contrast dye spread, will be evaluated subsequently by an independent radiologist. After
      these fluoroscopic examinations a test dose of Bupivacaine 0.25% mixed with Adrenaline 5
      mcg/ml of 3ml will be injected through the catheter followed by an injection of 0.3ml/kg of
      local anaesthetics (Bupivacaine 0.25% mixed with Adrenaline 5 mcg/ml). One hour later a
      clinical testing of the skin area with somatic and sympathetic block provided through the
      paravertebral catheters will be performed and the data recorded.
    
  