
    
      The focus of the study is to identify children with word-finding difficulty and other speech
      and communication difficulties such as stuttering, a procedure referred to as screening.
      Ideally, investigators want to screen all children in the reception classes in the schools
      with which investigators work. The procedures were designed so that they work with children
      who speak English or those whose first language is not English. A second aim concerns what
      teachers can do when a child does not pass the screen. Investigators have developed a type of
      treatment designed for children who have either word-finding difficulty or fluency
      difficulty. This project concerns the intervention for children with word-finding difficulty.

      The researcher will visit every participating child at school for approximately 10 minutes.
      Prior to that, the researcher will speak to the child's teacher to ensure that the sessions
      do not clash with any important class activities. Each child will be seen individually and
      will listen to a number of "nonsense" words one by one and will be asked to repeat the word.
      The child will be told that these are funny sounding made up word. The child will be
      audio-recorded while speaking to the researcher.

      Each audio recording is then analysed anonymously at UCL for signs of fluency or word finding
      difficulty. All children occasionally show these signs and they are not usually a cause of
      concern. Some parents are then invited to volunteer their child for the experimental
      word-finding training based on these results. This does not necessarily mean that they have
      word-finding problems (e.g. for children acting as controls). Separate information sheets
      indicating what this involves will be given to parents.

      Parents will also be given a link to a brief online questionnaire about the child's language
      history that they can fill out at their own time on their phone or computer. No identifiable
      information are collected and every parent will be assigned a number that matches the child's
      participation number. Only the researchers will have access to the questionnaire. There is no
      obligation on parents who have been contacted to have their children participate in the
      training.
    
  