
    
      The prevalence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is 11.7% around the world in
      2010, and it is expected to rise over the next 30 years. COPD is a chronic inflammatory lung
      disease that causes obstructed airflow from the lung, characterized by chronic cough,
      dyspnea, and sputum production. Studies have found evidences of inspiratory muscle weakness
      in patients with COPD which include a reduction in maximal inspiratory pressure (PImax), a
      shift toward oxidative type I fibers and atrophy in all types of fibers in diaphragm muscle.
      The shift of diaphragm muscle fiber toward oxidative type I fibers might result from
      endurance training-like effect that served to counteract the negative effects of elevated
      oxidative stress and systemic inflammation in patients with COPD.

      Inspiratory muscle training (IMT) is commonly applied to patients with COPD during pulmonary
      rehabilitation, but its clinical benefits remain inconclusive. Some studies showed that IMT
      improves breathing pattern, dyspnea and the strength and endurance of diaphragm, while others
      showed that IMT could not improve inspiratory muscle strength and functional exercise
      capacity either applied alone or in addition to pulmonary rehabilitation in patients with
      COPD. Evidence from animal study showed that overloading the diaphragm during resistive
      breathing might induce acute diaphragm injury. Increases oxidative stress and systemic
      inflammation, and exacerbating the apoptosis of the diaphragm fibers may also occur during
      IMT in patients with COPD, which leads to the progression of diaphragm muscle fibers atrophy.
      In human studies, the intensity used for IMT ranged from 10% to 70% of PImax, and the
      training effect showed no clear dose-response pattern. The optimal intensity that would
      induce positive physiological effect without eliciting overloading injury remains unclear. In
      healthy adults, the accessory muscles, such as sternocleidomastoid (SCM), scalenes, and
      intercostals muscle, would be recruited to assist ventilation with increasing ventilatory
      demand. Thus the activation of accessory muscles could be an indicator for training overload.
      However, the activation pattern of accessory muscle has not been studied in patients with
      COPD during IMT. Whether the commonly prescribed intensity for IMT would lead to excessive
      activation of diaphragm, and more accessory muscle recruitment in patients with COPD remains
      to be determined. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to exam diaphragm and SCM muscle
      activation using surface electromyography during loaded inspiratory muscle tests with 30% and
      50% of PImax intensity.
    
  