
    
      Study Design:

      A cross sectional study to investigate if there is any correlation between caries experience
      in primary molars and first permanent molars among a group of Egyptian children. All the
      procedures will be explained to the parents or guardians prior to the investigation.An
      informed consent will be signed by the parents Study design: cross sectional study design.
      Data for this particular study will be collected from the clinic of Pediatric Dentistry and
      dental public health Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University.

      Methods Clinical examination will be carried out while the child is sitting on dental unit,
      using sterile diagnostic set (mirror and explorer) in daylight. No diagnostic radiographs
      will be taken.

      A custom-made examination chart will be filled for each child including date, name, age,
      address, gender, medical history and previous dental treatment. Parents data includes: level
      of education and oral hygiene level.

      Prior to performing dental examination, the child will be asked to rinse his mouth with tap
      water and the teeth will be cleaned with sterile cotton.

      The examiner will carefully inspect all surfaces of the teeth, for proper diagnosis, the
      teeth were dried thoroughly with an air syringe. It will be important to see clearly and to
      use the air syringe to distinguish readily cervical or interproximal caries.

      All the primary teeth will be evaluated using deft index and permanent teeth will be
      evaluated using DMF index, both according to WHO criteria.

      (WHO, 2003) criteria: Clinical caries lesion shows the following criteria

      Lesion in pit or fissure, or on a smooth tooth surface with cavitated undermined enamel, or a
      detectably softened floor or wall.

      Teeth with recurrent dental caries. In cases where the crown has been destroyed by caries and
      only the root is left, the caries is judged to be crown caries.

      Lesions not considered as clinical dental caries White or chalky spots (early carious
      lesion). Stained enamel pits or fissures without visible cavitation or soft floor or walls
      during examination by sharp explorer.

      Dark, shiny, hard, pitted areas of enamel in a tooth showing signs of moderate to severe
      enamel fluorosis.

      Each child and parents will be given two printed sheet translated into Arabic, after the end
      of the diagnosis, which will include his/her caries status, the right oral hygiene method to
      be followed in order to maintain a good oral health status and any caries lesions that need
      treatment by restorative material or preventive measures
    
  