
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To discover the therapeutically relevant driver mutations in high-risk pediatric
           neuroblastoma.

      Secondary

        -  To identify a set of highly annotated neuroblastoma specimens (primary tumors and cell
           lines) for comprehensive genomic analyses, validation studies, resequencing efforts, and
           future functional assays.

        -  To define genome-wide DNA copy number and allelic status in at least 300 high-risk and
           50 low-risk neuroblastoma primary untreated tumors, and 30 human neuroblastoma-derived
           cell lines.

        -  To define the genome-wide methylation profile of neuroblastoma in a minimum of 200
           high-risk cases.

        -  To define the genome-wide microRNA expression profile of neuroblastoma in a minimum of
           200 high-risk cases.

        -  To define genome-wide RNA expression signatures, including splice variations, in the
           same tumors and cell lines studied above.

        -  To identify mutations in candidate therapeutic targets using a staged resequencing
           strategy with ultimate genome-scale next generation resequencing of 3 genomes for 200
           high-risk cases: the neuroblastoma genome and transcriptome as well as the paired
           constitutional genome.

        -  To characterize the relapsed high-risk neuroblastoma genome and epigenome.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Previously collected samples are analyzed to define the genome-wide DNA copy number and
      allelic status; to define the genome-wide methylation profile of high-risk neuroblastoma
      cases; to define the genome-wide microRNA expression profile of high-risk neuroblastoma
      cases; to define the genome-wide RNA expression and relating gene expression to DNA copy
      number and gene polymorphisms, DNA methylation, and microRNA expression; to resequence three
      genomes: the neuroblastoma genome, the transcriptome, and the paired constitutional genome;
      and to characterize the relapsed high-risk neuroblastoma genome and epigenome.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 300 tumor samples from patients with high-risk disease, 50
      tumor samples from patients with low-risk primary neuroblastoma, and 30 human
      neuroblastoma-derived cell lines will be accrued for this study.
    
  