
    
      BACKGROUND: Growing data suggest that patients with obstructive lung disease (OLD) such as
      asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have an increased predisposition for
      obstructive sleep apnea, but the mechanism(s) remain unknown. One characteristic these
      patients share is use of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS). The investigators recently found a
      dose-dependent relationship of ICS use with high OSA risk. Furthermore, in a 16-week
      observational inhaled fluticasone (FP) treatment study, the investigators observed increased
      upper airway (UAW) collapsibility during sleep, as measured by the critical closing pressure
      (Pcrit), paralleling the improvement in lower airways obstruction, with the largest Pcrit
      deterioration in the subject with most sleep-disordered breathing (SDB) at baseline. These
      findings suggest an effect of ICS on the "unified airway" of steroid responsive patients and
      of those with more collapsible upper airways at baseline. The investigators also found a
      dose-dependent relationship of ICS with obesity. Based on their known effects, ICSs could
      deleteriously affect UAW collapsibility through inducing dilators' myopathy and fat
      deposition around the UAW. FP is the most potent and commonly used ICS.

      HYPOTHESIS/AIMS: The central hypothesis is that FP will increase UAW collapsibility (less
      negative Pcrit) and worsen SDB in steroid responsive patients with OLD and those with UAWs
      more susceptible to collapse at baseline, through alterations in tongue muscle function and
      fat accumulation in the UAW surrounding structures. To address this hypothesis, the
      investigators propose to test the effects of inhaled FP on: 1) UAW collapsibility during
      sleep and SDB severity, assessed by Pcrit, measured as we previously reported (1) and
      polysomnographic (PSG) measures. Exploratory aims will test the role of steroid
      responsiveness and baseline collapsibility as determinants of FP effects on Pcrit and SDB; 2)
      tongue strength and fatigability, and fat accumulation (fraction and volume, measured on MRI)
      in the surrounding UAW structures, measured as we previously reported (1,2).

      DESIGN: The investigators propose a proof-of-concept and mechanistic, randomized-controlled,
      parallel groups study of high (220 mcg, 4 puffs twice a day) vs. low (44 mcg twice a day)
      dose inhaled FP, followed by an 8-week wash-out period, in 58 steroid-naive subjects with
      OLD. Following baseline Pcrit, PSG, MRI and tongue function, subjects will enter a 2-week
      low-dose FP run-in, with subsequent randomization to either high- vs. low-dose FP, for 16
      weeks. At mid-period, Pcrit, tongue function and steroid responsiveness status (defined as 5%
      improvement from baseline in FEV1%) will be determined. At the end of treatment, Pcrit, PSG,
      MRI and tongue measurements will be taken. Then, subjects will enter an 8-week wash-out that
      ends with repeat Pcrit and tongue function assessments.

      SIGNIFICANCE: Millions of people, including many Veterans, are treated with ICS for OLD, and
      among those with COPD, these numbers are likely to escalate. However, do these medications
      alter UAW collapsibility and predispose to OSA in some individuals, as the investigators'
      preliminary observations suggest? This research is innovative because it will directly
      evaluate the effects of ICS on the UAW structure and function during sleep and wakefulness.
      At the study completion, it is the investigators expectation that they will have elucidated
      the effects and governing mechanisms of ICS on UAW patency and SDB severity. Data generated
      will form the foundation for future research aimed at expanding the investigators'
      understanding of ICS's effects on UAW and means to mitigate/prevent them. The clinical
      implication of these findings will be experimental-based verification of deleterious effects
      of ICS on UAW and risk for OSA, which will ultimately be of enormous financial benefit to the
      VA and OLD management programs.
    
  