
    
      From family, twin and adoption studies supported a strong hereditary component in unsubtyped
      alcohol dependency (Cloninger et al., 1981; Reich et al., 1999; Huang et al., 2004).
      Dopamine, serotonin related genes and ADH, ALDH genes have been considered as candidate genes
      for alcohol dependency (Goldman, 1995; Reich et al., 1999; Noble et al., 2000). However, both
      in simple or family-base association studies have generated controversy about the
      relationship between candidate genes and alcoholism (Edenberg et al., 1998; Reich et al.,
      1999; Noble et al., 2000). One of the possible explanations may be due to that those studies
      did not subtype alcohol dependency, even though alcoholism is a complex phenotype with a
      heterogeneous etiology (Huang et al., 2004; Lu et al., 2005a).

      Our previous research results had already categorized AD among Han Chinese in Taiwan into
      four subtypes, pure alcoholism (Pure ALC), anxiety-depression alcoholism (ANX/DEP ALC),
      antisocial alcoholism (Antisocial ALC) and mixed type alcoholism (Mixed ALC) （Huang et al.,
      2004; Lu et al., 2005; Wang et al., 2007）. Except for Mixed ALC, we have established
      fundamental genetic validity, and confirmed several candidate genes including
      MAOA、ADH、ALDH、DRD2.

      Mixed ALC is categorized by alcoholism comorbid with other psychiatric disorders including
      schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Among them all, bipolar disorders most frequently
      comorbid with alcohol and substance dependence. The high comorbidity between alcohol
      dependence among patients with bipolar disorder worsens the treatment effect and prognosis.
      Bipolar disorders are divided into several categories, including bipolar I disorder (BP-I),
      bipolar II disorder (BP-II), and cyclothymic disorder. Previous literatures have documented
      that BP-I and BP-II might have different etiology, phenomenology, characteristics and
      neuropsychiatric functional impairments in the course of the illness (APA, 1994).

      The aim of this study is to explore relation between the comorbidity of different bipolar
      disorders with alcoholism and neuropsychiatric function and candidate genes. We plan to
      establish genetic validity for this subtype of alcoholism. In addition, by comparing this
      subtyped alcoholism to normal control, we plan to examine the genetic validity of such
      comorbidity. We plan to find specific clinical characteristic from neuropsychiatric aspects
      of such subtype for future early diagnosis, prediction and prevention.
    
  