
    
      Subject will sit or lie back on an examination bed. The investigators will use an ultrasound
      scanner to collect sonographic imaging data from the breast. For this purpose the
      investigators may use a clinical scanner such as Supersonics Aixplorer or similar or a
      research ultrasound machine such as Verasonics (this machine has been use in other Mayo IRB
      approved protocols such as IRB 11-001953). The ultrasound probe will be placed on the breast
      to visualize the mass. The probe will be pressed with a constant force for a period of 10-40
      seconds. During this time ultrasound data will be recorded by the ultrasound scanner.

      To keep the probe pressed on the breast with a constant force, the user may hold the probe by
      hand and press it steadily against the breast at constant force. This force is only a few
      Newtons (approximately half a Kg weight) which should be quite tolerable for a typical
      patient. Alternatively, the investigators may use an automated "actuator" to hold the probe
      steady and press it against the breast at a constant force to the same level. The reason for
      pressing the breast is to determine how the breast tissue gradually deforms; therefore this
      method to some extent simulates breast palpation.

      The time needed to scan a subject for this study is short (a few minutes to set up, and about
      10-40 seconds to scan). It will take approximately 20 minutes to complete the study. The scan
      can be done at the time of clinical breast sonography. The subject may be asked to hold her
      breath during the scan time if possible.

      The investigators call this method "Sub-Hertz Analysis of Visco-Elasticity (SAVE)".

      To facilitate subject access and shorten patient participation time, the investigator may
      station our system in the Breast Imaging area where routine clinical imaging procedures are
      performed.

      The investigators may also use the FDA approved GE LOGIQ E9 (LE9) ultrasound system to
      quantify and image the stiffness of the breast lesion and compare the results to those
      obtained by the investigational device.

      The investigators may also use the Alpinion clinical ultrasound machine, both FDA approved
      clinical format ECUBE 12 and non FDA approved ECUBE 12R format to acquire ultrasound images.
    
  