
    
      Donepezil is currently used in the treatment of certain types of mental disorders, including
      Alzheimer's disease. Recent research studies have shown that donepezil helps to improve
      drowsiness in cancer patients receiving opioid medication.

      Before treatment starts, you will be asked to answer some questions regarding your cancer
      diagnosis, the medication you are taking, and the symptoms you are having (i.e. pain,
      fatigue, nausea, depression, anxiety, drowsiness, shortness of breath, appetite, sleep
      problem, constipation, and well-being) and a test for your cognitive status (matching
      specific numbers with given geometric figures) will be performed. It will take about 30
      minutes to complete the evaluation. Women who are at risk of being pregnant must have a
      negative urine pregnancy test.

      If you are qualified to enter the study you will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a
      coin) to one of two groups. Participants in one group will receive donepezil for one week.
      Participants in the other group will receive a placebo (a tablet that does not contain any
      medication but looks just like the donepezil pill). You will have an equal chance (50/50) of
      being placed in either group. Neither you nor any the medical staff or researchers on this
      study will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.

      You will take 1 tablet of donepezil/placebo a day for 7 days. The research nurse will contact
      you by phone (in person if you are in the hospital) daily to ask questions about side effects
      and other symptoms.

      On Day 8, you will need to come to the palliative care clinic for an evaluation. If you can
      not come to clinic on day 8, evaluation will be performed through telephone. Evaluation of
      sedation/drowsiness, pain, constipation, fatigue, side effects, effectiveness of the
      treatment, and a test of nervous system and cognitive status will be performed. If you
      develop intolerable side effects while on this study, the medication will be stopped and you
      will be removed from the study.

      After evaluation on Day 8, all participants will be offered the chance to receive 1 tablet of
      donepezil every day for 7 days. The research nurse will follow up with you by phone (in
      person if you are in the hospital) 3 or 4 days after you received donepezil (open label) to
      ask questions about side effects and other symptoms.

      On Day 15, you will need to come to the palliative care clinic for an evaluation. Evaluation
      of sedation/drowsiness, pain, constipation, fatigue, side effects, effectiveness of the
      treatment, and a test of nervous system and cognitive status will be performed. You will be
      given an option to continue on an additional 8 weeks. During these 8 weeks, the follow up
      will be conducted by your primary physician.

      This is an investigational study. Donepezil has been approved by FDA and is a commercially
      available drug. Its use in this study is investigational. It can continue to be prescribed by
      your primary physician after that time if needed. A total of 100 patients will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  