
    
      Background Historic treatment for first time patella dislocation has been largely
      conservative. Treatment options include nonoperative treatment and a large variety of
      operative options. Nonoperative treatment, usually consists of bracing and/or immobilization
      followed by physical therapy, has been problematic due to a relatively high reported
      redislocation rate(1). The forces involved in a patella dislocation event can damage the
      articular cartilage of the patella femoral joint. As a result, prevention of recurrent
      patella dislocation and the associated disability and morbidity has generated significant
      interest in the orthopedic community.

      Historic surgical approaches to recurrent patella dislocation have had mixed results. The
      isolated "lateral release", has been shown to have a very low success rate(2), while
      associated complications have been appreciated. Lateral release procedures are now more often
      performed in conjunction with other proximal or distal realignment procedures(3). More
      aggressive bone realignment procedures such as tibial tubercle transfers have the
      disadvantage of reported poor long term functional recoveries and low "return to sport"
      rates(4,5).

      There has been increasing interest in ligament reconstruction for patella dislocation. The
      ligament of interest is the medial patella-femoral ligament (MPFL), which is essentially a
      thickened band of the medial capsule of the knee. The MPFL has been established as the
      primary constraint to patella dislocation. This ligament extends from a point just anterior
      to the attachment of the medial collateral ligament to the medial aspect of the patella, and
      is routinely disrupted with a patella dislocation event. The goals of reconstruction
      procedures are to replace and/or augment this band of tissue. While many reports of the
      results of MPFL reconstruction have been good to excellent, there are significant associated
      risks of complication, prolonged recovery, and associated graft costs or autograft harvest
      morbidity.

      An alternative approach to MPFL functional restoration, and the subject of this study
      proposal, is a direct repair of the MPFL. Variations of this approach have been previously
      studied. A basic understanding of established injury patterns to the MPFL is requisite to
      evaluating the limitations to these studies.

      Studies evaluating MPFL injury by MRI have shown that acute patella dislocations have a very
      high incidence of associated MPFL injury. The location of the lesion in the ligament can be
      described in one of four ways: 1) at the patellar attachment, 2) at the femoral attachment,
      3) intrasubstance portion of the ligament, or 4) a combined injury pattern. Several studies
      have demonstrated varying percent distributions of injury(6,7), but it is clear that all
      patterns exist. This conclusion is consistent with the author's experience is treating these
      injuries.

      Detecting the injury location can also be a challenge. Arthroscopic examination has been
      shown to be ineffective at determining the location of injury(8) and, in the experience of
      the author, MRI evaluation is frequently inaccurate, especially in the chronic or recurrent
      patella dislocation setting. The author proposes a functional intraoperative test to
      determine the ligament injury location.

      Some prior reports have included surgical treatment of MPFL injuries using one technique
      only, with results similar to nonoperative treatment. For instance, some studies have
      evaluated treating all patella dislocations with repair at the patellar insertion, a
      treatment which may have limited or no benefit for patients with injuries at the femoral
      attachment of the ligament. There are two limited reports evaluating somewhat similar
      techniques, and these reports indicate some of the best results in the literature in the
      management of patella-femoral instability (9,10). These results are consistent with the
      author's experience with the treatment of this condition.

      The subject of this study is to determine the difference in nonoperative and surgical patient
      outcomes using contemporary surgical techniques; identifying the location of the injury and
      choosing either direct repair or appropriate advancement. We hypothesize that minimally
      invasive surgical repair of the MPFL will improve patient outcomes and minimize recurrent
      patellar dislocation, when compared to conservative treatment. Our null hypothesis is that
      there will be no difference in outcomes between the two groups.

      Methods/Design Trial Design - The study design will be a prospective parallel-group,
      randomized trial with allocation concealment.

      Participants - At least 50 subjects will be recruited by referral from primary care
      providers, specialists, urgent care and emergency departments, and physical therapy clinics
      within a 50 mile radius of the clinic. Men, women, and minors, aged 10-17 will be recruited.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  A first patellofemoral traumatic dislocation

        -  A need for reduction

        -  An absence of fractures on x-ray exam of the frontal and lateral knee and axial patella

        -  An absence of knee ligament lesions with surgical indications (with the exception of the
           MPFL)

        -  No previous knee surgery

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  A prior episode of patellofemoral dislocation

        -  Fractures on x-ray exam of the frontal and lateral knee and axial patella Prior surgery
           on the knee

        -  Tibial tuberosity-trochlear groove distance greater than 20mm

        -  Current pregnancy or plan to become pregnant during the study period. Recruitment - The
           recruitment process will consist of two phases. Phase one will consist of a short
           screening questionnaire, and phase two will consist of a clinical examination and
           questionnaire. Recruitment will remain open until at least fifty subjects that meet the
           inclusion criteria agree to participate.

      Randomization - After screening and accepting subjects in the recruiting process, subjects
      will be randomly assigned to either an operative group or non-operative group by means of
      computer randomized sequencing and blind allocation. Random sequence generation will be done
      by using Random Allocation Software 1.0.0., and allocation will be concealed by placing
      allocations in sequentially numbered, sealed envelopes. Randomization, allocation, and
      concealment will be accomplished by an administrative assistant with no interest in the study
      or its outcome.

      Interventions - All subjects will be briefed on their respective treatment protocols. The
      operative group will be advised on the risks of this surgery, including the chance of
      recurrent dislocations, as well as the more general risks of infection, DVT/PE, anesthesia
      complications, and associated possible complications (Table 1.1). The non-operative group
      will be advised of the possible failure of treatment, possibility of recurrent dislocation,
      and the possible need for surgery (Table 1.2).

      All subjects will receive long standing and sunrise x-rays for diagnostic purposes. An MRI
      will be obtained for identifying the site of the lesion for both groups. Additionally, we
      will ask the subjects to complete a Kujala Scoring questionnaire and physical activity
      assessment as a baseline measurement, with the intention of evaluating and subjectively
      comparing the two types of treatment. Treatment for the surgical group will be performed at
      an outpatient surgical facility, and the non-operative group will receive treatment at a
      physical therapy clinic of their choice.

      Surgical Treatment Group - Subjects who are randomized to the surgical group treatment will
      undergo surgical repair of their medial patellofemoral ligament. This will be identified
      using an MRI scan for the site of the lesion. If this cannot be identified, the following
      process will be used to determine the site of the lesion: On physical examination, the point
      of maximal tenderness between the patella and the femur will be identified and that will be
      the assumed site of traumatic injury to the medial patellofemoral ligament.

      Surgery will be performed initially with a diagnostic arthroscopy to evaluate for loose
      bodies or chondral damage anywhere in the patellofemoral joint. A video will be taken of this
      and provided to the patient postoperatively. If there are no loose bodies or chondral damage
      to be treated, the medial patellofemoral ligament will then be repaired.

      An incision will be made approximately 2 cm in length over the assumed site of the injury.
      The medial patellofemoral ligament will be identified and a tag suture will be applied to it.
      Traction on the medial patellofemoral ligament at this location will confirm that this is the
      site of primary injury by determining whether there is a firm endpoint with traction. If
      there is not a firm endpoint, a secondary incision over the alternate location, either the
      patella or the femur, will be made and the medial patellofemoral ligament will be identified
      in that location.

      Repairs of the medial patellofemoral ligament will be made at all sites opened surgically
      whether it be either the femur or the patella, or both. Surgical repair will consist of
      providing decortication of the bone at the anatomic location of the medial patellofemoral
      ligament. Placement of a single 5 mm metal suture anchor with FiberWire-type sutures and a
      repair of the medial patellofemoral ligament using the FiberWire sutures to dock the ligament
      into its anatomic location. The repairs will be then be oversewn with #1 Vicryl suture at the
      site of the repair.

      Following this, the local anesthetic will be applied to the incisions. They will be copiously
      irrigated and repaired with absorbable sutures.

      The subjects will be placed in a hinged knee brace postoperatively with a range of motion
      restriction of 0-45 degrees. Weight bearing will be allowed immediately following surgery.

      The subjects will start physical therapy the week of surgery and will begin with quadriceps
      strengthening with a restriction of range of motion from 0-45 for the first four weeks
      postoperatively followed by unrestricted full range of motion after week six. Full sport
      activities will be allowed to be resumed after eight weeks, provided the patient have at
      least 85% of the strength in their quadriceps compared to the contralateral side. Actual
      progression will be individualized based upon the patient's weekly reassessment and the
      presence of any complications.

      Postoperative follow-ups will be made at the below-mentioned intervals with appropriate
      Kujala scoring and physical activity assessment (Table 2). X-rays will be taken on the first
      postoperative visit to confirm location of suture anchor repairs.

      Appointments for physical examinations will be made at 7-10 days, 1 month, and three months
      after surgery. Any reported recurrent dislocation or subluxation event will be documented
      during recovery. All subjects will receive sunrise x-ray views at 3 months with manual
      lateral translation of the patella, as part of the study.

      Conservative Treatment Group - The conservative treatment protocol is based on accepted
      physical therapy models of care and is established relative to patient tolerance for tissue
      healing, recovery, and response to modalities and procedures. Actual progression will be
      individualized based upon the patient's weekly reassessment and the presence of any
      complications. Prevention and minimization of recurrent dislocation, painful subluxation and
      osteoarthrosis are paramount in early management scenarios. The post traumatic and post
      surgical sequelae of pain, inflammation, swelling, bruising and muscular deactivation will be
      managed with acceptable standards of practice and prescribed medications. Prevention and
      dissipation of these sequelae, including modifying activities that put excessive stress or
      loading on the patellofemoral joint are the initial goals of rehabilitation in concert with
      gradual progression of mobility and muscular reactivation techniques. The protocol is divided
      into five phases: Phase I and II, 0-4 weeks; Phase III, 5-8 weeks; Phase IV- 9-12 weeks,
      Phase V- 13+ weeks (Table 3).

      In addition to physical therapy appointments, subjects in the conservative treatment group
      will be given physical examination appointments and Kujala outcome scoring questionnaires and
      physical activity assessments at the same intervals as the surgical intervention group (Table
      2). All subjects will receive sunrise x-ray views at 3 months with manual lateral translation
      of the patella, as part of the study.

      Blinding-Due to the nature of the study, blinding of subjects after assignment to treatment
      groups is not feasible. All records and data will be collected and securely stored in the
      Clinical Research Coordinator's office. The data will be blinded before final statistical
      analysis by an independent statistician.
    
  