
    
      Patients who had heart transplantion surgery at between 2003 to 2017 were screened during
      routine outpatient visits. The patients who have history of periodontal treatment within the
      previous year, history of antibiotic use during the preceding 6 months, clinically non-stable
      patients were excluded . 40 cardiac transplant patiets who met these criteria included into
      this study. Each member of the transplant group was mathched with a patient in the
      systemically healthy control group by age and gender and smoking status. 40 systemically
      healthy subjects with no history of periodontal treatment within the previous year and no
      history of antibiotic use during the preceding 6 months were recruited.

      Medical Data Hospital records were reviewed and data were collected using a standardised form
      that included demographic information (age, gender) and medical information such as smoking
      history, presence of systemic disease, post transplant time, medication regimen/dosages.
      Assesment of Oral Hygeine Behaviour Patients were also asked to complete a standardised
      anamnestic questionnaire. Questions were about their personal oral hygeine behaviour
      (toothbrush, dental floss etc.), whether their dental visit was routine or
      complaint-oriented. For the transplant group one more question about whether a dental check
      up or comprehensive dental treatment had occured before transplantation was added.

      Clinical Examination In both groups, periodontal examination was performed by one calibrated
      periodontist at the Deperatment of Periodontology, Başkent University. All subjects recieved
      a comprehensive periodontal examination including plaque index (PI); gingival index (GI);
      gingival recession (GR); bleeding on probing (BOP); Probing depth (PD); clinical attachment
      level (CAL).

      According to the clinical and radiographic evaluation the patients were categorized due to
      their periodontal status. The patients were diagnosed with periodontally healthy, gingivitis
      or periodontitis. Patients were diagnosed with periodontally healthy if they have <10%
      bleeding sites with probing depths ≤3 mm; whereas patients who have >10% bleeding sites with
      probing depths ≤3 mm were diagnosed with gingivitis. Patients who had probing depths ≥ 4 mm,
      interproximal, CAL of ≥2 mm or ≥3 mm at ≥2 non-adjacent teeth .9,25,26
    
  