
    
      Design and Setting:

      The study is a randomized semi-blinded, placebo-controlled trial in females aged 60 years and
      over. The study examines the effects of a high docosahexaenoic acid omega-3 PUFA
      multi-nutrient dietary supplement and aerobic exercise, both on their own and in combination,
      on outcomes related to mobility and cognition. All measurements and data collection, as well
      as the aerobic exercise, take place at the same study site (Bournemouth University, United
      Kingdom), with participants instructed to consume the dietary supplement at home.

      Blinding Randomization and Allocation:

      The dietary supplements are packed in identical containers and coded by the Principal
      Investigator, who has no involvement in the data collection. Omega-3 PUFA capsules have a
      distinct odor, therefore a small amount of fish oil is added to the placebo capsules to help
      maintain blinding. A stratified block randomization design is followed with stratification
      based on frailty classification of non-frail or pre-frail, followed by permuted block
      randomization. Randomization is achieved by creating a computer-generated list of numbers
      consisting of four blocks for each stratum referred to without specification of the
      intervention group (e.g., A, B, C, and D). The list is generated and stored by the Principal
      Investigator. Due to the nature of the exercise intervention participants are only be blinded
      to the dietary intervention; however, the experimenters are blinded to the exercise group
      allocations.

      Participants:

      Participants are recruited through local newspaper advertisements and public engagements in
      Bournemouth, U.K. The public advertisements include a brief study description as well as the
      contact details for the research team. Those who are interested receive a participant
      information document including the design, procedure, benefits, and risks of the study.
      Before any data is collected, all participants provide signed written informed consent forms.

      All participants are screened to assess frailty status, according to the Fried et al. (2001)
      criteria. The criteria include low muscle strength, self-reported exhaustion, slowed gait
      speed, low levels of physical activity, and unintentional weight loss. A score of zero out of
      the five indicates non-frail, one or two pre-frail, and three or above frail.

      The Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) is performed to exclude participants with cognitive
      impairment, as this has the potential to go undiagnosed. The test is performed according to
      British Psychology Society guidelines, and is not used for diagnostic purposes and individual
      results are not be disclosed to any participant. Participants who score ≤24 are excluded from
      the study.

      Demographic Information:

      Information on the age, height, weight, verbal intelligence and medication use is collected
      from each participant. Information on medications is self-reported, with both type and number
      of medications recorded. The national adult reading test (NART) is used to assess verbal
      intelligence. The test requires participants to read aloud 50 pre-prepared words, with scores
      being calculated based on the number of correct pronunciations. Minor variations from the
      pronunciations are not penalized as the aim of the test is to assess familiarity with the
      words rather than exact pronunciation.

      Sample Size:

      Sample size was determined based on the primary outcome of habitual gait speed. The sample
      size calculation was based on a difference of 0.08 m/sec with a power of 0.8 and α of 0.05
      (two-tailed), based on previous research (Strike et al. 2016). A minimum sample size of 25
      participants per group is required to detect an effect size d of 0.8 between experimental
      groups and the control. An overall recruitment target of 120 participants, 30 per group has
      been set to allow for drop-outs.

      Analysis will be carried out on the basis of groups as randomly assigned. This
      intention-to-treat analysis will include participants who decide to discontinue treatment,
      but take part in assessment at 24 weeks. Data analysis will be performed at the conclusion of
      the intervention and include data collected at baseline and 24 weeks. Data will be tested for
      normal distribution using Shapiro-Wilk test and Q-Q-plots. Associations between baseline
      levels of serum homocysteine, whole-blood DHA levels and cognitive and mobility outcomes will
      be made, as well as changes in DHA and measures of mobility and cognition at the end of the
      intervention. The treatment effects of the two interventions over time (from pre- and
      post-measurements) will be analyzed by 2 X 2 ANOVA, with demographic and health information,
      such as age and NART score, and changes in serum homocysteine and changes in blood fatty
      acids examined as covariates. This analysis will be performed on all primary and secondary
      outcomes. Effect size will also be calculated. In all analyses P<0.05 will be considered
      significant.
    
  