
    
      Osteoarthritis is the main and most common reason for replacing hip joint and in forecast for
      2020s this will be the fourth reason that causes disabilities throughout the world.
      Osteoarthritis causes not only physical limitation but also damage to the quality of life.
      Pain and functional limitation appear among about 10% of men and 18% of women over the age of
      60. Pain and limitation in range of movement, functional decrease in daily functioning such
      as walking distance and endurance, difficulty in climbing up and down stairs are typical
      signs among those patients before surgery and treatment.

      Other physical defects following hip replacement surgery last for over a year and they
      include a decrease in muscle strength round the operated hip, a defect in keeping balance in
      the operated leg and a functional decrease that includes decrease in walking speed, damage in
      the ability of climbing up and down stairs and difficulty in standing up.

      Physical rehabilitation has importance among patients after hip joint surgery. Rehabilitation
      begins on the first stage at the rehabilitation hospital and continues after discharge at the
      community, at home or at the clinic. Often, the need for a continuing rehabilitation
      treatment after discharge exceeds the treatment provided actually by healthcare in Israel
      because of various reasons e.g. residence in remote areas, loads of patients who need
      treatment and high costs of manpower and reaching the treatments.

      Remote Therapy is an alternative means to the present therapy in clinics which is provided at
      the patient's home and thus solving these problems. Remote Therapy employs technological
      communication and thus enables the patient to continue the rehabilitation process
      independently with no need for reaching the clinic which makes it easier for the patient and
      saves economic costs for the financial agent.

      The purpose of the present study is to examine whether an intervention plan based on exercise
      through remote rehabilitation system leads to improvement in characteristics of walking and
      balance among patients after hip replacement surgery compared to the current conventional way
      of exercise among these patients
    
  