
    
      Stroke is caused by intracranial haemorrhage or thrombosis, which cuts off arterial supply to
      brain tissue and usually damages the motor pathway of the central nervous system affecting
      one side of the body. Reduced descending neural drive to the affected side could lead to
      hemiplegia, which significantly influences the activity of daily living (ADL) of stroke
      survivors (Singam, Ytterberg, Tham & von Koch, 2015). While the upper-limb motor impairment
      could be compensated using the contralateral side for picking up or manipulating objects, the
      loss of motor functionality on the lower limb would substantially limit the mobility and body
      balance. Many stroke survivors are dependent on walking aids or manual support from
      caregivers for standing and walking, otherwise they would have great risk of falling with
      serious consequences (Tasseel-Ponche, Yelnik & Bonan, 2015).

      Recent studies suggest stroke patients could relearn walking ability by developing
      alternative neural circuitries through long-term adaptation process, known as
      neuroplasticity. High-intensity, repetitive, and task-specific gait training is the key to
      enhance gait recovery of hemiplegic stroke patients (Kreisei, Hennerici & Bäzner, 2007; Kleim
      & Jones, 2008). The development of robot-assisted lower-limb exoskeleton devices has great
      clinical potential in stroke rehabilitation. Many lower-limb exoskeleton robots are
      clinically-available for non-ambulatory stroke patients to practice walking with passive
      assistance on body-weight-supported treadmill training (BWSTT) (Morone, et al., 2017).

      Existing robot-assisted gait training (RAGT) such as Lokomat and electromechanical Gait
      Trainer provide automatic, rhythmic, and repetitive powered assistance to major lower-limb
      joints at hips and knees bilaterally (Poli, Morone, Rosati & Masiero, 2013). Large-scale
      randomized controlled trials (RCT) of these RAGT in combination with conventional therapies
      show significantly more chronic stroke patients improved functional gait independency and ADL
      than receiving conventional therapies alone (Pohl, et al., 2007; Schwartz, et al., 2009;
      Hidler, et al., 2009; Mehrholz, et al., 2013). However, Hesse, Schmidt, Werner & Bardeleben
      (2003) suggest the integration of robots into gait rehabilitation could merely be an
      auxiliary tool for therapists to enhance training intensity and safety without increasing
      their workload. Most clinically-available RAGT are bounded to treadmill with passive
      assistance (van Peppen, et al., 2004; Morone, et al., 2017), but researches show
      task-variations and active participation in gait training could improve retention of
      newly-learnt skills and could promote generalization of training effects (Salbach, et al.,
      2004; Kwon, Woo, Lee & Kim, 2015). Portable RAGT that allows active over-ground gait training
      would be more promising especially for ambulatory stroke patients.

      Robot-assisted ankle foot orthosis (AFO) and knee brace are good candidates of portable
      exoskeleton devices for RAGT of hemiplegic stroke patients (Duerinck, et al., 2012; Zhang,
      Davies & Xie, 2013; Mehrholz, et al., 2017). Conventional AFO is mainly designed for treating
      foot drop gait abnormality with passive support in ankle dorsiflexion for foot clearance in
      swing phase and shock absorption in loading response. Conventional knee brace is mainly
      designed for body support in stance phase. The integration of robot assistance in the
      affected ankle and/or knee joint could provide active power assistance that synchronises to
      patients' voluntary residual ankle and/or knee movement. Long-term active power assistance
      might stimulate experience-driven gait recovery or develop compensatory gait pattern to
      facilitate gait (Kleim & Jones, 2008).

      In order to translate robotic rehabilitation research into clinical application,
      evidence-based clinical research should be carried out to test the safety and effectiveness
      of the new devices or interventions on stroke patients (Backus, Winchester & Tefertiller,
      2010). Many designs of robot-assisted AFO and knee braces have been proposed by different
      research groups, but most of them reported only the results of feasibility tests, mainly on
      healthy subjects with small sample sizes (Dollar & Herr, 2008; Shorter, et al., 2013; Alam,
      Choudhury & Bin Mamat, 2014). Majority of previous studies concerned about the immediate
      effects of wearing the robot-assisted AFOs and knee braces during walking, but few studies
      investigated the long-term therapeutic effects of wearing the devices for RAGT of stroke
      patients (Lo, 2012). In particular, systematic review by Mehrholz, et al. (2017) shows only
      one RCT has evaluated the efficacy of ankle training using robot-assisted AFO but in seated
      position, no RCT evaluated gait training using robot-assisted AFO on both over-ground walking
      and stair ambulation.

      In this study, the Exoskeleton Ankle Robot and Knee Robot have been proposed and evaluated as
      a robot-assisted AFO and knee brace for gait training of stroke patients with foot drop gait
      abnormality. Clinical application of robot-assisted AFO and knee brace on stroke patients has
      to overcome some important challenges, such as to reduce weight loading on the leg, and to
      achieve portability and adaptability to various walking environments. The Exoskeleton Ankle
      Robot and Knee Brace aims: (1) to provide synchronised active ankle and/or knee power
      assistance to facilitate walking, (2) to develop accurate and reliable method to classify
      user walking intention in over-ground walking and stair ambulation, (3) to deliver training
      protocol for RAGT of stroke patients with foot drop gait abnormality. The feasibility tests
      and RCT of the Exoskeleton Ankle Robot and Knee Brace could validate the clinical value of
      this new rehabilitation robot, and could potentially establish a new intervention of gait
      rehabilitation for stroke patients.
    
  