
    
      Optical Tracking System

      For this study, PRODIGI was combined with a commercial optical tracking system (OTS, Polaris,
      NDI Medical, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada) to track the movement of the device in space relative
      to a patient over time. This addition is in the form of an infrared-light camera, which
      tracks four IR reflective spheres (NDI Medical, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada) that are fixed to
      the external housing of PRODIGI device.

      The OTS has been described previously. Briefly, it consists of optical tracking technology,
      which provides 6 degrees of freedom (x, y, z, pitch. yaw, roll), attached to the camera along
      with software developed in house to register and visualize the tracked camera pose relative
      to a previously acquired radiological volumetric image data. The in-house software platform
      GTxEyes performs tracking and navigation of the imaging camera, camera calibration (including
      any image distortion), registration of the camera coordinates with respect to the CT images,
      and co-visualization (e.g. visual overlay) of the camera and CT images. Radiation dose
      planning information can also be spatially co-registered and overlaid with the hybrid
      optical-CT images/videos using methods described previously by our group.

      After loading a CT image of the patient, the OTS is registered to the CT coordinate space by
      identification of known fiducials using a conventional pointer tool. With registration
      complete, the coordinates of the PRODIGI camera can be tracked in real time relative to the
      CT image. Viewing options include orthogonal views through the CT image, corrected PRODIGI
      image and a virtual image based on the CT surface rendering viewed from the perspective of a
      virtual camera at the PRODIGI coordinates. Radiation dose can be displayed on the real and
      virtual camera views as either isodose lines or colorwash.

      Patient Population

      Patients will be recruited from the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health
      Network (Ontario, Canada) sarcoma clinic to be treated with pre-operative external beam RT
      followed by surgical resection of lower limb soft-tissue sarcoma. Informed consent was
      obtained according to institutional Research Ethics Board (REB) requirements and Good
      Clinical Practice (GCP) (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02270086). Patients with pre-existing skin
      issues, who received prior radiotherapy or required chemotherapy were not eligible to the
      study.

      Imaging Procedures

      At the radiotherapy planning stage, a CT scan of the patient sarcoma site is acquired for
      standard treatment planning purposes. Prior to the CT scan, small radio-opaque fiduciary
      markers (Suremark TM skin marking labels) were placed on the patient's six radiation
      treatment setup points, making the <1 mm diameter points easy to identify in the CT images.
      After the CT scan, these markers were replaced with ink tattoos and used during radiation
      treatment to align the patient with radiation therapy machine reference frame. In addition to
      the CT fiducial markers placed at the treatment setup points, a flexible radio-opaque wire
      was overlaid on the planned surgical incision. This enabled localization of the entire
      surgical scar during the radiation treatment plan procedure. A radiotherapy stereotactic mask
      was also made at that stage. Following CT simulation scan acquisition, an appropriate
      radiotherapy plan was designed as per institutional clinical standard guidelines.

      Imaging with PRODIGI and the OTS was performed throughout the sarcoma management, i.e. during
      radiotherapy and in the operating room. Imaging was performed at three time points during RT:
      fractions 0, 12 and 25, i.e. at the beginning, middle and end of the treatment. Four out of
      six treatment setup points marked with radio-opaque fiduciary markers on the CT scans were
      used to perform the optical to CT co-registration. An optically-tracked pointer tool using
      four IR reflective spheres (identical to the ones fixed to the PRODIGI system) was used to
      register the patient in space with respect to the IR camera. For this, the pointer was placed
      sequentially on each tattoo mark, identified and spatially registered by the tracking IR
      camera and visualized in real-time on the CT scans using the custom-built software GTxEyes.
      The locations of the tattoo points in the optical tracking coordinate system were then
      registered to the corresponding points in the CT image using the fiduciary CT markers. Once
      registration was completed, the planned surgical scar was drawn on the patient's skin with a
      marker by superimposing the optically-tracked pointer on the scar visible on the CT scans. An
      imaging session consisted of both WL and corresponding AF imaging of the planned skin
      surgical incision and surrounding tissue. Room lights were turned off during AF imaging to
      avoid background signal and artifacts. The four reflective spheres on the PRODIGI device were
      pointed towards the IR camera to ensure proper tracking in 3D during the entire session.

      To perform PRODIGI imaging in the operating room, a sterilization method approved by UHN's
      control and processing department using a sterile drape was found to be the most effective
      way to ensure proper sterile conditions without damaging the instrument or affecting its
      performance. An elongated sterile drape (Cardinal Health Canada, 29-59029) was used to cover
      the entire PRODIGI imaging system, i.e. the camera and electrical power cord. Six strong
      neodymium magnets (Super Magnets, 8 mm diameter) were embedded into the emission filter
      slider and six corresponding magnets were autoclaved prior to each use and placed on the
      outside of the drape to hold it in place to avoid image quality degradation. Steri-strips
      (3M, R1547) were applied on the outside of the draped device to tighten the drape around the
      IR reflective spheres to insure adequate tracking during imaging. Imaging was performed at
      five time points: before and after sterilization of the surgical site (OR1, OR2), once the
      flap was raised (OR3), after tumor excision (OR4) and after closure (OR5).

      The combined WL and AF images were part of a superset of data recorded using the tracking
      system. The superset also included preoperative patient CT and the patient's RT dose volume.
      A skin surface model was generated from the patient's CT, where each surface point held a
      quantitative tuple that contained the surface normal vector, the RT dose, the WL scalar, the
      AF scalar, and the camera pose corresponding to the AF scalar. Overlay of WL and AF images on
      the skin surface model was visualized using the software ParaView.
    
  