
    
      Esophageal stricture (ES) formation is a widely recognized adverse event of radical EMR and
      ESD. Indeed, ES is the most common complication of radiofrequency ablation (RFA) for
      Barrett's esophagus (BE), with a reported incidence ranging from 5% to 12%. A single-center
      retrospective study reported ES formation in 67% of 73 patients with EMR of at least 50% of
      their esophageal circumference. Similarly, the incidence of ES development after ESD is
      between 70-90% when the mucosal defect involves more than three-quarters of the esophageal
      circumference. In aggregate, the extent of the esophageal mucosal defect following
      endotherapy appears to be the most consistent predictor of ES formation. Prevention of ES
      development following endotherapy can significantly improve a patient's quality of life and
      possibly reduce the potential risks and costs associated with treatment of ES with repeated
      endoscopic balloon dilations (EBD). Glucocorticoids have been evaluated as a potential
      preventive therapy for ES based on their anti-inflammatory properties and inhibitory effects
      on collagen deposition. Oral prednisolone has been shown to be effective as a preventive
      strategy for ES formation. However, prolonged use of systemic oral steroids can be associated
      with multiple adverse effects.

      Budesonide is a synthetic steroid with topical anti-inflammatory properties and high
      first-pass metabolism; thus, potentially less systemic absorption and side effects. Most
      recently Mayo Clinic Rochester developed a new budesonide capsule formulation. Alike viscous
      budesonide the budesonide capsule can be opened and the powder can be mixed with honey or
      pancake syrup. A similar formulation is currently used in pilot studies for treatment of
      eosinophilic esophagitis. The advantage of budesonide capsule is the improve taste in
      comparison to viscous budesonide originating from budesonide respules which is unpalatable.

      Study aims:

        1. The aim of this study is to prospectively record our experience with budesonide for the
           prevention of esophageal stricture formation after endotherapy (mucosal resection,
           submucosal dissection) as part of routine medical care.

        2. The data will be compared with outcomes with well-annotated historical controls that
           underwent similar procedure with similar follow up but without budesonide exposure.

        3. If sufficient efficacy is seen, these data will be used to plan a prospective controlled
           clinical trial. All patients in the study group will receive standard medical care and
           no experimental interventions will be performed.
    
  