
    
      Background: Informed consent for surgical procedures is critical to patient care in the VA
      and in other health care settings. Many studies document limitations in current methods of
      obtaining informed consent. These limitations include poor patient comprehension, inadequate
      time for discussion, poor documentation of consent, and heightening of patient anxiety
      regarding surgery. In hopes of addressing these shortcomings, both the NQF and AHRQ have
      recommended that "repeat back" protocols be added to informed consent methodologies. The VA
      has opted to address the informed consent issue by computerization of the informed consent
      process utilizing the iMedConsent program. This latter program is fully integrated with the
      computerized patient record system (CPRS), includes extensive patient education materials,
      standardizes risk information and guides the clinician through the consent process. The
      iMedConsent program is being disseminated via an ongoing national rollout. Despite its
      apparent advantages, the current iMedConsent platform does not incorporate any methodology to
      support "repeat back". Dialog Medical, the iMedConsent vendor, has recently developed a new
      module that can enhance the current version of the program by supporting "repeat back"
      protocols.

      Objectives: We hypothesize that use of the enhanced iMedConsent program (with "repeat back")
      will improve the surgical patient's comprehension about the surgical technique, treatment
      alternatives, and risks and benefits of the proposed surgery in comparison with the standard
      iMedConsent program. We believe that this enhanced program will also lead to better patient
      satisfaction with the consent process, decision making and the health care received, less
      anxiety about the operation, and that this program will be acceptable to surgical providers
      and might lead to better clinical outcomes.

      Methods: To address these hypotheses we are conducting a multi-site (7 VA Medical Centers)
      randomized trial comparing the use of the "standard" and "enhanced" iMedConsent program. We
      will enroll 600 subjects who are scheduled for elective surgery. Subjects will be
      individually randomized to the standard or enhanced versions of the iMedConsent program. The
      surgical procedures to be studied include carotid endarterectomy, total hip arthroplasty,
      radical prostatectomy and laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The study will be linked to the
      National Surgical Quality Improvement Program data which will provide baseline data on
      patient characteristics, intraoperative variables (e.g. operation type, time, anesthesia
      method, etc.), and the data on 30 day surgical outcomes. We will assess endpoints including
      patient comprehension, patient satisfaction with the consent process, patient anxiety,
      providers' acceptance of the informed consent process, and patient satisfaction with health
      care and with decision making using validated self-report survey instruments.

      Findings: We are currently in the final phase of data analysis. The final study report will
      be submitted within the next several weeks to HSR&D.

      Status: Study recruitment and enrollment began in August 2006 and ended June 30, 2008. 575
      study subjects were randomized, with 502 study subjects completing the study. 214 surgical
      providers participated and 192 completed provider questionnaires. We continue with final data
      analysis phase of the study. Manuscripts are being written, with final HSR&D report due
      within the next several weeks.

      Impact: The results of this study will have important implications for improving the consent
      process within the VA and beyond.
    
  