
    
      The study consisted of two parts. Part one was prospective clinical observational study; part
      two was case control study.

      From January 2005 to May 2005, consecutive patients undergoing primary pars plana vitrectomy
      for complications of proliferative diabetic retinopathy were recruited for the prospective
      study. The selection criteria were: 1) anticoagulant therapy should not have been used prior
      to surgery or during post-operative follow-up period; 2) ther should be no medical history of
      blood diseases associated with abnormal blood coagulation. During operation, removal of the
      fibrovascular tissues as well as old and fresh blood was attempted as completely as could be
      safely done in all cases; blood clots adherent to the peripheral vitreous skirt was removed
      as much as possible; peripheral retinal cryotherapy (10 to 12 spots in one row), and
      sclerotomy sites cryo (2 spots, each 6 seconds, for 3 sclerotomy sites) were performed. For
      those cases without retinal detachment and breaks, fluid-gas exchange with 7.5% C3F8 was done
      at the end of the surgery; For those with preexisting breaks or iatrogenic breaks induced
      retinal detachment, fluid-gas exchange with 15% C3F8 was performed before cryotherapy. After
      surgery, patients without breaks were kept in a prone position overnight, and maintained head
      down during waking hours and lied on either side, during sleep for 3 weeks. Other patients
      assumed head positions depending on the location of breaks. Ophthalmological examinations
      were performed in the first 4 days after surgery, then weekly for 6 weeks and then monthly
      for 4 months. The preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative data were collected for each
      patient. These included age, gender, study eye, types and duration of diabetes mellitus,
      intraoperative diagnosis, and the use of scleral buckle, silicone oil temponade; data
      regarding the time, duration, frequency and treatment of recurrent vitreous hemorrhage and
      the duration of post-operation follow-up were also compiled. Results of ophthalmological
      examinations, including best corrected visual acuity, intraocular pressures, corneal
      conditions, anterior chamber reactions, lens status, intravitreal gas amount, and retina
      conditions were recorded. The amount of vitreous blood was assessed by indirect
      ophthalmoscopy with patients in both sitting and face-up position. The degree of vitreous
      opacity was recorded according to criteria set for grading vitreous opacity in uveitis.

      Patients who had silicone oil infusion, failed to achieve retinal attachment for at least 3
      months, or followed for less than a minimum of 5-month were excluded from the study.

      Using the same inclusion and exclusion criteria, chart review from September 2004 to May 2005
      for diabetic cases operated by the same surgeon with only cryo treatment but without
      long-acting gas infusion at the end of vitrectomy was done. Similar data as for the
      prospective study (except intravitreal gas amount) were collected. These cases served as
      control to compare the rate of recurrent vitreous hemorrhage and the change of best-corrected
      visual acuity between cases with intravitreal long-acting gas and those without.
    
  