
    
      Postpartum major depression (PPMD) occurs in approximately 7% of women in the first three
      months after childbirth and up to 22% of women over the first year postpartum. The impact of
      PPMD can be profound, including emotional distress, impairment in daily functioning and
      especially in caring for an infant for women as well as disturbances in infant development.
      The need for preventive interventions that are effective and widely accessible is clear and
      widely recognized.

      While several psychological interventions to prevent PPMD have demonstrated efficacy, all of
      these interventions require women to be physically present at a treatment site at a
      particular time and day. There are numerous well established access barriers to traditional
      face-to-face psychological interventions, particularly for postpartum women facing the
      demands of childcare, including cost, transportation barriers, and time constraints, all of
      which make it impossible for the vast majority of women to participate in preventive care.
      The Internet offers great potential in extending mental health services to perinatal women
      because it directly circumvents these barriers.

      Two broad classes of internet interventions have been evaluated within medicine generally,
      although to date there are no published evaluations of such interventions among perinatal
      women: Individual Internet Interventions (IIIs), which provide patients with access to
      web-based self-management programs, and Internet Support Groups (ISGs), which are usually
      centered around a discussion board or chat room. Meta-analyses suggest that IIIs are
      effective with acutely depressed patients when they include regular support by live coach
      (d=.61), but are much less effective when they are provided as a stand-alone treatment
      (d=.25). The enhanced efficacy of coach-supported IIIs appears to be due to the greater
      adherence to the intervention (e.g. more frequent usage) resulting from personal coach
      contact. The obvious drawbacks are cost and scalability: infrastructures for the training,
      oversight and payment of coaches must be implemented.

      In contrast, ISGs provide a vehicle for peer support, and are very highly valued and commonly
      used by perinatal women. However, while adherence may be good, trials have found unmoderated
      ISGs to be ineffective at reducing distress and depression, Taken together, the efficacy of
      the IIIs and the adherence, flexibility, and potential for peer support in an ISG suggest
      that peers in a well-constructed ISG that encourages support and collaborative learning,
      could enhance adherence and outcomes of online self-management training programs. Learning
      these self-management skills have proven effective in face-to-face interventions to prevent
      depression among perinatal women.

      This intervention, which we call "Share", is based upon a unique combination of two critical
      concepts:

        1. the capacity of IIIs to teach self-management skills; and

        2. the potential for ISGs to enhance adherence and contribute to effective learning.
    
  