
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the recommended phase II dose of anetumab ravtansine combined with
      atezolizumab in advanced MSLN+ non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). (Phase I) II. To determine
      the confirmed response rate for the combination of anetumab ravtansine and atezolizumab in
      MSLN+ 2nd line NSCLC. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe adverse events and toxicities of the combination treatment of anetumab
      ravtansine and atezolizumab. (Phase I) II. To identify preliminary evidence of clinical
      activity (i.e. response, timed endpoints, etc.) (Phase I) III. To determine the
      progression-free survival (PFS) and the 1-year PFS rate for the combination of anetumab
      ravtansine and atezolizumab in 2nd-line NSCLC. (Phase II) IV. To determine the overall
      survival of anetumab ravtansine combined with atezolizumab in second-line therapy of NSCLC.
      (Phase II) V. Adverse events will also be summarized as well. (Phase II)

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine using flow cytometry the levels of Bcl-2 interacting mediator of cell death
      (BIM) in circulating CD8+ CD11a+ PD-1+ T-cells, in peripheral blood samples collected from
      patients prior to initiation of therapy (baseline) and correlating these with confirmed
      response rate during and following treatment with the combination regimen.

      II. To determine tissue MSLN and PD-L1 expression and correlate with response to combination
      therapy with atezolizumab and anetumab ravtansine.

      III. To correlate baseline serum soluble PDL-1 (sPDL-1) with response to therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of anetumab ravtansine followed by a phase
      II study.

      Participants receive anetumab ravtansine intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes and atezolizumab
      IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for up to 2
      years.
    
  