
    
      Social dancing is a complex sensorimotor rhythmic activity integrating physical, cognitive
      and social elements with the potential to ameliorate a wide range of physical and cognitive
      impairments in older individuals at risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias.
      The few extant studies report that dancing stimulates multiple cognitive processes, including
      attention, processing speed, and executive function, but these discoveries were made in small
      samples, lacking control conditions, and did not investigate the underlying biological
      mechanisms.

      Executive function (EF) is an umbrella term for the management of cognitive processes,
      including working memory, reasoning, task flexibility, and problem solving that are central
      to planning, goal-directed action, and coordination of daily activities. Impairment of EF and
      related processes such as processing speed and attention is seen in normal aging as well as
      early in dementia, and is associated with difficulty in performing daily activities and
      increased risk of adverse events such as falls. Encouragingly, aerobic exercise is reported
      to enhance cognition, especially EF. Cognitively impaired seniors fall more, and have higher
      prevalence and severity of balance and gait problems than cognitively intact fallers. Given
      social dancing's multimodal cognitive and physical benefits; it may help maintain mobility
      and reduce falls in individuals at risk for dementia. In support, the investigators reported
      that older social dancers had better balance and gait than non-dancers.

      The investigators propose a 6-month pilot single blind, randomized clinical trial (RCT)
      comparing social dancing (ballroom dancing) versus active control (walking) in 32 older
      adults at high risk of dementia. The overall hypothesis is that social dancing in cognitively
      vulnerable seniors will induce neuroplasticity that will enhance cognitive processes and
      improving everyday behaviors. The objective for this pilot trial is to obtain preliminary
      data on intervention effects (trajectory and asymptote) on EF to design a full-scale RCT.

      Social dancing appeals to older adults, has intrinsic value, is enjoyable, and has high
      potential for sustainability. This trial is novel and high risk, but will provide the
      evidence base to develop a definitive full-scale RCT to support or refute prescription of
      social dancing to prevent cognitive decline in older adults at high risk of AD and related
      dementias.
    
  