
    
      The prevalence of accidental perioperative hypothermia is high, ranging from 20 to 90% in the
      literature, and its prevention still remains a major issue despite the many existing
      prevention techniques. Perioperative hypothermia is defined as a core body temperature below
      36.0 ° Celsius.

      The deleterious effects of perioperative hypothermia are well known : increased risk of wound
      infection, adverse cardiac events and blood loss. Moreover, the pharmacology of anesthetic
      agents can be altered by hypothermia, which in turn could lengthen the emergence of
      anesthesia. Patient comfort and satisfaction are also related to hypothermia and the feeling
      of cold generated.

      Thus, hypothermia may be associated with prolonged length of stay in the recovery room and in
      the hospital for outpatient surgeries. Therefore, hypothermia can indirectly increase the
      costs of an intervention.

      Several techniques have been described for the prevention of perioperative hypothermia.
      Passive warming is a method used to prevent heat loss such as warm cotton blankets, drapes or
      plastics whereas active warming consist in adding heat to the body surface using a warming
      system such as forced-air warming to increase mean body temperature. So, the use of a
      prewarming, an active warming before induction of anesthesia, could reduce the potential for
      redistribution, the main mechanism of hypothermia under general anesthesia.

      Based on a literature review, the combined use of active prewarming with intraoperative
      active warming appears to be the most effective technique in preventing hypothermia upon
      arrival in the recovery room for inpatient surgeries lasting longer than 30 minutes. In the
      literature, the majority of publications on prewarming focus on surgeries lasting at least
      one hour, despite strong recommendations to use active warming for surgeries of 30 minutes or
      more. There is not so much data regarding the efficiency of continuous prewarming for short
      outpatient surgeries, from the preoperative unit to induction of anesthesia.

      This prospective randomized controlled study is designed to evaluate if the combination of a
      continuous active prewarming of at least 30 minutes (Flex Warming Gown, Bair Paws, 3M) with
      an active intraoperative warming (Bair Hugger, 3M) would be effective in demonstrating a
      significant difference in temperature at the end of surgery between the two groups (control
      and intervention) for short (30 to 120 minutes) outpatient surgeries under general
      anesthesia. This intervention will be compared to the standard care which are a passive
      warming preoperatively with an active intraoperative warming.
    
  