
    
      Vertebral compression fracture (VCF) is a very common medical problem and describes the
      collapse of a vertebral body (VB) in the spine. VCF can lead to severe pain, decreased
      physical function, spinal deformity and in rare cases thoracic or abdominal wall deformities,
      that can impair pulmonary and gastrointestinal function. A VCF can occur in patients with
      healthy spines upon severe trauma, in patients suffering from osteoporosis or in patients
      with metastatic tumors.

      Currently available therapy for VCF includes medical management, surgical treatments and
      vertebral augmentation (VA). Medical management consists of bed rest followed by early
      mobilization and analgesic medications. Surgical options include spinal stabilization with
      rods and screws. VA procedures attempt to stabilize the spine and reduce vertical compression
      by adding material to the spine.

      Kyphoplasty is a commonly performed VA procedure. In kyphoplasty, a surgical instrument is
      used to reduce the collapsed VB towards its original shape. Reduction of the fractured VB is
      thought to be beneficial since (1) it may reduce anterior directed compressive forces
      resulting from kyphosis of the spine due to the fracture, and (2) it may reduce some
      physiologic abnormalities due to kyphosis, such as restrictive lung disease or abdominal
      compression. After fracture reduction, bone cement is placed in the VB to stabilize the
      reduction. Fracture reduction follows the orthopedic general principles of fracture repair:
      reduction and stabilization.

      Primary objective of this observational study is to compare the effectiveness of the
      Quattroplasty double balloon catheter Stop'n GO (Joline®) with the Kyphoplasty single balloon
      catheter Allevo (Joline®) combined with BonOs® Inject bone cement for use in VCF reduction,
      to confirm the performance of those two devices and to investigate potential major adverse
      events associated with the use of the device in patients treated in a controlled setting when
      used according to the IFU. Secondary objective is to compare the safety of the Quattroplasty
      double balloon catheter Stop'n GO (Joline®) with the Kyphoplasty single balloon catheter
      Allevo (Joline®) combined with BonOs® Inject bone cement.
    
  