
    
      Evidence-based guidelines for primary care of diabetes have been established and
      disseminated, yet adoption of guidelines in community-based primary care practice has been
      disappointing. This effectiveness study proposes a randomized trial involving 54
      community-based primary care practices to test two innovative interventions to improve
      diabetes and depression care. One intervention, derived from theoretically based and
      efficacious programs tested in other settings, adopts a broad focus and seeks to improve
      diabetes and depression care by a) increasing the practice's organizational capacity to
      manage change, and b) implementing and sustaining chronic care office systems that support
      clinician efforts to improve care for diabetes. The intervention will combine two integrated
      components. The first component will utilize an Improvement Facilitator that will assess the
      practice's current use of chronic care office systems and their organizational capacity to
      manage change, provide feedback to key stakeholders in the practice, and work with the
      practice over six months to form an Improvement Team that will both address organizational
      capacity to create and sustain improvement and implement chronic care systems. In the second
      component of the intervention, the practice will participate in a local Improvement
      Collaborative that will afford opportunities to learn and share experiences during
      implementation and maintenance phases of the intervention with five similar practices in
      their geographic area. The second intervention is based on traditional QI methods and focuses
      on a chronic disease registry with regular reports to the physicians. It also uses PDSA
      cycles to assist in implementing change. This intervention will offer tools to improve
      diabetes and/or asthma care. Both interventions will be evaluated in two ways. First, a
      randomized trial using rigorous quantitative methods will measure 2 primary and 3 secondary
      endpoints at 9 and 18 months, including a) the ADA Physician Recognition Program performance
      measures by both patient-report and review of the medical record, and b) HEDIS measures of
      acute phase management of depression, c) assessment of the extent to which practices
      implement and physicians use elements of the chronic care model in their care of diabetes and
      depression. Change from baseline to 9 months will assess adoption of chronic care
      improvements, and change from 9 to 18 months will assess sustainability of improvements.
      Second, a multimethod assessment process will be used to analyze all qualitative and
      quantitative data separately to understand how and why the intervention led to the observed
      effects. The practice assessment will strive to understand which components of the
      interventions were most effective, their relative costs for implementation, and how they
      might be further improved. Successful components of the intervention will be refined and made
      available to our collaborators in the project; the Copic Insurance Company and the Colorado
      Clinical Guidelines Collaborative, for use in their statewide activities to improve diabetes
      care.
    
  