
    
      The mitochondrial membrane-associated ferredoxin reductase (FDXR) is a flavoprotein that
      initiates the mitochondrial electron transport chain by transferring electrons from NADPH to
      the mitochondrial cytochrome P450 system via the ferredoxins FDX1 or FDX2. In addition to
      essential roles in Fe-S cluster biogenesis, this pathway is also central to the biosynthesis
      of steroid hormones. Previously, Dr. Taosheng Huang's research group has identified mutations
      in the FDXR gene in many individuals who share clinical presentations consistent with a
      mitochondrial disorder-including ataxia, hypotonia and optic atrophy-and obtained a
      naturally-occurring Fdxr mutant mouse model from Jackson Lab that corroborated these results
      (PMID: 29040572 and PMID: 30250212). In particular, FDXR enzyme activity, mitochondrial
      complex activities and ATP production were all significantly reduced in their patient
      samples. Their studies further indicated that Fdxr mutation leads to neurodegeneration that
      is associated with both inflammation as well as the abnormal accumulation of iron in the
      mitochondria, likely as a result of disrupted Fe-S cluster synthesis. More recently, his
      group has used the CRISPR-Cas9 system to generate a mouse line with a p.R389W amino acid
      change, which more precisely matches the most common human variant observed in their patients
      and shows a much more severe phenotype than their previous, naturally occurring Fdxr mouse
      model. They have also show that AAV-based gene therapy can significantly improve the
      condition of Fdxr mutant mice (DOI:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.omtm.2020.05.021), providing
      valuable preclinical data that may open the door for adapting such gene therapy treatments
      for use in human clinical trials. Given the recent regulatory approval granted to gene
      therapy treatments for LCA2, SMA1, and β-thalassemia, there is strong possibility that such
      an approach will ultimately produce a viable clinical treatment for FDXR patients as well.

      FDXR is required for Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters synthesis which is essential for multiple
      important biological processes, including electron transfer, cofactor synthesis, and gene
      regulation. Fe-S cluster biosynthesis is a tightly regulated process that requires
      coordinated delivery of both iron and sulfur and is a cofactor of many proteins. A variety of
      human disorders have been associated with impaired Fe-S cluster synthesis, including
      neurodegenerative disorders (e.g. Friedreich's ataxia) and myopathy with lactic acidosis.
      Iron homeostasis, which requires precise synthesis and localization of Fe-S clusters in
      mitochondria, is critical to ensure that there is sufficient iron for cellular functions,
      without reaching toxic levels of iron. Excessive levels of iron favor the formation of excess
      oxygen free radicals and consequent mitochondrial dysfunction.

      The Rare Disease Act and Rare Disease Orphan Product Development Act highlight the importance
      of rare disease research and the obstacles to developing effective treatments for these
      diseases. However, the study of rare diseases may open a window to studying other human
      conditions. For example, Iron-sulfur biosynthesis abnormalities have been observed in more
      common human diseases such as Friedreich's ataxia. This relationship highlights the
      importance of human disease research by multiple approaches to understand biological
      mechanisms and for general application to human health. For these reasons, a better
      understanding of the pathogenesis of FDXR deficiency may help facilitate our knowledge of
      disease biology, neurodevelopment, brain function, and other organ abnormalities. Thus, in
      order to better understand the function of FDXR and to help lay the groundwork for eventual
      clinical trials of gene therapy or drug-based treatments for FDXR-related disease, the
      investigators propose this natural history study of both pediatric as well as adult patients
      with biallelic mutations in the ferredoxin reductase gene.
    
  