
    
      BACKGROUND

      The PROBE questionnaire is a tool for the assessment of patient-reported outcome, burdens and
      experiences. Until now, it has been used in persons living with hemophilia (PWH) and healthy
      controls. In phase 1 of the study, the investigators developed the questionnaire. In phase 2
      of the study, the investigators evaluated the reliability, reproducibility, responsiveness,
      and costs of PROBE. The tool has been tested across 21 countries and it has been shown that
      PROBE is a valid questionnaire for the evaluation of patient reported outcomes (PROs) in PWH
      and control populations. The questionnaire is available in 11 languages (with 20 localized
      versions worldwide), and another 17 languages and 45 more localizations are in the process of
      development.

      CURRENT STUDY and FUTURE DIRECTIONS

      Phase 3 is the natural prosecution of the project. In this phase, the investigators aim at
      maintaining the capacity to collect data on PROBE, and the infrastructure will also be
      modified in order to allow for longitudinal collection of PROBE data (in previous phases, the
      investigators only collected anonymized data).

      The objective of the study is to compare data on PROBE between countries, within-countries
      over time, and within-countries against national normative data. Reports will be produced
      every 2 years. Data collected during phase 2 of the study will also be used.

      At the same time, the research framework will have the potential for:

        -  Expanding country participation within existing and new regions.

        -  Integrating the PROBE questionnaire in clinical trials, longitudinal studies, health
           technology assessment studies, routine clinical care, and registries.

        -  Using PROBE in new countries

        -  Testing the performance of the PROBE questionnaire in new patient populations

      INVESTIGATION TEAM

      Principal Investigator:

        1. Mark Skinner JD, Institute for Policy Advancement Ltd. (US)

           Co-Investigators:

        2. Alfonso Iorio MD Ph.D. FRCPC, McMaster University, Department of Clinical Epidemiology
           and Biostatistics (Canada)

        3. Randall Curtis MBA, Factor VIII Computing (US)

        4. Neil Frick MS, National Hemophilia Foundation (US)

        5. Michael Nichol Ph.D., University of Southern California, School of Policy and Planning
           Development (US)

        6. Declan Noone, Irish Hemophilia Society (Ireland)

        7. David Page, Canadian Hemophilia Society (Canada)

        8. Jeff Stonebraker Ph.D., North Carolina State University Poole College of Management (US)

        9. Brian O'Mahoney, Irish Hemophilia Society (Ireland)

       10. Chatree Chai-Adisaksopha, MD MSc.
    
  