
    
      Stroke is the second leading killer worldwide and the third leading cause of death in the
      United States. The two major mechanisms causing brain damage in stroke are, ischemia and
      hemorrhage. Several complications can arise from these cerebral insults ranging from minor
      neurologic dysfunction, complete immobility, or death. In the intensive care setting,
      clinicians combat the pathophysiologic processes that lead to the aforementioned sequelae of
      stroke and contest other acute issues which may or may not be secondary to the stroke itself,
      with one such issue being hyperthermia. Hyperthermia is defined by the Society of Critical
      Care Medicine as a temperature greater than 38.3°C. In one prospective study, hyperthermia
      was reported to occur in 43% of patients during the first week of hospitalization following
      an ischemic or hemorrhagic (excluding subarachnoid hemorrhage) stroke. Hyperthermia in the
      stroke patient can be detrimental leading to increased infarct size and worsened neurological
      outcomes. The etiology of the hyperthermia may not be clear upon initial evaluation but
      cessation of fever is essential to prevent further damage.

      One possible cause of hyperthermia in the stroke patient is bacterial infection. Infection
      complicating cerebral insult can lead to poor functional outcome and increased mortality.
      Kilpatrick and colleagues found that fever occurred in 47% of patients who were admitted with
      either a traumatic or ischemic brain injury and 70% of these patients received at least one
      antibiotic within 24 hours of their febrile episode, however the antibiotics had no effect on
      controlling the fevers. With bacterial resistance ever increasing, it is vital that
      clinicians reserve antibiotics for patients in whom the source of fever is believed to be
      secondary to an infectious process. It has been estimated that the United States health care
      system spends more than $20 billion annually on antibiotic-resistant infections and these
      infections result in more than eight million additional hospital days. Antibiotic use across
      health care disciplines has been estimated to be administered either inappropriately or
      unnecessarily 50% of the time. Considering clinical symptoms of infection can mirror other
      disease processes, reliable diagnostic biomarkers would be useful in helping determine the
      appropriate diagnosis.

      PCT is a 116 amino acid peptide with a sequence identical to calcitonin but lacking hormonal
      activity. PCT was first utilized by Assicot et al in the setting of sepsis to help determine
      whether the inflammatory response from the patient was secondary to bacterial infection.
      Since this finding, PCT has been shown in several studies to have a high sensitivity and
      specificity for indicating systemic bacterial infections. During infection PCT is secreted
      into the bloodstream without increasing calcitonin. PCT has been shown prospectively to only
      be elevated in patients with bacterial infections while remaining consistently low in
      patients infected with viruses or other inflammatory processes. Often when insulted, the body
      utilizes proteins and metabolic products, and the changes noted in these substances are often
      used as markers of inflammation. Unlike erythryocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive
      protein (CRP), PCT remains low during these inflammatory states. Furthermore, it has been
      shown that PCT levels increase earlier after stimulation (3-6hrs) compared to C-reactive
      protein (12-24hrs), indicating PCT can be utilized to rapidly detect bacterial infections.
      Normal PCT levels in adults are less than 0.1 ng/mL while PCT values greater than 0.5ng/mL
      have been determined to be predictive of bacterial infection. PCT has been evaluated in
      several clinical scenarios to help determine a bacterial versus a non-bacterial source of
      infection, however, to our knowledge, the effects of hemorrhagic stroke on PCT are not yet
      known. Determining the natural history of PCT in a hemorrhagic stroke patient would provide
      beneficial information as to whether PCT can be used as a biomarker in this population to
      help differentiate a bacterial from a non-bacterial cause of hyperthermia.
    
  