
    
      Although remarkable progress has been made, chronic kidney disease still poses a major burden
      on both individual patients, as well as on society as a whole. There is a strong inverse
      relationship between decreasing renal function, as estimated by glomerular filtration rate,
      and mortality rate, especially death due to cardiovascular disease. The exact cause(s) remain
      to be elucidated. Uremic toxins might play an important role.

      In the course of decreasing renal function the concentration of numerous intracellular and
      extracellular compounds vary from the non-uremic state. A still increasing number of uremic
      retention solutes are being identified. Renal replacement strategies aim to remove
      potentially harmful substances from the body. Traditionally much attention has been paid to
      small water-soluble molecules such as urea nitrogen and creatinine. Based on the results of
      the recent HEMO and ADEMEX studies, increases of small water-soluble solute removal above the
      level reached with modern dialysis techniques (HD, PD) seem not to be advantageous with
      regard to patient outcome. These findings may point to the importance of other distinct
      groups of uremic retention solutes. In view of the data described above, protein-bound
      solutes might be good candidates.

      Several advantages of long duration hemodialysis have been observed, including a better
      control of blood pressure by decreasing extracellular fluid volume, lowering peripheral
      vascular resistance and improving endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilation. A
      normalization of heart rate variability and improvement of left-ventricular function was
      noted as well. Furthermore, anemia control has been shown to be easier and several
      nutritional parameters improved in patients treated with long duration HD. The therapy
      results in higher small water-soluble solute removal, phosphate removal and greater
      elimination of larger molecules (e.g. β2-microglobulin).

      It seems an appealing question whether a better control of the serum levels of protein-bound
      solutes can be achieved by long duration (nocturnal) hemodialysis. This might be another
      advantage of this therapeutic modality, or may even in part explain the better outcome of
      patients treated this way.

      The study compares intermittent hemodialysis with long nocturnal hemodialysis with respect to
      serum concentrations of several protein bound uremic toxins, as well as solute removal.
    
  