
    
      Consecutive cardiac in-patients of the University Hospital of Northern BC in Prince George
      and of St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver will be screened for the Inclusion/Exclusion
      Criteria. Those who meet the criteria will undergo the baseline assessment.

      The baseline assessment will include collecting information on social demographics,
      (including age, gender, education level, and socioeconomic data) medical history, 6-minute
      walk test, self-management and quality of life, fasting blood test, medication use, HF
      severity classification, blood pressure, and lifestyle (physical activity, smoking status,
      alcohol consumption). Following baseline assessment, patients will be stratified by sex and
      randomized to either the vHFC or usual care.

      Usual Care Group:

      Participants randomized to usual care will be given educational information explaining what
      HF is, the importance of salt and fluid restriction, a form to log their weight and a list of
      Internet-based resources.There will be no contact between the study personnel and the usual
      care participants for the duration of the study, nor will there be any attempt to control for
      the level of patient care. Participants will return at 12 months for outcome assessment.

      Intervention Group:

      Upon randomization, a letter will be sent to the participant's primary care provider from the
      study investigators informing them of their patient's participation in the study with a brief
      description of the study and a copy of the vHFC Treatment Algorithms to indicate under what
      circumstances the vHFC nurse and/or participant may contact them with regards to their care.
      The vHFC nurse (a nurse with experience in chronic disease management) will contact the
      participants' primary care provider to follow-up on the letter, discuss the intervention
      protocol and preferred method of communication as well as to provide access to the website to
      view their participant's progress.

      Participants will be given the same educational information as the usual care group and
      registered to the vHFC website with a unique username and password. Common practice for
      managing HF patients attending urban-based, specialized HF clinics is to have them weigh
      themselves daily and report any dramatic fluctuations and/or increasing symptoms to their
      clinic. The investigators have transformed this model to the vHFC such that each day,
      participants will logon to the vHFC and enter their weight and answer six questions regarding
      their current symptoms. Participants can also enter comments for the vHFC nurse in the text
      box located below the questions. An alert will be generated if the participant enters data
      outside of the desired parameters, does not enter their data for three consecutive days, or
      enters a comment in the text box for the vHFC nurse to view. If an alert is generated,
      following participant data entry, the participant is presented with a pop up window to inform
      them that the vHFC nurse will contact them within 24 hours (or the next business day in the
      case of a weekend or holiday). An alert will be logged in the vHFC nurse's 'inbox' of the
      website and an email will also be sent to the vHFC nurse indicating that a participant alert
      has been generated. The nurse will contact the participant by telephone to discuss the alert
      generated and provide counselling. The participant is able to view a graphic depiction of
      their progress at the same time as the nurse to facilitate the counselling session. At this
      time a decision regarding what needs to happen will be determined using the Treatment
      Algorithm. The vHFC nurse will then 'resolve' the alert and document the actions taken in the
      vHFC.

      Study participants from the usual care and vHFC groups will return to the University Hospital
      of Northern BC or St. Paul's Hospital after 12 months for a full follow-up assessment
      (6-minute walk test, self-management and quality of life, fasting blood test, medication use,
      HF severity classification, blood pressure, lifestyle (physical activity, smoking status,
      alcohol consumption) and any adverse events)).
    
  