
    
      In Sweden, the proportion of births to migrant women has more than doubled over the last four
      decades, from 10% in 1973 to 28% in 2015. Migrant women are at increased risk of adverse
      pregnancy outcomes as low birth weight, infant small for gestational age , congenital
      malformations, stillbirth, neonatal morbidity and mortality and also obstetric interventions,
      such as induction of labour and caesarean section. Unfamiliarity with the health care system,
      language barriers, knowledge gaps and cultural issues are all obstacles that play a vital
      role in migrant women deprivation from achieving the standard maternal health care.

      Migrant women have shown to consistently rate their maternity care more negatively in
      contrast with Swedish women, mainly due to lack of knowledge on how Swedish health care
      system is functioning and providing care which consequently cause communication difficulties,
      in addition to discrimination and prejudicial staff attitudes. Migrant women reported being
      left alone in labour, and feeling fearful, insecure and unsupported. Factors to be targeted
      to improve experiences of care and pregnancy outcomes include; breaking down language
      barriers and bridging cultural gaps, increasing familiarity with and enhancing understanding
      of Swedish maternity care, and empowering women's sense of safety and confidence in giving
      birth.

      In Sweden, migration of women of childbearing age has increased most rapidly from Somalia and
      from a number of Arabic-speaking countries and also Eritrea and Russia. Somali women are
      known to be at highest risk of perinatal morbidity and mortality, they have problems engaging
      with Swedish antenatal care and because of communication and language barriers they reported
      to have the poorer experiences of care regarding labour and birth. Like Somali-women, many
      Arabic-speaking and Tigrinya-speaking women (from Eritrea) have relocated in Sweden after
      traumatic experiences of war and conflict. They, and the Russian women, constitute a growing
      group of women giving birth in Sweden with little knowledge of how Swedish maternity care
      operates and facing major communication barriers.

      One initiative that has addressed communication problems between migrant women and the
      caregivers throughout childbirth was to provide language assistance and labour support , the
      Community Based Doula (Doula och kulturtolk) Project. CBDs are bilingual women from migrant
      communities trained by expert midwives to provide support for migrant women in labour and
      birth. CBDs meet twice with the migrant women prior to the birth, accompany her throughout
      the labour and provide emotional, physical support and communication; and language
      assistance; they meet again for follow up twice after the childbirth. Two small qualitative
      evaluations, conducted in the early years of the program, indicate high levels of
      satisfaction among supported women and midwives.

      Current evidence supports the potential for CBDs to play an important role in improving
      continuity for migrant women during labour and birth, enhancing their experiences of birth
      and of care, as improving their pregnancy outcomes. Good physical and emotional support in
      labour is known to improve a range of outcomes; greater maternal satisfaction with care, less
      use of analgesia, shorter labours, lower rates of caesarean section and more spontaneous
      vaginal birth - with no adverse effects for women or infants.

      Worldwide, no randomised controlled trials of doula support for migrant women have been
      reported, though two US non-randomised studies are relevant. One evaluated a hospital-based
      doula service provided to 123 of 348 Somali women giving birth in the study period. Lower
      rates of caesarean section (17% vs 26%) and greater satisfaction with care were found among
      the doula-supported Somali women17. Staff also felt more confident to care for Somali women
      when an English-speaking Somali doula was present. A second retrospective cohort study (n=11
      471) evaluated a community doula program in an urban, culturally diverse setting and found a
      small but statistically significant reduction in caesarean section among women cared for by a
      midwife and a doula, compared with a midwife alone (15% vs 18%)18. Studies of midwives' views
      of working alongside labour companions have been positive14, 18.

      In the Swedish setting, more robust and specific evidence is needed to support decisions
      whether to implement CBDs for migrant women at large-scale or not. Therefore, to evaluate the
      effectiveness of doula support to Somali, Eritrean, Arabic and Russian-speaking migrants we
      will here conduct a randomized controlled trial in Stockholm.

      Aim To evaluate the effectiveness of community-based doula support for improving the
      intrapartum care experiences and postnatal wellbeing of Somali, Eritrean, Arabic and
      Russian-speaking migrant women giving birth in Stockholm.

      Hypotheses

        1. That women randomised to receive CBD support in labour will rate their care for labour
           and birth more highly and have better emotional wellbeing (lower mean scores on the
           Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale) two months after birth than women allocated to
           standard care.

        2. That midwives and obstetricians caring for women randomised to receive CBD support will
           rate their provision of care more positively than when caring for women not supported.

      Methods We plan a randomised controlled trial as a prospective evaluation of CBD support for
      migrant women in Stockholm, something not achieved when the original CBD program commenced in
      Gothenburg in 2008. The proposed trial will provide further and more rigorous evidence about
      the effectiveness of CBDs for improving migrant women's experiences of care and ultimately
      pregnancy outcomes for both mothers and infants. The study is designed to meet the CONSORT
      guidelines for reporting of randomised trials16 and will be registered in Clinical Trials.

      Participants Migrant women from Somali, Tigrinya, Arabic and Russian-speaking countries will
      be recruited.

      Inclusion criteria: Nulliparous and multiparous pregnant women between 25-36 weeks gestation,
      who are 18 years or older and from Somali-, Arabic-, Russian- and Tigrinya-speaking countries
      with no contra-indications for vaginal birth and cannot communicate fluently in Swedish.

      Exclusion criteria: Women <18 years or women for whom a caesarean birth is planned and women
      not consenting to access to their birth records.

      Recruitment: All Somali-, Arabic-, Russian and Tigrinya-speaking women cover the inclusion
      criteria and will participate in the study. They will be recruited with the assistance of
      interpreters during antenatal care visits between 25 and 36 weeks gestation.

      Intervention - Community Based Doulas support Women allocated to receive CBD support will be
      contacted by an either a Somali, Arabic-, Russian- or Tigrinya-speaking CBD as appropriate,
      and arrangements made for them to meet twice prior to the birth to get to know each other and
      discuss the woman's wishes regarding support in labour and what the CBD can offer. Each woman
      will then contact her CBD when she goes into labour and the CBD will attend hospital with her
      and stay with her throughout her labour and birth, in addition to any other support people
      she may have, such as her partner.

      CBDs will be recruited, trained and employed by non-profit organization MIRA, using
      well-tested processes. A total of 10 CBDs will be employed for the four migrant groups,
      ensuring the possibility of back-up when needed. Training content will cover the physiology
      of childbirth and strategies for providing effective continuous support in labour, as well as
      practical strategies for helping with communication/interpreting to enhance communication
      between women and midwives and discussion of CBD roles and boundaries. CBDs will be employed
      on an hourly basis to enable flexibility in timely provision of support to women in labour.
      Support for CBDs will be provided by an experienced midwife.

      Comparison - standard intrapartum care Women allocated to the comparison arm of the trial
      will receive standard intrapartum care as provided at their chosen hospital of birth.

      Women partner and/or other support people to accompany throughout her childbirth will be
      allowed, regardless of their trial allocation.

      Randomisation and blinding Women will be randomly allocated to the intervention or control
      group utilising a computerised randomisation schedule. The randomisation ratio will be 1:1,
      CBD support to usual care, with block sizes of 4 or 6 distributed randomly. Allocations will
      be prepared in sealed, opaque envelopes accessible in a central location for antenatal
      recruiting midwives to access. Participants cannot be blinded in this study, however data
      collection and analysis will be undertaken blinded to group allocation.

      Primary outcomes Women's ratings of care for labour and birth and maternal emotional
      wellbeing. Single item question from the Migrant Friendly Maternity Care Questionnaire
      (MFMCQ) will be used to assess women's ratings of care the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression
      Scale (the EPDS) will be used to assess maternal wellbeing.

      Secondary outcomes Epidural analgesia, length of labour from admission and mode of birth.
      Data will be retrieved from hospital patient records will enable assessment of birth
      outcomes.

      Data collection Trained bilingual researcher and research assistants will collect data on
      women's experiences of care by telephone or face-to-face interviews as appropriate, conducted
      at base-line and two months after birth. Birth outcome data for all trial participants will
      be extracted from patient records.

      Sample size To detect an increase in women's ratings of intrapartum care from an expected 30%
      rating care as very good among those receiving usual care (based on estimates from studies of
      migrant women not fluent in the host country language) 22-24 to 53% in those receiving CBD
      support, (equal to Swedish speaking women in a national population based study) with 80%
      power and an alpha of 20%, 69 women in each group are needed. To have similar power to detect
      differences in mean scores on the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (a hypothesised
      reduction from a mean of 8.0 in the comparison group - similar to that found in studies of
      migrant women, to 6.0 in the intervention group - similar to that found in Swedish
      population-based studies), 63 women are required in each arm. Allowing for 20% loss to
      follow-up at the time of follow-up data collection with women two months postpartum, we
      expect to have outcome data on views of care and depressive symptoms for at least 100 women
      in each trial arm.

      Statistical analysis First step of analysis will check the comparability of the groups, then
      the intervention group will be compared with the control group testing trial hypotheses and
      using intention to treat analyses. Odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals will then be
      estimated. If there are baseline differences on key participant characteristics (such as age,
      marital status, and medical conditions) between trial arms, logistic regression analyses will
      be performed adjusting for these differences. Comparison of means will be undertaken using
      t-tests where data are normally distributed, or medians compared using Mann-Whitney U tests
      used if not.
    
  