
    
      The SARS-CoV-2 virus is a virus newly identified in January 2020 in Wuhan, China, which
      belongs to the group of coronaviruses and causes COVID-19. Due to the rapid spread worldwide,
      high morbidity and virulence the of causing SARS-CoV-2 , the WHO defined COVID-19 as a health
      emergency of international importance in February 2020. Due to the rapid spread of the new
      virus, a comprehensive understanding of the transmission, the course of the disease, the
      diagnosis and the therapeutic regimen is of the utmost importance. Initial case reports
      indicate that human-to-human transmission takes place through droplet infection. In contrast
      to previously known infections from the group of coronaviruses, the SARS-CoV-2 virus has a
      high ability to infect with already mild symptoms resulting in frequent outbreak situation of
      worldwide importance. Furthermore, high viral loads are found in the upper respiratory tract
      of infected people leading to the high virulence of causing SARS-CoV-2. The clinical
      manifestation of the COVID-19 disease cannot be fully described in the short time. However,
      symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 virus infection are described with mild symptoms like fever, muscle
      pain, and dry cough as well as severe complications like virus pneumonia, Acute Respiratory
      Distress Syndrome (ARDS) and death. Interestingly older and chronically ill patients in
      particular have a severe course of COVID-19 with intensive care treatment and high mortality.
      At present, there is no specific therapy available for COVID-19. Treatment approaches are
      primarily supportive with admission of patients to the intensive care unit (ICU), mechanical
      ventilation, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and maintenance of fluid and
      electrolyte balance. Patients with severe renal insufficiency and fluid retention, pulmonary
      edema or hyperkalemia may require dialysis. First insights in patients suffering from acute
      kidney injury (AKI) during COVID-19 indicate severe course with high mortality. First case
      reports do not describe a beneficial effect of antiviral therapy. The locally varying spread
      of SARS CoV-2 infection requires a better understanding of clinical course of COVID-19 in
      order to be able to establish future treatment approaches. Investigators have to attach great
      importance to high-risk cohorts like patients suffering from chronic renal disease with many
      comorbidities or patients after kidney transplantation under immunosuppressive drug
      treatment. Although COVID-19 has been studied for only a few month it is known that
      especially these patients develop a severe clinical course. Due to increasingly frequent
      outbreak situations and globally chances in species distributions, local, as well as
      worldwide surveillances in epidemiology and species distribution are urgently needed. As the
      clinical course of COVID-19 disease is dependent on the causing viral pathogen and the full
      picture of clinical manifestation is not yet understand further studies with regard to the
      disease course are mandatory.

      Additionally, the examination of attributable mortality and costs of COVID-19 will need to be
      studied on a multinational basis and therefore Kidney in COVID-19 Registry will particularly
      use a matched case control design.
    
  