
    
      Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) has an incidence of 1:2200 to 1:4000 newborns,
      depending on whether stillbirths are included or not. 40 % of all CDH cases show associated
      malformations and chromosomal abnormalities and/or syndromes take place in 10-20%. The
      survival rate depends on the extent of the lung hypoplasia and pulmonary hypertension. Liver
      herniation into the thorax, is also a negative predictor of fetal survival. In case of an
      observed / expected total fetal lung volume ratio (o/e TFLV) ratio of 25% or lower and
      herniation of the liver in thorax, the postnatal survival is estimated to be 10-25% or lower.
      The aim of fetoscopic tracheal balloon occlusion is to positively influence the lung growth
      in CDH fetuses avoiding the development of lung hypoplasia.

      A common complication of fetal surgery is the preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM)
      leading to preterm delivery. The next problem occurs because of technical difficulties during
      the extraction of the balloon from the trachea, leading to asphyxia, worse outcome or
      neonatal demise. Jani et al. published 10 neonatal deaths from 210 FETO directly related to
      difficulties with the removal of the intratracheal balloon. The risk of emergent balloon
      removal was published to be very high (39%-56%).

      Our new long tail balloon exploits the fetal ability to removal the intratracheal balloon
      which has been implanted for the treatment of severe CDH before the delivery, avoiding many
      risks associated with balloon extraction and a second fetoscopy.

      The study will be performed on 20 fetuses with severe CDH with total fetal lung volume ratio
      (o/e TFLV) < 25% or with o/e TFLV < 35% combined with liver herniation into the thorax. The
      lung volume will be estimated by fetal MRI. The selected fetuses with severe CDH at 24-32
      weeks' gestation will be operated.

      Before the Long tail FETO the 0.1 mg/kg Pancuronium, 1 µg/kg Fentanyl® and 0.01 mg/kg
      atropine will be applicated i.m. to the CDH fetus using 22 gauge needle under ultrasound
      control. The monofilament 5-0 polypropylene suture of 7 cm will be fixed to the balloon
      (Goldbal 5, 2,5 ml, BALT Extrusion, Montmorency, France) and the FETO will be performed. The
      fetoscope (Karl Storz, Tuttlingen, Germany) with a diameter of 1.3 mm will be percutaneously
      inserted through a sheath into the uterus and then into the fetal trachea. The fetoscope will
      be removed and the long tail balloon will be inserted under 4-D ultrasound guidance.The
      position of the balloon and suture will be controlled by fetoscopy and sonography.

      Second fetal MRI should be performed in one week after the FETO. The balloon must be
      extracted before the delivery.

      Possibilities of the Long tail extraction:

        1. The fetus is able to extract the balloon from the trachea after FETO, by pulling the
           balloons' long tail, at the end of pregnancy;

        2. by fetus itself after balloon puncture with 22 gauge needle under ultrasound guiding;

        3. during second fetoscopy;

        4. or using the EXIT procedure.

      The CDH will be closed with / or without a patch. The follow up examinations will be
      performed at 6 and 12 months of age the baby.
    
  