
    
      Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (NS) is one of the most common chronic kidney diseases in
      children, with a prevalence of approximately 16 cases per 100,000 children. NS is
      characterized by heavy urinary losses of protein leading to hypoalbuminemia, edema, and
      hyperlipidemia. Children are treated with high-dose corticosteroids on presentation, and >80%
      respond to treatment with resolution of proteinuria and symptoms. However, 80-90% of the
      children initially sensitive to corticosteroids will experience disease relapse, with more
      than half relapsing frequently or becoming dependent on corticosteroids to maintain
      remission. During a relapse, patients can suffer from anasarca, acute kidney injury, serious
      infections, or thromboembolic events.

      Management of children with NS entails long-term outpatient surveillance and treatment. Home
      care includes the important standard-of-care task of urine monitoring to follow the
      relapsing-remitting nature of the disease. New proteinuria signals disease relapse before the
      development of overt symptoms such as edema. Thus, patients are instructed to alert their
      providers to the occurrence of proteinuria in a timely manner so that corticosteroids can be
      initiated or adjusted to treat each relapse and prevent acute disease complications. It is
      also important for the patients to track urine protein for resolution so that corticosteroids
      can be stopped or reduced to minimize steroid toxicity.

      Not unlike other chronic, relapsing-remitting pediatric disorders, self-management is
      difficult for NS patients and their caregivers. Mobile health (mHealth) is a promising,
      rapidly growing field in disease management. In NS, there are numerous aspects of
      self-management that may be facilitated by a mobile app. First, the visual analysis of a
      urine test strip is subject to human error, including reading the wrong reagent block and
      erroneous assessments of color. This can be improved through using a smartphone's camera and
      computer to read and analyze test strip results. Second, caregivers must remember to check
      their child's urine, recall results, and understand what the results mean: the demands are
      taxing in that disease relapse is defined as urine protein ≥2+ for 3 consecutive days and
      remission is defined as negative/trace urine protein for 3 consecutive days. Apps, with their
      inherent interactivity, can provide reminders for urine testing, capture the results, and
      analyze trends to detect disease relapse/remission. Apps can alert a caregiver to seek
      medical attention and directly transmit test results to providers. Lastly, apps can provide
      medication reminders for NS patients, who are on highly complex medication regimens.

      UrApp was iteratively developed by an expert panel of two pediatric nephrologists and three
      research engineers with expertise in human-computer interaction. App features were devised by
      the clinicians to support elements of chronic care management according to the Chronic Care
      Model and tasks that are challenging for caregivers. This study will include 60 caregivers of
      children with newly diagnosed nephrotic syndrome. Participants will be randomized 1:1 to
      UrApp or standard of care and followed for 1 year. In addition to the study outcome measures,
      user feedback will be collected via survey, interview, and by stakeholder meetings to inform
      app refinement.
    
  