
    
      Hemoglobin E (HbE) is distinguished from normal HbA by a single amino acid mutation (beta26:
      Glu to Lys). High allele frequencies in some areas of Cambodia are believed to have been
      naturally selected by life-threatening manifestations of malaria. Few epidemiological studies
      support this hypothesis, however, and in vitro studies have not clearly defined a mechanism
      of protection. The prevalence of drug-resistant malaria is alarmingly high along the
      Thai-Cambodian border, such that chloroquine, quinine, or mefloquine can no longer effect
      acceptable cure rates. Recently, prolonged parasite clearance times after artemisinin
      treatment have been documented in Battambang and Pailin provinces in Cambodia. Combinations
      of artemisinins and other drugs (e.g., mefioquine, piperaquine) are now used as standard
      first-line treatments for P. falciparum malaria in Southeast Asia. Further decreases in the
      effectiveness of these drugs would constitute a disaster, making some cases of malaria
      essentially untreatable. The molecular basis for parasite resistance to these antimalarials
      has not been firmly established. The main aims of this study are to (1) determine whether HbE
      protects against severe P. falciparum malaria, (2) identify genetic determinants associated
      with parasite resistance to antimalarial drugs, and (3) determine whether HbE and other
      erythrocyte polymorphisms influence parasite clearance times after artemisinin treatment. To
      meet these aims, we are conducting an unmatched case-control study comparing the prevalence
      of HbE in patients with severe and uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. Cambodians who
      complain of fever and/or symptoms of malaria are recruited from Pursat Regional Health Center
      and surrounding districts within Pursat Province. Patients with uncomplicated malaria are
      treated with weight-based doses of artesunate given orally each day for 3 days, followed by
      weight-based doses of mefloquine given orally each day for 2 days. Patients with severe
      malaria will be treated with artemisinin compounds given parenterally for 5 consecutive days,
      followed by artesunate plus mefioquine treatment, as above. We will also collect parasitized
      blood samples from malaria patients prior to antimalarial drug administration. These
      parasites will be tested in short-term in vitro culture experiments to determine their
      susceptibility to antimalarial drugs. Genome-wide typing of drug-sensitive and drug-resistant
      P. falciparum isolates (using microsatellite and single nucleotide polymorphism markers) and
      genetic association studies will be used to identify genes that determine parasite responses
      to various antimalarial drugs.
    
  