
    
      In several trials and real-life data pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) using the cryoballoon
      technique has been proven equal to RF-PVI for the treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation
      (PAF). Due to the "single shot character" of the device and shorter procedure times the
      cryoballoon is being widely used for PVI within the last years. However, additional endpoints
      such as "non excitability" of the ablation line and consecutive arrhythmias may not be
      targeted properly by this device also lacking a detailed contact map to evaluate potential
      fibrotic areas.

      For the past decade the use of RF energy for successful PVI has been the "gold standard".
      However, ablation time and potential gaps within the circumferential ablation line are still
      an issue. High power (70 Watts) over short duration (7s) (HPSD) is a recently introduced
      RF-PVI concept. It has been shown to be as effective as conventional RF-PVI with equal safety
      features, shorter procedure durations and a superior long-term outcome. Therefore, HPSD-PVI
      in combination with the endpoint of "non excitability" is potentially superior with regard to
      freedom of atrial arrhythmia during long-term FU compared to cryo-PVI with similar procedure
      times.

      So far, randomized prospective data comparing HPSD versus cryo-PVI are lacking.

      The aim of this prospective randomized study is to compare acute success rates, safety and
      foremost long-term outcome of two different PVI strategies (HPSD-PVI vs. cryo-PVI):

      1. To find the safest and most effective treatment strategy for PAF patients. 2. To evaluate
      the risk of complications for both treatment strategies.

      3. Evaluation of procedure endpoints like duration, costs and radiation dose.

      The present study is a mono-centre prospective randomized study enrolling 170 patients with
      PAF and no prior Ablation for AF.

      Patients will be randomized to one of the following groups. Group A: Cryo-Ablation PVI will
      be performed using a Cryo-balloon. Group B: High-Power-Short-Duration PVI will be performed
      using HPSD RF-ablation. (70W over 5s posterior and 7s anterior) Catheter ablation procedures
      will be performed with commercially available devices including 3D mapping systems (EnSite,
      Abbott) and irrigated radiofrequency current (RFC) ablation or cryothermal balloon ablation
      (Arctic Front Advance Pro, Medtronic).

      The study shall start enrolling patients in April 2021. The last patient shall be enrolled in
      January 2023. Since follow-up is 12 months, end of study is planned for January 2024.
    
  