
    
      Especially for older, chronically ill persons, a hospital stay can promote significant losses
      in functionality, independence and quality of life, and can increase nutrition deficits and
      the risk for infections, leading to the occurrence of severe gaps in care after hospital
      release and to an increased risk for readmission rates.

      Even if the German government has recognized the necessity of a multiprofessional integrated
      care program for older, vulnerable patients and has installed a hospital release management
      program situated in hospitals in 2012, clarifying entitlements to benefits and setting up
      ambulatory services contacts, this does not yet meet the complex needs of geriatric patients
      and their informal caregivers.

      Internationally, the Transitional Care Model (TCM) has been developed (M. Naylor et al. 1994)
      to address the deficits in care of older patients in transition between hospital to home. Via
      a series of defined activities, a disruption of the care supply chain for older patients in
      this transition process is being avoided.

      The TIGER program will address the needs of geriatric patients and their informal caregivers
      and will support them via structured continuous activities, on the basis of the TCM, by so
      called pathfinders, nurses specialized in geriatrics. These pathfinders will develop an
      individual care plan with the patients, their informal caregivers and the hospital physicians
      already inside the hospital setting and will then develop and improve this further during up
      to twelve months after the hospital release of the patient. The pathfinders will coordinate
      the ambulatory care team services and closely involve the primary physicians. The patients
      and their informal caregivers will be empowered and educated to achieve a stabilization or
      improvement in functionality, independence, quality of life, coping with disease, nutritional
      status and wound healing process of the patients.

      The aim of the program is that these activities will lead to a reduction of necessary
      readmission rates of geriatric patients.

      Efficacy, practicability, and limitations of the program will be evaluated scientifically and
      economically and will be analyzed for a possible saving of costs for the health care system.
    
  