
    
      Primary Objective:

        1. Establish how much vitamin D intake from food is required to maintain vitamin D status
           consistent with 75 nmol/L of serum 25(OH)D in all children from the beginning of the
           UVB-void period (beginning of October) to the end of the winter period (end of April).
           The amount of vitamin D will be selected based on Phase 1 data (January to April 2014).

           It is hypothesized that total intakes half of the EAR of 400 IU (i.e. 200 IU/d as a
           typical intake by young children) will result in exceeding a serum 25(OH)D of 40 nmol/L
           as the population target that aligns with the current EAR value. Intakes reaching the
           RDA of 600 IU will support serum concentrations of 25(OH)D over 50 nmol/L (and enable
           further investigations regarding functional outcomes in bone such as BMC and BMD).

           Secondary Objectives:

        2. Demonstrate that children with higher vitamin D status (≥ 50 nmol/L 25(OH)D) will have
           improved biomarkers of bone mineral metabolism compared to those with lower vitamin D
           status (<50 nmol/L 25(OH)D).

      It is hypothesized that children with higher vitamin D status will have lower PTH and CTx
      with higher P1NP and normal iCa, suggesting that other bone health outcomes would also be
      improved; in preparation for the follow-up studies.

      Design: Parallel randomized controlled study using fortified milk and milk products.

      Population: Healthy children (n=60) 2 to 8 y of age from the Greater Montreal Area.

      This study uses two groups (based on results from phase 1) to establish how much vitamin D
      intake from food is required to maintain vitamin D status consistent with 75 nmol/L
      throughout the duration of winter.

      Control Group 1: regular fortified milk + regular cheeses/yogurts Intervention Group 2:
      regular fortified milk and fortified yogurts and cheeses

      Estimated Vitamin D intake from 2.5 servings of Milk and Milk Products and other Foods1 All
      serving sizes are ½ of a Canada's Food Guide Milk and Alternatives Serving.

      Study Group Fluid Milk (2x 125 ml) Yogurt drink (2x93 ml) Cheese (21 g) Other Foods Total/d
      Dose-response increments

        1. (control) 100 IU ~30 IU tr. IU 10-65 IU 140-195 0

        2. 100 IU 300 IU 300 IU 10-65 IU 410-465 420 IU vs grp 1

      1 Fluid milk servings based on previous data where median intake was 1.7 servings/d [IQR
      1.0-2.3]; total of all milk products servings was 2.5 [IQR: 1.7-3.3]; and vitamin D intake
      from other foods provided ~65 IU/d. All serving sizes are ½ of a Canada's Food Guide Milk and
      Alternatives Serving. The specially fortified cheeses will be made by Agropur Cooperative,
      St-Hubert, Quebec and the specially fortified yogurt products will be made by Ultima Foods
      Inc., Quebec. All products are verified to be within 5% of vitamin D content. The yogurt
      beverage has 15 IU/93 ml and the fortified product 150 IU/93 ml. The cheese will be standard
      or made with one fortification level (0 or 300 IU/25 g serving). All serving sizes have been
      selected based on the target population and typical intakes. There will be no difference in
      taste between the fortified and non-fortified products.

      A 24 h total food intake (day prior to sampling) and validated 1 mo food frequency
      questionnaire (FFQ) for calcium and vitamin D assessments will be conducted. Nutrient intake
      will be generated using Nutritionist Pro™ (Axxya Systems LLC, Stafford, TX, US) and the
      Canadian Nutrient File version 2010b. Compliance is also by monthly telephone survey and
      unused product.

      Demographics, Skin Pigmentation and UVB: Surveys at baseline with parents or legal guardians
      will be used to estimate socioeconomic status (education and household income). Race will be
      collected to facilitate understanding of the relationships among culture, skin pigmentation
      and baseline vitamin D status [5,6]. Data regarding sun exposure during the previous month
      will be collected as a percentage of body surface area (BSA) exposed frequency of sunscreen
      use and total hours spent in direct sunlight per day. Sun index will be calculated for each
      child as necessary (i.e. travel), by multiplying the % BSA exposed by the time spent outside
      (minutes per day). This index does not consider use of sun block, which is captured by survey
      in event of travel. Skin type at baseline will be established by measuring pigmentation three
      times at each site for constitutive pigmentation at the inner upper arm and facultative
      pigmentation at the forehead, mid-forearm and lower leg using a spectrophotometer
      (CM-700d/600d, Konica Minolta, Ramsey, NJ, USA).

      Anthropometry: Height will be measured using a portable stadiometer (Seca 213, Seca Medical
      Scales and Measuring Systems, Hamburg, Germany) and body weight measured using a digital
      scale (Home Collection 63-8711-0, Trileaf Distribution, ON, Canada: calibrated) with the
      child wearing light clothing and no shoes. Body mass index (BMI) will be calculated. Z-scores
      for weight, height and BMI will be calculated using the WHO 2007 growth standards/references
      for children under/over 5 y (WHO AnthroPlus, Geneva, Switzerland). A BMI Z-score of +2 will
      be considered obese as is important to exclusion criteria; and possibly changes over time.

      At baseline and 6 months, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) will be used to quantify
      total body and regional fat masses. This will be done to help explain any differences in
      response to vitamin D intakes since more central deposition of adipose tissue relates to
      vitamin D status in adults [15]. DXA will also be used to measure changes in BMC and BMD over
      the 6 month period to explore their relationship to vitamin D status. Measurements will be
      taken using a Hologic 4500A clinical densitometer. Whole body, lumbar spine (L1-4) and
      forearm scans will be undertaken to measure BMC and BMD, children will wear standardized
      clothing (pyjama bottoms and T-shirt). The whole body scan technique also provides total body
      fat, but does not distinguish subcutaneous from visceral fat depots. Abdominal adipose will
      be estimated using sub-region analysis of the full torso and the between the last rib and the
      iliac crests. Total body fat (kg and %) and trunk fat (kg) values are available from the DXA
      software. Although DXA measures of trunk fat mass reflect adipose tissue in subcutaneous and
      visceral depots, DXA-derived measures agree well with CT in women [16].

      To measure volumetric BMD (vBMD) as well as bone architecture, peripheral quantitative
      computer tomography (pQCT) (XCT-2000; Stratec, Pforzheim, Germany) will be used. pQCT is able
      to distinguish between type of bone (cortical and trabecular). For the tibia, length of the
      non-dominant tibia is measured as the distance from the distance between the palpated lateral
      condyle and the lateral malleolus. Single slices are measured 4% and 66% proximally from the
      distal end of the tibia. The 4% site will provide a trabecular measurement whilst the 66%
      site will provide a cortical measurement.

      Blood Sampling and Procurement: Fasted (nothing after midnight) venipuncture samples (total
      6.5 ml) will be taken ~ 0800 h [17]; breakfast will follow at the research site.

      Vitamin D Status and Bone Biomarkers: In serum (from 3 ml whole blood; stored -80°C until
      analysis), total 25(OH)D (25 µl) as well as PTH will be measured using an immunoassay
      (Liaison, Diasorin) with proven agreement with LC-MS/MS [20].
    
  