
    
      The investigators aim to recruit 150 college students for this RCT (75 per treatment
      condition). This will provide adequate power (0.80) to detect differences between groups of
      medium effect size (d=0.50). Note that detailed eligibility criteria are listed in the
      "Eligibility" section. Participants will be recruited via SONA (a participant recruitment
      system), flyers, online postings, classroom announcements, and through a general online
      screener for various Utah State University (USU) Contextual Behavioral Science (CBS) Lab
      studies.

      Total study participation will occur over approximately 8 weeks. all study procedures will be
      completed online, on a computer/mobile phone. After completing informed consent, participants
      will complete a baseline survey.

      At the end of the baseline survey, participants will be randomly assigned to use a book based
      on ACT (The Happiness Trap) or MBSR (A Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Workbook).
      Participants will be asked not to access other self-help books during the study duration.
      Participants will be provided with an 8-week reading schedule and a link to the assigned
      book. Participants will be asked to complete a mid-treatment survey 4 weeks after the
      beginning of treatment. The mid-treatment survey will include questions about adherence.
      Participants will be asked to complete a post-treatment survey 8 weeks after the beginning of
      treatment. This survey will also ask about adherence (reading, use of strategies taught in
      the book). Researcher contact will involve reminders to complete assessments, basic email
      assistance in identifying and responding to any barriers to using the self-help book, and
      twice-weekly reminders of the suggested reading schedule.

      After completing the initial assessment participants will be sent a link to The Happiness
      Trap if they are assigned to the ACT condition, or a link to the Mindfulness-Based Stress
      Reduction Workbook if they are in the MBSR condition. They will be able to access the book
      online at any time. Participants will be asked to read assigned chapters on an 8-week
      schedule.

      The Happiness Trap is based on Acceptance and Commitment Therapy, a modern cognitive
      behavioral therapy that combines acceptance and mindfulness methods with values and behavior
      change methods. The primary treatment components in The Happiness Trap are psychoeducation of
      ACT, defusion, acceptance, mindfulness, self-as-context, value, behavioral commitment.

      A Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Workbook is based on Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction,
      a standardized approach to teaching mindfulness, primarily through meditation practices. The
      primary treatment components in A Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Workbook are
      psychoeducation about mindfulness and mindfulness meditation and various types of mindfulness
      meditation practice, such as mind-body connection, loving-kindness meditation, interpersonal
      mindfulness, and the healthy path of mindful eating, exercise, rest, and connection.
    
  