
    
      Background:

      This study evaluates the effectiveness of a nurse-managed interdisciplinary (nursing and
      occupational therapy) clinic serving community dwelling dementia patients and their spouse
      caregivers. It is grounded in a nursing self-care model that guides nurses to identify
      interventions that fit with the capabilities of individual patients and compensate for their
      specific deficits. The occupational therapy assessment uses the Allen Cognitive Levels that
      identify the abilities and deficits of a particular functional level so that the strategies
      and approaches taught to caregivers can be tailored to the specific needs of the patient.

      Objectives:

      The ultimate objective of the study is to increase caregiver competence, maintain optimal
      function of dementia patients, and show that this nurse managed clinical model can improve
      the quality of life for both the Alzheimer patients and their caregivers in a cost-effective
      manner.

      Methods:

      The study is being conducted as a block design, randomized trial of the Dementia Care Clinic
      (DCC) compared with the standard interdisciplinary GRECC care. A total of 120 dementia
      patient/spouse caregiver dyads will be enrolled in the study. Twelve dyads are enrolled in
      each seven-week block during which a clinic visit and four weekly caregiver education
      sessions are held for each of the two cohort groups. Follow up clinic visits are made at six
      months and one year. Data collection interviews are conducted before the first clinic visit,
      and at three, six, and twelve months. Patient depressed mood is measured by the Yesavage
      Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS). The Revised Memory and Behavior Problems Checklist is used
      to measure patient behavior changes and the effect of the behaviors on the caregiver.
      Positive and negative effects of caregiving are measured by the Zarit Burden Interview, the
      Center of Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), Phillips Beliefs about Caregiving
      Scale, and brief scales of perceived mastery, preparedness, and competence in caregiving.

      The project will employ multiple independent repeated measures analyses of covariance
      (RMANCOVA) in which pre-intervention levels of the dependent measures under consideration
      will be controlled as covariates. Group x time interaction effects will also be examined to
      test for changing effects of the intervention over the study period. Multiple regression
      analyses will be used to examine the relationship of cost data to subject and experimental
      factors.

      Status:

      Recruitment was completed for the study in 2000. Each cohort of patients and their spouse
      caregivers have been followed for one year. Baseline data is being analyzed and portions have
      been presented at recent conferences. Study data is currently being analyzed and analysis is
      scheduled for completion in December of 2001.
    
  