
    
      The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is increasing over time among the
      HIV-infected population, and is an increasingly important cause of morbidity and mortality in
      HIV-infected individuals. Despite effective treatment for HBV and HCV infections, HCC is
      still reported in treated HIV-infected individuals with HBV/HCV co-infections. Currently,
      data on the risk and outcomes of HCC in HIV infected populations in Asia is lacking. This
      study aims to evaluate the incidence of HCC in HIV-infected individuals with and without
      HBV/HCV co-infection, and HBV/HCV mono-infected individuals in Hong Kong.

      This is a retrospective study, all HIV-infected individuals followed up at the three
      designated HIV clinics in Hong Kong with and without HBV and/or HCV co-infection will be
      included in the analysis. The burden of HCC among HIV-infected individuals with and without
      HBV/HCV co-infection in an Asian population will be determined by comparing their incidence
      and mortality.

      Objectives:

        1. To determine the burden of HCC among HIV-infected individuals with and without HBV/HCV
           co-infection in an Asian population

        2. To compare the incidence of HCC between HIV-infected individuals with HBV/HCV
           co-infection and HIV-uninfected individuals with HBV or HCV-monoinfection

        3. To compare the mortality rate of HCC between HIV-infected individuals with HBV/HCV co-
           infection and HIV-uninfected individuals with HBV or HCV-monoinfection.

      Study procedures

        1. The electronic databases and medical records of all three HIV centres, and Clinical Data
           Analysis and Reporting System (CDARS) will be reviewed for data extraction for
           HIV-infected individuals.

        2. The medical records and electronic database of Hospital Authority, Clinical Data
           Analysis and Reporting System (CDARS), will be reviewed for data extraction for HBV and
           HCV-infected individuals without HIV infection.

        3. The following demographic and clinical data will be retrieved:

      3.1 Date of birth, gender, ethnicity 3.2 Date of diagnosis of HIV infection 3.3 Route of
      transmission of HIV infection 3.4 Other concomitant chronic liver diseases (including
      alcoholic liver disease, fatty liver, autoimmune hepatitis, primary biliary cirrhosis,
      hemochromatosis etc) 3.5 Presence of cirrhosis and cirrhotic complications (including
      ascites, esophageal varices, encephalopathy, hepatorenal syndrome, hepatic coma) 3.6 Other
      comorbidities, including diabetes mellitus, drug-induced hepatitis, alcoholism 3.7 History of
      AIDS-defining illness 3.8 Nadir CD4 count, latest CD4 count 3.9 Latest HIV viral load 3.10
      Bilirubin, ALT, ALP, total protein, albumin, platelet count, prothrombin time 3.11 HBeAg,
      anti-HBe, HBV DNA, HCV RNA 3.12 Antiviral therapy for HIV, HBV and HCV, including date of
      initiation and cessation, and name of drugs prescribed 3.13 Date of last follow-up 3.14 Date
      of diagnosis of liver cancer 3.15 Treatment of liver cancer (surgical, locoregional,
      chemotherapy, others) 3.16 Date and cause of death
    
  