
    
      Aortic valve replacement (AVR) therapy is obvious choice in symptomatic severe aortic
      stenosis (AS) patients, because it improves symptoms, LV function and survival. Therefore,
      the accurate diagnosis of the disease, determination of its severity and precise evaluation
      of patients' clinical status is essential. However, the treatment decisions and indication
      for AVR in asymptomatic patients with severe AS and normal left ventricular ejection fraction
      (LV EF) are vague and the subject of ongoing debate. The most recent European and American
      guidelines have class I indication for AVR in asymptomatic severe AS patients with normal LV
      EF only in patients already scheduled for other cardiac surgery (for example by-pass
      surgery). In the case of symptom positive stress test American and European guideline
      differs, with European guidelines having class I indication and American guidelines only IIb
      indication. In all those cases of asymptomatic severe AS patients with normal LV EF the level
      of evidence is C, in other words there are no randomized trials. The consequence is that the
      decisions are made individually, patient by patient, and for this reason a patient with
      identical echocardiographic/clinical characteristics might be operated in USA but not in
      Europe (or any other part in the world), and vice-versa.

      With the experience that has accumulated so far, there are retrospective and observational
      data that elective AVR might lead to favorable outcome compared to late (after symptom onset)
      surgery. This may especially come to attention with the understanding that annual risk of
      sudden cardiac death in asymptomatic severe AS patients with normal LV EF might be very
      similar or even a bit higher than operative mortality in experienced cardiac surgery centers.

      Nevertheless, the majority of cardiologist worldwide are reluctant to send their asymptomatic
      patient with isolated severe AS and normal LV EF to AVR, and it will probably stay like that
      till randomized trials give us an answer whether elective AVR is beneficial.
    
  