
    
      Enrollment: The study team will aim to recruit 15 endometrial cancer patients seen at the
      Huntsman Cancer Hospital Clinics. Consent may be completed via phone/email or in-person with
      the study clinical coordinator.

      Dietary Intervention: Participants who are consented into the study will participate in a
      16-week randomized dietary crossover intervention. The dietary intervention includes 5 study
      visits, and features a baseline visit, 2-week run-in period, 4-week control diet schedule
      with prepared frozen meals provided to participants, 4-week washout period, and a 6-week, 8
      to 10-hour Time Restricted Eating (TRE) protocol (meal provision with 8 to 10-hour eating and
      14 to 16-hour fasting periods). Women will be randomized to either control or TRE, then
      crossover to the other condition. For the control schedule, women will receive frozen lunch
      and dinner meals and be provided with a standardized breakfast and snacks menu, and there are
      no restrictions on timing of eating. For the TRE schedule, women will receive prepared frozen
      lunch and dinner meals as per the control schedule, but will be asked to consume daily meals,
      snacks, and calorie-containing beverages within an 8 to 10-hour period that fits their
      schedule. Fasting period will ramp up during the first week (e.g., Days 1-3, 12-14 h per day,
      Days 4-6, 14-16 h per day, Days 7+, 16 h per day). Women will be asked to schedule the eating
      period at the same time each day.

      Study Visits and Assessments: Women will attend in-person study visits at the Huntsman Cancer
      Institute Center for Health Outcomes and Population Equity (HOPE).

        -  Baseline Visit (Visit 1): The clinical coordinator will obtain consent from the
           participant. Once consented, women will complete questionnaires to capture information
           on clinical and demographic factors, and chronotype. Height will be measured using
           stadiometer, weight will be measured using calibrated scales, waist circumference with
           measuring tape and blood pressure (BP) using an electronic BP monitor. Participants may
           take home questionnaires, with mailer, to complete at home.

        -  2-Week Run-In Period: The purpose of the run-in period is to record women's usual times
           of eating episodes and appetite while following their habitual diet. Appetite will be
           measured using the MyCircacianClock (mCC) phone app that has the capability to sample
           subjects' current behaviors and experiences in real time in their natural environment.
           Women will complete 3 x 24-hour dietary recalls on non-consecutive days (ASA-24) and a
           physical activity recall (ACT24 available online or phone app, or via telephone
           conference with the clinical coordinator). Sleep and activity will also be objectively
           measured for 7-days using an Actiwatch.

        -  Visit 2: Women will provide fasting blood and stool samples. Weight, waist circumference
           and blood pressure will be measured.

        -  Control OR TRE Schedules: The participants will be expected to follow their randomized
           schedule for meal timing. During these schedules, for both study groups, participants
           will record timing of eating episodes daily using the MyCircadianClock app, complete 3 x
           24-hour recalls (ASA24), 1 x ACT24 activity recall, and 7-days of sleep/physical
           activity will be objectively measured via Actiwatch.

        -  Visit 3: Women will provide fasting blood and stool samples. Weight, waist circumference
           and blood pressure will be measured.

        -  4-Week Washout Period: During the washout period, women can return to their usual
           lifestyle. Meals will not be provided during this time.

        -  Visit 4: Visit 4 will include a telephone call only to discuss the next study phase and
           schedule meal provision.

        -  Visit 5: Women will provide fasting blood and stool samples. Weight, waist circumference
           and blood pressure will be measured. An exit interview may occur in person or via
           phone/video conference to ask questions about how well the intervention was tolerated
           and allow participants to provide feedback.

        -  Follow-Up: Approximately 6-months after consent and roughly 10 weeks after the end of
           the dietary intervention, participants will be asked to complete a follow-up
           questionnaire.
    
  