
    
      For over 50 years, professional society recommendations for the management of uncomplicated
      diverticulitis included early elective surgery to prevent the need for an emergency operation
      and avoid the risk of colostomy. Over the last 15 years the notion that a patient must have a
      certain number of episodes of acute uncomplicated diverticulitis (AUD) before undergoing
      elective colectomy has changed dramatically. This was, in part, due to studies showing that
      emergency surgery for complicated disease is much more likely to be needed during the first
      episode of diverticulitis, making the notion of prophylactic elective colectomy for AUD less
      relevant. Furthermore, clinicians realized that most recurrent episodes of AUD could be
      managed with outpatient antibiotics alone and that "best medical management" - including
      fiber supplementation, mesalazine, rifamycin and probiotics - could reduce symptoms between
      episodes of AUD. All of the components of best medical management have some, albeit limited,
      evidence of effectiveness, most in improving symptoms rather than reducing the risk of
      recurrence and are relatively safe and inexpensive. Best medical management is far less
      invasive than elective surgery but infrequently prescribed the US, in part because of limited
      insurance coverage. Alternatively, resection removes the diseased segment of colon, does
      relieve symptoms and decreases the risk of recurrence.

      In 2014, guidelines from the American Society of Colorectal Surgeons (ASCRS) abandoned
      "episode count" as an indication for surgery in patients with AUD and instead recommended
      individualizing the decision to operate for AUD based on the "effects on lifestyle
      (professional and personal) of recurrent attacks". Decision making about surgery in patients
      with lingering symptoms after recovery from an episode of AUD has not been the specific focus
      of an ASCRS guideline, but recommendations about elective surgery emphasize individualizing
      decision making based on the overall impact of the disease on the patient.These
      recommendations for individualization of treatment based on the quality of life (QoL) impact
      of recurrent AUD and lingering symptoms highlight the decision that hundreds of thousands of
      people now have to make each year. Based on the effect of the disease on their QoL they must
      choose between two very different treatment options: elective colectomy vs. best medical
      management. While the recommendation to individualize treatment based on the QoL impact is a
      step forward in advancing patient-centered care, the comparative effectiveness of these two
      treatments on symptoms and QoL has not been well studied.

      This will be a multi-site, open randomized trial in which participants with either recurrent
      AUD or lingering symptoms after an episode of AUD are randomized to one of two initial
      treatment strategies, elective segmental colectomy (performed laparoscopically when possible)
      and best medical management.
    
  