
    
      1. Protocol Title:

           Optimizing ovulation induction in the poor responder: a randomized controlled trial of
           luteal phase estradiol verses combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP) on ovarian
           morphology and biomarkers prior to ovulation induction

        2. Purpose of the Study:

           In women undergoing ovulation induction who are at high risk for poor response, we
           hypothesize that:

           Null Hypothesis: Mean follicular diameter and coefficient of variation between follicles
           in patients receiving luteal COCP are statistically equal to follicular diameters and
           coefficient of variation between follicles in patients receiving estradiol. To test this
           hypothesis, the specific aims of the present proposal are:

           Aim 1: Compare the effect of luteal estradiol and COCP pretreatment on follicle
           synchrony. Mean follicular diameter and the coefficient of variation between follicle
           measurements will be calculated on cycle day 3 the cycle before and during treatment.

           Aim 2: Compare the effect of luteal estradiol and COCP pretreatment on follicle
           recruitment. Markers of follicle recruitment will be measured on cycle day 3 before and
           during the treatment cycle. Previously identified follicle recruitment markers that
           positively correlate with follicle recruitment include: antral follicle count (AFC), AMH
           and androstenedione.

           Aim 3: Compare the efficacy of luteal estradiol and COCP. The number of mature follicles
           greater than or equal to 14 mm on day of hCG and pregnancy outcomes will be recorded.

           The two treatment groups are:

             -  Group 1: Luteal estradiol administration prior to ovulation induction management
                per patient's primary physician.

             -  Group 2: COCP administration for one month prior to ovulation induction management
                per patient's primary physician.

           Upon completion, we will have compared follicular and biochemical ovarian response to
           luteal estradiol and COCPs in poor responders undergoing ovulation induction. The future
           implications of this study are development of clinical strategies for treating patients
           at high risk of poor response.

        3. Background & Significance:

           Ten percent of the United States population, 6.2 million women and their partners,
           reported infertility in the 1995 National Survey of Family Growth. The number of couples
           affected by infertility is predicted to increase to 6.5 million by the year 2025.' Among
           women seeking infertility treatment, a subset will be classified as poor responders due
           to poor ovarian response to treatment. Though the definition of poor response to
           treatment is not standardized, studies estimate that 4-26% of patients undergoing
           treatment are affected.2 The proportion of women classified as poor responders may
           increase as more women delay fertility until an age of decreased fecundity due to
           declining ovarian reserve. Establishing effective treatments for poor responders is
           therefore imperative.

           The principal goal of ovulation induction in infertile patients with regular menstrual
           cycles is to achieve two to three mature synchronous follicles to maximize chance of
           pregnancy and minimize risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. Poor responders, by
           definition, have a lower likelihood of sufficient follicular recruitment. Lesser
           recruitment can be compounded by follicular dysynchrony that necessitates human
           chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) administration based on larger follicles when lagging
           smaller follicles are less likely to be mature. Follicular dysynchrony can be compounded
           by the rise in follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) in the luteal phase.

           Fanchin et al has demonstrated that luteal estradiol administration suppresses luteal
           FSH rise, reduces antral follicle size, and synchronizes the follicular cohort.3,4,5,6
           Luteal estradiol and GnRH antagonist administration prior to controlled ovarian
           hyperstimulation for in vitro fertilization (IVF) have been shown to decrease
           cancellation rate, increase mean number of oocytes retrieved, and improve fertilization
           rates in poor responders (retrospective study using historic controls presented in
           abstract form).7 Estradiol has also been used in patients with hypergonadotrophic
           amenorrhea to suppress elevated endogenous LH and FSH prior to stimulation with
           exogenous gonadotropins with modest success in achieving ovulation and, in rare cases,
           pregnancy.8

           Combined oral contraceptive pills (COCPs) administered prior to ovulation induction in
           IVF increase the number of oocytes retrieved and suppress cyst formation.9,10,11 In a
           small study of poor responders undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for IVF,
           pretreatment with COCPs was associated with increased pregnancy rates compared to
           pretreatment with luteal phase gonadotropin releasing hormone agonist (GnRH-a),
           follicular phase GnRH-a, and no pretreatment.12 COCPs prior to ovulation induction with
           microdoses of GnRHa and gonadotropins enhance ovarian responsiveness in poor responders
           resulting in higher peak estradiol (E2) levels, more mature follicles, and larger number
           of retrieved oocytes when compared with traditional luteal GnRH-a downregulation
           followed by gonadotropin stimulation.13 Follicular GnRH-a administration releases
           endogenous gonadotropins producing a gonadotropin "flare" effect. Smaller, more frequent
           "microdosing" of GnRH-a minimizes endogenous FSH suppression while preventing premature
           luteinizing hormone (LH) surges. Oral contraceptive pretreatment prevents formation of a
           corpus luteum that could produce progesterone prematurely during the flare. This
           protocol with the addition of growth hormone (GH) has been shown to produce a 50%
           ongoing pregnancy rate (PR) when used in patients who had prior ovulation induction
           cycles using luteal phase GnRH-a suppression followed by exogenous gonadotropins and GH
           cancelled due to poor response.14

           While both COCPs and luteal estradiol suppress the luteal rise in FSH and synchronize
           follicles, they have not been compared against each other. COCPs, with progestin in
           addition to estrogen, may achieve better suppression of luteal FSH than estradiol and
           result in better synchronization of the follicles. COCPs, however, have been used to
           decrease ovarian responsiveness in patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome who are at
           increased risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome.15 Therefore, COCPs may suppress
           ovarian responsiveness more than luteal estradiol, an unwanted effect in the poor
           responder population. One potential mechanism for greater ovarian suppression with COCPs
           may be the decrease in androstenedione, a marker shown to be positively correlated with
           total and mature oocyte number obtained during IVF, 16 subsequent to the COCP-induced
           increase in sex hormone binding globulin.

           Previously identified follicle recruitment markers include antral follicle count (AFC)
           and androstenedione which positively correlate with follicle recruitment.16 AFC is a
           reproducible predictor of follicular recruitment which has been shown to positively
           correlate with number of oocytes retrieved and IVF pregnancy outcome.18,19, 20 AFC
           measurements are stable throughout the ovarian cycle and before and after GnRH
           downregulation.21

           AMH may serve as a biomarker for both follicle quantity and quality since both serum and
           intrafollicular AMH positively correlate with AFC and number of eggs retrieved during
           IVF.22 The mid-luteal AMH rise may reflect luteal follicle development;23 both estradiol
           and COCP may affect luteal follicle development therefore CD3 AMH levels before and
           after treatment will be of great interest. AMH also exhibits superior cycle to cycle
           reproducibility when compared to FSH, E2, inhibin Band AFC.24

        4. Design & Procedures:

      The study is a randomized controlled trial.

      Pretreatment Evaluation

      Baseline studies preceding ovulation induction:

      Cycle day 3 FSH, inhibin B, estradiol, androstenedione, AMH, and AFC will be performed the
      cycle of OCP or luteal pretreatment and the cycle of ovulation induction.

      Transvaginal ultrasound:

      • Ovarian morphology and dimensions will be obtained using a vaginal probe ultrasound. All
      study ultrasounds will be recorded and read by a single investigator (at each center) blinded
      to patient treatment group.

        -  Ovarian volume will be calculated using the formula for a prolate ellipsoid
           (0.5237xD1xD2xD3; D1, D2, and D3 are the maximal longitudinal anteroposterior and
           transverse diameters, respectively).

        -  Ovarian volume will also be calculated using the VOCAL (volume calculation) GE software
           package on the Voluson ultrasound machine.

        -  Antral follicles will be counted, measured in two dimensions and averaged.

      Blood sampling:

        -  Blood samples will be used to measure FSH, inhibin B, estradiol, androstenedione, AMH,
           and progesterone during the cycle prior to and of ovarian stimulation.

        -  Estradiol, FSH, progesterone, inhibin B, androstenedione, and AMH will be transported
           to, stored and measured in batches at Dr. Sarah Berga's Emory University research
           laboratory, Duke Fertility Center or the Duke Unievrsity Hospital core laboratory.

      Registration/Randomization

      Block randomization will occur by computer algorithm to two groups:

        -  Group 1: Luteal estradiol

        -  Group 2: COCP

      Therapy

        1. Ovarian stimulation for ovulation induction:

           Group 1: Luteal estradiol • Starting cycle day 20, two 0.1 mg/d transdermal estradiol
           patch will be applied every other day until cycle day 2.

             -  Patients will present for baseline ultrasound, AFC, FSH, inhibin B, estradiol,
                progesterone, androstenedione, and AMH measurement on cycle day 3.

             -  Starting on cycle day 3, ovarian stimulation will begin. The treatment protocol for
                ovulation induction will be determined by the patient's primary physician and the
                clinician monitoring the cycle.

           Group 2: Combined oral contraceptive

           • Patients will begin COCP administration on the cycle day one of the cycle prior to
           ovarian stimulation.

           • Patients will present for baseline ultrasound, AFC, FSH, inhibin B, estradiol,
           progesterone, androstenedione, and AMH measurement on cycle day 3.

           • Starting on cycle day 3, ovarian stimulation will begin. The treatment protocol for
           ovulation induction will be determined by the patient's primary physician and the
           clinician monitoring the cycle.

           All participants will be monitored by serum E2 levels and TVUS as determined by the
           patient's primary physician to assess the rise in circulating estrogen levels and
           follicular maturation. Follicles will be measured in two dimensions and the average
           recorded.

        2. The mode of ovulation trigger, and IUI or IVF will be at the discretion of the patient's
           primary physician and the clinician monitoring the cycle.

           Patient Assessment

           Patients will return 14 days after IUI or IVF for serum beta hCG testing. In the event
           of a negative pregnancy test, patients will be given the option of crossing over to the
           other treatment group.

           Data Collection

           Clinical Information/Clinical Data Items:

           • Age

           • Infertility diagnoses

           • Prior dates and specifics of infertility treatments and results

           • Prior cycle characteristics: antral follicle count (AFC) and dimensions, ovarian
           volume, FSH, inhibin A, E2, progesterone, androstenedione, and AMH before and during
           treatment

           • Peak E2

           • Outcome: Mean follicular diameter and the coefficient of variation between follicles
           on cycle day 3 before and during treatment

           • Number of mature follicles greater than or equal to 14 mm on day of hCG

             -  β-hCG result

      5. Selection of Subjects:

      The Emory Reproductive Center (ERC) and Duke Fertility Center (DFC) are assisted reproductive
      technology centers offering ovulation induction, IVF, gamete micromanipulation, and embryo
      cryopreservation. Between the two centers, approximately 250-300 stimulated cycles are
      completed each year. While the study is open, all women at risk for poor response to
      ovulation induction at the two centers will be offered participation by the PI, Co-PI,
      Co-Investigator or coordinating research nurse.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Antral follicle count < 8

        -  Antimullerian hormone (AMH) <1.3

        -  Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH)>10

        -  History of follicular dysynchrony or poor response

      Exclusion Criteria:

      • Menopause

        -  FSH >40

        -  Age > 50

        -  Contraindication to estradiol or COCP (including pre-existing cardiovascular disease,
           familial thrombophilia (factor V Leiden), severe hypercholesterolemia, smoker over age
           35) Ovulation induction during month of estradiol treatment

           6. Subject Recruitment & Compensation:

      Please see section #5. There will be no patient compensation.

      7. Consent Process:

      An IRB-approved written informed consent will be obtained from each subject at entry into the
      study; elements of informed consent will include: (a) having the subject review the study
      consent form; (b) having the investigator(s) or study staff meet with the subject to review
      the consent, confirm understanding, and answer any questions; and (c) once the
      investigator(s) or study staff are convinced that the protocol is understood and that there
      is agreement to participate, having the consent signed in the presence of a witness. The
      potential participant will have until the beginning of her first stimulated cycle to decide
      whether or not she is participating in the study. The consent will be discussed and signed in
      person at Emory Reproductive Center or Duke Fertility Center. The consent process, as
      outlined above, will occur in private consultation rooms. There is no time minimum or maximum
      for the consent process. The consent process is determined to be complete when the
      participant verbalizes understanding, states that she has no further questions and signs the
      consent forms. The PI, Co-PI, Co-Investigators and coordinating research nurse will be
      readily available by telephone or in person at ERC and/or DFC to answer questions concerning
      the consent. In order to reduce potential coercion and perceived influence by the study
      personnel, the study details and consent forms will be discussed in a matter-of-fact and
      consistent manner. Only patients who speak and read English will be admitted into the study.

      8. Subject's Capacity to Give Legally Effective Consent:

      Only patients with the capacity to give legally effective consent will be included in the
      study.

      9. Study Interventions:

      Please see section #4.

      10. Risk/Benefit Assessment:

      The treatments used in this study have been studied individually and are used in clinical
      practice. Our goal is to see which one is better. Therefore the risks of this study are the
      same as the risk of ovulation induction to which the subjects will be exposed whether they
      are enrolled in the study or not.

      11. Costs to the Subject:

      There is no additional cost to the subject above the regular fees assessed for ART.

      12. Data Analysis & Statistical Considerations:

      Coefficient of variation will be used to evaluate follicular size discrepancy by the
      following formula: Coefficient of variation = 100 * Standard deviation / mean of the set

      Sample Size

      We predict that a difference of 1.2 mm between mean follicular size before and after COCPs
      will be clinically significant. This is based on observations by Fanchin in which women
      treated with luteal estradiol displayed a decrease in mean follicular size on day 3 of 1.2 mm
      that was associated with a significant decrease in coefficient of variation between follicles
      and an increase in mature follicles >16 mm number on day of hCG administration.

      Power to detect a difference between groups Number cycles/group to demonstrate COCP
      equivalence Number cycles/group to demonstrate COCP superiority 80% 7 25 85% 7 29 90% 9 33
      95% 11 41

      To detect equivalence of COCP to luteal estradiol with a power of 90% at an alpha of .05
      assuming a 10% attrition rate, we will enroll women into each study group so as to achieve
      final number of 10 cycles per treatment group. We assume that an additional 50% decrease in
      follicular size would prove COCP superiority. To detect superiority of COCP to luteal
      estradiol with a power of 80% at an alpha of 0.05 assuming 10% attrition rate, we will enroll
      women into each study group so as to achieve a final number of 28 cycles per treatment group.
      Only newly initiated treatment cycles will be included; only the first cycle of patients'
      crossing over to the other treatment group will count toward this recruitment goal. The
      second cross over cycle will be compared within patient.

      µ1-µ 2 = 4.9 - 3.7 mm = 1.2 (µ1-µ 2)2 = 1.44 (COCP equivalence) µ1-µ 2 = 1.8 - 1.2 mm = 0.6
      (µ1-µ 2)2 = 0.36 (COCP superiority) SD = б=0.75 б2 = 0.5625 2 б2 = 1.125 α = 0.05 Zα = 1.96
      (2-sided test) β = 0.20 1- β = 0.80 Z β = 0.84 (1-sided) (Zα +Zβ)2= 7.84 β =0.15 1- β = 0.85
      Z β = 1.03 (1-sided) (Zα +Zβ) 2= 8.94 β = 0.10 1- β = 0.90 Z β = 1.28 (1-sided) (Zα +Zβ) 2=
      10.498 β = 0.05 1- β = 0.95 Z β = 1.645 (1-sided) (Zα +Zβ) 2 =12.996

      Calculation: n= (Zα +Zβ)2* 2(б2) / (µ1-µ 2)2

      Methods of Analysis

      Chi square analysis will be used to compare categorical variables between treatment groups.
      Student's t test will be used to compare the mean follicle measurements between treatment
      groups.

      13. Data & Safety Monitoring:

      Adherence and Monitoirng Statement: The Data Safety Monitoring Plan (DSMP) outlined below
      will adhere to the protocol approved by the IRB at both Emory University School of Medicine
      and Duke University School of Medicine. The Principal investigator (PI) will review all data
      collection forms at least annually for completeness and accuracy of the data as well as
      protocol compliance. The PI will review this protocol on a continuing basis for subject
      safety and include the results of the review in annual progress reports submitted to the IRB.
      Adverse events and serious adverse events will also be reviewed by the PI weekly.

      Patient Monitoring: Performed by the P.I., the Co-P.I. and/or Co Investigators.

      Patient safety data examination, monitoring procedures/oversight: All adverse events (AEs)
      will be graded as to their attribution (unrelated to protocol, or possibly, probably, or
      definitely related to protocol). Any AE that is reported to either the PI or her designated
      research associates by a study subject or by medical staff caring for the subject and which
      meets the criteria will be documented as such.

      Serious adverse events (SAEs) are predefined as any experience that suggests a significant
      hazard, such as events which: a) are fatal, b) are life threatening, c) result in permanent
      disability, d) require inpatient hospitalization, or e) involve cancer, a congenital anomaly,
      or drug overdose.

      Any AEs will be reported to the IRB at Emory and Duke within 24-48 hours of the event. The
      standard Emory and Duke IRB reporting guidelines for AE and SAE reporting will be followed.
      The investigators and staff will evaluate the SAEs in close coordination with the Emory and
      Duke IRB.

      Expected adverse events are detailed in the Consent Form and include the following: side
      effects of estradiol and combined oral contraceptive pills (breakthrough bleeding, nausea,
      headaches, depression, breast tenderness, changes in blood pressure, and increase in risk of
      blood clotting); risks of ovulation induction (multiple birth, ovarian hyperstimulation
      syndrome, ovarian cyst development, failure to achieve pregnancy); risks of multiple birth
      and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome are less in poor responders regardless of treatment
      used; risk of failure to achieve pregnancy is greater in poor responders regardless of
      treatment used.

      Procedures for minimizing risks: Monitoring with serial ultrasound and blood work will be
      used to minimize risks.

      Plans for transmission of temporary or permanent suspension actions: Any actions that mandate
      temporary or permanent suspension of study will be transmitted to the Emory and Duke IRB,
      and, if appropriate, to the FDA and the National Institutes of Health.

      Plans for assuring data accuracy and protocol human safety compliance: The above detailed
      plans should assure data accuracy and protocol human safety compliance. These include
      computerized database management, and IRB oversight and communication. This plan, together
      with proposed monitoring by the IRB, should be sufficient without the addition of more
      faculty members to constitute a DSMB.

      14. Privacy, Data Storage & Confidentiality:

      All information and materials will be obtained for research purposes only and the data will
      be kept in strict confidence. Confidentiality will be assured by the use of subject codes
      rather than personal identifiers. The study database will be secured, and information will
      only be entered using subject identifier codes rather than personal identifiers. Electronic
      communication will involve only coded, unidentifiable information. All adverse event reports
      and annual summaries will not include subject-identifiable material.
    
  