
    
      The investigators will test the hypothesis that oral administration of probenecid results in
      improved symptomatology and heart function in patients with systolic heart failure. There
      will be three cohorts.

      Cohort 1 will enroll up to 50 subjects in a double-blinded, randomized, placebo-control,
      cross-over study with each patient serving as his or her own control. The subjects will have
      stable HF, an ejection fraction of less than or equal to 40% and NYHA II to IV symptoms. Each
      subject will undergo 1 week of investigational product (IP), consisting of oral probenecid
      therapy 1 gram twice a day or placebo with weekly follow.

      The subjects will undergo EKGs, laboratory analysis, physical exams; dyspnea and quality of
      life questionnaires and a 6 minute walk test (MWT) at baseline. There will be 2 optional
      sub-studies one for echocardiographic data and the other biomarkers.

      Cohort 2 will enroll up to 50 subjects in a double-blinded, randomized, placebo-control study
      and will include patients admitted to the hospital with acute decompensated HF. Each subject
      will also receive Investigational product consisting of either 1 gram orally twice daily of
      probenecid or placebo during their hospitalization. They will have daily follow-up with EKG
      and appropriate laboratory work. In addition to the EKG, laboratory analysis, physical exams,
      dyspnea and quality of life questionnaires and 6 MWT data will be collected; additional data
      such as length of hospital stay, biomarkers, use of inotropic therapy and diuretics, and rate
      of diuresis will also be collected.

      Cohort 3 will enroll up to 50 healthy subjects in a double-blinded, randomized,
      placebo-control study. Each subject will also receive Investigational product consisting of
      either 2 grams orally of probenecid or placebo. During a 6 hour course subjects will have
      laboratory analysis, physical exam, telemetry, EKG and echocardiographic studies performed as
      measures of both safety and effect of the compound.
    
  