
    
      Hypotheses

      H1: Children who receive scheduled tramadol 1mg/kgQ6h with scheduled gabapentin (3 mg/kg/q6h
      dose) and PRN ibuprofen will experience better pain relief than children who receive
      scheduled tramadol 1mg/kgQ6h with PRN ibuprofen following tonsillectomy.

      H2: Children who receive scheduled tramadol 1mg/kgQ6h with scheduled gabapentin and PRN
      ibuprofen will report fewer side effects than children who receive scheduled tramadol
      1mg/kgQ6h with PRN ibuprofen following tonsillectomy.

      This prospective study will include children ages 4 to 15 that are scheduled to undergo a
      tonsillectomy (with or without adenoidectomy) procedure at CHC's Minneapolis campus with one
      of the three Children's Ear, Nose, Throat and Facial Plastic Surgery surgeons. The three
      surgeons will perform the same standardized surgical technique. The study will be
      prospective, randomized, and double-blinded. Neither the patient /caregiver(s) nor the
      person(s) evaluating the patient postoperatively will know whether the patient was assigned
      to Group 1 or Group 2. A random numbers list will be generated to assign sequential patients
      to Group 1 or Group 2 in order to eliminate selection bias due to group assignment or
      post-operative evaluation.

      To minimize any potential risks associated with either tramadol or gabapentin when
      administered to obese children (i.e, children at the 85th percentile BMI or higher) the
      medication dose will be capped at a rate representing the 85th percentile for the child's
      age, sex and height.

      Caregivers will be advised to administer the scheduled tramadol for five days along with
      scheduled gabapentin (or placebo) for five days. PRN doses of ibuprofen may be administered
      throughout the 10-day study period. For postoperative days 6-10, both groups will be advised
      to switch to a PRN regimen of ibuprofen and tramadol.

      Caregivers will be advised NOT to administer any study medication if the child shows signs of
      over-sedation (respiratory rate lower than normal, slurred speech, etc.) or vomiting as a
      result of the study drug, AND will be asked to call the Ear Nose & Throat group in case of
      severe pain and or side effects (24/7 contact information will be provided). If the patient
      displays signs of severe over-sedation (breathing rate less than 12 breaths/minute,
      difficulty or inability to be aroused) parents will be advised to call 911. If in doubt, the
      caregiver will be asked to call the 24/7 ENT group phone number.

      For all adverse events that arise during the study period, both non-urgent and urgent, the
      first point of contact for families will be with Children's Ear Nose & Throat and Facial
      Plastic Surgery. If families contact Children's pharmacy with any questions related to dosing
      or side effects, pharmacy staff will either contact Children's Ear, Nose & Throat and Facial
      Plastic Surgery themselves or refer the family to do so. For severe adverse events
      (respiratory depression, over sedation, seizure, etc.) and/or the child is seen by a
      physician due to potential drug side effects, the pharmacist will be authorized to break the
      blind. If in doubt, the pharmacist can call Children's Ear, Nose & Throat and Facial Plastic
      Surgery for guidance.

      Staff Assessment and Caregiver Diary

      The following patient and clinical information will be collected by research staff: patient's
      age, gender, race, diagnosis (apnea or chronic tonsillitis), concomitant medication use,
      postoperative pain, and tonsil size rated on a scale of 1 to 4 (see Appendix I).

      The choice of outcome domains and measures in this study is based on a consensus paper
      developed by the Pediatric Initiative on Methods, Measurement, and Pain Assessment in
      Clinical Trials (PedIMMPACT) expert panel (McGrath et al., 2008). Acute pain domains are
      included in the caregiver diary for this study.

      A daily diary will be completed by the caregiver and will be used to track the patient's pain
      symptoms, side effects, adverse events, and recovery during the first 24 hours and ten days
      post-surgery. This diary was developed and modified based on feedback received for the diary
      used in the recent clinical trial (Friedrichsdorf, unpublished). In addition, the research
      coordinator will contact the caregiver every second day to collect the same data and insure
      that the diary is completed. The patient /caregiver data will be compared to responses
      provided during the telephone call in order to validate diary entries. Intensity of pain and
      discomfort due to pain will be measured utilizing several methods including: a validated pain
      scale, documentation of use of analgesics and rescue medications, waking from sleep, time to
      ability to eat solid food, and time to return to normal activity. Other outcome measures
      include: fluid intake, general satisfaction with treatment, and economic impact of recovery
      (e.g., need for additional outpatient care for throat and/or ear pain, bleeding, nausea, or
      poor eating).

      In this study, pain self-assessment by the children and adolescents will include the Faces
      Pain Scale-Revised (FPS-R) (with anchors 0=no pain and 10=highest pain imaginable) for
      children ages 4-10 (Hicks et al., 2001), and NRS-11 (with anchors 0=no pain and 10 = highest
      pain imaginable) for children ages 11-15 (note: children age 8-10 years will be asked to
      choose either the FPS-R or NRS-11, as both scales are validated for use with children in this
      middle age range). The designated caregiver participating in the study will receive training
      on pain scale administration. The study coordinator or research associate will call
      caregivers every two days during the follow-up period to remind them to complete the diary
      and return it in the postage-paid envelope provided by research staff.

      Data Requirements and Data Maintenance

      All paper forms will be stored in a locked file cabinet located in the Pain and Palliative
      Care department office. Data will be entered into Excel on a secure, password-protected
      Children's server and will be exported to SPSS for analysis. The study coordinator will
      maintain all paper and electronic data.

      Risks/Benefits

      Risks There is no additional medical risk associated with post-surgical pain management above
      and beyond the usual risks. Neither tramadol nor gabapentin pose any known additional safety
      risk. However, because little has been published in the pediatric literature about these two
      medications and their application in the postoperative setting, the researchers will form a
      small Data and Safety Monitoring Committee comprised of Children's staff members who are not
      part of the study. This committee will be responsible for reviewing serious adverse events as
      requested by the researchers (e.g., pharmacist, pain expert, etc.). As with any study, there
      is a risk of loss of confidentiality due to the possibility that people outside the study
      (e.g., staff, other families) may become aware of the child's participation in the study. The
      researchers will make every effort to ensure patients' privacy through use of private rooms
      for all research-related activities. Paper research forms will be stored in the Pain and
      Palliative Care office in a locked file cabinet, and all electronic data will be stored on a
      password-protected file on the Children's server.

      Benefits There is a possibility that children who receive tramadol plus gabapentin with PRN
      ibuprofen during the recovery period will report better pain control, fewer side effects, or
      both than the children who receive tramadol plus PRN ibuprofen only. Future children and
      their families may benefit from the knowledge gained from the study in terms of improved pain
      management during the post-tonsillectomy recovery period.

      Analysis

      Analysis Plan

      The following outcomes will be measured at two, four and 24 hours post-surgery, and then
      daily for the duration of the follow-up period:

        -  Pain: Faces Pain Scale-Revised (FPS-R) or Numerical Rating Scale (NRS-11)

        -  Postoperative pain: Parents' Postoperative Pain Measure (PPPM)

        -  Pre/Postoperative medication use, including any rescue medications

        -  Patient- and caregiver-reported side effects

        -  Sleep: difficulty falling asleep or difficulty waking

        -  Fluid intake

        -  Number of patients requiring outpatient care for complications of tonsillectomy
           including, but not limited to: throat and/or ear pain, bleeding, nausea

        -  Parent global satisfaction with treatment, recorded as 0-10 (0=Very Dissatisfied to
           10=Very Satisfied) on a visual analog scale.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to describe the participants and measurement results
      including frequency distribution for categorical data such as gender and any sleep problem
      (Yes/No), and mean (standard deviation) or median (range) for continuous data such as age,
      fluid intake, pain intensity score and parent global satisfaction with their child's
      recovery.

      The number of days with pain intensity score greater than 4 will be compared between the
      tramadol/ibuprofen group and tramadol/gabapentin/ibuprofen group using a two-sample t-test or
      Mann-Whitney test. The PPPM scores and parental global satisfaction with their child's
      recovery between two groups will be compared using the two-sample t-test or Mann-Whitney test
      as well. Eta correlation coefficients will be calculated to examine the relationship between
      PPPM score and the pain intensity score. Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test will be used
      to compare the categorical data between two groups such as percent of patients having any
      postoperative office visit due to pain/bleeding/nausea and any side effects happened during
      the postoperative 10 days. A logistic regression model will be fit with 'patients having >2
      days of pain score of > 4' as the dependent variable and other factors such as patient age,
      procedure, medication as independent variables in order to identify clinical factors
      predictive of postoperative pain following tonsillectomy in children.

      Sample Size

      Group sample sizes of 30 and 30 achieve 80% power to detect a difference of 2 in days with
      pain score > 4 between the Tramadol group and the Gabapentin group with estimated group
      standard deviations of 2.7 and with a significance level of 0.05 using a two-sided two-sample
      t-test. Assuming a 20% dropout, at least 36 patients will be needed in each group. The
      researchers plan to enroll at least 80 parents.

      Environment

      The study will take place on Children's Minneapolis campus. Data will be stored in the Pain,
      Palliative and Integrative Medicine office, currently located in the Medical Doctor's
      Building. This study will make use of CHC's outpatient pharmacy services in order to ensure
      proper dispensing and blinding.
    
  