
    
      This clinical trial uses nivolumab and radiotherapy prior to definitive surgical resection of
      tumors in patients with Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OHNSCC) with the primary
      objective of determining the safety and feasibility of preoperative immunoradiotherapy. In
      addition, tumor tissue, microbiome samples, and peripheral blood will be obtained for
      exploratory immunologic end points including measurements of tumor infiltrating immune cell
      populations based on flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry as well as circulating
      immunological parameters. This is the first study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      neoadjuvant radiation + PD-1 blockade in patients with HNSCC.

      Estimated duration of 20 weeks: neoadjuvant immunoradiotherapy +/- surgery, followed by 6
      doses of nivolumab 480mg IV q4wks +/- risk-adapted adjuvant therapy, per standard of care.

      Phase I safety lead-in study (n = 6) evaluating the safety of neoadjuvant immunoradiotherapy
      in HNSCC, followed by phase II efficacy study (n = 28, total) to assess rate of down-staging
      after neoadjuvant immunoradiotherapy using Simon's two-stage design (futility assessment at n
      = 12).

      The phase 1 portion of this study will require 6 patients and is therefore expected to
      complete in 6 months. Although non-surgical patients are eligible to enroll, they will not be
      counted toward accrual for either the primary safety endpoint, (as by definition, unplanned
      delay of surgery cannot exist); nor the secondary efficacy endpoint, as potential for
      surgical staging is absent.

      So long as 2 or fewer surgical delays are observed (primary safety endpoint), the phase 2
      portion of study will proceed (secondary efficacy endpoint). Patients will be followed for
      disease free and overall survival at 5 years.

      Eligible patients may be enrolled unless a rate of unplanned surgical delay attributed to
      immunoradiotherapy is found to exceed 33% after enrollment of the first 6 patients. We
      estimate 10 to 20 patients per year will be enrolled.
    
  