
    
      Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography (CCTA) contrast opacification gradients and FFR-CT
      estimation can aid in the severity estimation of significant atherosclerotic lesions.
      Following this trend, the investigators recently developed a collaboration between Brigham
      and Women's Hospital (BWH) and Gates Vascular Institute (GVI). The investigators 3D-printed
      patient specific coronary phantoms at (GVI) and scanned them with a Toshiba Aquilion scanner
      to test several aspects of the contrast opacification gradients using a method established at
      BWH. The initial results showed strong correlation between the flow in the phantom and
      opacification gradients. The investigators believe that this approach could be further
      developed to test and validate FFR-CT algorithms. Currently, FFR-CT algorithms can only be
      optimized using theoretical models and can only be validated in large multi-center clinical
      trials. This phantom approach would allow optimization of FFR-CT algorithms with a measured
      validation technique without the need for large clinical trials. Thus the investigators
      believe that this study will result in a FFR-CT algorithm/method with a better predictability
      for arterial lesion severity than those existing on the market today. The approach is to use
      the infrastructure at GVI to perform a detailed validation of the FFR-CT method using 3D
      printed patient specific phantoms. The subject enrollment criteria is: at least one CCTA, at
      least one lesion with >50% stenosis or 30-50% and an angio based FFR. Each patient will have
      a 3D phantom printed, containing the culprit lesion and used in a benchtop flow analysis.
      Flow measurements will be compared with: CT-FFR for both patients and phantoms, angio lab FFR
      measurements and 30 days follow-up. This pilot clinical study will include ~50 patients over
      a year and half at GVI. The investigators are confident that this approach performed via
      3D-phantom testing will prove the validity of FFR-CT based measurements as well as develop a
      new standard for validating FFR-CT algorithms.
    
  