
    
      The prevalence of severe pediatric obesity is on the rise and youth with this condition are
      at elevated risk for developing chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease (CVD) and
      type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Lifestyle modification therapy alone is ineffective for most
      adolescents with severe obesity and few patients qualify for bariatric surgery. Many patients
      would likely benefit from pharmacotherapy but only one medication (orlistat) is approved for
      use in adolescents but notable side effects and limited efficacy impede its clinical use.
      Topiramate, a medication approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment
      of seizures in adults and children, is associated with weight loss. Although not FDA approved
      for the treatment of obesity, studies in obese adults have demonstrated weight reduction of
      approximately 5% with 6-12 months of therapy. However, the weight loss effect of topiramate
      has never been evaluated among children and adolescents. Therefore, the goal of this pilot
      study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 24 weeks of topiramate therapy with a 4-week
      run-in of meal replacement therapy in adolescents with severe obesity.

      This will be a 28-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, pilot clinical trial of
      meal replacement therapy (4 weeks) followed by topiramate (24 weeks) vs. meal replacement
      therapy (4 weeks) followed by placebo (24 weeks) for BMI reduction and cardiometabolic risk
      factor improvement in 36 adolescents (ages 12-17 years old) with severe obesity. Monthly
      lifestyle modification/behavioral counseling will be delivered by trained study coordinators
      to patients in both groups. The lifestyle modification education materials will be given to
      patients and selected sections will be discussed at each monthly contact (five face-to-face
      sessions and three phone sessions).
    
  