
    
      1. The study is planned to be performed on 104 patients who are aged between 18-45 years
           and who have no systemic disease and are diagnosed and followed up in Yüzüncü Yıl
           University Faculty of Dentistry, Department of Endodontics.

        2. Patients who have been diagnosed with irreversible pulpitis will be included in the
           study group.

        3. Patients with periapical lesions and incomplete apex development will not be included in
           the study group.

        4. The access cavity will be prepared under local anesthesia.Working length of the canal
           will be determined as it ends in apical constriction, by using 15 k file with apex
           locater and periapical radiographs.

        5. Preperation of root canals will be finished with ProTaperNext X3 instrument as standard
           and applied to each patient.

        6. All patients will be randomly divided into two groups according to the irrigation
           protocol (G1: 5.25% NaOCI; G2: Chloraxid gel / distilled water) (n = 250).

        7. Group 1: 2 ml of 5.25% NaOCl solution will be used as irrigation solution at every file
           change during root canal preperation .2 ml dental injector and 27 gauge thickness dental
           needle tip will be used for irrigation . The tip of the cannula will be adjusted to
           reach two-thirds of the working length.

           Group 1: 2 ml of 5.25% Cloraxid gel/ distilled water will be used as irrigation solution
           at every file change during root canal preperation .2 ml dental injector and 27 gauge
           thickness dental needle tip will be used for irrigation. The tip of the cannula will be
           adjusted to reach two-thirds of the working length.

        8. Final irrigation procedure after canal preperation, 5 ml of 5.25% NaOCl solution, 5 ml
           of 17% EDTA solution, 5.25% NaOCl solution will be used respectively for both groups as
           standard.

        9. After the final irrigation process, the root canals will be dried with sterile paper
           points, then they will be filled with sterile gutta-percha with lateral condensation
           technique by hand spredars. After root canal filling teeth will be restorated for
           coronal sealing.

       10. After the treatment, the patients in both groups will be asked to report the pain levels
           at certain intervals (6th hour-24th hour-48th hour-72th hour-1st week) according to the
           VAS scale.

       11. According to the questionnaires collected with patient feedbacks, the data will be
           analyzed and interpreted with statistical analysis ** (manwithney u-kruskall Wallis) in
           order to evaluate the pain levels after single visit root canal treatment.
    
  