
    
      Background:

        -  Pox viral vectors can induce a PSA-specific T-cell responses and clinical responses in
           patients with advanced prostate cancer.

        -  Intratumoral vaccines of recombinant fowlpox vectors appear to be more potent in
           inducing antitumor effects than the s.c. route of administration, especially when the
           recombinant rF-vector given intratumorally is preceded by a rV-recombinant given s.c.
           This may be due to:

        -  Making the tumor cell an antigen presenting cell via upregulation of both antigen
           (signal 1) and costimulatory molecules (signal 2).

        -  Making the tumor cell more susceptible to killing via upregulation of ICAM.

        -  The increased expression of perforin in peptide-specific T cells that came into contact
           with the TRICOM-infected targets.

        -  Potentially allowing the immune system to select for other tumor encoded antigens to
           generate a polyvalent immune response.

      Objectives:

        -  1: Safety and feasibility of an intraprostatic vaccine strategy.

        -  2: To assess the change in PSA-specific T-cell response as measured by ELISPOT assay.

        -  2: To evaluate T-cell infiltration histologically in patients who have pre- and
           post-vaccine prostate biopsies.

      Eligibility:

        -  Must have either a) biopsy proven, locally recurrent prostate cancer following local
           radiation as defined by the ASTRO consensus criteria as 3 consecutively rising PSA
           levels or b) have refused or not be candidates for local definitive therapy (surgery or
           radiation therapy) and have clinically progressive disease on androgen deprivation
           therapy (eg. three increases in PSA over nadir, separated by at least one week). For
           patients with previous RT, the biopsy confirming local recurrence must be done at least
           18 months after the completion of RT.

        -  Since this may also generate a systemic immune response, patients with minimal
           extraprostatic disease may be enrolled.

        -  Hepatic function: Bilirubin less than 1.5 mg/dl, AST and ALT less than 2.5 times upper
           limit of normal.

      Design:

        -  Dose escalation Phase I design. Each cohort will consist of 3-6 patients; maximum
           accrual is 30

        -  Patients in all cohorts receive initial priming with rV- PSA(L155)/TRICOM and rF-GM-CSF
           s.c.

        -  The first two cohorts utilize a booster intraprostatic with dose escalation of
           rF-PSA(L155)/TRICOM.

        -  Third and fourth cohorts add dose escalations of rF-GM-CSF along with the highest dose
           of rF-PSA(L155)/TRICOM.

        -  Last (5th) cohort utilizes booster intraprostatic vaccine (rF-PSA(L155)/TRICOM and
           rF-GM-CSF) with simultaneous identical booster vaccine given s.c.
    
  