
    
      Overview of the Study. This project has 4 phases. In phases 1 and 2 the study team will work
      to gain an understanding of the sources of meaning, hope, legacy and identity in Latino
      patients with advanced cancer; and to explore the acceptability and feasibility of applying
      IMCP to Latinos diagnosed with advanced cancer. A convergent mixed-methods design will be
      utilized with a sample of 155 Latino patients diagnosed with advanced cancer for the
      quantitative phase, and a nested cohort of 14-20 for the qualitative phase from two cancer
      centers in New York City: Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) and Lincoln Medical
      and Mental Health Center (LMC), a public hospital localized in a Latino-dense region. We will
      also recruit eligible cancer patients serviced through Dr. Gany's Integrated Cancer Care
      Access Network (ICCAN). The Integrated Cancer Care Access Network (ICCAN) of MSKCC's
      Immigrant Health and Cancer Disparities Service (IHCD) enrolls patients at eleven
      hospital-based cancer clinics in New York City with large numbers of immigrant and low-income
      patients. ICCAN uses bilingual Access Facilitators to assist patients in accessing and
      utilizing health, social, and financial services. Identified needs of the patients, range
      from psychosocial support, to health literacy, child care, financial, housing and legal
      concerns. Patients enrolled to the ICCAN program are actively obtaining support from Access
      Facilitators throughout their treatment period. Access Facilitator will refer eligible
      patients to the study team for recruitment.

      Before moving to phase 3, we will adapt and transcreate (the source text is rewritten to
      convey the concepts and achieve the aims of the source text, while accounting for both
      language and cultural considerations) the manual based on the phase 1 and 2 findings. In the
      phase 3 (Key Informant feedback), mental health providers will be interviewed to explore
      additional needed adaptations. Phase 4 will consist of pre-piloting or interviewing patients
      to assess the comprehension and acceptability of the adapted intervention.

      Participants who express concerns or request assistance related to COVID-19 will be referred
      to publicly available resources as needed (e.g., call 311 for access to health care or food
      panties, etc.) and will be noted in internal tracking logs.
    
  