
    
      To test the effectiveness of the Tip Stim device, each patient received (alternating) both
      the experimental and control treatments in a specific sequence to assess the coordination of
      human hand movement and the grip strength. The first therapy with the use of Tip Stim
      parameters (Ratio current time to pause time: 2 sec :5 sec; Ramp (rise time impulse): 0,3
      sec; Frequency: 20 Hz; Pulse width: 300 µs). Another session (putting on the glove without
      setting any parameters) took place after a week (time to mute the effects of the
      intervention). The duration of each therapy session is 60 minutes. After the first
      therapeutic session and after a week, the parameters of movement coordination and hand grip
      were examined. The study of motor coordination and grip strength was performed in two
      different starting positions: sitting (no stabilization) (fig. 1) and lying (with
      stabilization) (fig. 2), and with a different position of the examined upper limb. During the
      first examination, the subject sat on a treatment table, feet resting on the floor. Upper
      limb examined in adduction, with bent elbow joint in the intermediate position between
      pronation and supination of the forearm. In the supine examination, the upper limb was
      stabilized against the subject's body (adduction in the shoulder joint, flexion in the elbow
      joint in an intermediate position). In each of the starting positions, first after putting on
      the glove, the range of passive motion in the radial-wrist joint (flexion and extension) and
      fingers (global flexion and extension) was measured, then the active movement was measured,
      in the sequence as above. Eventually, they were asked to make movements as quickly and as
      fully as possible. Measurement of the grip force with a dynamometer was performed in both
      analyzed starting positions after testing the ranges of motion and speed/frequency.

      The Hand Tutor device and the EH 101 electronic hand dynamometer measuring the strength of
      the handgrip (measurement error 0.5 kg / 1 lb) were used to test the parameters of motor
      coordination and grip strength. The Hand Tutor is a device with a rehabilitation program and
      the ability to measure the range of passive and active movement, deficits of movement (error
      of measurement, 5 - 10 mm) as well as the speed/frequency of movement (error of measurement,
      0,5 cycle/sec.).
    
  