
    
      During clinical anesthesia, it is astonishing that CO2 monitoring consists mainly of
      end-tidal PCO2 to confirm endotracheal intubation and to estimate ventilation, and O2
      monitoring consists of a single PO2 measurement to detect a hypoxic gas mixture. Better
      understanding of how O2 and CO2 kinetics monitoring can define systems pathophysiology will
      greatly enhance safety in anesthesia by detecting critical events such as abrupt decrease in
      cardiac output (Q.T) by vena-caval compression during abdominal surgery, occurrence of CO2
      pulmonary embolism during laparoscopy, rising tissue O2 consumption (V.O2) during light
      anesthesia, and onset of anaerobic metabolism (V.CO2 is disproportionately higher than V.O2).

      In the previous grant period, discoveries of CO2 kinetics during non-steady state revealed
      significant gaps in understanding of O2 kinetics. To this end, a 5-compartment lung model of
      gas kinetics in the body during non-steady state has been developed, that incorporates
      complex interactions between O2 and CO2 in the lung, blood, and tissues. This computer model
      was used to formulate the following hypotheses, and will elucidate mechanisms underlying the
      subsequent measured data in anesthetized patients.

      The investigators have already developed two innovative devices that are essential for the
      V.O2 measurement: A fast response temperature and humidity sensor, and a mixing device (a
      bymixer) for the measurement of mixed gas fraction, especially designed for anesthesia
      systems. The investigators have also designed a sophisticated bench system for the validation
      of both devices, which showed the high accuracy and performance of our measurements.

      Hypotheses that will be tested in our overall research theme include:

        -  That pulmonary O2 uptake (V.O2) in anesthetized patients is much lower than the value
           quoted in the literature.

        -  That inhalation anesthesia influences V.O2 differently than total intravenous anesthesia
           (TIVA).

        -  That an acute decrease in cardiac output (Q.T) (by patient position change) will
           transiently decrease V.O2 but the decrease in CO2 elimination (V.CO2) is sustained
           because tissue CO2 stores are a hundred fold greater than O2 (please see previously
           approved IRB protocol, HS# 2000-1325).

        -  That positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) decreases V.O2 and V.CO2 due to decreases
           in Q.T and alveolar ventilation (V.A), and appearance of high ventilation-to-perfusion
           (V.A/Q.) units (please see previously approved IRB protocol, HS# 2000-1325).

        -  That Trendelenburg (head down) position increases V.O2 and V.CO2 due to increase in Q.T.

        -  That V.O2 can help to determine the necessity of blood transfusion.

        -  That the continuous measurement of the respiratory quotient (RQ=V.CO2/V.O2) can detect
           transition to anaerobic metabolism.

        -  That the continuous measurement of the respiratory RQ can be a good alternative to
           arterial blood gas sampling.

        -  That the continuous measurement of the respiratory RQ can determine the necessity of
           nutritional support during long operations.

      In this protocol, the investigators will study the clinical implications of these
      measurements, believing that they are the missing links in anesthesia monitoring. Elucidating
      the mechanisms underlying this acute pathophysiology will advance the understanding of O2 and
      CO2 kinetics during non-steady state, and allow the non-invasive diagnosis of critical events
      during clinical anesthesia conferring increased safety, especially for the majority of
      healthy patients who receive only non-invasive monitoring.

      A separate section of the study, which compliments the metabolic gas exchange study with the
      bymixer flow system is the examination of respiratory gas with a portable mass-spectrometer
      to detect volatile organic compounds during anaerobic metabolism. The experimental anaerobic
      model is adult patients undergoing a surgery that requires tourniquet. Anaerobic metabolism
      will be detected by acid base balance blood test, the bymixer flow measurement and the mass
      spectrometer. Anesthesia will be maintained by total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) and each
      patient will have an arterial line. No other intervention would be taken. It is an
      observational type study.
    
  