
    
      The overall goal of this project is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of nutritional
      supplementation with fish oils to maintain weight in patients with disease-related weight
      loss (cachexia). Weight loss commonly results in a poorer prognosis, functional status, and
      quality of life. Despite the high morbidity and mortality associated with cachexia,
      mainstream treatment does not sustain weight and although nutritional supplements are
      commonly used, many of these have not been tested in clinical trials. Recent work in cachexia
      has revealed that this is mediated by pro-inflammatory cytokines. There are data that
      suggests that fish oils can affect the underlying pathogenic inflammatory response and have
      an affect on weight maintenance and nutritional balance

      Diseases in which cachexia is most common:

        -  Cancer

        -  Chronic Heart Failure (CHF)

        -  Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)

        -  Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)

      Goals of the Study:

        -  To evaluate the safety and efficacy of fish oils vs. corn oil in the maintenance of
           weight and lean body mass in patients with disease-related weight loss.

        -  To understand the mechanism of fish oil effect on health maintenance by evaluating the
           anti-inflammatory, anti-catabolic, anti-oxidant and anabolic actions of these compounds

        -  To document the effect of our interventions on quality of life and functional status.

      Study Outline:

      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either fish oil supplements or corn oil for
      the duration of this 3-month study. Participants will have five study visits and two
      telephone interviews. During each study visit, participants will undergo laboratory tests, a
      physical exam, and a dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) bone scan. Participants will be
      asked to keep a food diary during the study. During the telephone interviews, participants
      will be asked health-related questions and discuss their current functional status.
    
  