
    
      Subjects who are currently taking and responsive to anakinra (Kineret®) for at least 6 weeks
      will be screened for eligibility at the Screening / Baseline (Day 1) visit. Following
      confirmation of eligibility, subjects will be enrolled, the first dose of dapansutrile will
      be administered at the clinical site and safety and efficacy assessments will be completed.
      Subjects will self-administer dapansutrile twice a day by mouth for 14 consecutive days.
      Subjects will continue their standard dose of anakinra for Days 1, 2 and 3 of the 14-day
      Treatment Period and will then cease taking anakinra. At the end of the 14-day Treatment
      Period subjects will remain off all medication for Schnitzler's syndrome and at the first
      signs of a relapse or worsening of SchS symptoms, subjects will visit the study clinic for
      the Symptom Onset visit (SOV) to determine with the Investigator when injections of anakinra
      should be resumed. In addition, subjects will return to the study clinic on Days 5, 9, 14,
      15,16, 18 and 21 for follow-up visits1 and will be contacted by telephone on Day 42 (± 3
      Days) for additional follow-up. The Day 15 (± 1 day), Day 16 (± 1 day) and Day 18 (± 1 day)
      visits will only occur if anakinra therapy has not yet been resumed.

      Subjects will be given the option to remain in the Nijmegen area after the Day 14 visit and
      return to the study clinic for the Day 15, 16 and 18 follow-up visits. Alternatively,
      subjects will be given the option to have these visits conducted at their home by a trained
      study nurse.

      Safety assessments will be conducted at each visit and subjects will capture the frequency
      and intensity of symptoms, including body temperature, using a paper diary. Safety and
      tolerability will be evaluated by monitoring the occurrence of adverse events (AEs) and
      changes in abbreviated physical examination findings, vital signs and clinical safety
      laboratory test results (chemistry, hematology and urinalysis) and inflammatory biomarkers.
      Clinical activity will be evaluated by: Subject Diary (completed daily), Subject Global
      Assessment of Disease Activity, Investigator Global Assessment of Disease Activity, and
      analysis of biomarkers of inflammation, including changes in C-reactive protein (CRP). Daily
      diary assessments will be captured starting at the Screening / Baseline (Day 1) visit and
      will continue until Symptom Onset visit or Day 21 visit (whichever occurs latest).
    
  