
    
      The NCI Division of Cancer Prevention has recognized AIMSS as a priority area for future
      study. The symptoms are associated with a high rate of AI discontinuation and therefore
      compromise survival outcomes at great cost to both patients and society. Very little is known
      about AIMSS, or how to predict who is at risk for the condition, or for discontinuing therapy
      because of the symptoms. This study will provide a basis for comprehensive assessment of risk
      factors at the patient-reported outcomes, phenotypic, and laboratory levels. We will explore
      the natural history of AIMSS in different ethnic populations, and will validate previously
      reported genetic determinants of the development of AIMSS. A common problem with multicenter
      GWAS studies of very large sample size, especially in the absence of measurable diagnostic
      parameters, is inclusion of heterogeneous groups of patients. In addition to assessing
      pharmacogenomic predictors, this study involves specification of a pre-defined AIMSS
      phenotype and collection of patient-reported outcomes (PROs). As such, these data will have
      clinical utility by clarifying the factors associated with aromatase inhibitor
      discontinuation and thus guiding clinicians towards interventions to improve adherence.
      Coupled with other studies, the long-term goals are to develop a gene signature that will be
      used to better guide the selection of endocrine interventions for patients with breast
      cancer. The underlying physiology of AIMSS remains obscure. A small exploratory case control
      study did not find a role for commonly encountered cytokines in AIMSS. The role of estrogen
      and estrogen metabolites remains a possible explanatory variable, as well as new cytokines
      such as IL-17. This newly described cytokine has been implicated in disorders such as
      rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases, and has been specifically linked to
      articular nociception in animal models of arthritis. AIMSS Phenotype: The large studies to
      date of AIs (ATAC, BIG I-98, E1Z03) have been limited by the absence of a clearly defined
      phenotype for AIMSS. Retrospective analyses have provided some information that clearly
      cannot replace (PROs). The lack of good prospective PROs represents a major gap as a
      well-defined phenotype is necessary in order to identify useful genomic associations. Methods
      evaluating possible predictors such as the use of MRI of the wrists for tenosynovitis are
      expensive and have not been definitive, and patient-reported symptoms are used and may
      represent the most useful clinical phenotype.
    
  