
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the effectiveness of varenicline with telephone counseling vs Internet-based
           counseling vs telephone counseling and Internet-based smoking cessation interventions in
           adult smokers.

        -  Determine individual or group differences in patients undergoing these interventions.

        -  Determine heterogeneity in responsiveness in regard to the Classification and Regression
           Tree Analysis in patients undergoing these interventions.

        -  Determine the effectiveness of these interventions in regard to recruitment,
           implementation, barriers to treatment, exposure to intervention, satisfaction with
           treatment, treatment contamination, and program maintenance.

        -  Determine the cost-effectiveness of these interventions.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3
      intervention arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo a proactive telephone-based (PTB) smoking cessation program.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo a web-based (WB) smoking cessation program.

        -  Arm III: Patients undergo an integrated PTB/WB smoking cessation program. Beginning 1
           week before the target quit date, all patients receive oral varenicline once daily for 3
           days and then twice daily for up to 12 weeks. They also receive a mailed packet
           containing a welcome letter, description of the intervention services offered, a privacy
           notice, a Free & Clear Quit Kit (comprehensive education/self-help materials including
           health smoking substitutions), a phone call to orient the patient to the intervention to
           which they are randomized, and access to a toll-free support line. All patients undergo
           a pre-treatment assessment (pre-quit) and 3 post-quit assessments at 21 days, 12 weeks,
           and 6 months after their original scheduled quit date to determine medication adherence,
           treatment utilization, point-prevalent smoking outcomes, and continuous nonsmoking.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,200 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  