
    
      The primary objective of this study is to test the hypothesis that therapy directed primarily
      by a T wave alternans (TWA) test, measured non-invasively during exercise, is equivalent to
      therapy directed by an electrophysiological study (EPS) in predicting spontaneous ventricular
      tachyarrhythmic events (VTEs) in patients with ischemic heart disease, left ventricular
      dysfunction, and asymptomatic non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (NSVT).

      In the absence of any previous life-threatening ventricular arrhythmia (i.e., for primary
      prevention), ICD implantation is currently indicated in patients with ischemic heart disease,
      left ventricular dysfunction, asymptomatic non-sustained ventricular tachycardia, and a
      positive EPS. The objective of this study is to demonstrate that a TWA test directed therapy
      is equivalent to EPS directed therapy in guiding ICD implantation for the purpose of primary
      prevention of sudden cardiac death (SCD) in patients with ischemic heart disease, left
      ventricular dysfunction, and asymptomatic non-sustained ventricular tachycardia.

      This is a prospective, multi-center study to demonstrate the following:

      PRIMARY HYPOTHESIS: a TWA test directed therapy is equivalent to EPS directed therapy in
      predicting VTEs in patients with ischemic heart disease, LVEF less than 0.40, and
      asymptomatic non-sustained ventricular tachycardia. The study will determine whether the
      positive predictive value of TWA test directed therapy is equivalent to the positive
      predictive value of EPS directed therapy. The study will also determine whether the negative
      predictive value of TWA test directed therapy is equivalent to the negative predictive value
      of EPS directed therapy. The positive groups under TWA test directed therapy will be compared
      with the positive groups under EPS directed therapy, and the negative groups under TWA
      directed therapy will be compared with the negative groups under EPS directed therapy.
      SECONDARY HYPOTHESIS: The study will determine whether the positive predictive value of a TWA
      test (not including indeterminates) is equivalent to the positive predictive value of an EPS
      in predicting future VTEs. The study will also determine whether the negative predictive
      value of a TWA test (not including indeterminates) is equivalent to the negative predictive
      value of an EPS in predicting future VTEs. The TWA test positive groups will be compared with
      the EPS positive groups, and the TWA test negative groups will be compared with the EPS
      negative groups. The secondary hypothesis will also be tested against the primary endpoint
      defined above.
    
  