
    
      The study utilizes a randomized, paralleled study design.Paediatric healthcare providers
      (nurses and physicians) will be enrolled into one of two arms: (1) longitudinal just-in-time
      training with real-time feedback (intervention); or (2) Annual BLS recertification course
      (control).

      Participants and Setting: The study will be conducted in the Emergency Department (ED) at
      Alberta Children's Hospital (ACH), a paediatric tertiary care and referral center in Calgary,
      Alberta, Canada. Annual BLS recertification courses are organized for healthcare providers in
      the emergency department every month and all healthcare providers in ED are scheduled to take
      the course once each year. The investigators will approach potential participants and seek
      consent from them during the course.

      Intervention: longitudinal just-in-time training with real-time feedback The new CPR training
      curriculum (longitudinal just-in-time training with real-time feedback) provides on-demand
      CPR training opportunities in a longitudinal fashion with a continuous flow of practice,
      assessment, and feedback. Each CPR training station has a cart with an adult/paediatric sized
      CPR torso manikin and an infant manikin. The training unit also includes a real-time visual
      feedback device to provide quality of CPR feedback (depth, rate, and recoil of compressions)
      during compressions (referred to as real time feedback). At the end of each CPR practice
      event, the unit will provide summative feedback for the learner on the quality of CPR (depth,
      rate, recoil and overall quality). Health care providers in our study will have easy access
      to the training units, which will be located in the emergency department (ED) simulation lab.
      The instructional process consists of 2 parts, practice sessions and assessment sessions.

      Each day, healthcare providers assigned to the ED resuscitation room for their clinical shift
      will practice CPR for 2 minutes with real-time feedback (if they are enrolled in the
      intervention arm of the study). Participants will do 2 minutes of continuous chest
      compressions while assuming that the patient is intubated. Training will take place in the ED
      simulation lab (located in the ED), a short 20-second walk from the resuscitation room.
      Providers will be encouraged to use the training unit each time they are on a resuscitation
      shift, but they will also have access to the training unit if they are not on a resuscitation
      shift. All health care providers in the intervention arm are recommended to attend practice
      sessions at least once a week, with no maximum for the number of times they are permitted to
      practice. After each practice session, participants will be presented with a quantitative
      summary of CPR performance (depth, rate, residual leaning force). Each training session will
      last approximately 3 minutes: 30 seconds for reviewing guidelines (short video), 2 minutes of
      CPR practice, 30 seconds for the participant to review their summative data. In order to
      encourage participants to practice, the investigators ask permission from ED administration
      to offer 5 minute protected time after hand-over of each shift and a research assistant will
      record times of practice for each participants enrolled in intervention group.

      Assessment sessions will be built into the instruction framework of the intervention. The
      assessment session will be given at baseline and every 3 months over the course of one year.
      Assessment sessions will be run in the same setting as practice sessions. Subjects in will be
      expected to complete assessment sessions at baseline, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months intervals. Each
      participant will have protected time (after weekly rounds) for assessment sessions. During
      the assessment sessions:

        1. Real time CPR feedback will not be available to all participants. Data will be collected
           for analysis only.

        2. Participants will be presented with the quantitative summary of CPR performance only, if
           enrolled in the intervention arm.

      Study Design: At the beginning of the study, both groups will undergo annual Basic Life
      Support (BLS) recertification training to ensure good CPR skill acquisition at baseline. All
      participants who provide consent will be recruited and randomized into one of the 2 study
      arms. The nurse educator, who is not a member of study group, will generate allocation
      sequence with an online random number generator. Given the attributes of the study, we will
      not be able to blind the participants or investigators.

      Participants in both arms will be assessed after BLS recertification course as baseline
      assessment. The baseline assessment includes a CPR competency test and demographic
      information . Participants randomized to the intervention arm will participate in
      longitudinal just-in-time training with real-time feedback program as described above.
      Participants randomized to the control arm will undergo the current standard program of
      annual BLS recertification but will not participate in the interventional training program
      during the course of the year. Quantitative measures of CPR quality (compression depth, rate,
      recoil and overall performance) will be captured for all assessment sessions (in both
      intervention and control arm) at 3,6,9 and 12 months. For the control group, a second
      recertification course will be conducted at 1 year, after which CPR performance will be
      assessed in the same way. In order to ensure compliance, course instructors will send a
      reminder email to all participants for assessment, and they will be given some protected time
      (i.e. academic half day) for participating assessment sessions. The assessment sessions will
      take place in the Emergency Department simulation lab at Alberta Children's Hospital. Control
      group participants will be advised not to use the training unit for intervention group for
      CPR practice during the course of the study.
    
  