
    
      The protocol includes measurement of:

        1. The time of cannulation

        2. Number of attempts of cannulation, Every piercing of skin is counted as one attempt.
           Maximally three attempts will be allowed.

        3. Failures. Perforation of vein and subcutaneous hemorrhage, arterial puncture, the
           appropriate vein is not found, free back flow of blood or free infusion of saline is not
           achieved the attempt are considered as failures . Cannulation of another site is then
           started or the study is ended.

      The final protocol of the study will be a paired control, randomized prospective study. The
      randomization will be for the order of cannulation site (internal jugular or cubital vein
      first) In the final study the cannulation will be performed by emergency department interns
      and paramedics with advanced cardiac life support skills and licenced by Kuopio University
      Hospital.

      For comparison and describing the experience of the paramedics an enquiry is accomplished and
      the following data are collected:

        1. Age

        2. Experience as a paramedic (years after graduation)

        3. Theoretical guidance of cannulation (self estimated /hours)

        4. Practical guidance of cannulation (self estimated/hours)

        5. Experience of cannulation of the external jugular vein (self estimated/times)

      For comparison and describing the experience of the interns in the ER a similar enquiry is
      accomplished,:

        1. Age

        2. Experience as an intern (years after graduation as MD)

        3. Theoretical guidance of cannulation (self estimated /hours)

        4. Practical guidance of cannulation (self estimated/hours)

        5. Cannulation of external jugular vein (self estimated/times) Statistical analysis

      The primary endpoint in this study is cannulation time of the two sites (internal jugular and
      cubital vein). The secondary end points are failure/success of cannulation and reliability of
      venous access as defined above.

      Patient characteristics and anesthetic and operative variables are compared with the t-test
      for independent samples (continuous variables), or the Mann-Whitney U-test and 2-test
      (Pearson) or Fishers exact test when appropriate (categorical variables). Cannulation time
      differences between the groups will be compared with the t-test for independent samples
      (after tests for homoscedasticity and normality) or Mann-Whitney U-test if appropriate.
      Success of cannulation will be compared with 2-test (Pearson) or Fishers exact test when
      appropriate. A p value less than 0.05 is considered statistically significant. Results are
      given as mean (SD) or number of patients. All statistical analyses will be performed with
      SPSS version 11.01 software (SPSS Inc, Chicago, IL, USA).
    
  