
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the non-inferiority of bilateral salpingectomy (BLS) with delayed oophorectomy
      to bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) to reduce the risk of ovarian cancer among women
      with deleterious BRCA1 germline mutations.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To prospectively assess estrogen deprivation symptoms in BLS patients as measured by the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Endocrine Symptom (FACT-ES) subscale compared to
      women in the BSO arm.

      II. To determine if health-related quality of life (QOL) (FACT) is negatively impacted by
      menopausal symptoms (menopausal symptom checklist-Menopausal Symptom Checklist [MSCL]),
      sexual dysfunction (Female Sexual Function Index [FSFI]), and cancer distress (Impact of
      Events Scale [IES]) in women who have undergone BLS, in comparison to normative data
      (MSCL/FACT-ES) and data from BSO patients.

      III. To assess medical decision making, as measured by the Shared Decision Making
      Questionnaire (SDM-Q-9) and Decision Regret Scale (DRS), and determine factors associated
      with the risk of reducing surgical treatment choice.

      IV. To assess adverse events, graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE) version (v)5.0.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Sexual dysfunction, as measured by selected Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System (PROMIS) screener and external sexual function items.

      II. To estimate the cost-effectiveness of BLS compared to BSO for ovarian cancer risk
      reduction.

      III. To determine the association between health related (HR)-QOL with menopausal symptoms,
      as measured by the MSCL, sexual dysfunction, as measured by FSFI/PROMIS screener and external
      sexual function items, and cancer distress as measured by the IES.

      IV. To assess medical decision making, as measured by the Risk-Reducing Medical Decision
      Making (RR-MDM) survey, a targeted set of questions on risk reducing surgical treatment
      choice.

      TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH OBJECTIVE:

      I. To bank tissue and blood biospecimens for future research (pending funding).

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients undergo bilateral salpingectomy. Patients may then undergo oophorectomy
      after initial surgery.

      GROUP II: Patients undergo bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 10-60 days, 6, 12, and 24 months, and
      then annually for up to 20 years.
    
  