
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, progressive, autoimmune disease of synovial joints.
      Disease progression is characterized by periods of high disease activity involving both, a
      systemic immune response and tissue-specific inflammatory events that may lead to joint and
      bone destruction and subsequent disability.

      Rheumatoid arthritis is a multifactorial disease with significant contribution from genetic
      and non-genetic factors that together account for complex disease pathology.

      Diagnosis of RA is based mainly on detection of high titers of rheumatoid factor (RF) and of
      antibodies against cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) or against citrullinated protein
      (ACPA).

      The major RF species could be detected only in 60-70% of RA patients; patients with high
      levels of RF have higher disease activity with greater disabilities.

      The problem is that RF is not a specific marker for RA and is often absent in early stages of
      the disease, on the other hand ACPA and CCP auto antibodies provide high specificity but
      moderate sensitivity, adding to that CRP and ESR are general indicators of inflammation and
      are not specific for RA.

      Collagen triple helix repeat containing 1 protein (CTHRC1) is expressed in a number of
      embryonic and neonate tissues, including developing cartilage and bone. It is a secreted
      modulator of Wnt signaling, which is a key regulator of joint remodeling and promotes cell
      proliferation and migration.

      Immunohistochemical analysis of various human primary cancers and metastases has revealed
      that CTHRC1 expression is actually limited to the stromal cells of solid tumors.

      The expression of CTHRC1 encoding gene was found to be strongly associated with the severity
      of murine collagen antibody-induced arthritis.

      Arthritic pannus is a multicellular vascularized tissue composed of cells of both mesenchymal
      and hematopoietic origin, including synovial fibroblasts, osteoclasts, endothelial cells,
      dendritic cells, monocytes/macrophages, as well as T and B cells that contribute to the
      development and progression of joint and cartilage erosion through secretion of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines and tissue-degrading proteases. Fibroblast-like synoviocytes
      (FLS), particularly the invasive and migratory cadherin-11-positive subtype, are major
      components of synovial pannus tissue and are considered active drivers in the pathogenesis of
      RA.

      The expression of CTHRC1 in pannus and its role in the function of FLS relevant to cartilage
      damage in RA make it of great value if used as a blood-based biomarker for improved diagnosis
      of rheumatoid arthritis patients.
    
  