
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To examine whether MIS is non-inferior to laparotomy in terms of disease free survival
      (DFS) in women with advanced stage epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) that received 3 to 4
      cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if there are differences in health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) in
      patients undergoing MIS versus (vs) laparotomy as assessed with the European Organisation for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30),
      QLQ-Ovarian Cancer Module (OV28), and Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General
      (FACT-G7).

      II. To determine if there are differences between patients undergoing MIS vs laparotomy in
      the rate of optimal cytoreduction (defined as residual tumor nodules each measuring 1 cm or
      less in maximum diameter) and complete cytoreduction (defined as no evidence of macroscopic
      disease).

      III. To examine whether MIS is non-inferior to laparotomy in terms of overall survival (OS)
      in women with advanced stage EOC that received 3 to 4 cycles of NACT.

      IV. To determine if there are differences between patients undergoing MIS vs laparotomy in
      surgical morbidity and mortality, intraoperative injuries, and post-operative complications.

      V. To determine the rates of MIS converted to laparotomy and the reasons.

      VI. To determine if there are any difference in costs and cost-effectiveness between patients
      undergoing MIS vs laparotomy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients undergo MIS within 6 weeks after last cycle of standard of care neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy. If during MIS the surgeon thinks complete gross resection can only be
      accomplished by performing an open procedure, patients may undergo laparotomy instead. Within
      6 weeks after surgery, patients receive standard of care chemotherapy.

      ARM B: Patients undergo laparotomy within 6 weeks after last cycle of standard of care
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Within 6 weeks after surgery, patients receive standard of care
      chemotherapy.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up within 6 weeks of completing post-surgery
      chemotherapy, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  