
    
      Maintenance hemodialysis hemodialysis and CKD patients in stage 4 or 5 (n=50) will be
      recruited for the study. A randomized, controlled, double-blind, cross-over study will be
      carried out. Following a 1-week baseline, participants will be assigned to receive snacks
      with pea hull fiber or control followed by a 4-week wash-out period, and then crossed over to
      the second intervention. Snacks with added pea hull fiber (15 g/d) and control will be
      provided to participants in identical packaging. Participants will collect 4 days of stools
      during the baseline week, week 5, 9, and 13 and analyzed for mineral content. Microbiota
      composition will be analyzed including microbial diversity, qPCR to quantify changes and 16S
      rRNA sequencing to identify pea hull fiber effects on specific bacteria. Following baseline,
      participants will attend a second visit and anthropometric and demographic information will
      be collected and we will measure blood pressure, the body composition by bioelectrical
      impedance analysis (BIA), and handgrip strength using a dynamometer.

      Throughout the study, participants must complete a daily questionnaire to evaluate the
      transit time (eg. Bristol Stool Scale), stool frequency, and compliance. Every week,
      questionnaires to evaluate appetite (eg. SNAQ) and GI wellness (eg. GSRS - Gastrointestinal
      Symptom Response Scale) will be administered. During each study visit, participants will
      complete a questionnaire to evaluate the quality of life. In addition, the dietary data
      (24-hour diet recalls) will be collected by phone during the baseline week and during the
      last week of each period. During baseline, treatment and each washout, fasting blood will be
      collected and analyzed for a comprehensive metabolic panel with eGFR, in addition to
      microbial metabolites (e.g., indoxyl sulfate and p-cresyl sulfate), and inflammatory markers
      (e.g. CRP, TNFα, IL-6).
    
  