
    
      Given the undefined picture surrounding the appropriateness of planned angiographic control
      (PAC) following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of the unprotected left main (ULM)
      with drug-eluting stents (DES), our aim is to evaluate, in a prospective, randomized,
      setting, the potential benefits of a PAC-based strategy vs. ischemia and symptoms driven
      conservative management. The disease of the native ULM is associated with an unfavorable
      prognostic outcome, which can be at least partially reversed by revascularization.
      Significant stenosis of the stented ULM caused by in-stent restenosis (ISR), however,
      presents some peculiar pathophysiological, flow-related and shear-stress features, which
      partly makes it a distinct disease as compared to native vessel atherosclerosis. Treatment of
      ISR, moreover, is a scarcely standardized and often complex procedure; some uncertainties
      still persist regarding the best strategy to treat ISR (stent-in-stent, drug-eluting
      balloons, dilation with conventional balloons). Computed coronary tomography (CCT) can
      precisely and not-invasively assess the presence of ISR in the stented ULM, without exposing
      the patients to the risks of invasive catheterization. CCT may provide an accurate
      reconstruction of the stented vessels, exposing the patients to a limited amount of contrast
      dye (approximately, 80-100 cc) and of radiation dose (approximately, 92 mGy). CCT has a very
      high negative predictive value for ISR, thus limiting the negative impact of the
      indiscriminate execution of invasive angiography on all patients treated by PCI of the ULM.
      Only patients with relevant ISR of ULM at CCT will undergo coronary angiography to confirm
      the presence of critical stenosis, and fractional flow reserve (FFR) and/or intravascular
      ultrasound (IVUS) will be performed in dubious cases.

      An increased rate of PCI has to be taken in to account with a PAC-based approach. However,
      with the accurate, stepwise selection of the patients and the lesions amenable to PCI of our
      study protocol, based on CCT, coronary angiography and, where necessary, FFR/IVUS, the
      increased rate of PCI is not expected to bear a negative prognostic impact. Based on these
      premises, our hypothesis is that early, appropriate, detection of ULM ISR and its subsequent
      treatment may positively impact patients' survival and reduce the incidence of adverse
      cardiovascular events.

      Specific aim 1:

      Evaluation of the effectiveness and safety of a PAC-based approach to follow-up patients
      treated by PCI of the ULM with DES-II

      Specific aim 2:

      Assessment of the incidence of ISR in patients undergoing PCI of the ULM with DES-II and
      evaluation of the diagnostic accuracy of CCT in the evaluation of ISR in the stented ULM

      Specific Aim 3:

      Assessment of the prognostic implications and safety of the PCI of ISR of the ULM detected by
      PAC as compared to conservative management with revascularization driven by symptoms and
      ischemia.

      For this purpose in this prospective, randomized controlled trial (RCT), patients will be
      enrolled following the index percutaneous revascularization of ULM with DES. Patients will be
      randomized in a 1:1 fashion to PAC-based management with CCT vs.

      symptoms and ischemia driven conservative management.
    
  