
    
      The device being tested is the Activa Primary Cell and Sensing (PC+S) system which consists
      of a deep brain stimulation (DBS) generator, specially adapted extension leads, and DBS leads
      implanted in the globus pallidus internus (GPi) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
      The Activa PC+S system differs from currently FDA-approved devices in that it is not only
      capable of delivering therapeutic stimulation through the DBS leads but also recording
      electrophysiological signals through the same leads. The goal of this pilot study is to
      evaluate (1) to assess the specificity and stability of the electrophysiological signals
      recorded with the Activa PC+S system, (2) how the signals recorded by this system correlate
      with clinical parameters and non-invasive measures of movement, and (3) and the safety of the
      PC+S system.

      The Medtronic Activa Primary Cell (PC) DBS system has a proven record of safety and
      reliability through extensive human clinical use over the years1. The potential risks
      associated with the placement and the use of the device have been thoroughly described in
      previous human trials and retrospective reports. The PC+S device is based on the currently
      approved device but with added sensing capabilities. In this protocol, we will evaluate the
      Activa PC+S system using additional sensing components with stimulation parameters commonly
      used for the treatment of movement disorder.

      This trial will follow a non-randomized design with rigorous and comprehensive follow-ups, as
      described below.

      The study will be conducted at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center and associated
      facilities through the combined neurology and neurosurgery movement disorders program, which
      manages over 1,000 patients with PD. The study will provide close follow-up of patients after
      DBS surgery by a team involving functional neurosurgeons and neurologists with expertise in
      clinical care of patients with PD.

      Patients will be screened according to the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Each patient will be
      informed about the study to see if they are interested in participating. After the patient
      signs the informed consent, they will undergo baseline evaluations, and if they qualify, they
      will undergo surgery to implant the deep brain stimulation system.

      After device implantation, patients will complete comprehensive follow-up as described in the
      protocol below. The patients will return to the clinic at least monthly for the first 3
      months for on and off medication assessments and programming. Primary assessments will be
      administered monthly for the first 3 months, and then every 3 months up to 12 months
      post-operatively.

      LFPs will be recorded across time (intraoperative, during programming, and chronically),
      across activity states (with quantitative accelerometer and gyroscope measurements), and
      across disease states (off and on medication, off and on stimulation) to address the primary
      research questions proposed.

      A comparison of measures within the same person from pre-treatment to post-treatment will be
      performed. Also, pre-treatment and post-treatment group means and standard deviations will be
      determined. Correlations between LFP biosignals and non-invasive measures and clinical
      assessment of movement will be performed. In addition, correlation between LFP signals and
      clinically-defined stimulation parameters will be evaluated.
    
  