
    
      Mexican American women in the United States are more likely to live a sedentary lifestyle
      than women of other ethnic groups. As a result, obesity affects Mexican American women at a
      high rate. Obesity and a lack of physical activity are risk factors for many diseases,
      including heart disease, diabetes, and certain types of cancers. Increasing physical activity
      can lead to weight loss and lower the risk of developing these diseases. This study
      represents a partnership between the University of South Carolina, the South Carolina
      Hispanic Latino Health Coalition, and the University of Texas Health Sciences Center at San
      Antonio (UTHSCSA) Regional Academic Health Center in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas.
      Study researchers from these institutions will first conduct interviews and focus groups and
      then develop a program aimed at encouraging moderately intense physical activity among
      Mexican American women. Next, the study will evaluate the effectiveness of that program at
      increasing physical activity levels and promoting weight loss among Mexican American women in
      Columbia, South Carolina and the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas.

      This study will enroll Mexican American women. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      either immediately take part in the physical activity program or take part in the program at
      the end of the 6-month study. At baseline, all participants will receive home visits from
      study staff. During these visits, participants will undergo weight, height, and waist
      measurements. Participants will also complete questionnaires to assess their medical history
      and physical activity habits. For 1 week after the study visit, participants will wear a
      physical activity monitor and keep an activity diary. Participants who are assigned to
      immediately take part in the physical activity program will receive counseling from a
      community health educator that will focus on the importance of changing physical activity
      habits. They will be encouraged to partake in 30 minutes of daily physical activity for at
      least 5 days a week. Each month, participants will receive educational materials and
      telephone calls or visits from the health educator. Participants will receive a pedometer and
      will be asked to keep a daily log of their physical activity. At Month 6, all participants
      will receive another home study visit for repeat baseline testing. At this time, participants
      who did not take part initially in the physical activity program will start the program.
      However, they will have no further study visits or evaluations.
    
  