
    
      Study populations: all patients will sign an informed consent prior to the surgery to be
      included in the study, after explanation of the nature of the disease, possible treatment,
      and the possibility of stoma formation.

      Data recording: basic demographic data are recorded including age and sex of the patient as
      well as detailed information on history, risk factors, preoperative diagnostics, surgical
      procedure, intraoperative findings, histopathological work-up, and postoperative course.

      Variables analysis: the variables are divided into patient-related, tumor-related,
      therapy-related, and techniques-related variables.

      Preoperative workup: all patients will have detailed clinical history and physical
      examination including DRE. Routine laboratory investigations also are included e.g. CBC,
      blood glucose level, liver, and kidney function tests.

      Regular workup for rectal cancer are included; full colonoscopy with biopsy,
      gastrografin/barium enema, TRUS evaluate degree of invasion of the rectal wall and regional
      lymph nodes, abdominal and pelvic CT scan, Chest x-ray or CT scan, CEA level, and EORTC
      Quality of life Questionnaire.

      Level of the tumor: is measured from the lower border of the tumor to the anal verge by the
      rigid sigmoidoscope; considering it low < 6 cm, middle 6-12 cm, and upper > 12 cm.

      Preoperative preparation: all patients will have preoperative mechanical bowel preparation
      and adequate thromboembolic prophylaxis. Prophylactic antibiotics will be given 30 - 60
      minutes before surgery. A surgeon or stoma therapist will mark the site of the stoma before
      the operation in all patients.

      Level of the anastomosis: is measured from the anastomosis to the anal verge by the rigid
      sigmoidoscope intraoperative; considering it low < 10 cm, middle 10-15 cm, and upper > 15 cm.

      The rectal anastomosis is tested intraoperative with: trans-anal air insufflation with the
      pelvis immersed with saline to detect bubbles, trans-anal introduction of dye, or competence
      of donuts in stapled anastomosis.

      Postoperative follow up:

      Access the postoperative condition locally and systemically by bedsides clinical parameters,
      and usual blood tests like leucocyte count and CRP level at the 3rd and the 7th day
      postoperative.

      Radiological follow up by Gastrografin enema around the 10th day or before dismissal from the
      hospital. Abdominal and pelvic CT scan is ordered in patients with clinical deterioration,
      abnormal abdominal findings, and turbid drainage secretion.

      Peritoneal samples are collected from the abdominal drains at the first, third, and fifth
      days postoperatively for peritoneal microbiological study and cytokines (IL-6, IL-10, and
      TNF) level measurement.

      Patients will receive a Quality of Life questionnaire (EORTC 30, 38) preoperatively, 30 days
      postoperative, and 30 days after stoma closure in case of diversion.

      Follow up of patients continue till discharge, and 30 days postoperative. In cases with
      diversion follow up will continue till closure of stoma and 30 days after closure. Stoma
      closure in an uneventful course will be scheduled 8-10 weeks after the primary operation.

      Diagnosis of leakage:

        1. Fecal secretion via indwelling abdominal drainage, surgical wound or vagina.

        2. Radiological via fluid collection adjacent to anastomosis associated with extraluminal
           contrast extravasation.

      Classification of leakage: patients classified according to leakage into:

        1. Non leakage group.

        2. Leakage group, radiological is asymptomatic and detected on imaging, localized is
           diagnosed on radiological findings of a pelvic collection and clinically do not require
           a laparotomy or laparoscopy, and generalized is confirmed at laparotomy or laparoscopy.

      Outcomes:

      Primary outcomes:

      Incidences of anastomotic leakage following laparoscopic resection for rectal cancer.

      30 day's postoperative morbidity and mortality. secondary outcomes: The role of diversion on
      prevention of anastomotic leakage, are patients with diversion have low incidences of
      leakage.

      Management of anastomotic leakage. Effect of anastomotic leakage on oncological outcome,
      assessment of local recurrence after 24 months follow-up.
    
  