
    
      Latinos are disproportionately represented among those diagnosed with HIV and Latino
      adolescents are at risk for engaging in sexual behaviors that can lead to HIV. To date, data
      regarding HIV prevention interventions for Latino adolescents, as distinct from other ethnic
      groups, have been rare. Thus, an efficacious HIV prevention intervention is urgently needed
      for Latino adolescents. The current proposal is aimed at filling that gap by evaluating a
      newly developed family-based intervention that incorporates cultural constructs into the
      Social-Personal Framework.

      This R01 builds on the Principal Investigator's NIMH-funded K Award, which piloted a
      culturally-specific family-based intervention with 80 Latino parent-adolescent dyads and
      demonstrates promising results. Extending this work, 320 Latino parent-adolescent dyads with
      an adolescent between the ages of 14 and 17 will be randomized into either the family based
      HIV prevention intervention or a family-based general health promotion control condition. In
      both conditions, the interventions will use a multi-family group format consisting of 6 to 8
      parent and youth dyads in a one-day, 7-hour workshop. Both interventions employ activities
      for youth and parents separately (e.g., focus on adolescent vulnerability) and parents and
      adolescents together (e.g., address parent/adolescent communication). The project will
      determine the efficacy of the Latino Family-based HIV prevention intervention from assessment
      of changes in the adolescents' HIV-related sexual behavior and attitudes, gender and sexual
      socialization, parent-child communication, and parental monitoring. Measures will be
      completed at baseline and at 3, 6, 12, and 18 months post-intervention.

      HIV/AIDS is a significant problem in the Latino community. Developing culturally sensitive
      HIV prevention interventions for Latino youth, in particular, is a public health priority.
      Family-based interventions are likely to be well received by the Latino population.
      Therefore, this project will examine the efficacy of a family-based HIV prevention
      intervention for Latino youth and parents to decrease the incidence of HIV among Latinos. Its
      innovation is in being one of the first to work with Latinos specifically in a family-based
      intervention where parents and adolescents come together to discuss important
      sexuality-related topics.
    
  