
    
      Background:

      The adverse impact of tobacco use on disease prevalence and health care costs is well
      documented. Hence, finding effective ways to reduce tobacco dependence is an essential
      component of improving the outcomes, quality and efficiency of VHA care. The U.S. Public
      Health Service (PHS) Smoking Cessation Clinical Practice Guideline provides specific
      recommendations for treating tobacco dependence. Despite their strong evidence base, however,
      these recommendations have not been fully integrated into clinical practice within the VHA.
      Recent data suggest that logistical difficulties associated with identifying and linking
      smokers with appropriate treatments may explain why the PHS Smoking Cessation Guideline has
      not been more broadly implemented.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the effectiveness of an intervention for
      increasing the rate of tobacco dependence treatment in a population of smokers identified
      through the VA Pharmacy Benefits Management database. Secondary objectives of this study
      include (1) assessing the effect of the intervention on smoking cessation rates, and (2)
      developing options for overcoming potential barriers to broad implementation of the
      strategies.

      Methods:

      The effectiveness of the intervention will be evaluated using a multi-center, randomized,
      controlled trial. Veterans receiving a prescription for transdermal nicotine, nicotine gum,
      or bupropion for smoking cessation in the past year at one of the participating VHA
      facilities (as determined from Pharmacy Benefits Management records) will be eligible for the
      study. A total of 1,900 eligible veterans selected from five test sites will be randomly
      assigned to one of two groups: (1) patient phone call and tailored, computerized prompt to
      providers (intervention), or (2) usual care (control). The primary outcome is the proportion
      of patients receiving pharmacological or other smoking cessation treatment in the six month
      follow-up period, as assessed from VA pharmacy and outpatient data files. All patients will
      be recruited to a brief phone interview six months post-intervention to gather secondary
      outcome measure data related to smoking status, quit history, and use of smoking cessation
      assistance.

      Status:

      Data preparation and analysis.
    
  