
    
      Some authors showed that the determination of calcineurin (enzyme of cyclosporin and
      tacrolimus action) activity was very interesting in bone narrow and hepatic transplant in
      order to monitor tacrolimus or cyclosporin. Indeed, Furthermore, target Tac concentrations
      still fail to provide in certain patients an appropriate immunosuppression reflected by
      rejection. Because a lack of data in renal transplant, we propose to study this population
      treated by tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil and corticoids in the first three months
      following the transplantation.

      Our major aim is to study the relationship between calcineurin activity and immunologic
      events in 200 renal recipients treated with tacrolimus in the first three months following
      transplant. Immunologic events could be acute rejections and infraclinical rejections. The
      second aims are 1) if this relationship exists, to define the threshold predicting acute
      rejection using ROC-curve, 2) to define variations between pharmacodynamic (calcineurin
      activity) and pharmacokinetic (whole blood concentrations) tacrolimus monitoring and 3) to
      compare calcineurin activity in patients with acute rejection and those with borderline
      rejection. Blood samples will be collected into EDTA-containing vacutainers prior to the
      tacrolimus morning administration and at 2, 4, 6 and 9 hours following the administration at
      D7, D14 and D21. Whole blood tacrolimus concentrations and calcineurin activity were measured
      using LCMSMS and HPLC techniques. After D21, only residual measurements will be carried out
      at D28, M2 and M3. A comparative statistical analysis will be performed between data defined
      with and without rejection. In case of difference, a ROC curve analysis could define normal
      ranges of calcineurin activity.

      This is the second study of the Sud FRANCILIEN Institute for Research in
      Nephrology-Transplantation defined with Nephrology departments in Mondor and BICETRE
      hospitals and the object "Interest of pharmacodynamics of immunosuppressive drugs in
      renal-transplant recipients" is a new theme of these teams.
    
  