
    
      TITLE: A Phase 3, Open-Label, Randomized, Parallel Group Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and
      Safety of Intrapleural Administration of Adenovirus-Delivered Interferon Alpha-2b (rAd-IFN)
      in Combination with Celecoxib and Gemcitabine in Patients with Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma

      PROTOCOL NUMBER: rAd-IFN-MM-301

      STUDY DRUGS: Nadofaragene firadenovec (Recombinant adenovirus vector containing the human
      interferon alpha-2b gene: rAd-IFN), celecoxib, and gemcitabine

      PHASE: 3

      INDICATION: Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM)

      SPONSOR: Trizell, Ltd.

      SITES: Approximately 80 sites globally

      OBJECTIVES:

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the overall survival (OS) associated with
      rAd IFN, when administered with celecoxib and gemcitabine, versus that associated with
      celecoxib and gemcitabine alone for the treatment of patients with MPM who have failed a
      minimum of 1 treatment regimen and a maximum of 2 treatment regimens, 1 of which must have
      been an anti-folate and platinum combination regimen.

      The secondary objectives of this study are:

        -  To compare between rAd-IFN, when administered with celecoxib and gemcitabine, versus
           that associated with celecoxib and gemcitabine alone for the treatment of patients with
           MPM who have failed a minimum of 1 treatment regimen and a maximum of 2 treatment
           regimens, 1 of which must have been an anti-folate and platinum combination regimen,
           with respect to:

             -  Survival rate at 12 months and every 6 months thereafter;

             -  Progression-free survival (PFS);

             -  Best response (complete response, partial response, or stable disease); and

             -  Safety of rAd-IFN; and

        -  To evaluate rAd-IFN, when administered with celecoxib and gemcitabine, in a sub-set of
           patients with MPM who have failed a minimum of 1 treatment regimen and a maximum of 2
           treatment regimens, 1 of which must have been an anti-folate and platinum combination
           regimen, with respect to viral shedding and biodistribution.

      The exploratory objectives of this study are:

      • To compare between rAd-IFN, when administered with celecoxib and gemcitabine, versus that
      associated with celecoxib and gemcitabine alone for the treatment of patients with MPM who
      have failed a minimum of 1 treatment regimen and a maximum of 2 treatment regimens, 1 of
      which must have been an anti-folate and platinum combination regimen, with respect to:

        -  Health-related Quality-of-Life,

        -  The relationship between immunological status and response to treatment, and

        -  Biocorrelates of response to treatment.

      POPULATION:

      The population for this study is patients with histologically confirmed MPM of epithelioid or
      biphasic (predominantly [>50%] epithelioid) histology who have failed a minimum of 1
      treatment regimen and a maximum of 2 treatment regimens, 1 of which must have been an
      anti-folate and platinum combination regimen.

      STUDY DESIGN AND DURATION:

      The study is an open-label, randomized, parallel group study conducted in patients with
      histologically confirmed MPM of epithelioid or biphasic (predominantly [>50%] epithelioid)
      histology who have failed a minimum of 1 treatment regimen and a maximum of 2 treatment
      regimens, 1 of which must have been an anti-folate and platinum combination regimen.

      Screening assessments must be completed within 28 days of Study Day 1, and eligible patients
      will be randomized to either:

        1. Treatment group: rAd-IFN (Study Day 1) + celecoxib (Study Days 1 to 14) + gemcitabine
           (Study Days 14 and 21 [i.e., Days 1 and 8 of the first gemcitabine treatment cycle],
           gemcitabine will be repeated every 3 weeks until disease progression/early termination
           [ET]); or

        2. Control group: celecoxib (Study Days 1 to 14) + gemcitabine (Study Days 14 and 21 [i.e.,
           Days 1 and 8 of the first gemcitabine treatment cycle], gemcitabine will be repeated
           every 3 weeks until disease progression/ET).

      Treatment Phase Patients randomized to receive rAd-IFN (treatment group) will have an
      intrapleural catheter (IPC) or other intrapleural access device previously in place or
      inserted for the study, permitting drug administration to an accessible pleural space. The
      rAd-IFN will be diluted to a volume of 25 mL using sterile normal saline and will be
      administered directly to the pleural space via the IPC or similar device.

      Patients will receive gemcitabine until disease progression/ET. All adverse events will be
      captured from the time of the main study's informed consent through 30 days after the last
      dose of study treatment (rAd-IFN, celecoxib, and/or gemcitabine). All treatment emergent
      adverse events (TEAEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) will be followed until resolution or
      stabilization.

      Survival Follow-Up Phase Following disease progression, patients will be followed every 3
      months for survival. All previously recorded TEAEs and SAEs will be followed until resolution
      or stabilization.

      DOSAGE FORMS AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION:

      Patients randomized to the treatment group will receive rAd-IFN (3 × E11 viral particles) on
      Day 1 of the study, diluted to a total volume of 25 mL using sterile normal saline and
      administered into the pleural space via an IPC or similar intrapleural device.

      All study patients (treatment and control) will receive:

        -  Celecoxib administered at a dose of 400 mg twice daily orally on Days 1 to 14 of the
           study; and

        -  Gemcitabine starting on Study Day 14, using the following treatment regimen: 1250 mg/m2
           administered intravenously on Days 1 and 8 of a 21-day gemcitabine cycle and continued
           every 3 weeks until disease progression/ET.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSES:

      The primary analysis of the primary endpoint is a comparison of the OS curves between the 2
      groups using a log-rank test. The log-rank test will be stratified using the same variables
      used for stratifying the randomization.

      Secondary analyses of the primary endpoint will include a comparison of the survival rates at
      various time points since randomization and a comparison of the median survival times. The
      effect of baseline covariates will be assessed by constructing a proportional hazard model.
      Exploratory analyses will include comparison of the survival curves by methods that do not
      rely on proportional hazards.

      Secondary time-to-event endpoints will be analyzed in the same manner as the primary efficacy
      endpoint.

      Categorical efficacy endpoints will be summarized and compared between groups using a
      Pearson's test, with the effect of baseline covariates assessed using logistic regression.

      The nature, incidence, severity, relatedness, expectedness, seriousness, and outcome of TEAEs
      will be summarized by treatment group for safety analyses.

      There are 2 interim analyses planned:

        -  Analysis for futility will be assessed upon reaching 123 deaths (estimated to occur 27
           months after first patient first visit [FPFV]). Approximately half of the available Beta
           will be spent at this interim; and

        -  Analysis for efficacy will be assessed upon reaching 234 deaths (estimated to occur 45
           months after FPFV). Approximately one-fifth of the available Alpha will be spent at this
           interim.

      The final analysis will be assessed upon reaching 267 deaths (estimated to occur 60 months
      after FPFV).

      SAMPLE SIZE DETERMINATION:

      The planned sample size is approximately 300 patients. Based on a 1:1 randomization between
      treatment groups, a 2.5% one-sided significance level, and a predicted survival at 18 months
      of 35% in the rAd-IFN treatment group versus 20% in the control group, the study will have at
      least 90% power (after adjusting for the interim analyses) to detect a statistically
      significant difference between the treatment groups in the primary endpoint using the
      log-rank test.

      The calculation was based on the assumptions that recruitment is uniform over 3 years and
      that all alive patients are followed-up for 2 years after the end of recruitment.

      DATA AND SAFETY MONITORING BOARD:

      An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will be convened for this study to
      monitor safety, efficacy, and study integrity. All aspects of the DSMB's scope of review and
      procedures will be detailed in a DSMB charter.
    
  