
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether ALTENS treatment using a four-times weekly schedule for 6 weeks reduces
      overall xerostomia burden, using the University of Michigan 15-item Xerostomia-related
      Quality of Life Scale (XeQoLS), compared to the standard ALTENAS schedule of twice-weekly for
      12 weeks, at 15 months from the start of ALTENS treatment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether ALTENS treatment using a four-times weekly schedule for 6 weeks reduces
      overall xerostomia burden, using the University of Michigan 15-item Xerostomia-related
      Quality of Life Scale (XeQoLS), compared to the standard ALTENS schedule of twice-weekly for
      12 weeks, at 6, 9, 15, and 21 months from the start of ALTENS treatment.

      II. Examine the benefit of ALTENS treatment using a four-times weekly schedule for 6 weeks on
      overall quality of life, using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer
      (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire, QLQ-C30, including the questionnaire module specific
      to head and neck cancers (QLQ-H&N35), compared to the standard ALTENS schedule of
      twice-weekly for 12 weeks, at 6, 9, 15, and 21 months from the start of ALTENS treatment.

      III. To compare the toxicity between treatment schedules using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation
      Program (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (CTCAE Version 4.0).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo ALTENS delivered via the Codetron machine four times weekly (QIW) for
      6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo ALTENS delivered via the Codetron machine twice-weekly (BIW) for 12
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6, 9, 15, and 21 months.
    
  