
    
      Shoulder pain is a very common musculoskeletal disorder affecting a large portion of
      population . Prevalence ranges from 6% to 26% and it is estimated that 33% of population will
      have one episode of shoulder pain in lifetime. Rotator cuff tendonitis is considered as most
      common pathology of shoulder . Supraspinatus is one of the four muscles that can cause
      rotator cuff tendonitis. It is a common clinical disorder that causes functional and labor
      disorders. It is also the most frequent cause of shoulder pain.

      The origin of supraspinatus is fossa of scapula and its insertion is at superior facet on
      greater tuberosity of humerus. The nerve supply is at C4, C5 and C6. The main function of
      supraspinatus is abduction of shoulder.

      Indications: Supraspinatus tendonitis present following conditions

        1. Pain and inflammation

        2. Decreased ROM

        3. Decreased strength

        4. Decreased functional activity Injury Mechanisms: Supraspinatus tendonitis is caused by
           extrinsic as well as intrinsic factors. Extrinsic factors include increased subacromial
           activity, trauma, overhead activity, soft tissue imbalance, eccentric muscle overload
           and glenohumeral laxity. Intrinsic factorare acromial morphology, aging,
           acromioclavicular arthrosis and coracoacromial ligament hypertrophy.

      Kinesiotaping (KT) is widely used in clinical settings for rehabilitation of shoulder
      disorders . It is designed to facilitate the body's natural healing process while providing
      support and stability to muscles and joints without restricting the body's range of motion.
      The functioning of kinesio tap is based on following:

        1. Lifting effects of epidermis layers and papillary dermis, caused by micro-convolutions
           formed on the taped skin .

        2. Due to wrinkles generated by the KT, vascular networks in deep vessels under the skin
           are increased, reducing swelling and inflammation in injured tissues .

        3. KT contributes to pain relief by producing increased stimulation of cutaneous
           mechanoreceptors, and provides muscle activation.

      Akbaba et. al. investigated the effects of kinesio tape in management of rotator cuff tear
      and found that application of KT is effective in improving pain and function but the
      improvement was not clinically significant . Desjardins et. al. studied the efficacy of KT
      for rotator cuff tendonitis and found that KT significantly improved pain free range of
      motion. However, it couldn't be concluded with sufficient evidence that tendonitis was
      reduced significantly.
    
  