
    
      Protein is vital for the preservation of health and optimal adaptation to training. However,
      animal proteins come with a number of economic and environmental issues. Accordingly, the
      investigators need to develop an evidence base for more sustainable dietary proteins to
      support human nutrition. Mycoprotein is a non-animal protein produced by the continuous
      fermentation of the fungus Fusarium Venenatum. Previously, in a mechanistic study, it was
      determined that a single bolus of mycoprotein effectively supports muscle building in both
      rested and exercised skeletal muscle, to a similar extent as what would be expected of animal
      proteins. This suggests that similar adaptation of muscle tissue during training could be
      achieved when protein is obtained from non-animal derived protein sources.

      The study will investigate the effect of high non-animal vs animal based habitual protein
      consumption on muscle protein metabolism and changes in muscle mass and function over a
      longer period of time. Initially, the study will employ a stable isotope tracer to quantify
      muscle protein synthesis over a period of three days in healthy male and female volunteers.
      During this time participants will consume a controlled vegan diet or an animal based diet,
      with daily unilateral resistance exercise. The second phase of the study will employ a 10
      week diet and resistance training intervention, with the majority of a participant's protein
      either coming from animal or non-animal sources. This will determine the ability of a largely
      non-animal derived diet to support augmentations in muscle size and strength.

      Briefly, participants will undergo 6 muscle biopsies over the course of an 11 week period.
      Initial biopsies will quantify muscle protein synthesis. Subsequent biopsies will
      characterise the adaptive response to the effects of nutrition and exercise. MRI scans will
      be employed to determine changes in muscle volume, and DXA scans will measure changes in body
      composition.
    
  