
    
      The micro-vascular anastamosis required for creation of a radio-cephalic arteriovenous
      fistula, is technically challenging surgery. Primary patency rates for radiocephalic fistula
      varying between 50-75% in the literature and 60-95% within over own department. It is
      important to optimise primary patency rates as initial failure subjects the patient to risks
      of further surgery and often necessiates them commencing dialysis via a tunnelled line (which
      is less effective and associated with increased risks of infection) whilst a second attempt
      at creating a fistula is undertaken.

      Multiple variations of both continuous and interrupted suture technique are described in the
      vascular literature, both in animal models of arterio-venous fistulae and in clinical studies
      in other specialities. However no study has compared the two techniques within clinical
      practice.

      Evidence from in vivo animal studies is variable. Several authors have shown no difference in
      primary patency rates achieved with continuous suture versus interrupted suture technique
      used for anastomosis(Chen & Chen, 2001; Wilasrusmee et al 2007). Others have suggested that
      using a continuous suture causes a reduced cross-sectional area of the anastomosis compared
      to an interrupted technique (Tozzi & Hayoz, 2001). Similarly an interrupted suture technique
      permits expansion of the vessel at physiological pressures where as continuous technique does
      not (Norbert & Philip, 1996; Gerdisch & Hinkamp, 2003). This loss of compliance at the
      anastomosis can in turn lead to intimal hyperplasia, causing poor blood flow and failure of
      the anastamosis (Dorbin, 1994), indicating potential theoretical benefits of interrupted
      suturing.

      There are no clinical studies comparing the two techniques and variation in practice varies
      considerably. The aim of this study therefore is the compare patency rates in radiocephalic
      fistulae by randomising to one or other anastomotic technique.
    
  