
    
      Atherogenic dyslipidemia is characterized by high levels of apolipoprotein B
      (apoB)-containing lipoproteins, including very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and its
      remnants and small, dense LDL (sdLDL) particles, and reduced levels of high-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). Extensive evidence shows that atherogenic dyslipidemia
      contributes not only to residual macrovascular risk but also to inflammation and
      microvascular complications. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) recommended
      using non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) to surrogate atherogenic
      lipoproteins in clinical practice. Elevated non-HDL-C may represent abnormal secretion,
      abnormal catabolism, and/or abnormal hepatic uptake of triglycerides (TG)-rich lipoproteins.
      Recently, we have done a pilot study to study the associations between SAH gene variants and
      atherogenic dyslipidemia (surrogated by non-HDL-C) in postmenopausal women. We found that
      homozygosity for SAH haplotype 3 was associated with increased adiposity, insulin resistance,
      and elevated levels of non-HDL-C in the postmenopausal women. Moreover, researchers have
      identified that there are at least four members in the SAH gene family: SAH, MACS1, MACS2,
      and MACS3. All of them seem to have acyl-CoA synthetase activity toward medium-chain fatty
      acids and all are clustered in chromosome 16p12. In the present study, we propose to do a
      two-year study to examine the associations between the SAH gene family and atherogenic
      dyslipidemia in postmenopausal women.

      Based on the findings of the pilot study, we plan to expand the cohort of postmenopausal
      women to about 800 women, that is, recruited 660 new subjects in two years. The associations
      between non-HDL-C and the SAH gene family will be done 18 months after the study started.
      Fasting blood sampling for buffy coats and lipids is the core test of Study 2. A 75-g oral
      glucose tolerance test (OGTT) will be available as an optional test for a better phenotyping
      of insulin resistance for the participants. Detailed lipid profiling including measurements
      of VLDL cholesterol, VLDL-TG, remnant lipoprotein, LDL particle size, apoA1, apoB, and
      apoCIII will be done in the second year of the study if significant associations between gene
      variants of the SAH gene family and non-HDL-C are detected.
    
  