
    
      The study is an observational study of multi model imaging to determine structural and
      functional changes of brain and spinal cord, as well as the inflammatory environment in
      patients with neuroinflammatory and demyelination disease. Brain and spinal cord involvement
      are common in neuroinflammatory and demyelination disease including clinical isolated
      syndrome (CIS), multiple sclerosis (MS) and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSDs).
      The pathophysiology in neuroinflammatory disease involves the intensive autoimmune
      inflammatory response, resulting in demyelination and neuroaxonal injury and loss. Some
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers have been reported to indicate the pathology and reflect
      disease activity especially during acute stage. But they couldn't directly reflect the
      macroscopic and microscopic neuroaxonal change in brain and spinal cord, which seem to be
      important determinants of long-term severe disability in chronic neuroinflammatory disease.

      Finally, new MRI techniques are the most reliable and non-invasive method to assess the
      structure and function of brain and spinal cord, plus to monitor disease activity in clinical
      practice. Double inversion recovery (DIR) imaging allows better detection of cortical and
      white matter lesion, which has highlighted the role in MS. Diffusion kurtosis imaging (DKI)
      which has been proposed to characterize the deviation of water diffusion in neural tissues
      from Gaussian diffusion, is promising to provide information of demyelination and subsequent
      inflammatory processes in brain or spinal cord. Quantitative susceptibility mapping (QSM) has
      enabled MRI of tissue magnetic susceptibility to advance from simple qualitative detection of
      hypointense blooming artifacts to precise quantitative measurement of spatial
      biodistributions. QSM better depicts spatial susceptibility patterns in MS lesions compared
      to phase-based imaging. Besides, resting-state functional imaging has the potential to map
      the intrinsic functional brain networks and to detect early functional brain changes in
      neuroinflammatory disease.

      This study will be a prospective cohort study of patients with neuroinflammatory and
      demyelination disease. Subjects will undertake MR scans at acute stage, and required
      follow-up visits after 1 moth, 6 months and one year. The MR scans is necessary at each
      visit.

      This study does not limit treatment methods. Patients commonly use high-dose intravenous
      steroid therapy (HD-S) during acute stage. The HD-S treatment course referred to intravenous
      administration of 1 g of glucocorticoid daily for 3 consecutive days and continuous dose 240
      mg reduction for 60mg oral administration. Immunomodulatory therapies are necessary for the
      remission stage. The treatment methods include: Azathioprine (start at 50 mg per day, add 50
      mg per week to 2 mg/kg*d); Mycophenolate Mofetil (The initial dose was 0.25g bid, add 0.5g
      per week to 0.75g bid); and Rituximab (500 mg on the 1st day, the 15th day, then 500mg per
      half year).
    
  