
    
      Individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI) have an accelerated trajectory of aging in the
      cardiovascular system compared with same-age individuals in the general population,and
      accordingly, have a higher rate of cardiovascular mortality. For example, SCI is
      significantly associated with an increased risk of heart disease (odds ratio = 2.72) and
      stroke (odds ratio = 3.72).This is at least partially attributed to their impaired blood
      pressure regulation as a consequence of the autonomic nervous system dysfunction, physical
      inactivity and increased sedentary time. As such, there is a pressing need to identify
      practical strategies for increasing physical activity and decreasing sedentary time.

      Robotic-assisted gait training (RGT) is used in the rehabilitation of patients with SCI,
      although individual access is often limited and infrequent. Task-specific stepping practice
      enhances the afferent feedback associated with normal locomotion and can induce plasticity in
      the involved motor centers. As RGT enables practitioners to increase the intensity and total
      duration of physical activity whilst maintaining a physiological gait pattern, there may be
      significant benefit for people with SCI to manage their risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD).
      This may be evident if an individual with SCI has regular and continued access to such
      technology. However, there is a paucity of research which has considered the vascular benefit
      of implementing robotic-assisted training for people with SCI as most research focuses on
      outcome measures such as gait velocity, gait distance, leg strength, balance and
      spasticity.Further, while this technology may be practical in terms of application, the cost
      is currently prohibitive. Thus, prior to advocating resource intensive longitudinal
      randomized control trials, there's a need for short-term trials using established measures of
      cardiovascular health.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the effect of a RGT (exoskeleton) program on central
      and peripheral hemodynamic markers in people with SCI.
    
  