
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of neoadjuvant radiotherapy and docetaxel in
           patients who are undergoing prostatectomy for high-risk localized prostate cancer.

        -  Determine the pathologic response rate in patients treated at the phase II dose.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) short-term response rate in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the long-term safety of this regimen prior to radical prostatectomy in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the clinical response to this regimen by urologic examination of these
           patients.

        -  Determine the surgical margin status at the time of prostatectomy in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Determine the effect of this regimen, in terms of Health-Related Quality of Life by
           Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) and urinary symptom scores by the
           American Urological Association's measures, in these patients.

        -  Determine the clinical progression-free rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Identify pretreatment predictors of response in these patients by examining tissue
           biomarkers in preserved pretreatment biopsy specimens.

        -  Determine the biologic impact of this regimen on these patients by examining the
           prostatectomy specimens.

        -  Collect frozen serum for future analysis of correlative biomarkers.

        -  Compare the RNA content (gene expression profile) of pre- and post-treatment tumor
           specimens in order to describe the molecular impact of this regimen on prostate cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of docetaxel followed by a phase II study.
      All patients undergo a biopsy of the prostate to gather research-only specimens prior to the
      beginning of treatment.

        -  Phase I: Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 5 weeks. Patients
           also receive docetaxel IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29. Treatment continues in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Approximately 4-6 weeks after
           completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo a radical prostatectomy.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of docetaxel until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are treated at the
      MTD.

        -  Phase II: Patients undergo radiotherapy as in phase I. Patients also receive docetaxel
           at the MTD determined in phase I and then undergo prostatectomy as in phase I.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 42 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  