
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the progression-free survival and overall survival of patients with locally
           advanced or metastatic prostate cancer treated with transcutaneous estrogen patches vs
           luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analogues.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the cardiovascular system-related morbidity and mortality in patients treated
           with these regimens

        -  Compare the activity of these treatments, in terms of castrate level of hormones,
           failure-free survival, and biochemical failure, in these patients.

        -  Compare other toxicities, including osteoporosis, hot flushes, gynecomastia, and anemia,
           in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of
      2 treatment arms at 1(control):1 (patch) ratio.

        -  Arm I (control): Patients receive luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonists as per
           local practice in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (patch): Patients receive 4 transcutaneous estrogen patches, changing twice
           weekly for 4 weeks. Patients' testosterone levels are measured at week 4. Patients whose
           testosterone level is > 1.7 nmol/L continue to receive patch as before and have their
           testosterone level measured every 2 weeks. Patients whose testosterone level is < 1.7
           nmol/L at week 4 or any other point receive 3 transcutaneous estrogen patches changed
           twice weekly in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline; at weeks 4, 8, and 12; every 3 months for 24 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2200 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  