
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of clofarabine in adult patients with relapsed
           CD20-positive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).

        -  To estimate objective response rates of clofarabine in combination with rituximab in
           these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the 1-year progression-free survival of this regimen using the mean
           tolerated dose in these patients.

        -  To determine the safety and efficacy of this regimen in these patients.

        -  To determine if clofarabine acts as an inhibitor of DNA methylation similar to
           cladribine by performing scientific correlates.

        -  To determine whether response to clofarabine alone or in combination with rituximab
           correlates with changes in global serum DNA methylation index.

        -  To identify the gene activated by clofarabine therapy by using genomic DNA and RNA array
           technology.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of clofarabine followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive oral clofarabine once daily on days 1-14 of all courses and rituximab IV on
      days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of course one and then on day 1 of courses 2-8. Courses repeat every 4
      weeks. After 2 courses of therapy, patients who are eligible for stem cell transplantation
      may either undergo transplantation or continue receiving study drugs until disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity for up to a total of 8 courses of treatment.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for correlative studies. Samples are
      analyzed to identify global DNA methylation differences and correlate changes in methylation
      index (MI) with patient outcome after treatment with clofarabine with or without rituximab
      via high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC); to determine differences in gene
      expression via microarray analysis and micro-RNA (miRNA) expression via quantitative
      polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in patients with high compared to low global DNA methylation
      index and miRNA expression for CD5+ B-lymphocytes obtained from pediatric tonsils and from
      B-lymphocytes of 5 healthy controls; and to determine gene expression and miRNA profiles in
      patients before and after treatment with clofarabine with or without rituximab via genomic
      DNA arrays.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed once a year for 2 years.
    
  