
    
      Rationale:

      Almost 60% of antibiotics in frail elderly is prescribed for alleged UTI. About half of the
      antibiotics for UTI in this population are prescribed for non-specific signs and symptoms; a
      substantial part of these prescriptions might not be necessary.

      Research question:

      Does a tailored multifaceted antibiotic stewardship intervention reduce antibiotic use for
      UTI in residential care homes and nursing homes attended by general practitioners (GPs)?

      Study design, setting and population:

      A pragmatic cluster randomised controlled trial using a modified community-based
      participatory action research approach. In the intervention group the latest UTI guidelines
      (which are standard care) are actively implemented at the level of the GP/caregivers.
      Residents ≥ 70 year with ADL dependency from 34 care homes + attending GP practices will
      participate in Norway, Sweden, Poland and the Netherlands.

      Methods:

      The study has two measurement periods; a baseline period (5 months) and a follow-up period (7
      months). In between the antibiotic stewardship intervention will be tailored and implemented
      in intervention practices. GPs will prospectively register suspected UTIs on standardized
      registration forms and (study) nurses/assistants will follow-up patients at day 7 and day 21
      for each UTI.

      Patients will be enrolled prior to the start of the study.

        -  June-August 2019: patient are recruited, informed consent is obtained, baseline
           characteristics of patients are recorded

        -  Sept 2019: study starts (from this moment onwards, the outcomes are being assessed).

      Data analysis:

      The primary analysis will be to assess the number of prescriptions of antibiotics for
      suspected UTI in the follow-up period, correcting for the baseline period and controlled for
      pre-specified confounders, using a generalized linear mixed model for Poisson distributions.
    
  