
    
      Sub topic 1:Probe melting curve method for the analysis of drug resistance detection
      technology for detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis resistance performance analysis.

      Research methods: multi center clinical study. Research object: sputum acid fast staining
      microscopy positive of pulmonary tuberculosis with suspicious symptoms.

      Technical principle and operation method: see attachment.

      Entry criteria:

      1) during the study of all smear positive pulmonary tuberculosis with suspicious symptoms; 2)
      can provide 3-4ml sputum samples three times in 2 days; 3) informed consent. Exclusion
      criteria: the quality of sputum specimen is not qualified (sputum sample is less than 3ml or
      saliva sputum).

        1. sample estimate Method and formula: according to the national tuberculosis drug
           resistance in the baseline survey results, isoniazid, rifampicin, fluoroquinolones and
           streptomycin anti tuberculosis drugs, fluoroquinolones resistance rate is low; using
           fluoroquinolones detection estimation sample content, can meet the needs of other anti
           tuberculosis drug resistance rate analysis.

        2. observation index: (1) basic information: demographic data, underlying diseases, the
           diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis, epidemiological characteristics.

      (2) the clinical symptoms and signs: fever, night sweats, cough, sputum and sputum, weight
      loss, hemoptysis or sputum with blood, chest pain, dyspnea, fatigue, height, weight,
      pulmonary rales.

      (3) chest imaging (chest X-ray or CT scan): the specific description of the lesion
      distribution and morphological characteristics and scoring.

      (4) laboratory examination: erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), blood routine test, blood
      biochemistry (AST, ALT, TP, ALB, BUN, Cr and Glu), C-reactive protein (CRP).

      (5) microbiological examination of sputum, sputum acid fast staining microscopy, MGIT liquid
      culture and drug sensitivity detection, xpert MTB/RIF, probe melting curves technology.

      95% confidence intervals, using statistical methods by chi square test and Kappa test.

      sub topic 2:the follow up of diagnosis and treatment in application of Probe melting curve
      method of resistance detection in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis.

      Research methods: multi center clinical study. Study subjects and sample size: MGIT liquid
      culture positive pulmonary tuberculosis patients in sub topic 1, to be included in at least
      500 cases.

      Entry criteria and exclusion criteria: the same as the research sub topic 1.

      1 observation index:

        1. with the clinical symptom and physical sign of diagnostic node changes: fever, night
           sweats, cough, sputum and sputum, weight loss, hemoptysis or sputum with blood, chest
           pain, dyspnea, fatigue, height, weight, pulmonary rales.

        2. the changes of chest imaging in the follow up nodes: a detailed description of the
           image.

        3. with the clinical examination of diagnostic node: erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR),
           blood routine test, blood biochemistry (AST, ALT, TP, ALB, BUN, Cr and Glu), C-reactive
           protein, and so on.

        4. with diagnosis node sputum microbiology examination: sputum acid fast staining
           microscopy, MGIT liquid drug sensitive culture, Xpert-MTB/RIF and probe melting curves.

        5. classification of outcomes:

             1. effective: to complete the prescribed course of treatment, sputum culture negative;
                chest X-ray absorption improvement;

             2. failure: treatment for 6/8 months with smear / culture examination positive and /
                or radiographic improvement;

             3. non tuberculosis deaths: death due to causes other than tuberculosis;

             4. tuberculosis death: death due to disease progression or complications; (E)
                shedding: interruption of treatment and follow-up can not be achieved;

           (f) diagnostic change: diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis in the treatment process.

        6. the change of drug resistance spectrum (a) drug resistance spectrum change: the change
           of drug resistance of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in the course of follow-up; (b) not
           uniform resistance: refers to the of the results of the original probe melting curve
           resistance detection technology analysis, it is found that the probe melting curve peak
           spectrum chart presents the characteristics of two kinds of different genotype.

      2.quality control and acceptance: the same research sub topic 1. 3 data statistics and
      analysis: Probe melting curves,the molecular diagnostic technique in patients with pulmonary
      tuberculosis treatment with statistical methods is the application of diagnosis in the
      calculated two-sided 95% confidence interval, chi square test and kappa test.

      sub topic 3:Probe melting curve technology for the cost-effect analysis in detection of
      drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

      Methods: using the cost analysis method and the questionnaire. Research object: research
      project implementation hospital laboratory.

      Data collection, statistics and analysis:

      1 cost analysis

        1. each of the implementation of the following basic data collection and data entry
           software.

             1. the basic costs: were collected for the implementation of the hospital basic input
                costs, including laboratory housing area, housing area of the office area,
                laboratory construction and renovation costs, considering the useful life of
                housing, the conversion of housing cost per unit time.

             2. laboratory equipment costs: all experimental equipment of the cost in purchasing
                the new price to calculate and the cost should include all procurement costs
                associated with, such as transportation, installation; annual collection of major
                equipment maintenance / repair costs, according to the useful life of the
                instrument, converted instrument unit time cost.

             3. laboratory management costs: laboratory water, electricity, garbage disposal fees,
                heating costs, etc.;

             4. personnel costs: laboratory staff wages, including all bonuses and allowances paid
                to employees; (E) cost of supplies: laboratory, including gloves, laboratory
                clothing, hats, conventional reagents, such as the unit price;

           (f) the above collection cost input software, as a basis for the implementation of the
           basic data of the hospital;

        2. selection of opportunity cost method, were three projects in the implementation of
           hospital laboratory independently collected nine laboratory personnel process time, the
           use of instruments, reagents, consumables and the number of consumption, accurately to
           the recorded in the tables of statistics in; every collection cost shall cover high,
           medium and low different sample size, average value of 3 times the amount of sample;
           will collect the data and time consuming product data entry forms, different batches of
           cost calculation, will each region three times the cost of taking the average value is
           real-time fluorescent nucleic acid isothermal amplification detection technique for each
           detection unit.

        3. to analyze the prevalence rate of tuberculosis in different projects, and to calculate
           the cost of tuberculosis patients in different regions.

      2 acceptance survey: the design of the questionnaire, the survey of 3 projects in the
      implementation of the hospital not less than 10 laboratory technicians. The questionnaire
      covers the convenience of other methods, the needs of the laboratory, the application
      prospects and other aspects of the content.
    
  