
    
      Background

      Sepsis has a high morbidity and mortality, hence is a challenging medical problem throughout
      the world. Three therapeutic principles must be taken into account to improve organ
      dysfunction and survival in sepsis: 1) early and adequate antimicrobial therapy; 2)
      reestablishment of adequate tissue perfusion; and 3) timely identification and control of the
      septic foci. Moreover, survival in sepsis depends on the timely identification and
      appropriate treatment. Progressive advances in sepsis management over the past decades have
      led to reduced mortality indices. Mortality rates have decline progressively from 43% in 1993
      to 37% in 2003, to 29% in 2007; furthermore, reaching a low in 2012 of 18.4%. All in all, in
      order to establish a global outlook and adequate therapeutic algorithms for sepsis, the
      factors associated with high mortality rates in septic shock must be identified.

      Severe sepsis and septic shock are two clinical entities that have a great impact on
      intra-hospital morbidity and mortality, as well as on the cost of health care systems;
      accounting for a large proportion among the causes of admission to the intensive care unit
      (ICU). In the United States in 2013, septicemia was the hospital condition that accounted for
      the highest cost, reaching a total cost of $23.7 billion dollars (i.e. 6.2% of total
      hospitalization costs); followed by osteoarthritis (i.e. $16.5 billion dollars, 4.3% of total
      hospitalization costs), births (i.e. $13.3 billion, 3.5%), complications arising from medical
      devices, implants or grafts (i.e. $12.4 billion, 3.3%), and acute myocardial infarction (i.e.
      $12.1 billion, 3.2%).

      The prevalence of sepsis at the ICU across multiple centers in Spain ranges between 6 and
      30%. Furthermore, more than 50% of patients with sepsis develop severe sepsis and 25% septic
      shock. Carrillo-Esper and colleagues (2009) report that in Mexican public and private
      institutions, 27.3% of 40,957 hospitalizations (i.e. 11,183 cases) developed sepsis. This
      study which included data from ICUs of 24 out of 32 federal entities reports a mortality
      secondary to sepsis of 30.4%. In Mexico, the hospitalization costs of patients with sepsis is
      also a cause of concern, with a total estimated cost of $835 million dollars and an average
      patient cost of $73,000 dollars.

      Sepsis definition

      The systemic inflammatory response syndrome or SIRS response is the complex
      pathophysiological reaction to an insult (e.g. infection, trauma, burns). The Third
      International Consensus Definitions for Sepsis and Septic Shock (Sepsis-3), defines sepsis as
      a life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by a dysregulated host response to an infection.
      Severe sepsis is the sepsis complicated by organ dysfunction, which could progress to septic
      shock (i.e. sepsis-induced hypotension persisting despite adequate fluid resuscitation). The
      definitions for sepsis, septic shock, and organ dysfunction have essentially not changed in
      the past two decades. Despite its global importance, the recognition of sepsis is inadequate.
      Furthermore, the various manifestations of sepsis make diagnosis difficult, even for
      experienced physicians. Therefore, a comprehensive definition and clinical guidelines for
      sepsis management are needed; this would facilitate the clinical identification of sepsis by
      health professionals, thus improving the diagnostic accuracy and quantification of sepsis.

      Thrombocytopenia

      Platelets are the smallest blood cells, being only fragments of the megakaryocyte cytoplasm;
      however, they have a critical role in normal hemostasis and contribute to thrombotic
      disorders. The normal range of platelets in humans is 150,000-400,000 platelets per
      microliter of blood. The production of platelets is critically dependent on thrombopoietin,
      which acts on the differentiation and proliferation of megakaryocyte progenitors and in the
      maturation of megakaryocytes. Platelets have a short life of up to 10 days. Thrombocytopenia
      can be classified as: 1) mild, from 100 x 10^9 a 149 x 10^9/L; 2) moderate, from 50 x 10^9 to
      99 x 10^9/L; and 3) severe, <50 x 10^9/L. It has been reported that 20% to 50% of patients in
      the ICU have thrombocytopenia. Aside from hemostatic functions and playing a central role in
      thrombosis, platelets participate in the immune response. Platelets react to an infectious
      agent by altering tissue integrity; contributing to the inflammatory cascade, as well as in
      the elimination process of pathogens and tissue repair. Platelets are activated in patients
      with SIRS and sepsis. Activation is followed by platelet isolation within the
      microcirculation and consequently giving rise to a thrombocytopenia. Platelets regulate
      inflammation and sepsis through multiple mechanisms. Among these mechanisms is innate
      immunity, where platelets express a receptor for lipopolysaccharide (LPS) Toll-like
      receptor-4, which contributes to thrombocytopenia through recruitment of neutrophils to the
      pulmonary system in a systemic response to LPS. Platelets also interact with other
      leukocytes, including monocytes. The interaction of activated platelets with monocytes
      induces the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kB (NF-kB) and expression of NF-kB
      dependent inflammatory genes. In addition to direct interactions with leukocytes, platelets
      contribute to inflammation and immune activation by releasing cytokines and cellular
      mediators stored in dense and alpha granules. The gold standard for the evaluation of
      thrombopoiesis is through bone marrow aspiration; however, since bone marrow aspiration is an
      invasive procedure, it is not frequently performed in clinical conditions such as sepsis.

      The association between level of thrombocytopenia (i.e. mild, moderate, and severe) and
      mortality has been previously studied in sepsis. Claushuis and colleagues (2016), reported
      the mortality rates of 1,483 consecutive patients admitted to the intensive care unit with
      sepsis and degrees of thrombocytopenia (i.e. mild, moderate and severe, depending on platelet
      counts, very low <50 × 10^9/L, intermediate-low 50 × 10^9 to 99 × 10^9/L, low 100 × 10^9 to
      149 × 10^9/L) against patients with normal platelet count (i.e. 150 × 10^9 to 399 × 10^9/L).
      The mortality reported at 30 days was 25.1%, 37.2%, and 54.1% for patients with mild,
      moderate and severe thrombocytopenia respectively. More studies are needed to confirm the
      relationship between the platelet levels and septic shock. We decided to conduct a
      prospective longitudinal study similar to the one performed by Claushuis and colleagues
      (2016) in our hospital in order to further understand the epidemiology and clinical
      relationship between platelet levels and mortality secondary to septic shock in a different
      population.

      Complications: septic shock and multiple organ dysfunction

      Sepsis can progress to septic shock, multiple organ failure and death if not recognized
      early. More than 50% of patients with sepsis develop severe sepsis and 25% septic shock;
      these figures represent 15% of all admissions to the ICU. Septic shock is defined as a septic
      process associated with circulatory, cellular and metabolic abnormalities; therefore, there
      is a higher risk of mortality compared to the unique presence of sepsis. Clinically, it
      includes patients who meet sepsis criteria and who, despite adequate fluid resuscitation,
      require vasopressors to maintain a mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) above 65mmHg and serum
      lactate concentration levels above 2 mmol/L. The factors that contribute to septic shock are
      1) vasodilation; 2) endothelial dysfunction (i.e. increased permeability due to loss of
      vascular smooth muscle reactivity secondary to cellular and humoral mediators); 3)
      hypovolemia; and 4) bilateral ventricular dysfunction.

      Multiple organ dysfunction (MOD) refers to progressive organic dysfunction in a severely ill
      patient; where homeostasis cannot be maintained without intervention. Because of its
      severity, the organic dysfunction is at one end of the spectrum of severity of the disease.
      Both infectious conditions (e.g. sepsis, septic shock), and non-infectious conditions (e.g.
      SIRS for pancreatitis) can present in MOD. MOD can manifest with affection to different
      systems such as: cardiovascular; pulmonary; hepatic; renal; gastrointestinal; and
      hematologic, among others. Multiple organ dysfunction can be defined as an increase of two or
      more points in the Sequential (Sepsis-Related) Organ Function Assessment score (SOFA). It is
      important to note that the SOFA score is a mark of organic dysfunction; consequently, it does
      not determine the individual treatment strategies, nor does it predict mortality according to
      demographic data (e.g. age) or the underlying conditions (e.g. stem cell transplant
      recipient, postoperative patient). However, the SOFA score helps identify those patients who
      potentially have a high risk of dying from an infection.

      Singer and colleagues (2016) proposed the quickSOFA (qSOFA) scale in order to facilitate the
      identification of patients at risk of dying from sepsis. The qSOFA scale is a modified
      version of the SOFA scale, where a score greater than two points is associated with sepsis;
      consequently, having a poor prognosis. The qSOFA score can be easily calculated as it only
      has three components. Each component is assigned a point: 1) respiratory rate ≥22
      ventilations per minute; 2) alteration of the mental state; and 3) systolic blood pressure
      ≤100mmHg). Hypoperfusion duration is directly associated with MOD, accounting for a mortality
      of 70%. According to SOFA score predictions, patients who meet these criteria for septic
      shock have a higher mortality than patients who do not meet the criteria (i.e. ≥40% versus
      ≥10%). Raith and colleagues (2017) report that in 182 ICUs in Australia and New Zeland,
      between 2000 and 2015, 184,875 patients were admitted with a primary admission diagnosis
      associated with an infectious process. The objective of the aforementioned study was to
      validate and evaluate the discriminatory capabilities of a two or more points increase in the
      SOFA score, a two or more increase in SIRS criteria, or a two or more points increase in the
      qSOFA score among critically ill patients with an infection. The retrospective study reported
      a greater capacity to predict the intra-hospital mortality of the SOFA scale over the SIRS
      criteria and qSOFA criteria.

      Number of required patients and power calculation

      The different sample sizes were calculated to detect statistically significant differences
      taking as parameters an α = 0.05 and with a statistical power of 0.8 (i.e. 1-β). The work
      carried out by Claushuis and colleagues (2016) was used to determine the minimum sample size
      needed to detect statistically significant changes using the categorical variables of mild,
      moderate and severe thrombocytopenia as previously defined in this protocol at 30, 60 and 90
      days of stay in the ICU. The sample size calculator based on proportions of two samples
      considering the equality of the two extremes (i.e. tails of a Gaussian distribution), was
      used, available on the web page http://powerandsamplesize.com/. Table 8 summarizes the
      parameters used to perform these calculations. The parameters are the following: nA, number
      of patients with normal platelet concentration (i.e. higher than 150,000/μL and lower than
      399,000/μL); nB, number of patients with thrombocytopenia; pA, mortality, in percentage, of
      patients with normal platelet concentration; pB, mortality, in percentage, of patients with
      thrombocytopenia; k (nA/nB), sampling proportion; N, sample size needed. Taking into account
      the results, we consider that a sample of more than 30 patients with severe thrombocytopenia
      is sufficient, while a sample of 105 patients with moderate thrombocytopenia is sufficient. A
      similar number of patients without thrombocytopenia is needed to make the comparative
      analysis of mortality.
    
  