
    
      Cohort pilot study to characterise the chest wall movement during tidal breathing in children
      admitted due to acute obstructive airways disease, using non-invasive SLP methodology
      (Thora3DiTM).

      The investigators propose to utilise the SLP in children admitted for obstructive airways
      disease and track progression of their condition during the hospital stay. Focus will be in
      the SLP output, and investigators aim to 1) quantify the breathing distress and whether this
      number has an effect on the patient outcome and 2) further aim to see if regional changes in
      the thoracic-abdominal movement can be recognized by the measurement method.

      The data collected from this study will allow investigators to characterise chest wall
      movements in children with obstructive airways disease and to examine the effect of the
      treatment on this movement.

      Study population

      Investigators will aim to recruit:

        -  35-60 children between the ages of 1 month and 12 years with acute obstructive airways
           disease

        -  Admitted to hospital within 24 hours

      Locations: Participants are children, in Evelina Children's hospital as a patient due to
      obstructive airways disease

      The eligible children admitted to hospital will be identified at the clinical handovers and
      after obtaining the parental consent to participate in the study, the first measurements are
      performed as soon as possible, however within the first 24 hours of admission. The SLP
      measurements are repeated in 24 hour intervals 2-10 times depending on the duration of
      hospital stay.

      Clinical patient data of age, sex, ethnicity, weight and length will be collected. A member
      of the clinical / research team (respiratory clinical fellow) collects structured data on the
      breathing distress using a modified pulmonary index scale for children (mPIS).

      Measurement of standard clinical variables, such as respiratory rate, heart rate and oxygen
      saturation will be made each time the SLP readings are recorded. The measurement will be
      taken on a bare skin with a white medical adhesive tape to cover any existing medical
      attachments on thoracic-abdominal region (such as ECG electrodes). Alternatively,
      measurements can be made if the child is wearing a close fitting white garment without any
      creases (such as a babygrow).

      A structured light pattern will be projected onto the chest and abdominal wall and the
      movement of this pattern as the patient breathes will be recorded for 3-5 min. The total
      period of testing per session should take approximately 15 minutes per person, including the
      movement of the device and the positioning of the patient.

      Physiological and clinical data collection at each study point:

      Dates of onset of breathing difficulty, admission and discharge Oxygen treatment and
      breathing support (Flow in L/min for HFNC, Fi02 %O2, CPAP settings) Current medication Need
      for NG-tube Need for IV-fluids Heart Rate SaO2 Respiratory Rate

      Data analysis will include the traditional time indices from tidal breathing, and the
      variability of these time indices.

      Appropriate statistical analyses will be identified depending on the study and distribution
      of the samples (parametric vs. non-parametric). It is suspected that t-tests (one-sample to
      two sample), analysis of variance (ANOVA), or Mann-Whitney-U tests will be used where
      appropriate.

      The investigators will also explore novel higher levels of data interpretation including
      Bayesian interpretation of respiratory function, and machine learning to predict disease
      diagnosis, severity and discharge.
    
  