
    
      Eligibility will be determined based on historical local pathology and medical record
      information. Informed consent will be obtained and eligible subjects will be treated with the
      Cryoballoon Focal Ablation System (CbFAS) at baseline.

      Subjects will return every 3 months +/- 6 weeks for repeat treatment for up to 12 months OR
      until complete eradication of intestinal metaplasia (CEIM) and complete eradication of
      dysplasia (CED) are achieved (at which point subjects enter the follow-up phase), whichever
      occurs first.

      Treatment procedures will be performed on an outpatient basis according to the site's
      standards of care for anesthesia and sedation during esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD)
      procedures. EGD examinations will be performed using high definition White Light Endoscopy
      (WLE), plus Narrow Band Imaging (NBI) or i-SCAN to assess BE Prague Score and identify tissue
      landmarks and ablation zones.

      A high definition endoscope will be used for all ablations performed with the CryoBalloon
      Focal Ablation System (CbFAS). The System will be used according to the instructions for use
      provided with the product and in accordance with the current standard of care for treatment
      of BE.

      Repeat cryoablation may be performed if esophageal columnar mucosa is visible on EGD or if
      intervening biopsies (if a site chooses to obtain intervening biopsies as standard of care)
      are positive for any esophageal columnar epithelium until complete eradication of all
      unwanted tissue is achieved.

      Intervening endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) or endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD)
      after enrollment may be performed for nodular areas detected after baseline. EMR/ESD may be
      performed at the same session as the cryoablation if the EMR/ESD site is >=3cm away from the
      ablation target site. Cryoablation should be performed before EMR/ESD. If the EMR/ESD site is
      within 3cm of target treatment area, then CbFAS will be delayed for at least 6 weeks.

      Residual islands of columnar mucosa of <5 mm in diameter each and <= 3 total can be treated
      with Argon Plasma Coagulation (APC) and/or CbFAS at the discretion of the treating physician
      to avoid over treatment of neo-squamous mucosa.

      Stenosis requiring treatment based on the physician's discretion, which develops after
      enrollment, will be treated with standard of care balloon- or wire-guided dilation.
      Cryoablation may be performed at the same session if the dilated site is >= 3 cm from the
      target cryoablation site. Otherwise, cryoablation will be postponed to another visit within 1
      month +/- 2 weeks.

      When CbFAS treatment is received, subjects will be asked to complete assessments immediately
      after CbFAS treatment, and will be contacted 1 day, 7 days, and 30 days after the procedure.

      If no visible BE is present during the endoscopy, then biopsies will be taken following the
      standard Seattle biopsy protocol (4 quadrant biopsies at 1cm intervals starting at the
      gastric cardia 1cm distal to the gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) (top of the gastric folds)
      and continuing proximally throughout the length of the original extent of BE, including any
      neosquamous or re-epithelialized tissue).

      Biopsies will be read by local expert pathologist. If biopsies indicate CEIM and CED, then
      subjects will enter the 12 month follow-up phase. If biopsies do not indicate CEIM and CED,
      then subjects will return for additional CbFAS treatment in 3 months +/-6 weeks.

      Non-responders are defined as subjects who have not achieved CEIM and CED at 12 months post
      baseline CbFAS treatment. Non-responders at 12 months will exit the study and continue
      treatment at the physician's discretion and according to standard of care at each site.

      Subjects who achieve CEIM and CED within 12 months of the baseline CbFAS procedure will enter
      a 12 month follow-up phase. Subjects will be followed per routine care guidelines for their
      condition, described below:

      Subjects with baseline LGD will return at 6 and 12 months from the initial CEIM and CED date
      for follow-up (+/-2 weeks). Subjects with baseline HGD or IMC will return at 3, 6, 9, and 12
      months from initial CEIM and CED date for follow-up (+/- 2 weeks).

      During follow-up procedures, high definition WLE, plus NBI or i-SCAN will be used to assess
      Prague score, and biopsies will be taken following the standard Seattle biopsy protocol (4
      quadrant biopsies at 1cm intervals starting at the gastric cardia 1cm distal to the
      gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) (top of the gastric folds) and continuing proximally
      throughout the length of the original extent of BE, including any neosquamous or
      re-epithelialized tissue). Biopsies will be read by local expert pathologist.

      If recurrent BE is detected during follow-up endoscopy with biopsy demonstrating compatible
      histology, then subjects will be exited from the study and treated at the physician's
      discretion.

      Study participation is complete if: 1) Subject has not reached CEIM and CED at 12 month post
      baseline treatment; or 2) If BE or dysplasia recur after initial CEIM and CED post
      enrollment; or 3) After completion of the 12 month follow-up EGD with biopsies.
    
  