
    
      Introduction: Fractures of the thoracic and lumbar spine are the most frequent fractures of
      the axial skeleton, and correspond to about 89% of vertebral fractures. Two-thirds of these
      fractures occur in the thoracolumbar transition between T11 and L2 (50% of thoracic spine
      fractures at T12 level and 60% of lumbar spine fractures at L1 level). Surgical treatment of
      thoracolumbar spine fractures has been indicated in unstable fractures with the aim of
      stabilizing the fractured vertebral segment and allowing early rehabilitation without the use
      of external immobilization and rest in the bed. Conventional surgical treatment has been
      performed by means of fixation and posterior arthrodesis of the vertebral segment using
      pedicle fixation systems with or without arthrodesis The scientific challenge of the project
      is to carry out this method of pioneering study in our country, as no prospective randomized
      clinical trial has been performed in our country to compare the outcome of surgical treatment
      of thoracolumbar spine fractures through conventional open surgery or surgery Minimally
      invasive percutaneous. There are few reports of prospective and randomized trials on this
      subject and its implementation has been stimulated to increase the level of evidence related
      to the surgical treatment of thoracolumbar spine fractures.

      The objective of the study will be to compare the results of treatment of thoracolumbar spine
      fractures through the open approach (conventional surgery) or percutaneous (minimally
      invasive) approach with a pedicle fixation system without vertebral arthrodesis.

      The hypothesis of the study is that minimally invasive percutaneous surgery has the advantage
      of producing less surgical trauma with less intra- and postoperative bleeding, lower pain
      intensity, shorter hospitalization time and lower rate of complications, and postero-lateral
      arthrodesis Is not required in the treatment of thoracolumbar spine fractures.

      Material and methods

      After the clinical and radiographic evaluation (simple radiographs, CT and MRI if necessary)
      of the patients the fracture will be classified according to the classification Magerl et
      al., and the therapeutic planning defined. Fractures with surgical indication by means of the
      posterior approach will be selected for the study and the randomization process performed
      individually for each type of fracture (A, B and C) according to the Magerl classification.
      Patients will be randomized and assigned to two groups: A - conventional open surgery and B -
      minimally invasive percutaneous surgery.

      Surgical treatment will be performed by stabilizing the fractured vertebral segment (proximal
      vertebra and vertebra distal to fractured vertebra and fractured vertebra) by means of a 6.5
      mm or 6.5 mm diameter polyaxial pedicle screw system. In the fractured proximal and distal
      vertebrae, screws will be used up to the vertebral body and in fractured vertebra shorter
      screws that do not penetrate the vertebral body will be used. In the fractured vertebra,
      single or bilateral pedicle screw will be used according to the degree of involvement of the
      pedicle of the fractured vertebra.

      The vertebral fixation system will be applied through the conventional open approach (group
      A) or minimally invasive percutaneous approach (group B) according to allocation after
      randomization.

      Patients will be evaluated through perioperative, clinical, and radiographic parameters.

      Perioperative parameters:

      Time of surgery - time elapsed between incision and closure of the skin. Intraoperative
      bleeding - a measure of the amount of blood evaluated by the amount of blood drawn and blood
      from the compresses and gauzes used.

      Postoperative bleeding - a measure of the amount of blood aspirated through the drain and
      measured in the postoperative gauze pads and dressings.

      Time of use of fluoroscopy. Postoperative walking time Length of hospital stay Drugs used in
      the postoperative period

      Clinical parameters:

      Visual pain scale (VAS) - evaluated in the preoperative period, 1,2,3,4,5,6,7 postoperative
      days, 1,2,3,6,12 and 24 months.

      Medical Outcomes Study 36 - Item Short - Form Health Survey (SF-36) HADS - Hospital Anxiety
      Depression Scale EQ-5D-5L Dennis Pain and Work Scale Pain Assessment Scale (Dennis) P1:
      absence of pain P2: minimal occasional pain; No need for medication. P3: Moderate pain,
      occasional medication and no interruption of professional or daily activities.

      P4: moderate or severe pain, occasional absence of work, significant change in daily
      activities.

      P5: constant, severe pain, use of chronic analgesic medication

      Work ability assessment scale (Dennis) W1: return to previous work (heavy arm activity) or
      heavy physical activities W2: return to previous work (sedentary) or heavy physical labor
      with restrictions W3: unable to return previous plus works full time in another activity W4:
      unable to return full time to work W5: does not work, totally disabled They were evaluated in
      the immediate postoperative period, 1,2,3,6,12 and 24 months.

      Radiographic Parameters Simple radiographs in AP and profile - location, fracture
      classification, assessment of vertebral body height, evaluation of Farcy's sagittal index,
      fractured kyphosis, fractured vertebral kyphosis, intervertebral disc height above and below
      fractured vertebra, alignment in AP, (preoperative, immediate postoperative, 1,2,3,6,12 and
      24 months).

      Alignment in the coronal plane will be performed by measuring the angle of Cobb between the
      line parallel to the proximal vertebral plaque of the vertebra above the fractured vertebra
      and distal vertebral plate below the fractured vertebra.

      The height of the vertebral body will be evaluated by means of the percentage of compression
      of the vertebral body in relation to the adjacent segments. The height of the vertebral body
      above (V1) and below (V2) of the fractured vertebra (V3) is considered using the following
      formula:% compression = [(A1 + A3) / 2-A2] / (A1 + A3) / 2

      The kyphosis of the fractured segment will be assessed by the angle formed by the line
      parallel to the superior vertebral plate of the vertebra proximal to the fractured vertebra
      and by the line of the inferior vertebral plate of the vertebra distal to the fractured
      vertebra The sagittal index of the fractured segment (Farcy Index) will be calculated using
      the height of the proximal vertebra (A1), height of the fractured vertebra (A2) and height of
      the distal vertebra. Sagittal index of the fractured segment = (A3): 100- (2xA2 / A1 + A3)
      x100.

      Computed tomography - morphology and type of fracture, percentage of compression of the
      vertebral canal, positioning of the screws (preoperative and immediate postoperative).

      Compression of the vertebral canal will be evaluated by measuring the sagittal diameter of
      the vertebral canal (Fig. 8) and the direct measurement of the cross-sectional area of the
      vertebral canal using scanning to delimit its perimeter.

      The positioning of the screws inside the pedicles will be evaluated by means of tomographic
      cuts of 2mm. Correct positioning will be considered when the pedicle screw is fully encircled
      by the vertebral pedicle and the cortical vertebra is not perforated. The perforation will be
      classified as small (≤2mm), medium (2.1-4mm) and severe (> 4mm), and the perforation site:
      medial, lateral, superior, posterior will also be evaluated.

      Evaluation of implant release, implant breakage and fracture consolidation, loss of
      reduction.

      Computed tomography - evaluation of the paravertebral musculature - Evaluation of the
      transverse sectional area and fat infiltration in the paravertebral musculature by computed
      tomography (CT).

      The CT examinations performed to evaluate the position of the metallic implants, fracture
      type and the evolution of the morphology of the vertebral body will also be used to evaluate
      the paravertebral musculature. In this way it will be possible to compare the effect of each
      of the fixation techniques on the musculature trophism.

      The evaluation will be performed by a senior radiologist with more than fifteen years of
      experience in musculoskeletal radiology and with experience in evaluation using quantitative
      techniques.

      Patient images will be anonymized and presented to the radiologist through the Osirix imaging
      software at random. The observer will not be aware of the clinical and surgical information
      at the time of the measurements to be performed.

      Two other researchers, a radiologist and a spine surgeon will perform this classification
      independently, so as to enable the analysis of Interobserver reproducibility of the
      classification.

      General risks, local and adverse effects - risks will be defined as any incident, change in
      treatment or normal progress regardless of whether or not it is associated with the treatment
      being evaluated. The predicted risks related to thoracolumbar spine fractures and their
      surgical treatment are superficial infection, deep infection, epidural hematoma, duramater
      injury, inadequate position of pedicle screws, radiculopathy, fractured vertebral segment
      kyphosis, instability, pain uncontrollable to treatment , Failure of implants, degeneration
      of adjacent segments, pressure ulcers and reoperation.

      The adverse effects will be considered as any undesirable medical event that the study
      participant presents (death, deep venous thrombosis, septicemia, pulmonary embolism,
      pneumonia, urinary tract infection, acute respiratory failure, multiple organ failures,
      hospitalization, prolonged failure of the implants Or intraoperative adverse effects).
    
  