
    
      The primary objective is to perform a pilot study in patients with hypertrophic
      cardiomyopathy (HCM) and mutations in genes encoding sarcomere proteins to assess safety and
      gather the pre-requisite data for subsequent robust randomized placebo-controlled efficacy
      studies with N-acetylcysteine (NAC). We will gather data on the recruitment, accrual,
      retention, and compliance rates of HCM patients randomized to treatment with a placebo or two
      escalating doses of NAC. Likewise, we will determine any potential side effects and estimate
      the effect size of NAC on indices of cardiac hypertrophy.

      HCM, the main focus of our research during the past two decades, is the most common cause of
      sudden cardiac death (SCD) in the young and an important cause of morbidity in the elderly.
      Despite its clinical impact, there is no effective pharmacological therapy for HCM. None of
      the current pharmacological therapies reverses or attenuates cardiac hypertrophy or reduces
      the risk of SCD in adults. Cardiac hypertrophy, the quintessential clinical feature of human
      HCM, is a major determinant of morbidity and the risk of SCD. Regression of cardiac
      hypertrophy is expected to improve morbidity and decrease the risk of SCD in HCM, as observed
      upon regression of load-dependent cardiac hypertrophy.

      We have generated transgenic rabbit and mouse models of HCM and shown that cardiac
      hypertrophy and fibrosis could be reversed through genetic or pharmacological interventions.
      Results with NAC, a precursor to glutathione; the largest intracellular thiol pool against
      oxidative stress, were most promising. In three independent studies in two different
      transgenic models of HCM (rabbits and mouse), treatment with NAC completely reversed cardiac
      hypertrophy and fibrosis and improved indices of diastolic function. The ultimate goal of
      every physician-scientist is to apply the bench discoveries at the bedside. We propose to
      test our findings in the animal models in humans with HCM caused by sarcomere protein
      mutations. The use of NAC is also supported by data showing increased oxidative stress in
      human HCM. Moreover, NAC has been used extensively in humans and has a well-established
      safety profile. Resources including patients with sarcomere protein mutations are available
      to successfully complete a randomized placebo-controlled (N=25) pilot study to test two
      escalating doses of NAC (N=50), administered for one year. We will determine recruitment,
      accrual, retention and compliance rates; tolerability, safety and side effects; and estimate
      the effect size of NAC on the indices of cardiac hypertrophy, as determined by serial cardiac
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at the baseline and after one year of treatment. Only HCM
      patients with sarcomere proteins mutations will be included to exclude phenocopy. The Core
      centers will interpret the phenotypic data to assure homogeneity. Data Coordinating Center
      will assist in the research design, planning and conduct of the study and analysis of the
      data. The findings will set the stage for large-scale robust randomized placebo-control
      efficacy studies.
    
  