
    
      One main aim of medical rehabilitation is to restore ability to work. The goal is to increase
      health, as well as the performance and functional capacity of the the rehabilitant, in order
      to improve their occupational ability, as well as social activity and participation.

      A number of the psychological and structural factors involved in this are already known.
      There is less evidence, however, regarding the importance of objectively measured performance
      and functioning, as well as the relation of these objective measures with subjective factors
      (i.e., the interaction of cardiovascular performance and physical activity with psychological
      factors with).

      Therefore, this study investigates how rehabilitants can successfully decrease their
      professional vulnerability, and the importance of spiroergometric and psychological data to
      predict viability and return to work.

      The aim is to improve the theorised variance in predicting the viability and return to work
      and, based on the results, to make appropriate recommendations to those affected and their
      social network, rehabilitation facilities, those offering rehabilitation services, employers
      and physicians.

      The following research questions are to be answered with this study:

        1. Can spiroergometric data and psychological mechanisms characterize:

           (A) workability and physical activity, (B) self assessment of the professional future,
           (C) return to working life, (D) ability to deal with occupational burdens (professional
           capacity)

           ... 6, 12, 18 and 36 months after medical rehabilitation?

        2. What is the significance of objective data compared to subjective characteristics (such
           as "higher level goals" in terms of employment), and how are the mediating psychological
           mechanisms involved?

      In rehabilitation patients with degenerative skeletal diseases, a spiroergometry measurement
      (cardiovascular checkup) was carried out in 2013/2014 (group 1, G1). This study determined
      the performance of the cardiovascular system and the general "fitness". The patients were
      also questioned about age, workload, work satisfaction, assessment of the future of the
      profession and accompanying psychological stress.

      A follow-up survey of those who are insured is to be carried out by telephone.

      In addition, new patients (group 2, G2) are to be interviewed and spiroergometrically tested,
      as well as to be interviewed three times over the phone.

      This will allow: (1) analyzing the change over time and the cardiovascular capacity beyond
      psychological factors (motivation, self-efficacy) and physical activity, (2) comparisons with
      other insured persons.

      Data collection after rehabilitation is carried out as a computer-assisted telephone
      interview, and is conducted after the rehabilitation after 6, 12, 18 (G2) and 36 months (G1).
    
  