
    
      It is an exploratory, prospective, experimental, monocentric study. Having identified a main
      safety endpoint (toxicity of radiotherapy treatment) and in the absence of data currently
      available from previous studies and useful for sizing the sample, the sample is defined
      according to opportunity and feasibility criteria, (12 cases), with a drawing (3 cases + 3
      cases + 6 cases) which provides for two intermediate safety assessment steps one month after
      the end of the third and sixth patient treatment. The study will be continued only in case of
      positive evaluation of both steps. For each individual patient the treatment is considered
      completed if: a) the experimental radiotherapy treatment has been completed; b) the first
      follow-up radiological assessment (NMR) was performed; c) the study treatment was prematurely
      interrupted due to lack of efficacy (documented disease progression) or unacceptable
      toxicity.

        -  Treatment: the treatment foreseen by the protocol foresees the planning and the
           execution of a hypofractionated radiotherapy (RT) treatment, administered in 5 daily
           sessions, with intensity modulated technique and inhomogeneous distribution of the dose
           guided by the diffusion images obtained with magnetic resonance (RM). The radiotherapy
           treatment must start within 7 days from the date of execution of the centering MRI which
           will include both the classic morphological sequences with administration of contrast
           medium and functional ones. In selected cases and according to clinical judgment it will
           be possible to request the revision of the anatomopathological and radiological
           findings.

        -  Radiation technique: for each patient, a radiotherapy treatment plan will be performed
           with conformed techniques such as intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) with dose
           redistribution: dose-painting.

        -  Positioning and immobilization of the patient: the patient must be treated in a supine
           position. The arms must be positioned along the body. The use of a knee support is
           recommended. The garment will be immobilized with a thermoplastic mask and corresponding
           neck rest supports.

        -  TC and planning RM: the planning CT should be acquired possibly with reduced layer
           thickness that contains the entire volume of the skull and the upper part of the
           shoulders. This is done to allow the possibility of planning non-coplanar type
           treatments. The last follow-up MRI, or the radiotherapy centering RM, composed of
           standard and functional sequences, is used for planning, in addition to those that the
           neuroradiologist will have considered useful to better characterize the clinical case
           under examination. More details on this are described in the Technical Annex.

        -  Target volume and organs at risk (OAR): the following target volumes must be identified:
           • Gross tumor volume (GTV): it is defined using and combining the conventional and
           advanced sequences of the NMR. • Planning target volume (PTV): it is represented by the
           GTV with three-dimensional expansion between 0 and 5 mm according to the problems
           highlighted during the tumor segmentation phase. See the Technical Annex in this regard.

        -  The following risky organs (OAR) must be identified: • Optical nerves: the definition of
           the related planning risk volume is also suggested (PRV: organ at risk with
           three-dimensional expansion; this margin must be chosen taking into account the
           acquisition thickness of the centering TC and the chosen GTV-PTV expansion margin). •
           chiasm. We also suggest the definition of the relative PRV (organ at risk with
           three-dimensional expansion; this margin must be chosen taking into account the
           acquisition thickness of the centering CT and the chosen GTV-PTV expansion margin). •
           retinas. We also suggest the definition of the relative PRV (organ at risk with
           three-dimensional expansion; this margin must be chosen taking into account the
           acquisition thickness of the centering CT and the chosen GTV-PTV expansion margin).
           Alternatively the eye globes can be surrounded. • Encefalic trunk.

        -  The following secondary OARs must be identified: • Lenses / Crystalline. We also suggest
           the definition of the relative PRV (organ at risk with three-dimensional expansion; this
           margin must be chosen taking into account the acquisition thickness of the centering CT
           and the chosen GTV-PTV expansion margin). • Healthy brain tissue. It is represented by
           the encephalon volume minus the PTV. • Screw. We also suggest the definition of the
           relative PRV (organ at risk with three-dimensional expansion; this margin must be chosen
           taking into account the acquisition thickness of the centering CT and the chosen GTV-PTV
           expansion margin).

        -  Dose prescription: i) Dose to the target: the prescription dose foresees a minimum dose
           of 30 Gy (6 Gy per session) for the areas with the highest ADC with a gradual increase
           in the dose of the lower ADC areas. The maximum hypothesized dose is 50 Gy, with a dose
           of 10 Gy per session to no more than 1cc of the irradiated brain tissue. The treatment
           plan, however, will be processed in the following order of priority: 1. Compliance with
           dose limits for primary OARs. 2. PTV coverage. 3. Compliance with dose limits for
           secondary OARs.

        -  Dose limits for primary risk organs: in the scientific literature there are various
           studies that indicate the dose limits of the organs at risk for brain radiation
           treatments.
    
  