
    
      To meet the objectives of the study, an interventional double-blind randomized clinical trial
      (RCT) design will be used in this study. A placebo group will be included in parallel with
      the treatment group in this trail. Forty patients (aged 35-65 years) who diagnosed with mild
      to moderately active UC will be recruited conveniently from the gastroenterology section, the
      IBD clinic at the Jordan University Hospital, Amman, Jordan. Patients who meet the inclusion
      criteria and agree to participate will be centrally randomized to probiotic supplementation
      group or placebo group using computer-generated random numbers, that balanced allocation to
      groups A and B: in successive blocks each containing 20 patients each stratified by gender.
      The duration of the intervention will be 6 weeks.

      For the participants, the Jordan University Hospital setting will be utilized for data
      collection. The patients will be recruited over 12 months and all patients will be asked to
      sign a written informed consent before enrollment. The patients will randomly be assigned to
      the placebo group (n=20), to receive 3 times a day placebo capsules contain polysaccharides,
      without any viable probiotics matching the probiotic capsules in appearance, smell, and
      taste; and probiotics group (n=20), to receive 3 times a day probiotic supplement. The
      administration of supplements will be under the supervision of the treating physician. The
      blood sample will be collected at baseline and at the end of 6 weeks of follow up.

      The demographic data of each subject will be collected such as; gender, age, body mass index
      (BMI), tumor location, malignant tumors stage, tumor differentiation, educational level,
      occupation, family history, smoking, dietary and physical activity. At baseline and end of
      the follow-up, IBD Quality of Life Questionnaire will be collected and blood sample tests
      will be withdrawn and the following biochemical variables will be measured: immunoglobulin G,
      immunoglobulin M, immunoglobulin A, interleukin-6 (IL-6), C-reactive protein (CRP),
      interleukin-1(IL-1), interleukin-10(IL-10), interleukin-12 (IL-12), Tumor necrosis
      factor-alpha (TNF-α) and complete blood count (CBC).
    
  