
    
      Patients who show high persistent platelet reactivity under aspirin are increasingly becoming
      an issue of clinical concern. Several studies have suggested that giving aspirin more
      frequently is very effective for reducing aspirin high persistent platelet reactivity,
      especially in diabetic patientsor in patients with a known risk factor. The aim of the study
      is to evaluate low dose of aspirin twice a day (compared to once a day) for the reduction of
      ischemic events in diabetic patients or in patients with a known risk factor, with acute
      coronary syndrome.

      Experimental Design:

      A multicenter, randomised, parallel group comparing aspirin given twice a day compared to
      once per day in diabetic patients, or in patients with a known risk factor for non-optimal
      aspirin response (obesity, abdominal obesity or coronary event occurring with long-term
      aspirin),with acute coronary syndrome.

      Primary objective:

      To compare treatment with Aspirin Protect® twice a day (100 mg in the morning and 100 mg in
      the evening) versus Aspirin Protect® 100 mg once per day on a composite end-point of ischemic
      events in diabetic patients, or in patients with a known risk factor for non-optimal aspirin
      response (obesity, abdominal obesity or coronary event occurring with long-term aspirin),with
      acute coronary syndrome.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To compare treatment with Aspirin Protect® twice a day (100 mg in the morning and 100 mg
           in the evening) versus Aspirin Protect® 100 mg once per day on net clinical benefit
           combining the ischemic and bleeding events in diabetic patients, or in patients with a
           known risk factor for non-optimal aspirin response (obesity, abdominal obesity or
           coronary event occurring with long-term aspirin),with acute coronary syndrome.

        -  To compare treatment with Aspirin Protect® twice a day (100 mg in the morning and 100 mg
           in the evening) versus Aspirin Protect® 100 mg once per day on cardiac events in
           diabetic patients, or in patients with a known risk factor for non-optimal aspirin
           response (obesity, abdominal obesity or coronary event occurring with long-term
           aspirin),with acute coronary syndrome.

        -  To compare treatment with Aspirin Protect® twice a day (100 mg in the morning and 100 mg
           in the evening) versus Aspirin Protect® 100 mg once per day in each of individual
           component of the main criterion.

        -  To confirm the safety of the innovative strategy (aspirin twice a day) concerning major
           bleeding events.

      Study enrollment:

      Multicentric national study involving 42 centers in France The duration is expected to be 24
      months of recruitment. Patients will be randomized during the index hospitalization for acute
      coronary syndrome and before discharge between a conventional strategy of enteric coated
      aspirin 100mg per day with the standard of care or a innovative strategy of enteric coated
      aspirin 100mg morning and evening. Patients will be followed at one month, six months, one
      year and 18 months

      Statistical analysis:

      The study will include 2574 patients. We hypothesized that at 18 months, there will be an
      event rate of 22% for "death, MI, stroke, urgent revascularization, or acute arterial
      thrombotic event in the group treated with aspirin and we expect a decrease of the primary
      event of 20% (relative variation) using aspirin twice a day corresponding to an event rate of
      17.6%.

      A sample size of 1287 patients /group will allow an 80% power to detect this difference using
      a log-rank test at a two-sided 5% significance level. The study will include 2574 diabetic
      patients, or patients with a known risk factor for non-optimal aspirin response.

      The primary analysis is based on the Intention To Treat population and the primary endpoint.
      The primary analysis on the primary endpoint will be carried out using a log-rank test for
      survival analysis. The 95% confidence interval of the hazard ratio will be presented. In
      addition the survival status during 18 months follow-up will be described by showing
      Kaplan-Meier curves.

      Primary outcome according to pre-specified subgroups:

        -  Age: patients < 75 years or patient ≥75 years

        -  Gender: male or female

        -  Insulin vs no insulin treatment

        -  Type of acute coronary syndrome : STEMI vs NSTEMI

        -  Type of ADP inhibitor cotreatment

        -  Treatment strategy medical vs invasive (angioplasty or CABG surgery)

        -  Peripheral artery disease Yes/No

        -  GRACE score > or ≤140

        -  Left ventricular ejection fraction > or ≤ 40%

        -  Prior stroke Yes/No

        -  previous treatment with aspirin Yes/No

        -  initial HbA1C level > or ≤8%

        -  duration of diabetes > or ≤10 years

        -  Weight <60; 60-90; >90kg

        -  PPI use Yes/No
    
  