
    
      The purpose of this randomized control trial is to determine the safety and usability of the
      Honda Walk Assist (HWA) device in the home environment versus a gym membership. Secondarily,
      the study will investigate effects of the HWA exoskeleton in the home environment versus a
      gym membership on gait function and overall home training activity. Participants who are
      greater than 1 year post stroke and between the ages of 18-80 will be included.

      The HWA device is a lightweight, robotic exoskeleton designed to support people with gait
      deficits. The device is worn around the user's torso, waist and thighs, and assists with hip
      flexion and extension. The device weighs about 6lbs and has two motors that run on a single
      rechargeable battery. The device is equipped with angle and current sensors to monitor hip
      joint angle and torque output respectively. The adjustable assist torque (6Nm max.) is
      transmitted to the user's thighs via thigh frames. A trained healthcare professional can
      initially configure assist settings through software that runs on a mobile device. This
      trained professional can also make device adjustments to ensure a proper fit for the user and
      train the user for personal use of the HWA. After initial settings are established, users can
      don, doff and operate the device independently or with the help of an assistant.

      Participant with stroke greater than 1 year ago will be recruited from outpatient clinics,
      day rehabilitation sites, and the hospital's research registry. Following a screening session
      to determine subject eligibility, subjects will be randomized to either the HWA or gym
      membership groups.

      Baseline outcome measures will be collected and subjects will wear an ActiGraph activity
      monitor for 1-2 weeks. Subjects will then complete 1-3 sessions with a research physical
      therapist to acclimate and individualize the HWA device's settings or will be introduced to
      the Shirley Ryan AbilityLab gym and prescribed an individualized exercise program. During the
      2 month intervention, subjects will either utilize the HWA device at home according to the
      prescribed settings or complete the prescribed exercise program at the Shirley Ryan
      AbilityLab fitness center. Weekly phone calls from the physical therapists will check in on
      both groups to determine whether participants are following their exercise programs and to
      answer any questions or concerns. At the conclusion of the 2 month intervention, participants
      will wear an ActiGraph monitor for 1-2 weeks and outcome measures will again be collected
      over 2 testing visits.

      All testing and acclimation sessions will be performed under the supervision of a licensed
      physical therapist. Adverse events will be recorded.

      The investigators anticipate this study will help determine the feasibility of using the
      Honda Walk Assist device in the home setting in individuals greater than a year post stroke.
      The investigators do not foresee any potential pitfalls.
    
  