
    
      Phase I (Pilot Aims)

        -  Aim 1 Conduct preliminary analyses of EHR data at two pilot clinics.

        -  Aim 2: Use codes and methods developed in Aim 1 to test the feasibility, reach,
           effectiveness, and cost of an EHR-based CRC screening intervention using a subset of 100
           patients at each of two pilot clinics. We will use codes defined in Aim 1 to create a
           Solutions-based, Epic-integrated system to track CRC screening, mail FIT kits, and track
           patient test results and receipt of follow-up care. The system will be pilot-tested in
           two clinics.

        -  Aim 3: Use results from the pilot intervention to prepare for a large-scale,
           cluster-randomized pragmatic trial across 18 OCHIN clinics (see Phase II).

      Transition from Phase I to Phase II

      -Changes to our original proposal include going from a three arm to a two-arm pragmatic
      cluster trial with revised evaluation and power calculation and refinements to the
      intervention components for both usual care (now described as enhanced usual care) and the
      intervention (now described as enhanced auto).

      Phase II (Full trial Aims)

        -  Primary Aim 1. Assess the effectiveness of a large-scale, two-arm CRC screening program
           among diverse CLINIC patients, and assess difference in CRC screening outcomes (overall
           and by age, sex, insurance status, Hispanic ethnicity/race). The intervention will
           consist of an automated data-driven, EHR-linked program for mailing FIT kits (with
           linguistically appropriate pictographic instructions and return postage) to patients due
           for CRC screening.

        -  Primary Aim 2. Assess the costs and long-term cost-effectiveness of the automated
           program.

      We have also included two secondary aims:

        -  Secondary Aim 1. Assess adoption, implementation, reach and potential maintenance and
           spread of the program, using a mixed-method rapid assessment process, field notes, and
           other ethnographic data.

        -  Secondary Aim 2. Adapt and pilot-test the adaptation of STOP CRC in an alternate EHR
           platform, Allscripts, and develop an implementation guide to assist sites in adopting
           the program.
    
  