
    
      In recent years, the literature has shown the results of many studies undertaking the
      possibility of applying new technologies in rehabilitation as elements of optimization,
      including Virtual Reality (VR). VR can be based on computer programs that use a
      three-dimensional camera or sensors placed on the body to read the patient's movements and
      transfer them to the screen in a computer-created environment. For the most part, VR research
      has focused on analyzing the therapeutic potential of typical virtual games, which are not
      designed for clinical use, but for entertainment and relaxation.

      Rehabilitation in virtual reality has also become one of the common challenges for
      physiotherapists and IT specialists, who develop improvement programs dedicated to various
      diseases and illnesses. Numerous publications are available in the scientific literature,
      describing the possibilities of using VR as a diagnostic and therapeutic tool. The
      possibility of diagnostic application of the technology in motion analysis has been
      demonstrated. The use of VR in the analysis of respiratory mechanics and training of
      pulmonary patients has also been noted. Most of the available studies concern the
      rehabilitation of neurological patients. There are many studies available, including
      meta-analyses, which confirm that the best results of rehabilitation can be achieved through
      the use of traditional neurological rehabilitation combined with rehabilitation conducted in
      virtual reality. Only few papers describe physiological reactions, including heart rate
      variability (HRV) and thermovision diagnostics during stimulation in immersive virtual
      reality.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate the physiological reactions of the organism in healthy
      subjects during stimulation in immersive virtual reality.

      This study is focused on:

      Monitoring physiological parameters including heart rate variability (HRV) and thermal
      imaging (TI) change in healthy subjects during stimulation in immersive virtual reality.

      The result of proposed research may be the answer to the following questions:

        1. What changes in heart rate variability occur during the stimulation of various types of
           stimuli in virtual reality?

        2. Which alterations in body temperature, especially in the distal parts of the upper limb,
           occur during stimulation in virtual reality?

      The evaluation session will be conduced in the following scheme in static seated position:

        1. Preparation of the research equipment

        2. Measurement without stimulation in virtual reality: HRV, TI - 6 minute

        3. Measurement in virtual reality: HRV, TI - simulation of cold environment (snow, wind) -
           6 minute

        4. Measurement in virtual reality: HRV, TI - simulation of warm environment (the beach, the
           sea) - 6 minute

        5. Measurement in virtual reality: HRV, TI - simulation of terrifying environment (a dark
           room, ghosts) - 6 minute

        6. Measurement without stimulation in virulent reality: HRV, TI - 6 minute

        7. Completion of the measurements
    
  