
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete response rate of anti-emetic therapy based on a single dose of
      intravenous fosaprepitant with multiple cycles of high dose cisplatin (complete response is
      defined as no emesis or rescue nausea medications needed in the 120 hours following cisplatin
      infusion).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the complete response rate of anti-emetic therapy based on a single dose of
      intravenous fosaprepitant with multiple cycles of high dose cisplatin in the delayed period
      (25-120 hours following cisplatin infusion).

      II. To determine efficacy of anti-emetic therapy based on a single-dose of intravenous
      fosaprepitant to achieve adequate control of nausea following multiple cycles of high-dose
      cisplatin as defined by a score on the visual analog scale of < 25mm in the 120 hours
      following cisplatin infusion.

      III. To determine the functional impact of cisplatin induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) on
      daily life as measured by the Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) Questionnaire total
      score.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive cisplatin IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3
      courses. Patients also undergo 3-D conformal radiotherapy or intensity-modulated radiotherapy
      once daily 5 days a week for up to 7 weeks.

      Patients receive fosaprepitant dimeglumine IV, palonosetron hydrochloride IV, and
      dexamethasone IV on day 1 (prior to cisplatin infusion). Patients then receive oral
      dexamethasone on days 2-4. Patients with no emesis or requirement for rescue anti-emetics in
      the first 120 hours after cisplatin infusion continue to receive the anti-emetic regimen as
      above with the second and third courses of cisplatin.

      Patients complete an emesis diary (that includes a nausea visual analog scale) daily for 5
      days after each cisplatin infusion. Patients also complete a Functional Living Index-Emesis
      Questionnaire on day 8 of each course of chemotherapy.
    
  