
    
      Nephrolithiasis is an important health problem that can deteriorate the renal functions in
      long term and affects the patients' quality of life. One of the major problems about renal
      stones is the high rate of recurrence. Calcium oxalate stone, the most common type worldwide,
      has a recurrence rate of around 50% in ten years. Therefore, identifying the underlying
      pathophysiological aspects via metabolic evaluation and suggestions for medical & dietary
      prophylaxis in calcium stone patients is of upmost importance.

      However, one of the greatest problem with metabolic evaluation and subsequent therapeutic
      advices is the patient compliance. In the previous studies, even in case of a dedicated stone
      clinic, the drop out rate for preventive measures were over 37% per year. The patients'
      non-compliance may be related to a number of factors associated with the stone clinic,
      demographic characteristics of the patients, past medical history of the patients, and even
      the recommended tests and the therapeutic advices.

      Therefore, it is important to identify factors related to patient compliance for metabolic
      evaluation and medical & dietary prophylaxis in calcium stone patients

      Methods:

      Parameters to be recorded

      Age Gender Level of education

        -  of stone episodes

        -  of surgical intervention Type of surgical intervention History of SWL Concomitant
           diseases Other medications Type of metabolic evaluation (24 hour urine, spot morning
           urine, serum etc.) Drug for medical prophylaxis Dosage of medication (bid/tid, etc.)
           Side effects Dietary recommendations Compliance to metabolic evaluation Compliance to
           medical treatment

      Statistics:

      Patients will be grouped based on:

      compliance to metabolic evaluation compliance to medical treatment

      The parameters listed above will be compared between the groups with univariate analysis
      (logistic regression).
    
  