
    
      CMV (cytomegalovirus) retinitis is the most common intraocular infection in patients with
      AIDS and is estimated to affect 35 percent to 40 percent of patients with AIDS. Untreated CMV
      (cytomegalovirus) retinitis is a progressive disorder, the end result of which is total
      retinal destruction and blindness. As of September 1997, drugs approved by the United States
      Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of CMV (cytomegalovirus)retinitis were
      ganciclovir (Cytovene), foscarnet (Foscavir), and cidofovir (Vistide). Cidofovir has a
      prolonged duration of effect permitting intermittent administration. All systemically
      administered anti-CMV drugs are given in a similar fashion consisting of initial 2-week
      high-dose treatment (induction) to control the infection followed by long-term lower dose
      treatment (maintenance) to prevent relapse. Cidofovir is administered as an intravenous
      infusion once weekly for induction therapy and once every 2 weeks as maintenance therapy. The
      HPCRT evaluated the efficacy and safety of cidofovir therapy.

      The HPCRT was a multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial of cidofovir for the
      treatment of CMV (cytomegalovirus) retinitis. Patients with small peripheral CMV
      (cytomegalovirus) retinitis lesions (i.e., not at risk of immediate loss of visual acuity)
      were randomized to immediate treatment with cidofovir or deferred therapy until the retinitis
      had progressed. Patients randomized to immediate therapy received either 1) low-dose
      cidofovir at 5 mg/kg once weekly induction for 2 weeks, followed by 3 mg/kg once every 2
      weeks for maintenance or 2) high-dose cidofovir at 5 mg/kg once weekly induction for 2 weeks
      followed by 5 mg/kg once every 2 weeks for maintenance. Patients whose retinitis progressed
      were given treatment according to best medical judgement, and those assigned to deferral were
      generally treated with cidofovir.

      Outcomes in this trial included retinitis progression, loss of retinal area, and morbidity.
    
  