
    
      METHODOLOGY:

      Intervention: The Fist Assist® device will be assigned to each enrolled subject by
      randomization code. All subjects will be asked to use their assigned device twice daily, for
      two 2-hour sessions, once in the morning and once in the evening. Patients will apply the
      device to the non-dominant arm above the level of the elbow, and to keep a written log to
      record use, complications and any problems.

      Blood Draws: 10 mL of blood will be obtained from patients being enrolled at the time of
      their next routine standard of care phlebotomy. These samples will be frozen for future
      assays of endothelial biomarkers of nitric oxide production and venous dilation, such as
      asymmetric dimethyl arginine (ADMA) and its metabolites.

      Doppler: Patients will undergo examination of their cephalic veins in the Nephrology Clinic,
      using a portable vascular ultrasound device operated by a co-investigator trained by the
      University of Chicago Medical Center Vascular Lab in this technique. The cephalic vein, a
      superficial vein originating in the wrist, is the most common vein used for AVF creation. In
      order to standardize these measurements, the diameter of the cephalic vein and vein wall
      thickness will be measured in both arms at: (a) 5 cm proximal to the styloid process of the
      radius, and (b) at the antecubital fossa. The diameter and thickness of the vein will be
      measured using a B-mode image acquired using a standard ultrasound machine with vascular
      probe going from outer walls per protocol. Patients will be seated with arms supported at the
      level of the heart on an exam table with in a room with a temperature of at least 20 degrees
      Celsius. A layer of at least 1 cm of gel will be applied locally to optimize the ultrasound
      image quality. Vascular Doppler measurements will be obtained on both arms at the time of
      consent (baseline), and at the conclusion of therapy. Measurements will be recorded.

      Follow Up: Those who are subsequently able to undergo successful AVF creation will be
      followed clinically for up to 12 months.

      Protocol: Informed consent will be obtained by the co-investigators using a written consent
      form approved by the Institutional Review Board. After informed consent is obtained, patients
      will receive: physical examination of both forearms; and a vascular Doppler to determine
      cephalic vein diameters of the nondominant arm. A 10 mL blood sample will be drawn at the
      next routine phlebotomy.

      Patients will be asked to apply the Fist Assist® to the upper half of the non-dominant arm.
      Patients will be asked to use the device twice daily for two 2-hour periods, and report any
      complications or problems, using a log (see log attached at end of References). Patients will
      have follow up examinations with measurement of cephalic vein diameter at three months after
      enrollment.

      DURATION OF STUDY: All subjects will be enrolled and treated for three months. The duration
      of the study including data analysis and statistical analysis is expected to be 12 months.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSES: The primary outcome of interest will be the difference in the diameter
      of the cephalic vein between baseline (Pre) and 3 months (Post) in patients treated with the
      Fist Assist® device. Based on prior work, mean vein diameters at baseline are anticipated to
      be approximately 1.8 mm with a standard deviation of 0.5 mm,44 and investigators anticipate
      that the standard deviation of the change in diameter is likely to be approximately 0.75 mm.

      Effect =[(DSPost)-(DSPre)]

      Investigators would consider calculated effect sizes of 0.25-1.0 mm to be clinically
      meaningful changes that would increase the numbers of patients with vein diameters that meet
      commonly accepted thresholds for surgical suitability (normally 2.5-3.0 mm). Sample size
      calculations for a variety of effects are presented in table 1 (below), based on paired
      t-tests with alpha error of 0.05, standard deviation of the effect size of 0.75 mm, for power
      of 80% and 90%.
    
  