
    
      Individuals of low socioeconomic (SES) and ethnic minority status, including Hispanics, the
      largest U.S. ethnic minority group, are disproportionately affected by diabetes. Poor
      healthcare access and cultural barriers prevent optimal care, adherence, and clinical
      benefit, thus placing Hispanics at high risk for costly diabetes complications. The
      investigators' established academic-healthcare-community partnership has unique experience in
      developing and testing innovative, cost-effective, and sustainable chronic care interventions
      to reduce disparities and improve health in underserved communities. The investigators
      recently developed Dulce Digital (i.e., "one-size-fits-all" educational text messages, with
      nurse monitoring of patient-transmitted blood glucose values), which improved glycemic
      control across 6 months, relative to usual care in a recent randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      of N=126 Hispanic patients with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes (T2DM). The process
      evaluation for this trial indicated that Dulce Digital was both feasible and acceptable from
      patient and provider perspectives; however, patients expressed a preference for a more
      individualized intervention, and providers requested an even greater focus on health behavior
      change. Thus, the proposed RCT will examine the comparative effectiveness of Dulce Digital
      versus "Dulce Digital-Me" (DD-Me) in N=414 Hispanic adults of low SES with poorly controlled
      T2DM from Neighborhood Healthcare, a San Diego Federally-Qualified Health Center. Guided by
      patient and provider feedback, DD-Me includes Dulce Digital components plus personalized
      goal-setting and feedback that is responsive to the individual's needs and preferences. The
      DD-Me adaptive feedback component will be informed by the Resources and Support for
      Self-Management Model and Operant Conditioning Theory, and based on the individual's progress
      on intermediate behavioral targets (i.e., medication adherence assessed by wireless sensor;
      brief mobile phone-based assessments of diet, physical activity, stress). Feedback will be
      delivered via algorithm-driven automated messaging in 50% of DD-Me participants and by the
      care team medical assistant in the remaining half to determine the feasibility and
      acceptability (given the purported cultural relevance of interpersonal relationships in the
      Hispanic culture), and the comparative effectiveness and cost of each delivery method.
      Changes in indicators of diabetes clinical control [i.e., glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) low
      density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), systolic blood pressure (SBP)], patient-provider
      communication, and patient adherence (i.e., to medication and other diabetes self-management
      behaviors) will be evaluated across twelve months. Thorough process and cost-effectiveness
      analyses will evaluate the scalability and sustainability potential of DD-Me. This
      comparative evaluation of two mHealth approaches will elucidate how technology can be
      integrated most effectively and efficiently within existing nurse-led chronic care approaches
      to meet the complex needs of underserved individuals with poorly controlled T2DM.
    
  