
    
      The surgical out patients is often the first point of contact between a surgeon and patient
      after being referred by their general practitioner (GP). Here new patients are assessed,
      investigations are requested and treatment plans devised. On completion of treatment it has
      been common practice to review all patients post operatively (1). However the routine review
      of patients following low risk procedures contribute to increasing healthcare costs without
      necessarily a significant benefit for the patient. It may indeed be a burden on patients and
      families, who may miss work or college, have to travel long distances and wait for prolonged
      periods to be seen. There is also a financial burden associated with travel to appointments
      and on-site parking fees. Unnecessary appointments also contribute to increased waiting times
      for new referrals to be seen. This has the potential to lead to delayed diagnosis of serious
      conditions (2) and further increase the workload of overburdened emergency departments.

      Previous studies have demonstrated a safe and acceptable alternative to traditional
      outpatient appointments with telephone follow up in certain paediatric and adult surgical
      patients (1,3,4). Improved efficiency and high levels of patient satisfaction have also been
      demonstrated in an Irish setting with the establishment of a virtual outpatient department
      (VOPD) following endoscopy (5). In an oncology setting telephone follow up has also been
      identified as an effective means of delivering care (6,7). In particular nurse led follow up
      of lung, breast and colorectal cancer patients has been associated with a high level of
      patient satisfaction (8).

      The aim of this study was to determine whether a virtual out patient clinic via a telephone
      review was an acceptable and safe alternative to a clinic attendance for a broad range of
      general surgical patients discharged following a hospital admission.

      If eligible for inclusion the patient was approached prior to discharge and the study
      rationale, randomisation and methods of follow up were explained. If they agreed to
      participate written consent was obtained and an information leaflet about the study was
      provided. Randomisation was performed by selecting an unmarked white envelope which contained
      either a coloured card indicating a telephone call follow up within 6-8 weeks or a white card
      indicating follow up with an outpatient appointment at 6-8 weeks.

      After randomisation the patient was provided with a letter detailing their specific follow up
      arrangements and a contact number was provided if they had any further questions after
      discharge. Patients' were sent a further letter by administration staff after discharge, with
      the specific date of either the clinic appointment or phone follow up.
    
  