
    
      The study is based in the University Hospital of Parma, which has a catchment area of more
      than 400,000 inhabitants, of whom 22.3% is over 65 years old. It provides the only Emergency
      service of the district, and it ranks fourth in Italy by number of ED visits (yearly average
      of over 110,000). The average admission rate of the adult ED population is 18%, of which 65%
      concern people older than 65.

      In the last two decades, the University Hospital of Parma has implemented several innovative
      initiatives to manage the hospital flow of frail multimorbid patients and their complex
      needs. These initiatives included bed management to avoid "bed-blockers", physician
      accountability for the discharge process, and creation of a dedicated hospital unit,
      organized by intensity of care to anticipate the needs of these patients preserving high
      performance indices. This unit, called Internal Medicine and Critical Subacute Care Unit,
      performs over 3,500 urgent admissions of frail multimorbid elderly patients per year, with an
      average length of stay that in 30% of cases is lower than 3 days.

      Participating nursing homes are public facilities which ensure the presence of nursing staff
      24 hours a day and of a physician at least 4 hours a day (high-intensity care facilities).
      The possible role of distance to the hospital is considered by including in each group one
      nursing home located next to the hospital and one located >5 km of distance.

      This study follows a multimethod approach, based on the MRC framework for developing and
      evaluating complex interventions, including the development, feasibility assessment, and
      evaluation phases.

        1. Development of the intervention First, the different types of approaches reported in the
           literature, described above, were considered. The "prevention approach", interventions
           conducted in nursing homes, was chosen as the most suitable strategy to integrate the
           hospital's organizational model already in place, as it can target both hospitalization
           rates and ED overcrowding, allowing to intervene before the person accesses the
           hospital.

           Available evidence also prompted us to opt for a multicomponent approach. In fact, data
           from qualitative interviews reveal that the decision to transfer residents to hospital
           may be influenced by different factors, such as staffing and skill mix in the nursing
           homes, treatment options available in the facility, end-of-life decision-making, and
           communication and bureaucratic requirements. This multifactorial association means that
           a multicomponent intervention is likely to be more effective than a single-component
           intervention.

           The choice of employing a mobile geriatric specialist service was supported by the
           positive results obtained by the two controlled studies which examined similar
           interventions. One study evaluated a service where a physician did regular and on-call
           visits intended to provide services otherwise associated with hospitalization. The other
           study evaluated an ambulant team with a nurse and a physician, doing comprehensive
           geriatric assessments of residents as well as reviewing medications and providing
           support to staff. The proposed intervention does not involve a nurse, unlike the second
           of the mentioned studies, because in the participating facilities nursing staff is
           available 24 hours a day. Unlike the experience of the second study, moreover, periodic
           visits on site will not be performed in the present investigation, since routine
           clinical management and scheduled follow-up is already performed by nursing home
           physicians.

           Finally, medical hospital staff was preferred to community geriatricians, on the
           assumption that older patients may feel more comfortable being handled by physicians who
           may have already cared for them at the hospital. Moreover, hospital staff enables direct
           patient referral to the ward. Finally, this allows the use of diagnostic technologies
           available at the hospital, which can be used immediately without the need for hospital
           admission.

           The MMU care model intervention The model hinges on the strong collaboration between
           hospital and nursing home staff to provide residents with patient-centered care. It
           entails a multicomponent intervention which is integrated in standard care and comprises
           three steps: 1) MMU team activation, 2) on site visit by a team of physicians with
           geriatric expertise, 3) interdisciplinary care planning.

           Step 1: MMU team activation

           Patient selection is necessary to ensure that available resources are used for patients
           who may really benefit. To this end, the nursing home physician contacts by phone the
           "flow manager", a skilled internist with strong clinical expertise, organizational
           attitude and managerial training, during the 8 a.m.-6 p.m. time frame, Monday to Friday.
           The phone consultation is reported on a form containing the description of the patient's
           clinical condition and a summary of the conversation. The form also indicates which
           decision was reached among the following 6 not mutually exclusive options:

             1. The patient can be managed by nursing home staff, therapeutic advice is provided by
                phone

             2. Remote reassessment is scheduled after a number of hours agreed upon by the team

             3. The MMU team is dispatched for evaluation, treatment and stabilization on site

             4. A significant change in vital parameters is observed which requires immediate
                activation of emergency services

             5. Direct hospital admission is considered necessary

             6. Ambulatory outpatient visits or tests are planned

           Step 2: on site visit by a team of physicians with geriatric expertise Visits at the
           nursing home are performed by two members of the MMU team: an expert hospital physician
           chosen on a case-by-case basis among the clinical staff of the Internal Medicine and
           Critical Subacute Care Unit, which comprises internists, gastroenterologists,
           geriatricians, specialists in clinical nutrition, depending on the disease or clinical
           problem that must be treated, and a specifically trained resident in Emergency Medicine.

           The team is provided with a car to reach the nursing homes, a portable ultrasound
           system, and an essential set of drugs and medical devices useful in an emergency
           setting. The ultrasound system is equipped with three probes (convex, linear, and
           phased-array) for performing thoraco-pulmonary, cardiac, vascular, abdominal and soft
           tissue ultrasound, when required. Available drugs include those that can be administered
           intravenously for treating urgent conditions (e.g. loop diuretics, steroids, fluids,
           antibiotics). Devices include central and peripheral venous lines, naso-gastric and
           rectal tubes and bladder catheters. Blood tests can also be performed.

           Step 3: interdisciplinary care planning. Based on the results of the visit and of any
           performed investigations, the MMU team formulates personalized advice and referrals, and
           discusses these with the nursing home physician. If stabilization on site is not deemed
           possible, the MMU team plans a direct admission to the Internal Medicine and Critical
           Subacute Care Unit, thus avoiding ED access. The planning and the final outcome of the
           intervention are recorded in the second part of the form.

        2. Feasibility assessment A pilot phase of 5 months (December 2018-April 2019) was
           conducted in two nursing homes in order to look at feasibility of the MMU care Model
           described above. Before the intervention was introduced, meetings were held with nursing
           home staff to agree on activation modalities.

           In this period, 99 phone calls were received, of which 84 required MMU team onsite
           visits, and 15 were managed with remote consultancy. Of the latter, 3 required direct
           admission after remote phone consultancy. Only 4 of the 84 patients visited onsite
           required direct admission. One patient was sent to the ED for massive intestinal
           bleeding.

           This phase demonstrated the feasibility of the intervention, and did not highlight any
           need for modifications.

        3. Evaluation phase Aim and objectives The study aim is to verify the effects of the
           implementation of the MMU care model tested in the pilot phase.

      Primary objective is to verify reduction of unplanned hospitalization rates in the nursing
      homes of the intervention group compared to the nursing homes in the control group. Secondary
      objectives are to measure the effects of the intervention in terms of mortality, health
      service use, and costs.

      Study Design. This study is a prospective, pragmatic, multicenter, quasi-experimental study
      (sequential design with two cohorts), in which usual nursing home care is compared to care
      provided by applying the MMU model.

      Study Population. All residents of the participating nursing homes are eligible, regardless
      of their clinical status. Residents who do not provide informed consent will be excluded.

      Usual Care. Patients in the control cohort receive usual care, which means the actions to
      take are decided by the nursing home staff. Generally, this implies that patients who are
      clinically unstable, or require urgent instrumental tests, will be sent to the ED.

      Measures. Baseline variables. Demographic data on gender and age are collected by chart
      review.

      Outcome variables. The primary outcome is hospitalization rate, considering at the numerator
      all unplanned admissions occurred during a 1-year period, and at the denominator the sum of
      the person-time of the at risk population (days of stay at the nursing home). For the
      intervention group, the numerator corresponds to options c) and d) defined in "Step 1: MMU
      team activation".

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  Crude all-cause Death Rate (CDR): the number of deaths during a 1-year period on
           person-time of the at risk population

        -  Hospital Mortality rate: the frequency of patients who die while in the hospital (death
           rate/1000)

        -  Length of stay (LOS): the duration of a single episode of hospitalization. Inpatient
           days are calculated by subtracting day of admission from day of discharge.

        -  Adverse events or complications: frequency of events occurred within 48 hours from MMU
           team activation and subsequent patient stabilization, for which hospital access becomes
           necessary.

        -  Costs analysis, comparing the cost differences in the two groups

      Data Collection. Patient demographic and clinical characteristics are collected at baseline
      to describe the study population and determine factors associated with hospital rate.
      Participants' files and electronic data are stored securely at the study site (e.g. locked
      area, password protected hard- and software). Data integrity will be scrutinized with several
      strategies (e.g. valid values, range checks, consistency checks). Patient data are only
      identifiable with the unique participant's number. Personal information will be collected and
      saved in a separate file (on a different server) which can only be accessed by the Principal
      Investigator (PI). This information will be used by the PI to retrieve data on any hospital
      admissions (length of stay, in-hospital death …) from administrative databases (discharge
      summaries, ED data, Death Registry). Residents' identification data will be deleted once the
      study is completed, making the dataset anonymous. All study protocol authors will have access
      to the anonymous dataset.

      Cost analysis. The investigators will identify the changes in net costs associated with
      one-year exposure to the intervention, consisting in the induced costs due to incremental
      resource inputs for carrying out the intervention and hospital health service utilization
      costs. Staffing costs will be calculated considering the time spent by the professionals
      involved in the intervention. Non-staff running costs include expenses of MMU staff
      travelling to and from the nursing home. The health service utilization costs will be
      identified based on the Diagnosis Related Group (DRG) system.

      Statistical Methodology. Sample size calculation. The number of subjects to include was
      estimated using the findings of one study, a large quasi-experimental trial. Thus,
      considering 56 cases vs 32 cases per 100 residents, and using a 2-sided, large-samples z-test
      of the Poisson incidence rate difference at a significance level of 0.05, and with a power of
      0.90, overall 338 residents should be enrolled.

      Statistical analysis. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize patient populations
      and will be presented as means and standard deviations (SD) when normally distributed, or as
      medians and interquartile ranges (IQR).

      For the primary analysis the investigators will used Poisson regression with robust standard
      errors (SEs) to evaluate relative differences in hospital rates among the two cohorts while
      adjusting for demographic characteristics.

      Concerning the secondary outcomes, the following analyses will be performed:

        -  Rates will be compared considering the quotient between the intervention and control
           groups

        -  A lognormal model will be used to compare in-hospital LOS.

        -  Chi square tests will be conducted for categorical data as adverse events or
           complications

        -  For costs, the investigators will use the following equations to summarize the annual
           net costs associated with the implementation of the intervention. Any costs with
           negative values mean "savings" and any costs with positive values mean "losses". Net
           costs ˆ A…(intervention costs) +‡ B (Costs for differences in hospital health service
           utilization) where: A= intervention: staffing costs+intervention: non- staff costs and
           B= Costs for differences in inpatient care utilization. Therefore, the net costs arising
           from one-year implementation of the intervention as compared with the current practice
           will be obtained, where a negative value of net costs represents "cost-saving" and a
           positive value represents "not cost-saving"

      The demographic and clinical variables which influence the outcome with a p value<0.20 in the
      univariate analysis will be included in the Poisson regression model.

      The analyses will be performed using SAS 8.2 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, USA) and STATA-SE 11
      (Stata Corp LP, College Station, TX, USA).
    
  