
    
      The purpose of this study is to find the relationship between the stage and quality of
      developmental delay at a young age, and the final diagnosis that the child gets a few years
      later (MR, type of PDD, CP or comorbidity of a few disorders). We assume that analysis of
      developmental subtests can show the developmental direction of the child and predict his
      later diagnosis. The developmental test which is chosen for this purpose is the BSID which is
      a comprehensive and worldwide developmental test. In addition, we want to find the
      correlation between the developmental delays in early age and the intellectual functioning in
      the future. We assume that through analyzing the subtests of developmental tests we will
      succeed in predicting the expected cognitive level (IQ).

      Medical files of participating children will be analyzed. The files will be sorted and only
      those of GDD diagnosis containing BSID test data will be selected. The performances of the
      BSID test and the current diagnosis of the children will be recorded. A trained researcher
      will process the BSID data and build a database which will include the findings of the test,
      the current diagnosis of the child and the level of MR, in case the child suffers from MR
      (only or comorbidly). In order to test the research assumptions appropriate statistic tests
      will be done using the statistical program SPSS version 17.

      This study has important implications. Findings which show that the developmental tests are
      effective tools, not only to evaluate general developmental delay, but as auxiliary tools for
      diagnosing and predicting the type of disability and level of retardation. These findings are
      a breakthrough in the diagnostic field. In addition, the ability to predict the type of
      disability and level of mental retardation by a developmental test that is used so widely
      allows early intervention, and as has been widely proven, the earlier the intervention, the
      better the outcome.

      In addition, a vast range of people will benefit from the findings. Professionals such as
      doctors, psychologists and paramedical therapists, government bodies and community resources
      that can design and build a support system and services for the child and his family. Most
      importantly, the family of the diagnosed child and the child himself will be able to prepare
      themselves to the new reality and design their life accordingly.
    
  