
    
      Although whole exome sequencing (WES) was first used for identification of the genetic cause
      of a disease only in 2009 and whole genome sequencing (WGS) in 2010, and questions remain
      about their performance as clinical tests, they are already being offered to patients and
      doctors as a clinical test by several laboratories certified by the US government (14 labs
      for WES and 5 labs for WGS). The results from WES and WGS can be complex and confusing, even
      for doctors and scientists who work with this technology on a daily basis; for patients, the
      process of deciding whether to have WES or WGS testing, undergoing the testing, receiving the
      results, and trying to use the results for further decision-making could be quite stressful.
      Currently, this process occurs in an unstandardized fashion, with some patients receiving
      extensive education and counseling, and others receiving almost none. There is a critical
      need to identify patient needs and desires in this area, and to develop strategies to satisfy
      them. The primary goal of this project is to gain knowledge about how patients undergoing
      prenatal diagnosis for a fetal abnormality understand and react to WGS testing, so that we
      can develop a more ethical and responsible approach to patient education, counseling, and
      return of results for patients . In order to do this, we need to evaluate parents'
      understanding of the utility and limitations of the technology, parents' preferences
      regarding the types of results they want to receive, and the psychological impact of
      receiving results from this technology. We will enroll 30 families consisting of a woman
      carrying a fetus with a major abnormality identified by ultrasound, and the father of the
      fetus, who have opted for amniocentesis for standard prenatal diagnostic testing
      (karyotyping, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and/or microarray testing). Half of
      the families will serve as controls, who will only have standard prenatal diagnostic testing.
      For the other half of the families, WGS will be performed in addition to standard diagnostic
      testing. For all 30 cases, we will perform psychosocial evaluations (including assessments of
      the subjects' mood, understanding of the technology and preferences for return of results) at
      the time of enrollment, at the time of return of CLIA-certified genetic testing results
      (karyotype, FISH, microarray, and/or WGS), and after completion of the pregnancy. In this
      way, we will learn whether participants are receiving adequate education about
      next-generation sequencing to make informed choices, what the range of preferences are for
      return of results in a prenatal population (and whether this changes when new methods for
      prenatal diagnosis are employed), and whether the use of WGS imposes additional psychological
      stress compared to standard prenatal diagnostic tests. This study will be carried out in a
      stepwise and carefully monitored environment, with progress overseen by an Independent Data
      Monitoring Committee in order to maximize the knowledge gained while minimizing potential
      harms.
    
  