
    
      Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) remains the mainstay of prostate cancer treatment. Though
      an effective therapy initially, the side effects of ADT are numerous and treatment resistance
      is inevitable. Castrate-refractory prostate cancer (CRPC) progresses via adaptive mechanisms
      that allow ongoing androgen receptor (AR) signalling despite castrate levels of androgens.

      The concept of cycling between supra- and sub physiological levels of testosterone has been
      tested recently in studies of "bipolar androgen therapy" (BAT) in which patients are given
      high dose testosterone in combination with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) via an LHRH
      agonist/antagonist. Studies of BAT using IM testosterone have been promising both in terms of
      PSA responses and quality of life improvements. Additionally, these early phase studies
      suggest the potential for re-sensitisation to novel anti-androgen therapies.

      Though responses have been positive in these early studies a proportion of men fail to
      respond and data to guide patient selection is lacking. There are data to suggest that
      patients with DNA repair deficits may be particularly responsive to BAT. Whether these
      changes serve as predictors of response is unknown as the effect of BAT on the tumour, its
      microenvironment and peripheral circulating tumour DNA has not been studied in detail.
      Information on treatment effects may be key to appropriate patient selection for this
      treatment.

      The aim of this study is to assess homologous repair deficiency as a predictive biomarker of
      response to bipolar androgen therapy in men with metastatic castrate-refractory prostate
      cancer and to study the effects of this treatment on ctDNA and intra-tumoural gene
      expression.

      In addition, based on the pre-clinical studies, the combination with carboplatin will be
      tested in men that are HRD negative
    
  