
    
      GRACE is a Network of Excellence focusing on the complex and controversial field of
      community-acquired lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI), which is one of the leading
      reasons for seeking medical care. It is funded through Funding Program 6 of the European
      Union. The prescription of antibiotics for LRTI accounts for a major proportion of
      antibiotics used in the community, and contributes to the rising prevalence of resistance
      among major human pathogens. The overall objective of GRACE is to combat antimicrobial
      resistance through integrating centres of research excellence and exploiting genomics in the
      investigation and management of community-acquired LRTI

      The first study undertaken as part of GRACE is GRACE-01, an observational study, which aims
      to describe the presentation, management (evaluation and treatment decisions) and outcomes
      for people with cough / chest infection in general medical practice in 13 primary care
      networks in Europe. This will be an observational study of current practice involving no
      experimental procedures or interventions.

      Other objectives Of GRACE-01 are:

        1. To describe variation in management of cough / chest infection including antibiotic
           prescribing in primary care between, and within, selected European countries in order to
           explain how good practice could be made explicit and generalised.

        2. To identify priorities for intervention studies aimed at enhancing antibiotic
           prescribing for community acquired cough / chest infection and other aspects of
           management.

        3. To contribute to developing interventions aimed at enhancing antibiotic prescribing and
           other aspects of management of community-acquired cough / chest infection that are
           applicable across the European Union (EU), and also to interventions that are relevant
           to unique local situations within Europe.

      There will be two recruitment periods, one beginning on the second of October 2006 or soon
      thereafter and a second beginning on the first of February 2007 or soon thereafter. The goal
      is for each of the 13 participating European networks to recruit a total of 150 patients
      during each of these recruitment periods.
    
  