
    
      A main factor for planning any preventive program is to accurately assess a person's risk of
      developing a caries.

      There is a relative lack of data pertaining to adults in the developing world in general and
      in Sudan in particular. Most of the studies focused on school children.

      Many people in Sudan do not receive regular dental care and have acute problems when seen by
      a dentist. In Sudan the dentist-to-patient ratio is 1:33,000 compared with approximately
      1:2,000 in most industrialized countries. Relative to the size of the Sudanese population,
      there are very few dentists and this restricts access to regular dental care. Other factors
      which influence dental. Attendance in Sudan include the lack of public funding for oral
      healthcare and dental insurance schemes to ameliorate the cost of care. For this reason,
      insufficient awareness of the culture of selecting suitable foods to preserve the health of
      the mouth and teeth, as prevention is better than treatment .

      The study will help the clinician to compare the incidence of caries between different
      nationality they have different diet habits ,food traditions , and they have different
      education and cultural levels as these factors can reflect the health care system , and to
      determine the effect of these factors clearly on dental caries It also allow the clinician to
      develop the most suitable preventive treatment plan for each patient by evaluating the main
      causative factor to patient and to eliminate that factor so that we can arrest an ongoing
      active lesion and prevent developing a new lesion at lowest therapeutic cost.

      The patient will be informed in the same visit about the causative factor of the carious
      lesion in general, the role of diet in particular and instructed about the suggested
      treatment plan ,to change the lifestyle to the better and strengthen the concept of
      "prevention is better than treatment"
    
  