
    
      Depression is a complex illness that impacts an individual's thoughts, behavior, mood, and
      physical health. Research has shown that many Asian Americans with depression do not complain
      about their symptoms or seek treatment, which has lead to an under-recognition of depression
      in this population. Furthermore, even when a primary care physician does diagnose depression
      in an Asian American, adequate treatment does not often follow. There is a clear need to
      understand the cultural reasons for why treatment is not sought out by Asian Americans. There
      is also a need for developing new treatments that specifically target the Asian American
      population. Offering culturally sensitive therapies combined with traditional medical care
      may make depressed Asian Americans more comfortable in seeking treatment for their illness.
      Culturally Sensitive Collaborative Treatment (CSCT) is a comprehensive approach to treating
      depression. It incorporates consultation with a culturally trained psychiatrist, medical
      treatment provided by a primary care provider, and care management provided by a bilingual
      and bicultural care manager. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of
      CSCT versus traditional medical care for the treatment of depression in Chinese Americans.

      This 24-week study will enroll depressed Chinese Americans. Potential participants will be
      interviewed in primary care clinics to screen for depression. Once enrolled, all participants
      will attend a consultation with a psychiatrist trained in cultural sensitivity to introduce
      the concept and treatment of depression. Participants will then be randomly assigned to
      either CSCT or standard care. Both groups of participants will receive regular care from
      their primary care provider, but the CSCT group will also meet with a bilingual and
      bicultural care manager to learn how to fully manage their depression. Outcome measurements
      will include symptoms of depression; adherence to appointments with primary care providers;
      adherence to medication treatment; and adverse events. All measurements will be assessed
      during follow-up phone calls at Weeks 2, 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, and 24.
    
  