
    
      Barriers to healthy eating and active living are at the heart of the obesity epidemic. This
      study focuses on a key factor underlying healthy eating: home food preparation. Preparing
      food at home entails a sequence of steps from obtaining food, to planning and cooking or
      preparing meals, to finally serving and eating the meal. Many strategies to curb obesity in
      children focus on eliminating processed and fast food from the diet, as well as improving
      access to fresh produce and other healthy ingredients. A collective ability to regularly and
      reliably prepare healthy food at home is implicit in these and other prevention strategies.
      Little research, however, has grappled with the phenomenon that there has been a generational
      loss of home food preparation ability over the past few decades. What is urgently needed is
      to design effective, enticing, and scalable interventions to improve home food preparation
      practices across diverse groups.

      This study aims to test the effectiveness of a community-located, peer mentored intervention
      to improve home food preparation practices in families with young children. The investigators
      will partner with Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Early Head Start, a community-based
      organization serving families with children ages 0 to 3 years in West Philadelphia, aiming
      specifically to:

        1. Use the principles of Community Based Participatory Research (CBPR) to design, evaluate
           and disseminate a peer mentored intervention aimed at improving home food preparation
           practices among families with young children.

        2. Conduct a randomized controlled trial with a delayed entry control group to test the
           effect of the intervention on three outcomes: home food preparation practices,
           healthfulness of the diet, and cooking-related self-efficacy.

      The investigators hypothesize that families participating in this intervention will
      demonstrate improvement in parental self-efficacy related to cooking, home food preparation
      practices, and the healthfulness of parents' and toddlers' diets post-intervention, compared
      to families who do not participate in the intervention.
    
  