
    
      Background:

      Patients with active or previous i.v.-drug abuse and patients receiving opiate substitution
      therapy (OST) represent a major subgroup of the patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Till
      some years ago it was held, that patients with a history of i.v.-drug abuse and patients
      receiving OST should not be considered for interferon-based antiviral treatment because of
      their poor compliance. However, during the past years it became clear, that patients on OST
      who are considered to be stable by their physicians are good candidates for antiviral
      therapy. Several studies have shown that SVR (sustained virological response rates) achieved
      in these patients are similar to results in patients without a history of i.v. drug abuse.

      Subgroups of patients receiving OST:Patients receiving OST represent a very heterogeneous
      population. However, based on empirical observation of the behavior/compliance of each
      individual patient they can be assigned to one of the following three groups:

      Group 1: Patients with very good compliance. These patients do not take drugs anymore and
      demonstrate a very good compliance. If anti HCV therapy is indicated, these patients can be
      referred to and treated at a hepatologic Center (i.e. hospital). Such patients have been
      included in various phase III trials of new direct acting antiviral agents (DAAs).

      Group 2: Patients with a very poor compliance. These patients do not keep appointments
      (regardless whether it is at a low threshold facility or at a hospital). Due to their lack of
      compliance antiviral therapy of these patients is not feasible.

      Group 3: Patients with a borderline compliance. These patients do come to a low threshold
      facility on a daily basis where they get OST under direct observation of a physician or a
      nurse. These patients are reluctant to go to specialized hepatitis centers (high inhibition
      threshold) and hence cannot be treated there. However, anti-HCV treatment can be applied
      together with OST under direct observation of a physician or a nurse at the low threshold
      facilities. The "Ambulatorium Suchthilfe Wien" a "low threshold facility" (LTF): The
      "Ambulatorium Suchthilfe Wien" is a facility that offers medical care to patients with active
      or former i.v. drug abuse (= (ex-)PWIDs). The medical team at these low-threshold facilities
      (=LTFs) includes general practitioners, specialists in internal medicine, psychiatrists and
      nurses. In contrast to hospitals (hepatologic centers in Austria with outpatient clinics in a
      large hospital), where there is a relatively high "psychological" inhibition threshold for
      PWIDs with CHC, the LTFs are located in "normal" houses. The setting is such that the
      "psychological" inhibition threshold for PWIDs to go there is low. At the LTFs (ex-)PWIDs can
      obtain OST on a daily basis under direct observation of a physician or a nurse. Hence, the
      patients have a high motivation to come to these facilities daily (to avoid withdrawal
      symptoms - they do not have a similar incentive/interest/motivation to go to a hospital on a
      regular basis). The direct observed OST prevents potential selling of medication on the black
      market. Anti-HCV treatment at the "Ambulatorium Suchthilfe Wien":

      Univ.-Prof. Dr. Michael Gschwantler, an experienced hepatologist is cooperating with the
      "Ambulatorium Suchthilfe Wien" (=LTF). He visits the facility at least once a week (and
      immediately in the case of any serious problem) and takes care of the patients with regards
      to hepatitis/liver diseases. Prof. Gschwantler does this voluntarily and unsalaried. He
      performs routine laboratory and sonographic evaluation of the liver directly at the LTF.
      Prof. Gschwantler has already treated a small number of eligible "group 3 patients" (patients
      with borderline compliance as described before) with interferon-based treatment directly at
      the LTF (patients didn't need to go to a hospital). However, beside compliance issues
      contraindications against interferon (e.g. due to depression) prevent many (ex-)PWIDs from
      being treated at the moment.

      Study drug:

      In this non-interventional study patients with chronic hepatitis C, genotype 1, will be
      treated with Harvoni速 (Sofosbuvir/Ledipasvir). Harvoni速 has been approved for treatment of
      chronic hepatitis C. For treatment-na誰ve patients with genotype 1 infection without liver
      cirrhosis the recommended duration of treatment is 8 weeks. In this non-interventional study
      treatment with Harvoni速 will be performed exactly according to the label.

      The study drug will kindly be provided by Gilead.
    
  