
    
      Starting from the CS-VR, this study aims to define the CS-VR-Onco, an ICF core set consistent
      with cancer survivors' needs.

      CS-VR-Onco will guide professionals in:

        1. comprehensively assessing work functioning

        2. identifying the areas of work functioning in which the VR intervention is relevant

        3. identifying patients who would benefit most from VR

        4. measuring work functioning pre-post VR

      This sequential exploratory design involves multiple phases of qualitative (phase 1) and
      quantitative (phase 2) data collection.

      Qualitative_phase 1, To adapt the CS-VR: 1.a_Focus groups (FGs) will be organized with CSs
      selected from the UNAMANO project (NCT03666936), the Cancer Registry of Reggio Emilia, the
      General Practitioners of the province of Reggio Emilia and the voluntary non-profit
      associations of cancer patients. During the FGs, we will ask participants to name and reflect
      on barriers and facilitators influencing their RTW process. Further, the FGs will address
      those ICF components from which the CS-VR categories were extracted. 1.b_Consensus-based
      approach with a sample of stakeholders of the RTW process. We will integrate evidence
      gathered from phase 1.a and the literature to develop the minimum standard for the assessment
      of work functioning in this population (CS-VR-Onco).

      Quantitative_phase 2, To validate the CS-VR-Onco: 2.a_Cross-sectional survey of CSs extracted
      from the Cancer Registry of Reggio Emilia. Through a guided interview based on the categories
      of the CS-VR-Onco, we will ask participants to report their work difficulties.
      2.b_Longitudinal study on cancer patients recently diagnosed with cancer referred to UNAMANO
      project for VR. Before and after the VR, CS-VR-Onco will be administer to identify patients'
      needs. Additionally, participants will be assessed with valid measurement tools (when
      present) pertinent to the CS-VR-Onco categories identified.
    
  