
    
      A tourniquet is often used in total knee arthroplasty (TKA) to achieve better visualization,
      reduce intra-operative bleeding and facilitate cement interdigitation. On the other hand, the
      associated risks include skin burns, soft tissue and muscle damage, injury of calcified
      vessels, increased swelling and stiffness of the joints, nerve injury, paralysis, and
      thromboembolic events.

      The automatic lower limb pneumatic tourniquet system (Zimmer) was applied to reduce blood
      loss during surgery. The skin under the tourniquet was covered by cast padding. The operated
      leg was elevated and exsanguinated before inﬂating the automatic pneumatic tourniquet. There
      are three main strategies for the use of a tourniquet in TKR: A) inflate before incision and
      deflate following cement hardening ('skin to cement'); B) inflate prior to cement application
      and deflated following hardening ('cement only'); C) inflate before incision and deflate
      following completion of skin closure ('skin to skin'). The optimal timing of tourniquet
      application during primary TKA is still a matter of debate. Most previous reports have failed
      to show signiﬁcant differences among different tourniquet strategies.

      Kvederas et al. compared these three strategies in a randomized double-blind clinical trial,
      and demonstrated that the estimated blood loss was highest when the tourniquet was inﬂated
      just before cement application and deﬂated after its hardening ('cement only'), while
      inﬂation of tourniquet before skin incision and its deﬂation after hardening of cement ('skin
      to cement') tends to give better early postoperative mobilization. However, this was an
      interim report with limited number of patients, and only limited outcome parameters were
      reported, which were insufﬁcient to draw ﬁrm conclusions regarding the differences in
      outcome.

      Therefore we performed this prospective randomized controlled trial (RCT) with a decent
      sample size to investigate the best tourniquet strategy in TKA. In addition to the blood loss
      and early postoperative outcomes, we also strictly monitored pain, soft tissue injury, and
      rehabilitation with a longer follow-up duration up to 6 months.

      All of the operations were performed through the medial parapatellar approach by the same
      experienced joint replacement surgeon. All patients underwent primary TKA with minimally
      invasive techniques and cemented prostheses (EvolutionTM medial pivot, MicroPort, USA). An
      intramedullary guide was used for both tibial and femoral cuts.

      The automatic lower limb pneumatic tourniquet system was applied to reduce blood loss during
      surgery. The skin under the tourniquet was covered by cast padding. The operated leg was
      elevated and exsanguinated before inﬂating the automatic pneumatic tourniquet. One of the
      three tourniquet treatment strategies was used, as determined by the group allocation of the
      patient. In all the three groups, the tourniquet was inﬂated to a pressure of 280 mm Hg. The
      wound was closed after wound irrigation and hemostasis and then was wrapped with elastic
      bandages. One drainage was applied postoperatively in all patients and was kept until 24h to
      monitor blood loss.
    
  