
    
      Introduction: Wandering behavior is manifested in ways that include lingering near exit doors
      and/or mimicking or "shadowing" the exiting behavior of others who depart through this door.
      Referenced as "exit-seeking," such behavior is a common mobility pattern that places persons
      with dementia who wander (PDW) at high risk of wandering away or eloping. PDW who wander away
      from a care setting unattended are at risk of death from exposure or accidents if lost and
      not quickly found, and those that do not wander away but persist in such behaviors are at
      risk for falls, fractures and other injuries, weight loss, fatigue and sleep disturbances.
      Traditional methods to manage PDW exit-seeking and wandering away include physical restraints
      and pharmacology, but these can be harmful. Subjective or "visual exit barriers" to deter
      exit-seeking offer an attractive alternative because these interventions are non-invasive,
      low-cost and simple to use. Nursing home tests of visual exit barriers such as plain cloth
      door covers and stripped floor covers have demonstrated positive results in reducing or
      completely exit-seeking behaviors. Confirmation of these results in a well designed,
      home-based trial is warranted.

      Research Questions/Hypotheses: The research questions and hypotheses of this 2-year,
      cross-over assignment with randomized allocation design with two intervention and two
      no-intervention periods (at baseline and after the first intervention) are: Q1. Will
      installation of visual barrier interventions change exit-seeking wandering patters,
      controlling for cognitive impairment? H1. Compared to baseline, installation of a visual exit
      barrier will lower the frequency and duration of exit-seeking behaviors. Q2. Of the two
      visual barriers (door and floor), which will result in the greater reduction of wandering
      (frequency and duration of lingering and shadowing)? H2. Door covers will reduce exit seeking
      more than floor covers.

      Five secondary questions are proposed for descriptive purposes and to generate hypotheses for
      future studies on wandering management interventions. These include: Q3. What are the
      baseline characteristics of exit-seeking (predominant loci, durations and variability of
      durations during waking hours)? Q4. Will the introduction of a visual barrier on one exit
      doorway alter exit-seeking behaviors occurring in proximity to other potential exit doors and
      windows within the same area? Q5. Will the introduction of visual exit barriers reduce CG
      (caregiver) burden? Q6. Will the introduction of visual exit barriers increase PDW agitation?
      and Q7. How do CG rate visual barrier effectiveness and acceptability for in-home use?

      Methods: A crossover assignment with randomized order of allocation design was used. One main
      exit doorway was sequentially protected with the two types (door, floor) of visual barriers.
      Data related to exit-seeking of subjects was collected via ultrawide radio frequency
      identification devices on a continuous basis for four 14-day periods: Entry into a monitored
      zone 6-feet in front of exit doorways will be considered exit-seeking behavior; PDW
      locomotion in tandem with CG locomotion will be considered shadowing. Caregiver-reported PDW
      agitation and CG burden will be collected at baseline and immediate post-interventions. Prior
      to all statistical analysis, all variables will be reviewed for valid data points and
      normalcy for continuous data. Should erroneous data points exist, data will be verified to
      ensure accuracy. Should data not be normally distributed, processes such as transformations
      or truncations will be completed. Prior to conducting formal hypothesis testing, an order of
      allocation analysis will be completed to determine if carry-over effects occurred in the
      study. Analysis (Pocock) will be completed, which in essence examines the mean of differences
      by use of t-statistics. In addition, intent to treat analysis will be completed. Given we
      have incorporated a second baseline phase into the study, frequency and duration will be
      compared between the two baseline phases to ensure consistency. Descriptive statistics
      (frequency distributions for categorical variables, means and standard deviations for
      continuous variables) will be calculated for all baseline variables including the covariates.
    
  