
    
      Opioid use has increased to epidemic levels in the United States and has been associated with
      a dramatic increase in overdose deaths. Buprenorphine is a safe, well-tolerated, and
      evidence-based medication for opioid use disorder that can be prescribed in office-based
      treatment settings. Office-based buprenorphine could be an effective way to expand treatment
      for opioid use disorder, and thereby combat the opioid epidemic. However, office-based
      buprenorphine has three limitations that must be addressed to facilitate the safe and
      effective expansion of buprenorphine treatment: 1) Many patients discontinue buprenorphine
      treatment prematurely, 2) some patients divert buprenorphine for illicit use, and 3) many
      patients continue to use illicit opioids during buprenorphine treatment. This project will
      address these limitations by using a psychosocial approach known as Contingency Management.
      Contingency Management interventions provide incentives to substance abuse patients when
      patients meet therapeutic goals. This project will compare the effectiveness of two
      Contingency Management interventions (which the investigators have named "Buprenorphine
      Adherence and Opiate Abstinence" and "Buprenorphine Adherence Only") and Standard Medical
      Management for treating adults with opioid use disorder. Participants (N=375) will be
      randomly assigned to one of the three groups. Buprenorphine Adherence and Opiate Abstinence
      and Buprenorphine Adherence Only participants will receive incentives for daily buprenorphine
      use. Buprenorphine Adherence and Opiate Abstinence participants also will receive incentives
      for providing opiate-negative saliva samples. Daily buprenorphine use and opiate abstinence
      will both be remotely verified using smartphone-enabled video directly observed therapy
      (Video DOT). All participants will be receiving or referred to receive buprenorphine
      treatment and will complete assessments every 4 weeks during a 12-week intervention period.
      If the proposed intervention is effective, it could encourage medical professionals to
      prescribe buprenorphine, and improve patients' access to and success in office-based
      buprenorphine treatment.
    
  