
    
      Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) are two of the most commonly reported adverse
      effects of chemotherapy. Uncontrolled CINV reduces quality of life, leads to delays in
      treatment, and causes serious metabolic disturbances. Current strategies for preventing acute
      CINV include combination therapy with a 5-HT3 antagonist and a corticosteroid for
      moderately-high to highly emetogenic chemotherapy. Similarly, strategies aimed at reducing
      the incidence and severity of delayed CINV include the combination of a corticosteroid and
      either a dopamine receptor antagonist or a 5-HT3 antagonist for 3-5 days post chemotherapy.
      Complete protection from vomiting in the first 24 hours is achieved in as many as 70-90% of
      patients receiving moderately-high and highly emetogenic chemotherapy; however, standard
      antiemetics only protect 50% of patients from experiencing nausea during this acute CINV
      phase. Delayed nausea and vomiting is less well defined and controlled, with as many as 50%
      of patients experiencing nausea and vomiting in the 3 to 5 day period following the first day
      of chemotherapy. Both acute and delayed CINV remain a significant problem in patients
      undergoing high-dose chemotherapy for autologous or allogeneic transplantation where up to
      90% of patients experience CINV despite prophylactic strategies. Additional pharmacological
      interventions are clearly needed to optimize control of CINV. Neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1)
      antagonists have been reported to improve the total control rates of acute CINV by
      approximately 25% compared to the standard combination of a 5-HT3 antagonists and
      dexamethasone alone. Cocquyt et al., reported that one dose of a NK-1 antagonist administered
      prior to cisplatin-based chemotherapy prevented delayed emesis in up to 72% of patients.
      Although promising, the role of these agents in CINV prevention and control is as yet
      undetermined. Acupuncture constitutes a nonpharmacological intervention for CINV. Chinese
      medicine holds that stimulating select points both on the body and the ear, that lie along
      meridians or life channels, can relieve diseases. From the previous studies, the P6 point,
      also known as the Neiguan point or G-Jo point no. 10, is located 2 cun (Chinese inch,
      equivalent to the width of an individual's thumb) proximal to the distal wrist crease,
      between the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis. P6 acupuncture was
      shown to reduce the incidence and severity of nausea and vomiting in the postoperative
      setting, morning sickness, and the P6 transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TCES) therapy
      was shown to enhance the antiemetic action of ondansetron in patients receiving highly emetic
      chemotherapy treatment. Auricular acupuncture consisted of needle insertion in one ear at
      four points: (1) sympathetic - located in the terminal of the inferior antihelix crus; (2)
      stomach -located around the area where the helix crus terminates; (3) shinmoon - located at
      the bifurcating point between superior and inferior antihelix crus and the lateral 1/3 of the
      triangular fossa; and (4) occiput - located at the posterior superior corner of the lateral
      aspect of the antitragus have been reported to be effective in reducing PONV. The purpose of
      this study was to evaluate auricular acupuncture as an antiemetic treatment compared with
      sham acupuncture and with no acupuncture in patients receiving moderately-high to highly
      emetogenic chemotherapy.

      The study is a three group, randomized, examiner-blind, crossover controlled trial. It is to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of auricular acupuncture in patients receiving
      moderately-high to highly emetogenic chemotherapy from National Taiwan University Hospital.
      120 eligible patients receiving moderately-high to highly emetogenic chemotherapy who fulfill
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria and complete the informed consent form will be recruited.

      After the washout period of 2 weeks, the subjects will be required to take the medication for
      preventing acute CINV including combination therapy with a 5-HT3 antagonist and a
      corticosteroid for moderately-high to highly emetogenic chemotherapy. The patients will be
      divided into three groups (auricular acupuncture treatment group, sham auricular acupuncture
      treatment group, and non-treatment group) in order to test the effectiveness of auricular
      acupuncture. Group 1 patients will receive no treatment (control), after completion of the
      1st chemotherapy course, Group 2 patients will receive auricular acupuncture treatment at the
      2nd and 4th chemotherapy courses and will receive sham auricular acupuncture at the 3rd
      chemotherapy course, while Group 3 will receive sham auricular acupuncture at the 2nd and 4th
      chemotherapy courses and will receive auricular acupuncture at the 3rd chemotherapy course.
      At baseline visit and course 1, 2, 3, and 4 after chemotherapy, every subject will have
      efficacy evaluations by FILE, vomiting visual analog scare, WHOQOL-BREF questionnaire and
      Chinese Disposition Classification. Simultaneously, they will be monitored on their vital
      signs, complete blood counts, urinalysis, and biochemical indicators at baseline visit and
      the end of the trial. The collected data will then be analyzed by SAS 8.2 package.
    
  