
    
      Background: Dietary non-oil-seed pulses (chick peas, beans, lentils, peas) are a source of
      slowly digestible carbohydrate, vegetable protein, and fibre. Canada's Food Guide encourages
      consumption of meat alternatives, such as beans, "more often", and the dietary guidelines for
      Americans recommend 3-cups of legumes per week. The American Heart Association (AHA)
      recommends the consumption of legumes at least twice a week for cardiovascular health, while
      the European (EASD), Canadian (CDA), and American (ADA) Diabetes Associations recommend the
      consumption of dietary pulses as a means of improving diabetes control. The evidence on which
      these recommendations are based, however, has been graded as low. The evidence to support
      cardiovascular risk reduction health claims for pulses has also been deemed insufficient, and
      obesity, blood pressure, and dyslipidemia guidelines have not addressed pulses in their
      recommendations.

      Need for a review: The low-grade of evidence on which heart and diabetes association
      recommendations are based and the lack of data to support health claims and other
      cardiometabolic recommendations represent an urgent call for stronger evidence. A systematic
      review and meta-analysis of controlled feeding trials remains the "Gold Standard" of evidence
      for nutrition guidelines development.

      Objectives: To provide evidence-based guidance for public health policy, health claims, and
      nutrition guidelines relating to dietary pulses, we will conduct a series of systematic
      reviews and meta-analyses (knowledge synthesis) of controlled feeding trials to assess the
      effect of pulses on markers of cardiometabolic risk in humans, specifically lipid endpoints
      with therapeutic targets, glycemia, blood pressure and body weight.

      Design: The planning and conduct of the proposed meta-analyses will follow the Cochrane
      handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. The reporting will follow the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines.

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      will be searched using appropriate search terms.

      Study selection: Intervention trials that investigate the effect of exchanging dietary pulses
      for other diets on cardiometabolic risk outcomes in humans will be included. Studies that are
      <3-wks duration, lack a control, or report non-isocaloric comparisons will be excluded.

      Data extraction: Independent investigators (≥2) will extract information about study design,
      sample size, subject characteristics, pulse form, dose, follow-up, and the composition of the
      background diets. Mean±SEM values will be extracted for all outcomes. Standard computations
      and imputations will be used to derive missing variance data. Risk of bias and study quality
      will be assessed using the risk of bias tool and the Heyland Methodological Quality Score
      (MQS), respectively.

      Outcomes: The 4 proposed analyses will each assess a set of outcomes related to a different
      area of cardiometabolic control: (1) lipid control (LDL-C, ApoB, TC:HDL, non-HDL-C,
      ApoB:ApoA-1), (2) glycemic control (fasting glucose and insulin, HOMA-IR, glycated blood
      proteins), (3) body weight control, and (4) blood pressure control. Where data for both
      change-from-baseline differences and end differences are equally available, we will use the
      difference in change from baseline as the primary end point for analyses.

      Data synthesis: Separate pooled analyses stratified by underlying disease status will be
      conducted for each area of metabolic control using the Generic Inverse Variance method with
      random effects models. Random-effects models will be used even in the absence of
      statistically significant between-study heterogeneity, as they yield more conservative
      summary effect estimates in the presence of residual heterogeneity. Paired analyses will be
      applied to all crossover trials. Heterogeneity will be tested by Cochrane's Q and quantified
      by I2. Sources of heterogeneity will be explored by sensitivity and subgroup analyses. A
      priori subgroup analyses will include pulse type, pulse dose, duration of follow-up, absolute
      and change in saturated fat intake, absolute and change in dietary fibre intake, design
      (crossover, parallel), study quality, and baseline endpoint values. An a priori subgroup
      analysis for absolute and change in sodium intake will replace that for absolute and change
      in saturated fat intake in the blood pressure analysis. Significant unexplained heterogeneity
      will be investigated by additional post hoc subgroup analyses (e.g. age, sex, level of
      feeding control [metabolic, supplemented, dietary advice], washout in crossover trials,
      energy balance of the background diet, composition of the background diet [total % energy
      from fat, carbohydrate, protein], change in cholesterol intake, absolute and change in
      glycemic index, etc.). Meta-regression analyses will assess the significance of subgroups
      analyses. Publication bias will be investigated by the inspection of funnel plots and
      application of Egger's and Begg's tests.

      Knowledge translation plan: Results will be disseminated through traditional means such as
      interactive presentations at local, national, and international scientific meetings and
      publication in high impact factor journals. Innovative means such as webcasts with e-mail
      feedback mechanisms will also be used. Knowledge Users will act as knowledge brokers
      networking among opinion leaders and different adopter groups to increase awareness at each
      stage. Four Knowledge Users will also participate directly as members of nutrition guidelines
      committees. Target adopters will include the clinical practice, public health, industry,
      research communities, and patient groups. Feedback will be incorporated and used to guide
      analyses and improve key messages at each stage.

      Preliminary findings: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effect of
      dietary pulses on glycemic control in 41 controlled feeding trials. We found that pulses
      alone or in low-glycemic index or high-fibre diets improved markers of glycemic control.
      Although the improvement was clinically significant, it came at the expense of substantial
      inter-study heterogeneity. Knowledge translation from this preliminary project has already
      begun. It has provided a rationale for a large trial of the effect of pulses in type 2
      diabetes to address some of the identified sources of heterogeneity and is being used in the
      development of the 2013 CDA Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPG) for Nutrition Therapy.

      Significance: The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation related to the effects
      of dietary pulses on cardiometabolic risk, strengthening the evidence-base for dietary
      recommendations and health claims and improving health outcomes through informing healthcare
      providers and patients, stimulating industry innovation, and guiding future research.
    
  