
    
      Delirium is an acute brain dysfunction characterized by disturbances in attention, awareness,
      and cognition not explained by a preexisting neurocognitive disorder. Although the increased
      mortality rates ascribed to delirium remain debatable, delirium remains a leading cause of
      preventable morbidity in hospitalized elderly patients. It is also associated with prolonged
      hospitalization, prolonged institutionalization, and long-term cognitive deficits. Patients
      with pre-existing dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease, are especially vulnerable to
      developing delirium. The total healthcare cost attributable to delirium is estimated between
      $143 and $152 billion annually. In the United States, delirium occurs in approximately 80% of
      critically ill patients admitted to medical/surgical intensive care units (ICU), and 15% of
      patients admitted to cardiac surgical (CS) ICU. Most patients diagnosed with delirium also
      present with multiple comorbidities (sepsis, multi-organ failure) that significantly confound
      our understanding of this disease. Thus, to date, no pharmacological intervention to treat
      delirium has been identified.

      There is mounting evidence to suggest that sleep deprivation may be a modifiable risk factor
      for the development of delirium. Presently, pharmacological treatment with no current
      medication (benzodiazepines, antipsychotics) induces natural sleep or reliably reduces the
      incidence of delirium. The investigators have found that biomimetic sleep, defined here as
      pharmacological induction of rapid eye movement sleep (REM) and non-REM (N1, N2, N3) sleep
      states using dexmedetomidine, can now be achieved in humans. The overall objective of this
      study is to evaluate the efficacy of biomimetic sleep in reducing the incidence and severity
      of delirium in extubated CSICU patients. The investigators will also assess for
      peri-operative electroencephalogram biomarkers of delirium, and the association between
      delirium and chronic neuroinflammation using positron emission tomography. The MINDDS study
      is poised to enable therapeutic and diagnostic discoveries to aid the care of elderly
      patients who are at risk for developing postoperative delirium.
    
  