
    
      Organ transplantation is the best option for patients with chronic organ failure. After
      kidney (KT) or liver transplantations (LT), immunosuppressive medications have to be taken to
      avoid rejection. Lifelong adherence, the extent to which the patients behaviour matches the
      agreed upon prescribers recommendations, to immunosuppressive drugs is important to prevent
      graft failure (Pabst et al., 2015). The consequent immunosuppression intake and regular
      physician visits are important factors for a long transplant survival (Nöhre et al., 2018).

      A high rate of immunosuppressive medication non-adherence and its impact on post-transplant
      graft function indicate a need for adherence enhancing interventions (De Bleser et al.,
      2011).

      Non-adherence is linked to poor post-transplant outcomes including late acute rejection and
      graft loss (De Geest S. et al 2011; Dew MA et al 2008). Dew et al. concluded from a meta-
      analysis of 147 transplantation studies that nonadherence in renal allograft recipients was
      highest among solid organ transplant recipients, reaching 36 cases per 100 patients per year
      (Dew et al., 2007). Detection of adherence can be obtained by objective direct measures
      (observation that medication was taken) or indirect and subjective measures like
      self-reporting. The indirect measures include serum drug levels, biological markers and
      electronic monitoring. Adherence is a dynamic process with the need to be repetitive over
      time. The monitoring should be incorporated into the routine clinical management of all organ
      recipients. A recent study showed that combining self-reporting, assay and clinicians report
      yielded the highest sensitivity (72%) and specificity (42%) when compared to electronic
      monitoring (Low et al., 2019). Some new evidence suggest that moving from twice-daily to
      once-daily dosing of the immunosuppressive regimen, the calcineurin inhibitor, show
      indifferent prevalence rates with increased adherence or not improving the adherence (Lehner
      et al., 2018; Fellström et al., 2018).The aim of our study is to test the efficacy of such a
      multilevel education and psychosomatic intervention programme for improving medication
      adherence in patients after LT or KT.

        1. Primary Objective and Primary Endpoint The primary endpoint is the assessment of patient
           adherence using a validated version of the Basel Assessment of Adherence to
           Immunosuppressive Medication Scale (BAASIS) questionnaire.

        2. Secondary Objectives and Secondary Endpoints Secondary endpoints include the influence
           of the multilevel intervention programme on the coefficient of variation (CV%) of
           Tacrolimus (TAC), clinical outcomes including incidence of infections, acute rejection,
           liver and kidney values, death, graft loss, hospital readmission during the study
           period, side effects, number of trough level controls necessary during first 6 months,
           and achievement of TAC target concentrations.
    
  