
    
      Antithrombotic therapies are effective for prevention of cardiovascular (CV) events but cause
      bleeding. Emerging evidence indicates that extra-cranial bleeding is just as important as
      myocardial infarction as a marker of risk for subsequent non-fatal and fatal CV events, but
      this issue has not been prospectively studied. If the association between bleeding and CV
      events is causal, prevention of bleeding, by targeting the risk factors, and prevention of
      the complications of bleeding, by targeting the causal pathways, could substantially reduce
      the burden of bleeding-related CV events. Progress in developing these approaches has been
      limited by a knowledge gap. Known risk factors do not fully explain bleeding risk and the
      investigators do not understand the mechanisms linking bleeding with adverse outcome and
      whether the association is causal.

      One-half of bleeds that lead to CV events in patients receiving antithrombotic therapy arise
      in the GI tract. INTERBLEED plans to explore risk factors for GI bleeding, and outcomes after
      GI bleeding, in this well-circumscribed and important group using a case-control design with
      prospective 3 month and 12 month follow-up.

      Specific objectives are to: (1) identify risk factors for GI bleeding and estimate their
      population attributable risk; (2) determine the risk of non-fatal and fatal CV events and
      functional outcomes after GI bleeding; and (3) explore the possible mechanisms linking GI
      bleeding with CV outcome.

      INTERBLEED will recruit 2500 case-control pairs from centres in Argentina, Belgium, Brazil,
      China, Ireland and the Netherlands. Data will be collected on patient characteristics,
      medical history and, in cases, the work-up, management and outcomes after bleeding. The
      INTERBLEED results will help to develop new approaches to reducing the burden of
      bleeding-related CV events.
    
  