
    
      Title: Evaluation of the Antimicrobial Effect of Pre-synthesized Novel Antibiotic Electrospun
      Nanofibers as an Intracanal Delivery Strategy for Regenerative Endodontics - A Randomized
      Clinical Trial

      Rationale Regenerative endodontics technique outcome depends on microbial elimination because
      apical repair will not happen in the presence of infected tissues. It is well established
      that bacteria are essential for the development of pulpal and periapical pathosis.
      Eradication or control of bacteria may provide optimal treatment outcome. However,
      elimination of bacteria from infected root canal systems is challenging. Numerous measures
      have been described to reduce the number of bacteria in the root canal system, including the
      use of various instrumentation techniques, irrigation regimens and intra-canal medicaments.
      There is no definitive evidence in the literature that all these measures result in a
      bacteria-free root canal system.

      Therefore additional methods such as the use of intra-canal medicaments are required in order
      to maximize disinfection of root canal system and kill as many bacteria as possible.
      Antibiotics have been proposed as intracanal medicament but any single antibiotic is unlikely
      effective to sterilize diverse flora in root canal infection.

      Recently, triple antibiotic mixture (TAP) has been reported for successful disinfection of
      infected root dentine. This mixture consist of ciprofloxacin (CIP), metronidazole (MET) and
      minocycline (MINO) which consistently sterilize bacteria of infected dentine and infected
      pulps . Specifically, MET is a bactericidal imidazole that is highly effective against
      obligate anaerobic bacteria, CIP is a bactericidal broad-spectrum synthetic quinolone and
      MINO is a bacteriostatic broad-spectrum tetracycline.

      However, as minocycline binds to dentin and causes tooth discoloration, it is recommended to
      remove minocycline from TAP and use only MET and CIP, or to use modified TAPs containing
      cefaclor or clindamycin (CLIN). CLIN is a bacteriostatic lincosamide known for its efficacy
      against a broad spectrum of endodontic bacteria.

      In recent years, an innovative strategy has been considered to develop a low-concentration,
      yet antimicrobially effective and biocompatible polymer-based nanofibrous electrospun
      scaffolds as a drug delivery system to promote intracanal biofilm eradication .
      Electrospinning has been considered as a highly effective process to obtain extracellular
      matrix (ECM) mimicking structures with adequate chemistry and three-dimensional porous
      architectures Moreover, it has enabled the synthesis of bioactive nanofibrous scaffolds The
      electrospinning technology has attracted great interest in recent decades, thanks to its
      capability of easily and effectively processing a huge range of polymeric materials in form
      of nanofibers. In recent years, the health concerns associated with the systemic side effects
      of synthetic compounds used in medicine and the emergence of antibiotic resistance of
      pathogens have driven electrospinning research towards the development of antibiotic loaded
      nanofibers.

      Hypothesis To test the null hypothesis, which is in patients with necrotic immature teeth,
      will the use of pre-synthesized clindamycin modified triple antibiotic electrospun nanofibers
      have more profound antimicrobial effect than modified triple antibiotic paste.

      Objectives of the present study

        -  Primary objective To compare the antimicrobial effect of pre-synthesized novel
           antibiotic loaded nanofibers used in patients with immature necrotic teeth with modified
           triple antibiotic paste.

        -  Secondary objective To evaluate the morphology of pre-synthesized antibiotic loaded
           electrospun nanofibers.
    
  