
    
      Background:

      Three dimensional anatomical mapping is an established method facilitating ablation of
      cardiac arrhythmias. It is nowadays an excepted method especially for complex arrhythmias
      such as atrial fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia.

      The most commonly used systems are CARTO® System (Biosense Webster, Inc., Diamond Bar, CA,
      USA) and EnSite NavX™ (St. Jude Medical, Inc., St. Paul, MN, USA). These mapping systems have
      helped to decrease procedural complexity, procedure time, and improve safety. The EnSite NavX
      system uses impedance measurements between the individual catheter electrodes and the patches
      placed on the patient's chest and abdomen. The CARTO system utilizes magnetic location
      technology to provide accurate visualization of the magnet sensor-equipped catheter tip.

      These two systems has been compared in only a few studies. Different results have been found
      in simple ablations versus more complex ablation of atrial fibrillation. Recent technical
      advances resulted in the development of new versions of both systems. Carto Express version
      allows quicker mapping and reconstruction of heart cavities and great vessels geometry as
      compared to previous versions of Carto XP. EnSite Velocity system incorporates more precise
      catheter visualization, and allows quicker mapping as compared to previous version of EnSite.

      To the best of the investigators knowledge no studies have been performed for direct
      comparison of the newer versions of these two systems.

      Study design Prospective single-center non-randomized open label comparison study. Primary
      objective Comparison of Carto Express system vs. EnSite Velocity system for ablation of
      complex arrhythmias.

      End points:

        1. Procedure duration.

        2. Fluoroscopy time

        3. Procedure success -will be measured in terms of the 1-year recurrent arrhythmia rate
           Study population Patients planned for ablation of complex arrhythmia.
    
  