
    
      Insulin resistance is one of the main causes of type 2 diabetes. Continuation of insulin
      resistance may lead to the failure of multiple oral antihyperglycemic medications in
      achieving glycemic control and the further requirement of escalading doses of insulin. On
      contrary, reduction of glucose toxicity and weight loss improves insulin sensitivity and may
      result in substantial reduction in insulin dose and %A1C.

      U-500 insulin is the fastest-growing prescribed insulin in the US due to increased prevalence
      of severe obesity and extreme insulin resistance. Patients requiring high insulin doses of
      ≥200 units/day are the typical candidates for U-500 insulin. However, patients on such high
      doses of insulin rarely achieve target glycemic control.

      Sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors are new antihyperglycemic medications
      approved for treatment of type 2 diabetes. Adding a SGLT-2 inhibitors to other
      antihyperglycemic medications was shown to reduce glucose toxicity, improve insulin
      sensitivity and reduce body weight. Consequently, daily insulin dose may be reduced without
      compromising glycemic control.

      Canagliflozin is a sodium-glucose transporter subtype 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor that was approved
      by the FDA for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes in March, 2013. Canagliflozin, at the doses
      of 100mg and 300mg daily, improves blood sugar control by a novel mechanism which causes the
      kidneys to block reabsorption of about 50-80 grams of glucose. Canagliflozin lowers the renal
      threshold for glycosuria and causes excess glucose to be excreted in the urine.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of adding a SGLT-2 inhibitor (namely
      Canagliflozin) on the dose of U-500 insulin required to achieve glycemic control in patients
      with type 2 diabetes. We hypothesize that adding Canagliflozin to patients treated with U-500
      insulin may result in significant reduction in insulin dose due to improved insulin
      sensitivity and weight loss.

      This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Eligible subjects are
      patients with type 2 diabetes treated with ≥200 units per day of U-500 insulin with or
      without other antihyperglycemic medications. Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio
      to one of the following 2 study arms.

      I. Intervention Group: Subjects in this group will take canagliflozin in addition to their
      regular U-500 insulin dose and other antihyperglycemic medications. Canagliflozin dose will
      be titrated after 2 weeks from 100 mg once daily to 300 mg once daily. This dose will
      continue for 22 weeks.

      II. Control Group: Subjects in this group will take a matched placebo in addition to their
      regular U-500 insulin dose and other antihyperglycemic medications for 2 weeks then another
      matched-placebo for 22 weeks.
    
  