
    
      Study Aim:

        -  The primary aim of this study is to compare the post-operative recurrence of CD using
           the Rutgeerts score at 3-6 months between the novel Kono-S anastomosis (Group1) and
           side-to-side functional end anastomosis (Group2).

        -  The secondary aim is to evaluate the post-operative recurrence of CD using the Rutgeerts
           score at 12-18 months, surgical recurrence rate at 60 months between the groups.

      Methods

      Design: This will be a multi-center randomized prospective trial. Patients with Crohn's
      ileitis or Crohn's ileocolitis requiring initial resection will be randomized to undergo
      either the Kono-S anastomosis or the side-to-side functional end anastomosis.

      Patients will be randomized into two Groups:

      Group 1: Kono-S anastomosis vs. Group 2: side-to-side functional end anastomosis.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the post-operative recurrence of Crohn's disease
      between Kono-S procedure and the side-to-side functional end anastomosis. In any intestine
      surgery, after the sick portion of the bowel is removed, the intestinal tract is restored by
      reconnecting the healthy ends together. The new connecting line is called anastomosis, and
      could be created in a variety ways by the surgeon. This study will compare two different
      intestinal connections called Kono-S anastomosis and the traditional side-to-side functional
      end anastomosis. Initial studies have demonstrated that the Kono-S anastomosis has prevented
      endoscopic evidence of the post-operative recurrence of Crohn's disease at greater rates than
      the traditional side-to-side functional end anastomosis.

      Follow up: Patients will be discharged on no prophylactic treatments and they will be
      followed post- operatively at 3 to 6 and 12 to 18 months with a colonoscopy to assess for
      endoscopic recurrence. The mucosa will be graded with the Rutgeerts score for post-operative
      recurrence. All colonoscopies are part of the standard treatment. All patients will have also
      standard 30 days follow up, 3 to 6 months, 12 months, and up to 60 months follow up.

      Follow up Care: Patients with a Rutgeerts score at 3 months of:

        -  0, 1 or 2a will be followed prospectively without introducing medical treatment.

        -  above >2a will initiate medical therapy for Crohn's disease

        -  should the patient's symptoms warrant colonoscopic evaluation earlier than three months;
           this will be done at the gastroenterologist's discretion. This is a standard of care

      Colonoscopic images (still color photos acceptable) will be shown to a gastroenterologist
      blinded to the goal of the study for determination of the Rutgeerts score.

      Harvey Bradshaw Index as a marker of clinical disease activity will be used. This will be
      recorded before procedure (baseline), 3 to 6 and 12-18 months, and at 60 months post
      procedure.
    
  