
    
      Objectives and hypothesis: Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a tragically common
      problem among US Military Veterans. Current treatment options for PTSD are not uniformly
      effective and dropout rates are high. Treatment approaches that are evidence-based,
      effective, and acceptable to Veterans are needed. Nature therapy is a promising, low-cost
      intervention, yet there are few rigorous studies that have evaluated it as a therapeutic
      intervention in Veterans with PTSD.

      The specific aims of this study are to lay the ground work for a full-scale study by
      assessing the feasibility and acceptability of: i) recruitment, screening, and data
      collection methods; and ii) the nature hiking and urban hiking control group interventions.
      The investigators hypothesize that the interventions will be feasible and the recruitment,
      screening, and data collection methods will be acceptable.

      Key eligibility criteria for this two-arm pilot randomized controlled trial include being a
      Veterans with PTSD, physical fitness/ability sufficient to walk for at least 2 hours, and
      willingness to complete assessments. Eligible individuals will be randomized to one of two
      groups: 1) nature hiking group, 2) urban hiking group. The investigators will enroll up to 60
      individuals, to randomize up to 15 participants per group. Note that the number enrolled and
      randomized are not expected to be the same since he investigators anticipate some individuals
      who enroll will be determined not to be eligible based on responses to the baseline
      questionnaire. Individuals randomized to groups 1 or 2 will be invited to participate in six
      hikes of 2-4 hours in duration, over approximately 12 weeks. Individuals will be asked to
      complete questionnaires at baseline and weekly for 12 weeks, and then again at 24 weeks. The
      primary outcomes for this study relate to feasibility and acceptability. The investigators
      will collect information on time to recruit the sample, retention and survey completion at
      each time point, and attendance at hikes. A secondary aim is to ascertain changes in PTSD
      symptoms (which will serve as the primary outcome of the full-scale trial), secondary
      outcomes (e.g., quality of life) and mediators of the intervention, including factors such as
      depression, perceived stress, affect, loneliness, anxiety, social connectedness, rumination,
      and nature connection.
    
  