
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a severe form of depression that can significantly
      interfere with an individual's thoughts, behavior, mood, and physical health. People who
      suffer from MDD may experience anhedonia, or the inability to gain pleasure from normally
      pleasurable experiences. Such individuals do not respond to motivational rewards in the same
      way as do individuals who are not depressed. Anhedonia has been recognized as a core symptom
      of depression and it is not always remedied with antidepressant medication. Abnormal brain
      activity and processing may be the underlying cause of depression and specifically anhedonia.
      A better understanding of the brain mechanisms of depression may lead to the development of
      new effective medications or psychological treatments.

      Event-related potential (ERP), which measures electrical activity in the brain, and
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), which uses scanned images to illustrate changes
      in brain activity, are two techniques that can identify abnormal areas of brain processing.
      The purpose of this study is to use ERP and fMRI to compare brain activity that is related to
      reward processing in individuals with MDD versus individuals without MDD.

      This study will consist of 3 study visits; visits will be scheduled as close together as
      possible. At the first study visit, potential participants will be assessed with the SCID
      (Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV), which will identify individuals with the
      diagnostic criteria for MDD. A control group of non-depressed individuals will also be
      enrolled in the study. During the second and third study visits, participants will take part
      in a monetary reinforcement reward task followed by a signal detection reward task. Brain
      activity of all participants will be monitored during both tasks. During the second study
      visit, ERP will be used; during the third study visit, fMRI will be used. Demographic
      information will also be collected, and participants will complete several standardized
      questionnaires to assess mood. Some participants will be asked to return after eight weeks to
      complete the fMRI and EEG sessions again. Those who do complete all five sessions will be
      awarded a bonus.
    
  