
    
      The DETermination of the role of OXygen i suspected Acute Myocardial Infarction (DETO2X-AMI)
      trial (NCT01787110), an ongoing multicentre, randomized, registry based clinical trial, is
      investigating the effect of oxygen on morbidity and mortality in ACS patients.

      The present DETO2X-biomarkers study is a substudy of the DETO2X-AMI trial, evaluating the
      effect of oxygen treatment on biological systems involved in the pathogenesis of reversible
      and irreversible myocardial damage and cell death in ACS.

      AIMS

      To evaluate the effect of oxygen treatment on markers of oxidative stress in ACS patients. To
      assess the effect of oxygen treatment on soluble markers of apoptosis, MMPs and TIMPs in ACS
      patients.

      To study the effect of oxygen treatment on systemic inflammatory activity and leukocyte
      activation.

      To evaluate the effect of oxygen treatment on platelet activation in ACS patients.

      HYPOTHESIS

      The main hypothesis is that oxygen treatment enhances oxidative stress, systemic
      inflammation, and markers of apoptosis and MMPs in ACS patients, thereby potentially
      increasing myocardial damage and cell death, and worsening the prognosis.

      STUDY DESIGN and POPULATION

      The present study is a biomarker substudy of the DETO2X-AMI trial. The design and population
      of the DETO2X-AMI trial has previously been described in detail (NCT01787110). All patients
      included in the DETO2X-AMI trial at Södersjukhuset Stockholm and University Hospital
      Linköping during the study period specified below are also eligible to be included in the
      DETO2X-biomarkers study. We intend to include 150 patients with suspected AMI.

      STUDY PLAN

      All study participants in the DETO2X-biomarkers study have been allocated to receive oxygen
      (6L/min) or no oxygen treatment as part of the DETO2X-AMI trial. To a variable degree, the
      participants have already started this treatment when entering the biomarker substudy.
      Baseline blood samples will be collected as soon as possible after inclusion in the
      DETO2X-AMI trial, preferably prior to initiation of oxygen treatment. Study subjects will
      then continue to receive their allocated DETO2X-AMI study treatment. A second set of blood
      samples will be collected 5-7 hours after randomisation in the DETO2X-AMI trial, and always
      prior to discontinuation of oxygen treatment.

      ANALYSIS of blood samples

      As a marker of oxidative stress, plasma-isoprostane will be measured using gas chromatography
      combined with a massspectrometric detector. Soluble markers of apoptosis, MMP-2 and TIMP-2
      will be analyzed by Luminex. Plasma inflammatory markers (C-reactive protein (CRP) and
      interleukin (IL)-6), myeloperoxidase, and markers of platelet activation will be analysed by
      ELISA. Flow cytometry will be used to analyse neutrophil integrin receptors and
      platelet-leukocyte aggregates in whole blood. Whole blood will be fixated and red blood cells
      lysed before analysis.

      EFFICACY OUTCOME

      To determine the effect of oxygen treatment on biomarkers of oxidative stress, apoptosis,
      matrix metalloproteinases, markers of inflammation, and leukocyte and platelet activation in
      patients admitted to hospital due to suspected AMI.

      SUMMARY

      The DETO2X-AMI trial will address the effects of oxygen on morbidity and mortality in ACS
      patients. The present DETO2X-biomarkers substudy is evaluating effects of oxygen treatment on
      biological systems involved in the pathogenesis of reversible and irreversible myocardial
      damage and cell death in ACS and may add essential new knowledge to the mechanistics of
      ischaemic myocardial injury.
    
  