
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major concern in public health globally, as well as in
      China, and remarkable variations of resources available and health system performance have
      been noted. Relatively limited information is available about how evidence-based therapies
      are incorporated appropriately into routine clinical practice. Optimal revascularization
      strategy in multiple vessel coronary artery disease patients remains a subject of debate
      between interventional cardiologists and surgeons. Practical and applied knowledge from large
      unselected population is needed to guide practice and policy for quality improvement and cost
      reduction.

      This study will enroll patients with diagnosis of three-vessel disease, or left main disease
      with significant lesion (over 50%) consecutively in 25 tertiary hospitals scattered all over
      China. At study entry, participants will be interviewed during their index hospitalization,
      to collect information about symptoms, functioning, quality of life, and medical care.
      Demographic characteristics, medical history, clinical features, diagnostic tests,
      medications, procedures, and in-hospital outcomes of patients will be abstracted from medical
      records by well trained professional abstractors. And CAG imaging will be reviewed by
      national and international expert panels. At 1 month, 6 month, and 12 month after discharge,
      participants will return to the clinic for follow up visits, a face-to-face interview will be
      conducted to get information about clinical events, symptoms, functioning, quality of life,
      and medical care during the recovery period. At 1-Month and 12-Month follow-up visit, blood
      and urine sample will be collected. Participants' blood samples will be stored for future
      biologic and genetic studies. This study will examine various real-life factors that may
      affect multiple vessel coronary heart disease patients recovery after PCI/CABG/medications,
      including patients' characteristics and treatment measures. Practical guidelines, quality
      evaluative system, and appropriateness criteria will be established based on the findings, to
      improve patients outcomes in future finally.
    
  