
    
      Title: Evaluating the Efficacy and Safety of an Innovative and Affordable Lung Surfactant for
      the treatment of Respiratory Distress Syndrome (RDS) in preterm neonates: a multi-site
      randomized clinical trial

      Phase of Development: Phase II/ III

      Indication: Respiratory Distress Syndrome

      Primary Objective: To compare the incidence of survival without bronchopulmonary dysplasia
      (BPD) at 36 weeks postmenstrual age in preterm neonates (≤32 wk) with RDS randomized to
      receive intratracheal administration (100 mg/kg) of either goat lung surfactant extract
      (GLSE) or the standard preparation (Beractant; Survanta; Abbott, USA)

      Secondary Objective: 1 To compare area under curve (AUC) for oxygen requirement (FiO2)
      requirement in first 48 h of surfactant administration

      2 To compare incidence of safety outcomes namely air leaks, pulmonary hemorrhage,
      intraventricular hemorrhage, neonatal mortality, sepsis and retinopathy of prematurity

      Study Design: A multicentric, non-inferiority randomized controlled trial (RCT) in preterm
      infants with RDS.

      Study Centers: The study would be conducted at 12-14 academic centers of India.

      Study population: A total of approximately 900 eligible preterm neonates will be enrolled in
      the study.

      Planned No. of subjects: N~900 to be enrolled by 12-14 centers

      Investigational Product : GLSE (Lung Surfactant Extract) Cadisurf 25

      Dosage and site of administration: Dosage: Neonates in the intervention group will be
      administered 100 mg/kg of GLSE. Those in the control group will be administered 100 mg/kg of
      Beractant (Survanta®, Abbott, USA).

      Site of Administration: Intratracheal

      Expected Duration of Participation of each Subject: 4-10 Weeks

      Expected duration of study 3 years

      Methodology The study would be conducted at 12-14 study sites. The dedicated study teams
      under the leadership of site Principal Investigator (PI) at each site would implement the
      study protocol as per uniform standard operating procedures (SOPs). Written informed consent
      will be taken from the legally authorized representative (LAR) of the subject. Subjects will
      be enrolled based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria depicted in the institute ethics
      committee (IEC) & Central drugs standard control organization (CDSCO) approved protocol.
      After satisfying inclusion/exclusion criteria subjects will be randomized either GLSE arm or
      Beractant (Survanta®, Abbott, USA) arm. The duration of the hospitalization would be 4-10
      weeks. Enrolled infants would be monitored by the study team round the clock as per standard
      procedures. The study infants would be followed up until death or 36 weeks of postmenstrual
      age (PMA). Adverse events & serious adverse events will be recorded & reported as per the
      regulatory guidelines of India.

      The study infants would be followed up until 36 weeks of PMA. The study would be conducted at
      12-14 study sites. The study will be conducted in a highly supervised clinical setting with
      immediate availability of clinicians experienced with intubation, ventilator management and
      general care of premature infants. Infants receiving surfactant will be frequently monitored
      with arterial or transcutaneous measurement of systemic O2 and CO2. The dedicated study teams
      at each site would implement the study protocol as per uniform standard operating procedures
      (SOPs).

      Primary Study Endpoint • BPD free survival

      Blinding Procedures

        1. Random sequence The random sequence will be generated using web based algorithm for 1:1
           allocation and stratification by site and gestation (<28 and 28-32 weeks) in permuted
           blocks of random sizes. The block sizes will be blinded to the investigators.

        2. Allocation concealment The vials of two surfactant products would be packaged in
           identical cardboard boxes (by CDSA) and sequentially numbered as per the allocation
           sequence for two gestation strata (8 mL vials for strata 26-27 weeks and 28-32 weeks,
           respectively) for each site.

        3. Implementation The randomization sequence would be generated by an independent
           statistician and will be kept in safe custody and undisclosed to investigators.

           Dedicated research teams would track, ascertain the eligibility and randomize the
           infants and measure the outcomes. The clinical team would administer surfactant blinded
           to research team.

        4. Blinding Clinicians would be aware of the type of surfactant product received by the
           neonate given the different physical appearance of the product and the vial of Cadisurf®
           and Survanta®. Clinicians would administer the surfactant to the baby while the baby's
           bed is cordoned off from rest of NICU by cloth screen. The parents and the research
           staff responsible for outcome assessment would be kept blinded to the interventions. The
           allocation would be concealed in the dataset so that the researchers can analyse data
           without information of the allocation.

      Interim analysis Interim analyses, if desired by the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), are
      proposed at enrolment of 5%, 33% and 66% of the target sample size. The DSMB would only have
      access to the results of such analyses. Interim analysis will be conducted using
      O'Brien-Fleming spending function and a type I error rate of 5%.
    
  