
    
      For a representative sampling of experiences, participants who had participated in various
      groups over time in outpatient and inpatient groups in the RTW-GP were invited to enrol in
      the study. Other inclusion criteria were age between 25 and 65 years, different
      musculoskeletal diagnosis and that they should come from the rural district/city of
      residence.

      The participants received requests by letter to participate in the focus group interview six
      months after the final group intervention, the same time as they were invited to a follow-up
      visit. Only a few men had participated in the RTW-GPs and none of them wanted to take part in
      the study.

      All participants were given written and oral information about the study, the use of
      recording and transcribing devices, and their right to withdraw from the study at any time.
      The interviews were carried out after the participants gave written, informed consent.

      Three focus group interviews were conducted: one with six participants, and two with five.
      One participant who could not participate in the focus group interview participated at an
      individual interview with the same questions as in the focus groups. The individual interview
      was conducted first and served as a test for the questions in the interview guide.

      Interventions The participants of this study had participated in one of three different
      RTW-GPs. These programmes are designed to enable participants to proactively take action in
      their daily lives and in collaboration with employers achieve the best possible working
      conditions. All the group sessions are based on cognitive theory where attention, awareness
      and reflection on one's own work and life situation is important. Motivation is instilled by
      helping participants recognise opportunities for change. Participants set work-related goals
      and receive individual feedback from multidisciplinary personnel in addition to various
      group-based sessions with teaching, activities and exercises. The participants are referred
      to the programme by a rheumatologist or a member of the hospital's multidisciplinary team as
      soon as possible after starting sick-leave.
    
  