
    
      Adhesive capsulitis is a shoulder pathology characterized by pain persisting for more than
      three months due to fibrosis and contractures in the glenohumeral joint capsule, active and
      passive joint motion limitation and functional insufficiency. Although there are many factors
      that trigger this pathology, also known as frozen shoulder, its etiology is not known
      precisely. The clinical findings, course and prognosis are known with the researches.
      Although its incidence in the general population is %2-5, it is more likely to be seen in
      women between the ages of 40-70 and more than men. There are two types, primary and
      secondary. Primary frozen shoulder is idiopathic. Secondary frozen shoulder develops
      secondary to trauma, immobilization, rotator cuff tears, diabetes, biceps tendinitis,
      myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular event, psychological disorders, and post-surgical
      causes. Soft tissue contracture and adhesions in the capsule and axillary space are also seen
      in the pathogenesis. It is examined clinically in three stages. The first phase lasts about
      0-3 months, when the intensity of the pain is high and the limitation of shoulder movements
      begins gradually. In the second stage, the severity of the pain slightly decreases, but the
      limitation of joint motion gradually increases, functionality decreases and lasts for about
      3-9 months. In the third stage, the severity of the pain decreases, the joint movement
      limitations begin to recover slowly and gradually and lasts about 9-15 months. The treatment
      program shaped according to the characteristics of the stages; It includes conservative
      treatment approaches consisting of patient education, prevention, medical treatment,
      physiotherapy and exercises, and may require surgical treatment depending on the severity of
      the prognosis. Patient education in conservative treatment, hot packs, Transcutaneous
      Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS), Ultrasound (US), Laser, Iontophoresis etc.
      Electrotherapy agents, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), corticosteroid
      injections, taping, joint and soft tissue mobilizations, manual therapy techniques and
      therapeutic exercises such as stretching exercises, range of motion exercises, proprioceptive
      neuromuscular facilitation techniques are frequently used.

      Restriction in shoulder movements is quite evident especially in flexion, abduction and
      external rotation movements. Contracture of the ligaments in the shoulder reduces the volume
      of the capsule. The capsule decreasing in volume causes limitation of movement. However, the
      pain is not only due to the tension in the capsular and ligaments, but also due to the
      tension in the muscles and fascia and trigger toxins. Many therapeutic methods are used to
      relieve these trigger points and facial tensions. One of these methods is the "myofascial
      release technique" that focuses on soft tissues that are particularly tense and in spasm.
      This technique is a treatment method aimed at resolving fascial adhesions, restoring the
      optimal length of the muscle, reducing pain and increasing functionality.
    
  