
    
      The objectives of this pilot trial are as follows:

        1. To develop a procedure for training breast cancer nurses (BCN) in the delivery of the
           Mini-AFTERc intervention and introduce the intervention into current NHS service
           provision for breast cancer patients.

        2. To collect data to pilot and test recruitment (of breast cancer nurses and breast cancer
           patients), the fidelity of intervention elements, the acceptability to participants
           (primary and secondary outcomes) and detailed economic indicators for a full trial.

        3. Apply a formal decision making framework (ADePT) to determine a profile of factors to
           reveal potential difficulties and appraise solutions prior to a full trial.

      This study is a multicentre controlled pilot trial of the Mini-AFTERc intervention and will
      take place in 4 breast cancer centres in NHS Scotland health boards, including Fife,
      Highlands, Lothian and Tayside. Two centres will deliver the intervention (Fife and Lothian)
      and 2 centres will deliver usual care to patients, acting as control centres (Highlands and
      Tayside). The project will be delivered in 3 phases:

      Phase 1 will include the development and delivery of the Mini-AFTERc intervention training
      package for breast cancer nurses.

      Phase 2 will include patient recruitment and data collection. There will be 2 intervention
      centres and 2 control centres across NHS Scotland. Patients who have completed their primary
      breast cancer treatment, will be screened for moderate FCR (scoring ≥10 and <15 on the Fear
      of Cancer Recurrence 4-item Scale; FCR4). Breast cancer nurses will deliver the intervention
      by telephone in intervention centres, which will be audio recorded. Patients will complete a
      satisfaction questionnaire after the intervention (CARE and MISS). Follow-up questionnaires
      measuring fear of cancer recurrence, anxiety and depression and quality of life outcomes
      (FCR4, HADS, EQ-5D) will be delivered via a smartphone app at 2 weeks, 1 month and 3 months
      following intervention or 3 weeks, 5 weeks and 13 weeks following screening for the control
      group. Semi-structured interviews with 20% of patients and all nurses will be conducted to
      assess experiences and acceptability of the intervention.

      Phase 3 will conduct data analysis and trial evaluation. Screening and follow-up data will be
      quantitatively analysed, including structured equation modelling. Interviews will be subject
      to framework analysis based on normalisation process theory (NPT). The pilot trial will be
      systematically evaluated using a process of decision making after pilot and feasibility
      trials (ADePT).

      The findings will help to understand if this brief intervention can be implemented in
      everyday practice and can reduce FCR. They will also inform the practicality of
      implementation of a larger-scale randomised trial.
    
  