
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most frequent cause of death, accounting for
      approximately 13% of all deaths. In western countries, the incidence of ST-segment elevation
      myocardial infarction (STEMI) is around 77/100 000/year, whereas in patients with
      non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS), the incidence is 132/100
      000/year. Thus, the incidence of STEMI is decreasing, while there is a concomitant increase
      in the incidence of NSTE-ACS. NSTE-ACS and STEMI are usually considered to be different
      entities, but recent reports suggested that the prognosis of either subgroup of MI is similar
      despite different management strategies. In STEMI, primary percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI) is the recommended reperfusion therapy over fibrinolysis if performed by an experienced
      team within 2 hours of first medical contact. Treatment of patients with NSTE-ACS is based on
      their risk of acute thrombotic complications. A clear benefit from early angiography (<48 h)
      and PCI has been reported in the high-risk patients. However, deferral of interventions does
      not improve outcome. In addition, routine stenting is recommended on the basis of the
      predictability of the results and its safety. Consensus has emerged that early PCI use
      results in favourable outcomes, especially in high-risk patients. The ESC guidelines for
      NSTE-ACS were updated in 20113 and for STEMI in 2012. Currently, PCI is the preferred
      reperfusion strategy in patients with both acute STEMI and NSTE-ACS.

      Drug-eluting stents (DES) have been shown to reduce in-stent restenosis after PCI compared to
      bare metal stents (BMS). Over the previous decade, the appearance of first-generation
      drug-eluting stents (Taxus™, Cypher™) in scene has revolutionized the practice of coronary
      intervention, resulting in a reduction of restenosis rates by one-half to two-thirds at 5
      years follow-up, amounting to roughly 10-15% need for target vessel revascularization
      following DES at long-term. However, early randomized first-generation-DES trials excluded
      patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI), even though invasive approach is currently
      the preferred method for treatment of acute MI. Later randomized trials and meta-analyses of
      the clinical trials on the use of DES for treatment of acute STEMI demonstrated that the use
      of DES is safe and improves clinical outcomes mainly by decreasing the risk of
      re-intervention compared with BMS. However, accumulating evidence from meta-analyses and
      registries has questioned the long-term safety of first-generation DES, raising concerns
      about a higher risk of late - and very late - stent thrombosis (ST), a potentially
      life-threatening complication.

      A further step forward was taken with the design of second-generation DES. In SPIRIT I-III
      trials, everolimus-eluting stent (EES) showed promising mid-term clinical outcome in selected
      patient groups resulting in FDA approval. Newer, second generation DES are now available in
      every day practice in interventional cardiology. In this context, Xience-V™-EES significantly
      reduced late lumen loss, as assessed by angiography, as compared with the paclitaxel-eluting
      stents (Taxus), with non-inferior rates of a composite outcome of safety and efficacy.
      Subsequent randomized trials demonstrated that, as compared with first-generation DES,
      Xience-V-EES was able to reduce both the restenosis and ST rates in overall elective patient
      population. In Examination trial, Xience-V-EES showed reduced rates of repeat
      revascularization and ST in STEMI patients when compared with traditional BMS. On the other
      hand, novel Promus-Element™-EES has showed to be non-inferior when compared with Xience-V-EES
      in recent all comers-trial. The Promus-Element stent uses the identical drug coating
      formulation and drug dose density as the Xience-V- stent.

      Although, DES delivering antiproliferative drugs from adurable polymer have significantly
      reduced restenosis compared with BMS, with no apparent increase in the risk of adverse
      events, durable polymers have been associated with a hypersensitivity reaction, delayed
      healing, and incomplete endothelialization that may contribute to an increased risk of late
      (30 days to 1 year) and very late (beyond 1 year) stent thrombosis compared with BMS. A
      number of stent technologies are being developed in an attempt to modify the proposed
      mediators of late thrombotic events including bioabsorbable polymers, nonpolymeric stent
      surfaces, and bioabsorbable stents. Synergy™-EES is a novel Promus-Element stent platform
      that deliveres everolimus from an ultrathin bioabsorbable polymer applied to the abluminal
      surface. In the randomized EVOLVE trial, the SYNERGY stent was noninferior to the PROMUS
      Element stent for the primary angiographic endpoint of in-stent late loss at 6 months.
      Clinical event rates were low and comparable, with no stent thrombosis observed. These
      results support the safety and efficacy of the abluminal bioabsorbable polymer SYNERGY EES
      for the treatment of patients with de novo coronary artery lesions.

      The safety of titanium-nitride-oxide-coated bioactive stents (Titan-2™-BAS) has been
      established in several reports from real-life unselected populations. Interestingly,
      prospective studies demonstrated an even 'better' outcome with Titan-2-BAS as compared with
      paclitaxel-eluting stents (Taxus) in high-risk patients with complex coronary lesions, and in
      patients presenting with acute myocardial infarction (MI). The recent BASE-ACS trial
      demonstrated that in patients undergoing early PCI for acute coronary syndrome (ACS), the
      insertion of Titan-2-BAS was non-inferior to Xience-V-EES concerning the occurrence of the
      primary composite endpoint of MACE at 12 months follow-up. The relative risk ratio of MACE
      for Titan-2-BAS was 1.07 (a 0.6-percentage-point absolute risk difference) as compared with
      Xience-V-EES, a difference that met the chief aim of the trial for non-inferiority of
      Titan-2-BAS in reducing MACE in this patient category. Moreover, albeit not adequately
      powered to address the individual components of safety and efficacy, non-fatal MI occurred
      significantly less frequently and ARC-definite ST trended to be lower in the Titan-2-BAS
      group as compared with the Xience-V-EES group. On the other hand, stent coating with
      compounds like titanium-nitride-oxide seem to decrease acute surface thrombogenicity, and
      reduce in-stent restenosis when compared with conventional stainless steel stents. Optimax™
      stent is a novel, next generation BAS, in which a thicker layer of titanium-nitride-oxide
      coating is inserted over the stent struts. The rationale of this is to obtain more efficient
      and rapid vascular healing at the site of the stent implantation.

      After the initial enthusiasm for DES based on their impressive reduction in restenosis, there
      was increasing concern about an increased risk for late ST. Consequently, the recommendation
      for the duration of dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel (DAPT) was
      incrementally extended from initially 3 months for Cypher™-DES and 6 months for Taxus™-DES to
      recently at least 12 months for all DES. Not commonly, cardiologists recommend indefinite
      DAPT if the patient has no bleeding complications during the first 12 months. The need for
      long-term DAPT is costly and remains the Achilles' heel of DES; namely increase risk of
      bleeding complication. Newer generation of stents have shown impressively low ST rates, and
      therefore the excessive bleeding risk of DAPT is being reconsidered. Current guidelines
      recommend that oral thienopyridine (clopidogrel, prasugrel or ticagrelol) must be continued
      for up to 12 months after STEMI, with a strict minimum of 1 month for patient receiving BMS
      and 6 months for patients receiving DES.

      Because early discontinuation of DAPT is recognized as the most potent predictor of DES
      thrombosis, discussion with the patient regarding the need for and duration of DAPT, and the
      ability to comply with and tolerate DAPT, is mandatory before DES implantation. When the
      patient is unable to tolerate or comply with DAPT, as well as when surgery is anticipated
      within 12 months of DES implantation or when the individual bleeding risk is high, BMS
      implantation should be preferred. In the attempt to increase biocompatibility of BMS,
      therefore reducing the risk of ST as well as of restenosis without use of polymer-eluted
      drugs, various coatings have been used. Among them, diamond-like carbon-coated stent and
      above-mentioned titanium nitric oxide-coated stent have shown promising results making
      therefore a point for DAPT duration shorter than the 3 months commonly recommended for BMS.

      The purpose of the prospective, randomized and a multicenter trial is to compare clinical
      outcome in patients presenting with ACS, treated with PCI using Optimax-BAS versus
      Synergy-EES. Second objective is to explore whether the Optimax-BAS use is superior compared
      with Synergy-EES use with respect of hard end points (cardiac death, MI and major bleeding).

      Long-term (12 months) follow-up of patients presenting with ACS (both STEMI and NSTE-ACS)
      receiving either Optimax-BAS or Synergy-EES will result in comparable clinical outcome
      (non-inferiority; MACE including cardiac death, MI and repeat revascularization). Secondly,
      the strategy of Optimax-BAS use is superior to Synergy-EES use during the 18 months of
      follow-up in hard end points (superiority; cardiac death, MI and major bleeding).
    
  