
    
      Chronic venous disease is a very common disease in industrialized countries. The prevalence
      of this disease is estimated in France 30.1% in men and 50.5% women.

      Sufferers report pain, heaviness and itching of the lower limbs, and these symptoms are
      increased at night and in a warm environment. Clinically chronic venous disease resulting in
      varicose veins (veins visible under the skin, tortuous and dilated), edema (swelling
      predominant at the ankles) and in the later stages include skin damage of up 'to the ulcer.

      The pathological mechanisms underlying chronic venous disease are mainly related to
      incontinence of the valves of the veins of the lower limbs. The initial role of these valves
      is to allow the return of blood to the heart and prevent it falls constantly in the legs. A
      breach of these valves therefore will result in an alteration of venous return and dilatation
      of the affected veins. It will be highlighted by a venous reflux when analyzing Doppler.

      A number of parameters have been identified as factors favoring chronic venous disease in the
      lower limbs. Thus heredity (family history of venous disease), age, number of pregnancies
      among women, a history of phlebitis, overweight and physical inactivity increase the risk of
      chronic venous disease.

      The effects of physical activity:

      The practice of physical activity helps fight against physical inactivity. It is recognized
      as a protective factor against chronic venous disease. That is why the French and
      international companies of medicine and vascular surgery have incorporated in their
      recommendations to patients the practice of moderate physical activity and regular part of
      the prevention and treatment of chronic venous disease.

      Moreover, the impact of intensive practice of a sport (versus "moderate and regular physical
      activity") of chronic venous disease is not known. Assumptions were issued from the
      nineteenth century on the possible risk of fostering the emergence of chronic venous disease
      at an excessive sports. Thus, from the 1820s Dr. Rima Thomas, surgeon of Napoleon's army,
      stated: "inertia as much as excessive activity come together to produce the same effect, the
      varicose vein." This idea is still relevant, in fact some experts recommend, at this time,
      intensive sports wear compression devices in the lower limbs during sports practice to
      prevent this phenomenon. However, no study has established a link between intensive practice
      of sport and venous condition of the legs.

      The purpose of the study:

      VARISPORT The study will aim to analyze the condition of the veins of the lower limbs in two
      groups of voluntary individuals, aged 18 to 80 years, in the same population:

        -  An "intensive sport practice": This group will consist of men and women who practice for
           more than 6 months, a drive of at least 8 hours / week, intense, above the ventilatory
           threshold, or 60-70 % maximum oxygen consumption or 70- 80% of maximum heart rate, ie
           beyond a moderate slowdown. If stopping the intensive sport practice, the duration of
           the stop at the time of the study should be less practice time.

        -  A "control" group: the subjects included in this group will have profiles that
           approximate subjects of the group "intensive practice sports", same sex, same age, BMI
           close; but the practice of a sport is less than 8 hours per week.
    
  