
    
      Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to core warming with the study device
      (ensoETM) or to standard of care (standard temperature management and treatment). The device
      will be used as indicated (for warming). Patient temperature measurement will be collected
      for both the core warming and standard of care arms during the study period (72 hours).

      Core warming will be performed using standard technique per instructions for use for the
      esophageal heat transfer device. The esophageal heat transfer device will be set to 42°C
      temperature after initial placement, and maintained at 42°C for the duration of treatment. It
      is expected that patient temperature will increase from baseline by 1°C to 2°C, but due to
      ongoing heat loss from the patient, the expected maximum patient temperature is below 39°C.
      The time course of illness of COVID-19 is such that most patients no longer have fever by the
      time of mechanical ventilation. If patient temperature increases above this range and reaches
      39.8°C, the device will be set to an operating temperature of 40°C, thereby preventing any
      further increase in patient temperature (ambient heat loss precludes patient from reaching
      device operating temperature).

      Control group patients will be managed as per standard of care currently utilized in the ICU,
      which will include the use of other methods of temperature management as warranted. This
      would include warming with a forced air blanket only in hypothermic patients (core
      temperature < 36°C) or antipyretic therapy for febrile patients, as requested by the treating
      physician. Episodes of hypothermia are infrequent and transient in this population, and the
      current standard of care generally utilizes a permissive approach to fever (allowing patients
      to remain mildly febrile) which will continue in the control group without modification (no
      intentional elevation of temperature will be provided in the control group).

      Follow up data will be collected at 1 month following enrollment.
    
  