
    
      Background Protein-caloric malnutrition, with an incidence of 15-20 %, is the most important
      type of malnutrition in Pediatric Intensive Care Units (PICU). It is associated to poor
      outcomes in critically ill children: malnourished patients present an increased physiologic
      instability and quantity of care, with higher duration of mechanic ventilation and length of
      stay and increased mortality.

      Current recommendations about protein prescription in critically ill children are
      fundamentally based on expert opinions, since studies on protein supplementation are scarce,
      with small sample sizes and heterogeneous patient populations, doses of protein and route of
      administration.

      Study design Once an eligible patient is admitted to PICU, written informed consent will be
      requested from parents or legal representative of the child by the physician responsible of
      the patient. They will be made aware that participation is voluntary, and they will be
      allowed to refuse further participation in the trial whenever they want.

      After enrolment, the patient will be allocated randomly, in order of recruitment, into one of
      the three 3 diet groups using a randomized data table generated with Epidat 3.1 software. A
      copy of the randomization list will be securely stored in an envelope located at PICU working
      area desk drawer, which will be opened after the patient enrolment on the study. Physicians,
      care givers and investigators will know the allocation prior to the start of enteral feeding.

      All patients will receive exclusively enteral nutrition via nasogastric o transpyloric tube.

      Since this is an open-label trial, the assigned diet will be written down on the medical
      prescription of each patient and will be prepared by the PICU staff at the own unit, using
      for it the branded bottles where the different formula are commercialized.

      Continuous enteral nutrition will be initiated within the first 24 hours of PICU admission,
      by transpyloric or nasogastric tube, at a rate of 0.5-1 ml/kg/hour, with increases of 0.5-1
      ml/kg every 3-4 hours, if well tolerated, to reach a caloric intake of 60-65 kcal/kg/day, or
      as needed based on resting energy expenditure measured by indirect calorimetry Demographic
      data will be recorded at inclusion: gender, age, weight, height, and diagnosis on admission.
      The risk of mortality at admission will be calculated using pediatric scales: Pediatric Index
      of Mortality 2 (PIM2), Pediatric Risk of Mortality (PRISM), and Pediatric Logistic Organ
      Dysfunction (PELOD).

      Blood concentrations of urea, creatinine, total proteins, albumin, prealbumin, transferrin,
      retinol-binding protein (RBP) levels, urinary concentration of urea in 24-hours or isolated
      urine sample, and energy expenditure, oxygen consumption (VO2) and carbon dioxide production
      (VCO2) by indirect calorimetry (Datex S5 monitor, E-COVX; General Electrics
      Healthcare/Datex-Ohmeda, Helsinki, Finland) will be measured at admission and at days 1, 3
      and 5-7 after initiation of enteral feeding. Air leaks will be measured using the mechanical
      ventilator. Calorimetry-derived data will be collected only in patients with tracheal
      intubation, when air leakage is <10 %, fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) less than 80 %,
      absence of inhaled nitric oxide, sevoflurane or heliox, or connection to extracorporeal
      membrane oxygenation (ECMO). The collection of indirect calorimetry data will be done over 30
      to 120 minutes.

      Nitrogen Balance (NB) will be calculated as: nitrogen intake minus total nitrogen losses.
      Total nitrogen losses will include total urinary nitrogen and fecal/miscellaneous losses
      estimated according to the World Health Organization recommendations.

      Other blood biochemical parameters as glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, ions and blood gas
      will also be recorded.

      Total daily enteral energy and protein delivery, intravenous albumin infused, and other
      treatments such as vasoactive drugs, neuromuscular blockers, sedatives and analgesic drugs,
      diuretics and steroids would be registered.

      Protein-enriched diet safety Enteral complications (constipation, diarrhoea, abdominal
      distension, gastric residue), serum urea and total protein levels, as well as any unexpected
      adverse event occurring during the trial will be recorded to evaluate the safety of the
      protein-enriched diet.

      Statistical analysis As there are not previous studies reporting expected standard
      deviations, the standardized difference of means for computing the optimal minimum number of
      patients to include in the trial will be used. The calculation of the sample size has been
      done with Epidat 3.1 software. Considering a significance level of 5% (Type I error), a power
      of 80% (complementary of the Type II error) and a minimum detectable standardized difference
      of means of 0.9, 30 patients per group are needed (Bonferroni correction included).

      An intention-to-treat approach will be used. A descriptive analysis will be performed where
      quantitative variables will be described by their means and standard deviations or their
      medians and interquartile ranges, as appropriate. The quantitative ones will be summarized by
      their absolute and relative frequencies. Parametric and non-parametric tests will be employed
      for contrasting equality among groups.

      Univariate and multivariate mixed models will be used in order to assess the effects size of
      the different diets (fixed effects) on the patients (random effects) unadjusted and adjusted
      by potential confounders, respectively. P-values under 5% will be considered statistically
      significant.
    
  