
    
      The goal of this project is to test the effects of the Patient Preference Scale as the basis
      for a clinical intervention for role negotiation in breast cancer surgery decisions and the
      Patient Perception Scale to measure role concordance. The investigators hypothesize that
      better role concordance will be achieved with a simple provider-based intervention. In
      addition, role concordance will be associated with improved short-term and longer-term
      improvements in outcomes of the following parameters: a) satisfaction with decision process
      b) breast specific QOL, and c) decision regret.

      The investigators propose a mixed methods, interventional study with concurrent controls
      performed in a breast cancer surgery clinic at a comprehensive cancer center. The Patient
      Preference Scale will be used to identify the preferred involvement in decision making of
      newly diagnosed breast cancer patients prior to their first clinic visit. The Patient
      Perception Scale will be used after the encounter in order to evaluate role concordance. The
      Provider Perception Scale will also be used to assess the perception of the achieved role by
      the provider. In the first half of the study, providers will be blind to the patient's
      preferred role. In the second half, providers will be made aware of the preferred role prior
      to the encounter and will have a brief conversation with the patient about their desired role
      in the decision making process. Clinical encounters will be audiotaped, transcribed, and
      scored for patient involvement. The investigators propose the following aims and hypotheses:

      Investigate the impact of a brief provider-led intervention about the patients' preferred
      role in treatment decision making on role concordance. The investigators hypothesize that:

      1. Role concordance will be improved when the preferred role is discussed with the patient at
      the beginning of the encounter.

      2. The provider's perception of the role achieved will be more concordant with the patient's
      perception when the preferred role is discussed. 3. Investigate the impact of role
      concordance in the treatment decision making process on short term and long term quality of
      life and decision outcomes. The investigators hypothesize that: Patients who achieve role
      concordance will be more satisfied with the decision process.

        1. Patients who achieve role concordance will have better QOL and less decision regret at
           early (2 to 6 weeks) and later (6 months) time points after the clinic visit.

        2. Patients who achieve concordance will be more likely to complete or plan to complete
           recommended treatments.

        3. Patients who achieve concordance will be more likely to complete or plan to complete
           recommended treatments
    
  