
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Reports of unsuspected, frequent and prolonged episodes of asymptomatic ST depression (ASTD)
      raised important issues for the evaluation and treatment of coronary disease. The traditional
      role of angina as the best indicator of myocardial ischemia had to be reevaluated, since
      several studies had shown that ASTD was much more frequent than symptomatic ischemia in many
      patients with coronary disease. If ASTD reflected clinically meaningful ischemia, then overt
      angina represented only 25 percent of the total ischemic burden. Moreover, incomplete data
      suggested that an increased and clinically unsuspected risk might be conferred on a patient
      with frequent episodes of ASTD. In 1988, studies were already in progress to find the most
      effective drug for treating ASTD. If no increased risk was associated with asymptomatic
      myocardial ischemia, there was little value in pursuing further investigations into its
      detection and therapy. But if the risk was increased, the detection and treatment of
      asymptomatic as well as symptomatic myocardial ischemia might completely alter therapy and
      the outlook for patients with coronary disease. The information in 1988 on the increased risk
      of ASTD was unfortunately scattered and sparse.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A total of 973 patients were enrolled two to six months after hospitalization for an acute
      coronary event. Patients were derived from geographically dispersed centers to enhance
      generalization of the results to the overall population at risk. Ambulatory 24-hour Holter
      electrocardiographic recordings were used to evaluate the frequency, severity, and duration
      of asymptomatic ST depression (ASTD) as a marker of silent myocardial ischemia during usual
      daily activities. This information was analyzed in conjunction with ST segment depression on
      treadmill exercise, reversible myocardial perfusion defects on stress thallium testing, and a
      limited number of prespecified clinical parameters to assess the contribution which ASTD
      added to prognostic information from then current diagnostic techniques used to evaluate
      myocardial ischemia. Patients were seen by the study coordinator every four months during the
      first year, then every six months thereafter. At each visit the study coordinator interviewed
      patients to determine interim history, functional status symptoms, and drug usage. At the
      four month visit a second 24-hour Holter recording was obtained. At the 12-month visit and at
      study termination, 12-lead electrocardiograms were recorded and sent to the ECG Core
      Laboratory for analysis. Data analyses were used: to assess the predictive usefulness and
      independence of ASTD in ambulatory patients with established coronary heart disease; to
      evaluate the interactions and associations between the frequency, severity, and duration of
      ASTD and other measures of myocardial ischemia; to obtain insight into suspected vasoactive
      and increased myocardial oxygen consumption mechanisms of myocardial ischemia; to better
      understand the interrelationship between myocardial ischemia and ventricular arrhythmias as
      it related to subsequent cardiac mortality and morbidity.

      The study was renewed in 1993 for one year in order to fully analyze the prospectively
      accumulated data on the 973 enrolled patients in the Multicenter Study of Silent Myocardial
      Ischemia (MSSMI). The primary goal was to determine the usefulness, or the lack thereof, of
      ambulatory electrocardiographic (AECG) monitoring for identifying coronary patients with
      jeopardized ischemic myocardium at risk for ischemic cardiac events. The aims of the study
      were: 1) to evaluate the reproducibility of then current methods for detecting ischemic-type
      changes (ST depression) on AECG; 2) to improve the accuracy and reliability of contemporary
      scanner-interactive methodology that had been utilized for identifying ischemic-type
      ST-segment changes on the AECG; 3) to complete the development on a new, innovative, and
      reproducible computer-based technique for automatic (operator-independent), quantitative
      identification of beat-to-beat ischemic-type ST depression on the MSSMI AECG tapes; 4) to
      evaluate the clinical utility of the improved and new ST-segment analytic techniques to
      identify coronary patients at risk for natural cardiac events (unstable angina, non-fatal
      myocardial infarction, and cardiac death) during two year follow-up in the overall MSSMI
      population, in selected subgroups (gender, age), and in prespecified high-risk ischemic
      subsets; and 5) to determine the optimal cost- effective strategy for sequencing the
      assessment of silent, jeopardized ischemic myocardium by clinical variables and non-invasive
      tests to identify coronary patients at risk for subsequent ischemic cardiac events. This
      research utilized statistical techniques for evaluating reproducibility of detecting ST
      depression on AECG (kappa statistics, analyses of variance, Cochran's Q-test), for
      determining ischemic risk factors for time-to-cardiac events (Cox regression analyses), and
      for cost-effectiveness analyses (receiver-operator characteristic curves).

      Twenty-four clinical centers In United States, Canada, Israel, and Japan participated in the
      study. There were also an ECG Core Lab, an Exercise Core Lab, a Holter Core Lab, a Thallium
      Core Lab, and a Coordinating Center.
    
  