
    
      Virtual reality offers the possibility to develop environments approaching situations of
      daily life that can be used to target evaluation but also for therapeutic purposes. As the
      school classroom is a daily life situation for children, Rizzo team has developed a virtual
      classroom software (Rizzo et al., 2006). This virtual classroom is a tool for the diagnosis
      of ADHD based on the exploration of attention deficit (distractibility, sustained attention
      ...), impulsivity and hyperactivity. On the other hand, the playfulness of the application
      helps the child to "forget" quickly that he is placed in a test situation.

      In the virtual classroom, the requested task is a letter detection task. The subject had to
      click on the mouse only when he sees the letter "K" preceded by the letter "A" appearing. The
      child had to perform this task, while the disruptive elements are distracting. These may be
      auditory (the bell ringing), visual (a paper airplane flying in the class) or visual and
      auditory distractors (the sound of the teacher who is moving).

      Cognitive remediation using virtual reality is an innovative approach in the care of
      children. We want to examine whether a cognitive remediation program based on the virtual
      classroom software can be a therapeutic tool for children suffering from ADHD.

      In our study, cognitive remediation will be accomplished through cognitive intervention such
      as a "training" of attentional and executive functions (such as planning, working memory,
      selective attention, ...). The cognitive remediation sessions will include the execution of
      the virtual classroom protocol, a stage of metacognition and again the virtual classroom
      assessment. Our remediation program will include 12 sessions (twice a week for 6 to 8
      consecutive weeks), lasting 30 minutes each. The effects of cognitive remediation will be
      compared to the effects of two other major interventions usually proposed: drug treatment
      with methylphenidate and supportive psychotherapy. 60 ADHD children aged 7 to 11 years will
      participate in our study, 20 in each treatment group (drug treatment vs. cognitive
      remediation vs. supportive psychotherapy).

      We expect that cognitive remediation and drug treatment improve attentional abilities of
      children with ADHD.
    
  