
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare overall pain management in patients with cancer-related pain treated with
           oxycodone hydrochloride vs standard three-step analgesic therapy.

        -  Compare the health economics of these regimens in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Explore the factors that inform patients' decisions about commencing opioid analgesia.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, randomized, parallel group, pilot study.
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive an analgesic regimen, according to their level of pain, for up
           to 18 weeks.

             -  Step 1: Patients in mild pain receive oral acetaminophen 4 times daily.

             -  Step 2: Patients in mild-to-moderate pain receive oral codeine or oral
                dextropropoxyphene hydrochloride 4 times daily and oral acetaminophen 4 times
                daily.

             -  Step 3: Patients in moderate-to-severe pain receive oral morphine or oral oxycodone
                hydrochloride 6 times daily (every 4 hours) with or without a non-opioid analgesic.

      Patients may also receive an adjuvant drug (i.e., for side effects or for primary indication
      other than pain management that is analgesic in selected circumstances).

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral oxycodone hydrochloride twice daily for up to 18 weeks.
           Patients may receive a different opioid analgesic or analgesia or adjuvant medication as
           in arm I, if needed.

      Patients in both arms may also receive additional medication for breakthrough pain.

      Patients complete a patient-assessment booklet (PAB) daily which includes a Box-Scale (BS)-11
      rating for average pain; questions regarding contact (e.g., telephone or visit) with
      healthcare professionals on that day; and information regarding the number of times escape
      medication is used.

      Quality of life and levels of cancer pain are assessed using the short form of the Brief Pain
      Inventory (BPI).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  