
    
      In this study of pharmacokinetic interactions, (1) the effect of ritonavir on the
      pharmacokinetics of amprenavir; (2) the effect of efavirenz on the pharmacokinetics of
      amprenavir and ritonavir, and (3) the effect of efavirenz on the pharmacokinetics of
      amprenavir and nelfinavir were examined. Twenty-two patients who have a viral burden of at
      least 500 copies/mL on combination therapy with a protease inhibitor for at least 20 weeks
      were to be enrolled to receive open-label treatment, 6 with abacavir 300 mg po BID,
      amprenavir 1200 mg po BID, ritonavir 200 mg po BID and efavirenz 600 mg po QD, 6 with
      abacavir 300 mg po BID, amprenavir 1200 mg po BID, ritonavir 500 mg po BID and efavirenz 600
      mg po QD, and 10 with abacavir 300 mg po BID, amprenavir 1200 mg po BID, nelfinavir 1250 mg
      po BID and efavirenz 600 mg po QD. The groups enrolled sequentially: low-dose ritonavir
      combination group, then the full dose ritonavir combination group, and then the nelfinavir
      combination group. Subjects were seen at pre-entry, baseline (Day 1), and thereafter at study
      weeks 1 (serial sampling), 2 (serial sampling), 4, 8, 12, 16, 24 then every 8 weeks through
      one year. Patients discontinued current therapy and without a washout period began dosing.
      For the groups who will receive ritonavir, the schedule was: dose with abacavir and
      amprenavir and, after one-week, serial plasma sampling was performed for baseline amprenavir
      levels. Next ritonavir at the assigned dose was added (for the full-dose, there is a rapid
      dose escalation) and plasma sampling was repeated one week later; finally, efavirenz 600 mg
      once daily will be added and plasma sampling was again be repeated between 2 weeks after
      beginning the combination. For the nelfinavir group, the schedule was: dose with nelfinavir,
      amprenavir, and abacavir for one week and obtain serial plasma sampling, then add efavirenz
      for another week and obtain serial plasma sampling. Patients with a confirmed increase in
      viral burden of one log or greater from baseline will end study participation. The safety and
      antiviral activity of each combination were also assessed and continue to be assessed;
      toxicity management is outlined in the protocol. This study remains open in order to continue
      to provide these drugs to subjects who completed the original one-year study period and who
      wish to continue medications that appear, by viral load, to be of benefit to them.
    
  