
    
      This study will be performed in Fayoum university Hospital from january 2019 to january 2021
      on 58 adult patients undergoing ACL operation after obtaining approval of the Scientific and
      Ethical Committee of El Fayoum University Hospitals, and written informed consent from the
      patients.

      Randomization will be done by using computer-generated random numbers that will be placed in
      separate opaque envelopes that will be opened by study investigators just before the block.
      Neither the participants, the study investigators, the attending clinicians, nor the data
      collectors will be aware of groups' allocation until the study end. The Consolidated
      Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) recommendations for reporting randomized, controlled
      clinical trials will be followed.

      Preoperative preparation:

      History taking , physical examination and investigations will be done according to the local
      protocol designed to evaluate the patients. which includes complete blood count, blood sugar
      level, serum urea and creatinine ,liver function tests,coagulation profile and
      electrocardiogram (ECG) Before surgery, the participants will receive education about the VAS
      pain score (0-100 mm) (where0=no pain and 100 = worst comprehendible pain)and the details of
      the nerve block procedures. After a 6 h fast, the patients will be taken into the operation
      theatre.

      Intraoperative management :

      The patient will receive Midazolam 0.03 mg/kg intravenous (IV) and Cefotaxime 1 gm as
      premedication . Monitors (pulse oximeter, electrocardiography and non invasive blood pressure
      ) will be applied.

      Induction of general anaesthesia will be done via propofol 1-2 mg/kg , fentanyl 1-3 mic/kg
      and atracurium 0.5 mg/kg . Endotracheal tube will be inserted and the patient will be
      mechanically ventilated. Anesthesia will be maintained with oxygen and isoflurane 1-2 % or as
      required and atracurium 10mg every 30 minutes. Fentanyl boluses 0.5 μg/kg will be repeated if
      heart rate (HR) or mean arterial pressure (MAP) rise 20 % above baseline values . Ondansetron
      4 mg IV dose will be administered for postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) prophylaxis 30
      min before the end of the case; dexamethasone use will be avoided due to its potential
      confounding effect on the block characteristics.and then , nerve blocks will be given
      according to randomization.

      The skin is disinfected and the saphenous nerve is located via Ultrasound . the transducer is
      placed anteromedially, approximately at mid-thigh level "a high-frequency linear probe 5Y12
      megahertz (MHz) prepared in a sterile fashion" (Phillips HD11) . If the artery is not
      immediately obvious, several maneuvers can be used to identify it, including color Doppler
      scanning to trace the femoral artery caudally from the inguinal crease. Once the femoral
      artery has been identified, the probe is moved distally to trace the artery until it passes
      through the adductor hiatus to become the popliteal artery.

      The block needle (Stimuplex; Braun Medical, Bethlehem, Pa), is inserted in plane in a
      lateral-to-medial orientation and advanced toward the femoral artery . the passage of the
      needle through the sartorius and/or adductor muscles and into the adductor canal is usually
      associated with a paresthesia in the saphenous nerve distribution. Once the needle tip is
      visualized anterior to the artery and after careful aspiration, 1-2 mL of local anesthetic is
      injected to confirm the proper injection site . When injection of local anesthetic does not
      appear to result in its spread around the femoral artery, additional needle repositions and
      injections may be necessary.

      Then , moving distally with the artery in the adductor canal until it moves away from the
      sartorius muscle to enter adductor hiatus . here , L.A will be injected above the artery and
      so , popliteal plexus block will be accomplished .

      Both blocks done via in injection 15 mg bupivacaine 0.5% + 0.05 mg epinephrine. After the
      block done , VAS score , BP , HR , cumulative and interval opioid consumption and sedation
      level via Ramsay sedation scale will be measured every 4 hours for 24 hours post-operatively
      .

      Rescue analgesia in the form of morphine per a titration protocol (3 mg morphine sulfate IV
      as a bolus dose that could be repeated every 5 minutes with a maximum dose of 15mg per 4
      hours or 45 mg per 24 hours) was employed if visual analog pain scale (VAS) > 4. The morphine
      titration protocol was suspended with Oxygen saturation < 95%; Respiratory rate < 10 / min;
      the development of sedation (Ramsay sedation scale >2); development of acute adverse effects
      (allergy, marked itching, excessive vomiting, and hypotension with systolic blood pressure _
      20% of baseline values); or attaining adequate level of analgesia.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Sample size was calculated using (G power version 3). Minimal sample size of patients was 26
      in each group needed to get power level 0.80, alpha level 0.05 and 0.8 as an effect size in
      the time for painkiller request after the intervention between the two groups. To overcome
      problem of loss of follow up, calculated sample size was increased by 10% to reach 29 in each
      group.
    
  