
    
      BACKGROUND:

      High blood pressure (BP), or hypertension, is a major risk factor for cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality. Hypertension is associated with an elevated risk for several
      cardiovascular complications, including coronary heart disease, peripheral vascular disease,
      congestive heart failure, and stroke, as well as an increased risk for renal disease.
      Although there have been significant advances in the detection and treatment of high BP,
      approximately one in four adults in the United States is hypertensive. Cigarette smoking
      accounts for more than 400,000 premature deaths each year in this country alone, making it
      the leading cause of morbidity and mortality. Evidence from several epidemiological studies
      has demonstrated that, at any level of BP, smoking substantially increases the risk for all
      cardiovascular complications associated with hypertension. While cigarette smoking and
      hypertension both increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, these two risk factors act
      synergistically to produce a greater risk than their combined independent effects. Despite
      the considerable health risks, smoking among people with hypertension is very common, with a
      prevalence approaching that observed among those with normal BP. Unfortunately, although
      quitting smoking is especially important for patients with high BP, smoking cessation
      produces a nontrivial weight gain, averaging 5 kg, which may exacerbate hypertension in many
      patients with the disorder. Several studies have documented significant elevations in BP
      following smoking cessation, as well as increases in the prevalence of hypertension after
      quitting smoking. As such, it is important to develop effective interventions that assist in
      quitting smoking and preventing weight gain.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The objective of the trial is to recruit 750 smokers with Stage 1 hypertension or
      prehypertension (based on JNC VII criteria). The trial will provide all participants with a
      brief, validated, combined behavioral and pharmacologic smoking cessation intervention.
      Additionally, the study will randomly assign participants who are abstinent from smoking upon
      completing the cessation intervention to either a 12-week weight management and BP control
      program or self-help materials targeting lifestyle modification. The primary endpoint is
      change in BP among quit smokers at a one-year follow-up. Secondary endpoints include changes
      in body weight, dietary intake, urinary sodium excretion, physical activity, and relapse to
      smoking. Exploratory endpoints include changes in hypertensive status (e.g., movement from
      prehypertensive to hypertensive by JNC VII criteria) and changes in BP medication status.
      This is a multi-site clinical trial, with study locations in Rochester, Minnesota, and Iowa
      City, IA. The Rochester, MN site is currently closed for recruitment.
    
  