
    
      PURPOSE:

      The purpose of the research (or "knowledge gap" this research is designed to fill) is to
      understand the fate of inhaled drug within the lungs of COPD patients. Current inhalers in
      use were developed to treat asthma, which is predominantly a disease of the large airways,
      and these inhalers may not be optimal in treating COPD patients (which is predominantly a
      disease of the small airways). Poor delivery of inhaled bronchodilators to the peripheral
      deep airways may be a major factor limiting the clinical benefit provided by existing
      devices. The key to successful treatment could be to accurately target inhaled drug to the
      diseased lung sites, which is the hypothesis that this protocol will test.

      DESIGN & FUNDING:

      Dr Omar Usmani has developed the research protocol and the study has been funded by the UK
      Government Department of Health through the NIHR (National Institute for Health Research),
      which funds leading edge research in the NHS focussed on the needs of patients and the public
      and aims to improve the health and wealth of the nation through research. The study has been
      peer reviewed by International Experts in this field of research.

      PROTOCOL:

      This protocol has two studies: Lung DEPOSITION study (in COPD patients and Healthy subjects)
      and Lung PHYSIOLOGY study (in COPD patients and Asthmatics).

      Each study (Lung DEPOSITION and Lung PHYSIOLOGY) will be a randomised, double-blind,
      crossover, (7 treatments,controlled against pMDI salbutamol), study. Treatments will be given
      as one off dose administration.

      There will be an interval of at least 5 days between each study visit. The Lung DEPOSITION
      study will involve radiolabelled drug treatments.

      All the treatments in the LUNG PHYSIOLOGY study will be non-radiolabelled. Salbutamol will be
      the drug aerosol administered to each subject at each visit. Subjects and investigators will
      be blinded to the 'fine-mist' aerosol particle sizes given (at 6 treatments). The control arm
      will be salbutamol drug aerosol delivered as a 'coarse mist' standard metered dose inhaler
      (7th treatment visit).

      RECRUITMENT/SAMPLE SIZE; The study will recruit; Lung DEPOSITION study: 12 mild-moderate COPD
      patients, 12 healthy subjects Lung PHYSIOLOGY study: 26 mild-moderate COPD patients, 13
      mild-moderate asthmatic patients

      INCLUSION / EXCLUSION:

      At the screening vist, no one will be unfairly excluded from the research, particularly as
      COPD is a disease of older age and those over 65 should not be discriminated against. This
      research will therefore reflect the 'real world' of COPD.
    
  