
    
      The project "Development and Dissemination of a Priority Oral Health Risk Assessment and
      Referral Tool - PORRT" is designed as an education and training intervention in medical and
      dental practices statewide. Various evaluation activities, the purpose of the subcontract,
      will take place during the four years (see attached timeline). The project will collect data
      statewide on use of guidelines and changes occurring in medical and dental practices in
      adopting the guidelines. In addition through a RCT in 75 sites, we will measure the adoption
      rate of guideline use and the quality and effectiveness of referrals occurring as a result of
      guideline adoption. This multi-phase project is the logical next step in our work with IMB
      medical practices throughout the state as it seeks to incorporate dental providers by
      increasing referrals for those children whose dental care cannot be managed in a medical
      home. And it seeks to revise through a systematic review of the literature the risk
      assessment form used by all IMB practices.

      The planning phase of the project will focus on the development and refinement of the risk
      assessment and referral tool (PORRT). This will be accomplished through a systematic review
      of the literature to provide the scientific evidence for risk factors for ECC, and if
      sufficient information can be derived from the literature, we will develop a three-state
      (normal, non-cavitated and cavitated lesions) Markov-model to enable comparisons of ECC
      incidence rates among children with different risk factors.

      A revised PORRT with supporting evidence and guidance on its use will then be pilot tested in
      five medical practices during year 1 of the project (sites to be selected once the tool is
      completed). This pilot will be conducted by the OHS. Results from the pilot will be
      incorporated into the development of a final tool and the accompanying documentation (the
      guidelines) and used in the implementation of the education intervention in the selected 75
      RCT sites. (The education intervention is the responsibility of the OHS.)

      Prior to the initiation of the RCT, a statewide baseline survey will be carried out during
      year 2 with all primary care medical providers who see at least 10 Medicaid patients under
      three years of age per month. This self-completed, mail survey will assess oral health
      knowledge regarding infants and toddlers, and the likelihood of adoption of the PORRT
      instrument in the medical practices. (The questionnaire is not yet developed but will be
      submitted at a later date for IRB approval along with its accompanying consent form.) Data
      entry and analysis will take place at UNC and will follow all normal procedures for
      maintaining confidentiality and protection of human subjects.

      The randomized controlled trial will begin during year 2. The education intervention and the
      dissemination of the PORRT tool and guidelines will occur only in the selected 75 RCT
      practices. The RCT will compare passive distribution of guidelines by mail to an in-office
      intervention consisting of guideline distribution combined with educational outreach
      providing training in guideline use and patient mediated information provided by the risk and
      referral assessment tool (PORRT). The three-arm trial will consist of 25 medical practices
      that have never participated in IMB and 25 practices that are currently participating, both
      of which will receive the guidelines through the mail, and 25 practices currently
      participating in IMB that will receive the more intense in-office training intervention. We
      hypothesize that effect measures (guideline implementation, and referral quantity, quality
      and effectiveness) will be most favorable in those practices with the intense intervention,
      least favorable in those practices that have not participated in the IMB program and somewhat
      effective for those practices that are participating in IMB but only receive the passive
      dissemination of guidelines.

      Six months following the initiation of the education intervention, site visits to all RCT
      practices will take place to collect copies of the completed PORRT forms and to conduct brief
      interviews with practice managers on the use and adoption of the tool. The OHS will be
      responsible for these visits as they are the implementing agency in the grant. Copies of the
      completed PORRTs will be sent to UNC for data entry and analysis. Data from the forms will be
      entered by project staff in an ACCESS based data entry system, which will be password
      protected. No personal identifiers will be entered. All PORRT forms will be stored in locked
      filing cabinets. PORRT data will be used to measure the quantity of referral activity among
      the RCT practices (percent of patients with PORRTs, number of referrals made, percent of
      forms with referrals, completeness of forms).

      Beginning at three months following the start of the education intervention a dental record
      review of referred patients will take place in one geographic area (county) pertaining to the
      more intense intervention site of the RCT. The OHS will be responsible for conducting these
      record reviews in the dental offices located in the geographic catchment area of the medical
      practices. The objective of the records review is to collect information on referrals
      received from participating medical providers, and on the treatment provided in dental
      offices to these referred patients. The evaluation of this data will look at the risk and
      disease status of patients referred for care. The records review data will be analyzed by
      UNC. The data will allow us to evaluate the quality of referral activity occurring as a
      result of the intense education intervention and PORRT distribution. Referral effectiveness
      will be evaluated by looking at pre and post treatment Medicaid claims from this geographic
      area to ascertain the portion of patients with a dental visit.

      The follow-up provider survey will be conducted statewide during year 3 of the project. The
      results from this survey will allow us to look at use of guidelines and barriers to
      implementation, comparing RCT with non-RCT practices.

      The final phase of the project will focus on data analysis and manuscript preparation. The
      statewide implementation of the education intervention will be determined by the results of
      the RCT.
    
  