
    
      The study group: postpartum women with a diagnosis of either chronic hypertension,
      gestational hypertension, preeclampsia without severe features, preeclampsia with severe
      features, chronic hypertension with superimposed preeclampsia with and without severe
      features.

      Recruitment: postpartum patients that meet the inclusion criteria will be approached
      postpartum while they are still hospitalized. Once the study subjects are enrolled, they will
      receive the same automatic blood pressure cuff and basic teaching on how to use it. All study
      subjects will be asked to check their blood pressure once a day. The study subjects will be
      advised that if systolic blood pressure is > 160 or the diastolic blood pressure >110, the
      study subjects are asked to remain seated and repeat the BP measurement in 15 minutes, if
      still elevated the study subject will be advised to call labor and delivery or proceed to
      labor and delivery triage for further evaluation. All study subjects will be asked to follow
      up for a blood pressure check 3-10 days after discharge home. All study subjects will be
      weighed prior to discharge.

      The study subject is then randomized to the control or intervention group. Both groups will
      receive a survey. After the intervention group undergoes the educational component, this will
      be the last time the study subjects meet with the investigator.

      The data will be collected on an excel spreadsheet. Patient identifiers will be removed once
      the study is completed. However, de-identified data may be used for future studies. The
      database will be password protected on an excel spreadsheet and secured behind the Medstar
      Washington Hospital Center firewall computers. Access to these databases is restricted to the
      PI and the co-investigators. The data will be statistically analyzed in order to answer the
      primary and secondary outcomes.

      Power analysis: At Washington hospital center, the current attendance within 10 day
      postpartum follow up appointments is 40% and at the 6 week appointment it is 70%. Based on
      this data the investigator wants to evaluate if this postpartum education intervention can
      cause a 100% difference in attendance within 10 days postpartum: 40% attendance which is the
      current attendance rate (control) versus 80% (goal for the intervention group): enrollment of
      46 patients is required.
    
  