
    
      The aims of this study are: 1) To compare the degree of Cobb angle and truncal balance
      maintenance between immediate removal and gradual brace weaning protocols for AIS patients
      who have completed brace treatment; 2) To determine factors for poor maintenance of Cobb
      angle and truncal balance after brace weaning; 3) To determine if the current standardized
      criteria for initiating brace weaning is appropriate; and 4)To identify the most
      cost-effective bracing weaning protocol from health-care provider perspective.

      The investigators' hypothesis is that an AIS patient requires gradual brace weaning to allow
      better adaptation to an unloaded environment without the brace thereby resulting with a
      better truncal balance. It is also hypothesized that the immediate removal of brace for a AIS
      patient is more cost-effective option for terminating bracing treatment when compared to
      gradual brace weaning over a 6-month period.

      The investigators will recruit AIS patients managed at the Duchess of Kent Children's
      Hospital (DKCH) in Hong Kong. As there is no definition for "brace weaning", we adopt the
      protocol that our center has been using. Hence the investigators will be comparing two
      protocols: 1) brace wearing time shortened to night wearing for 6 more months before stopping
      bracing altogether or 2) immediate brace weaning on the day of patient recruitment. All
      patients will be recruited on the day of clinic consultation where the decision for brace
      weaning is made. Those with underarm (Boston) bracing are included in the study. All subjects
      are followed-up longitudinally up to 1 year after brace weaning has been issued. Hence this
      includes two clinic visits with one at 6 months to complete the gradual brace weaning
      protocol and another at 1 year to observe for any delayed changes to the overall curvature
      and balance including loss of truncal balance and Cobb angle deterioration. For curve
      progression after brace weaning, the highest risk occurs within 6 months of brace weaning.
      Hence, 1-year collection of data is adequate for seeing differences between the two groups.
      This does not deviate significantly from our usual care as all AIS subjects are usually
      followed-up at 6-monthly intervals and thus this duration of follow-up is strictly adherent
      to and standardized.

      Eligible patients who have consented to take part will be randomly allocated to one of the
      two protocols, and group designation will be decided by a computer-generated randomized
      table. Restricted randomization through blocking will be used according to the equal
      proportion rule (1:1). The random allocation sequence will be managed independently, and the
      random coding is concealed to all research staff until all data analyses have been completed.
      The clinicians and research assistants will not be blinded to treatment allocation, as the
      participants are required to implement bracing protocols and schedule longitudinal follow-up.

      Apart from the Cobb angle measurement, all subjects undergo weight, height and arm span
      measurements, health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and utility measurements, and whole
      spine standing posteroanterior (PA) and lateral radiographs at each clinic visit as per
      routine clinic protocol. The refined Scoliosis Research Society 22-item (SRS-22r)
      questionnaire and the EuroQoL 5-Dimension 5-Level (EQ5D) questionnaire will thus be provided
      at every visit.
    
  