
    
      Muscle strength, Isokinetic strength measurement:

      The dominant side QF isometric muscle strength (torque measurements) of the participants was
      assessed with the Isokinetic Dynamometer . Before the test, participants were subjected to a
      standard warm-up of 5 minutes and evaluations were carried out using a standard seat. The
      back of the seat was angled 105 ° backward to provide 75 ° flexion at the body. The knee was
      positioned at an angle of 60 ° and was fixed with bands around the body, waist, hip and
      ankle. Participants had no previous experience with isokinetic dynamometer testing,
      therefore; it was started with a trial whose protocols were same with QF isometric muscle
      strength measurement protocols. Then participants QF isometric muscle strength was measured
      by three 10-second maximal isometric contraction. Rest periods of 3 seconds between each
      contraction were given. Each participant held the sides of the seat with both hands during
      the test. Verbal encouragement was made throughout the whole test to obtain maximum strength
      from the participants. The peak torque and average torques of the participants were recorded
      after the test.

      High Voltage Pulsed Galvanic Current:

      The instrument was automatically set to a pulse rate of 100 μs while the pulse frequency was
      set to 60 pulses / sec. In order to avoid fatigue, the intermittant form of the current was
      selected and the transition time / rest time was set to 4 sec. impulse / 12 sec. The total
      output voltage of the device ranged from 0 to 500 volts and the current intensity was
      increased until the sensible contraction of the applied muscle was achieved without causing
      too much sense of discomfort. Stimulation was performed after the body and knee were
      positioned and stabilized at 75 ° flexion and 60 ° flexion angle, respectively. One of the 6
      * 8 cm carbonated electrodes was placed in the distal portion of the vastus medialis, while
      the other one was placed in the proximal portion of the vastus lateralis. This placement was
      intended to stimulate a large proportion of the muscle fibers of the QF muscle.The HVPG was
      applied for a total of 20 minutes. Current intensity was increased to obtain optimal muscle
      contraction.

      Russian Current In the treatment with the Russian current, a protocol developed by Kots, also
      known in the literature as "Russian Technique", was used. In the treatment with the Russian
      movement, a protocol developed by Kots, also known as "Russian Technique", was used in the
      literature. There were 10 muscle contractions per treatment session in this protocol. Each
      contraction lasted for 10 seconds and a resting time of 50 seconds were given for the next
      contraction (transition: rest ratio was 1/5).The position of the participants in the
      application and the placement of the electrodes were same as the the other application.
      Current intensity was increased until tetanic muscle contraction was obtained.

      Isometric Exercise:

      The body and knee of the participants in the isometric exercise group were positioned and
      stabilized at 75 ° flexion and 60 ° flexion angle, respectively as in the stimulation groups.
      Participants were asked to do 10 repetitions as 10 seconds of maximum voluntary contractions
      and 10 seconds of rest.
    
  