
    
      HIV is a sexually transmitted virus that damages or destroys a body's immune system. When the
      infection progresses to its later stages, AIDS can develop. Several programs have been
      developed for educating adolescents about how to prevent HIV transmission. Preventing
      infection is particularly important because there is not yet a way to cure HIV. This study
      will examine the processes needed to train community members to deliver HIV prevention
      programs to urban youth.

      This study has three steps. In Step 1, an existing group of urban community members who have
      already delivered the Be Proud! Be Responsible! HIV prevention program will be invited to
      serve as mentors for new HIV educators in the community. Participants in this step will
      complete self-administered assessments of their willingness to collaborate with
      university-based researchers, their confidence in skills necessary for collaborative
      projects, and any foreseeable obstacles to participation. The goal of this step is to examine
      the response over time to ongoing HIV leadership.

      In Step 2, parents from the targeted community will be recruited and trained in HIV
      prevention programs. They will be randomly assigned to one of three programs: Becoming a
      Responsible Teen, Be Proud! Be Responsible!, and Reducing the Risk. All three of these
      programs involve group meetings with adolescents to discuss puberty, sexuality,
      communication, self-esteem, HIV/AIDS, and setting and achieving goals and dreams.
      Participants in this phase will undergo the same assessments as those in Step 1.

      In Step 3, the parents trained in Step 2 will be randomly assigned to a middle school or high
      school where they will deliver the program in which they were trained. Randomly selected
      adolescent participants from these schools will be assigned to whichever program is being
      offered at their school. All three prevention programs will include four to six sessions over
      4 to 6 weeks. Adolescent participants will be required to complete interviews and
      questionnaires when they enter the study, after 3 months, and after 15 months. These
      interviews and questionnaires will measure HIV/AIDS knowledge, self-esteem, intention to
      protect health, and engagement in risk-taking behaviors. Parent participants in Step 3 will
      repeat the assessments from Steps 1 and 2 before and after delivering their prevention
      curriculums.
    
  