
    
      Persona is a CE marked, natural method of contraception that works by monitoring hormone
      changes in a woman's urine to identify the days of her menstrual cycle when she is likely to
      become pregnant following unprotected intercourse. Persona consists of test sticks that
      measure luteinising hormone (LH) and estrone-3-glucuronide (E3G), which are read by a
      handheld monitor. This hormonal data is converted using a proprietary algorithm, into
      simple-to-understand information on the user's contraceptive status; a "red light" where she
      needs to abstain from intercourse to avoid pregnancy, or a "green light" where unprotected
      intercourse is unlikely to lead to pregnancy. A prospective 13 cycle reliability study has
      found Persona to be 94% effective.

      This study will examine the relationship between the information provided by the Persona
      assays and ultrasound observed ovulation, along with other indicators of when a woman is
      fertile (basal body temperature (BBT) measurement and cervical secretion observations).

      This is a single centre clinical study which will be conducted at the green-ivf clinic in
      Grevenbroich, Germany. The primary objective will be to assess the difference between the
      timing of the LH surge detected by Persona and observed ovulation by reference to
      transvaginal ultrasound examination.

      In addition, comparison of Persona determined levels of LH and E3G will be made to urine and
      serum levels of these and other reproductive hormones. Comparison will also be made to BBT
      and cervical secretion observations which are indirect measurements of the fertile phase.

      In order to achieve these objectives, a minimum of 40 female volunteers will be recruited by
      the study site either out of the patient pool coming for routine gynaecological examination
      or from the general population via newspaper advertisement.

      The study will last for one menstrual cycle starting on the first day of menstrual bleeding
      (day 1 of the cycle) and concluding with the onset of the next menses. Volunteers will be
      asked to collect daily urine samples and use an adapted Persona monitor for the duration of
      the study as per the first cycle of use (i.e. a maximum of 16 tests). The monitor will be
      adapted to blind the user from the result of each test. Volunteers will therefore be advised
      that the modified Persona monitor cannot be used as a contraceptive device during the study.
      Volunteers will also be asked to take daily measurements of BBT and to record this along with
      cervical secretion observations on a daily natural family planning (NFP) chart.

      Volunteers will be required to attend for a recruitment visit to the trial site followed by
      approximately 12 visits either daily, or two days apart. Transvaginal ultrasonography will be
      carried out on cycle days 5, 7, 9, 11 and daily from 16mm follicular size onwards until
      ovulation has occurred. Blood sampling will also be conducted on these days as well as on day
      7 and day 9 post-ovulation.

      Ultrasound examinations, blood sampling and hormonal blood tests will be performed at the
      trial centre. Urine samples will be shipped to the study sponsor for hormonal analysis.

      Diary and scan data will also be transferred to the study sponsor to provide a single data
      set for analysis.
    
  