
    
      The overarching goal of this application is to evaluate a comprehensive intervention for the
      prevention of opioid use disorder and for increasing other resilient outcomes in this special
      population of high-risk young adults. Phase I of the study includes a nonrandomized pilot
      study with a sample of 21 youth to assess initial efficacy, feasibility of recruitment and
      acceptability of the housing + opioid and related risk prevention services. Upon meeting
      transition milestones, 240 youth will be randomized into housing + opioid and related risk
      prevention services versus opioid and related risk prevention services alone for Phase II. In
      this study, we seek to determine if adding housing to opioid and related risk prevention
      services yields a significant benefit above and beyond the benefit yielded by opioid and
      related risk prevention services alone. Phase II follow-up will be conducted at 3, 6, 9 and
      12-months post-baseline to assess stability of effects. Sample inclusion criteria,
      recruitment and screening will be identical for both phases, as described below. The unique
      components of Phase I and Phase II are then described separately.

      Sample Inclusion Criteria.

        1. We will include youth between the ages of 18 to 24 years. Our experience is that
           landlords will not accept leases signed by youth ages 16-17 years. "Homeless youth"
           commonly refers to those up to the age of 24 years (Robertson & Toro, 1999; USICH,
           2010), thus, this age range generally reflects the age range of the homeless youth
           population served by providers across the country.

        2. Youth meets the criteria for homelessness as defined by the federal McKinney-Vento Act
           (2002) as "lacking a fixed, regular, stable, and adequate nighttime residence" and
           includes "living in a publicly or privately operated shelter designed to provide
           temporary living accommodations, or a public or private place not designed for, or
           ordinarily used as, regular sleeping accommodations for human beings."

        3. Youth fails to meet DSM 5 criteria for Opioid Use Disorder as assessed by the SCID
           (First et al., 2015).

        4. Those who receive a score over 10 on the Scale for Suicide Ideation - Worst Point
           (SSI-W) (Beck, Brown, & Steer, 1997), indicating moderate suicide risk, or report a
           past-year suicide attempt will be eligible for 10 sessions of Cognitive Therapy for
           Suicide Prevention (CTSP).

      Participant recruitment and sample availability. Columbus is ranked the 16th largest city in
      the U.S. Many consider Columbus a "typical" American city because of the mix of races, range
      of incomes, urban, suburban, and nearby rural areas. Columbus has one drop-in center for
      homeless youth between the ages of 14-24 years (founded by MPI Slesnick). Last year (2018)
      approximately 1200 unduplicated homeless youth between the ages of 14-24 years were served at
      the drop-in center, with 70-95% of homeless youth reporting problem substance use, similar to
      national samples (e.g., Baer et al., 2003). The single adult shelters have a total of 457
      beds for single men and 97 for single women on any given night. Service-connected youth will
      be recruited from the drop-in and adult shelters, non-service connected youth will be
      recruited through outreach to local soup kitchens, sandwich lines, the streets, parks and
      library. Given the high rates of homeless youth in Columbus, we do not anticipate any
      recruitment problems.

      Screening and intake. Project staff will maintain offices within the drop-in center. Youth
      who are engaged on the streets will be transported to the drop-in center. An RA will engage
      and screen youth to determine basic eligibility for the study. After the brief screening and
      stated interest in the project, written consent will be obtained and the Structured Clinical
      Interview for DSM-5 Disorders (SCID) (First, Williams, Karg, & Spitzer, 2015) section on
      Opioid Use Disorder, will be administered to determine formal eligibility.

      Community Engagement. Too often, interventions do not reach those for whom the interventions
      were developed (Spoth & Greenberg, 2005). Implementation science promotes the integration of
      research in to practice and policy, with implementation science studies often focused on
      investigating the bottlenecks that impede the uptake and adoption of interventions. Several
      calls have sought to transform translational science so that research supported interventions
      can quickly reach the targeted populations in need (Fogarty International Center, 2013), with
      the Institute of Medicine (IOM) noting that "there is no time to lose" (IOM, 1999). The IOM
      has emphasized a greater focus on engaging community stakeholders from the earliest phases of
      research, as such continuous involvement improves dissemination and uptake (Spoth &
      Greenberg, 2005). Indeed, multiple guidelines and lessons learned from dissemination of
      evidence-based interventions have been published (e.g., Collins & Sapiano, 2016). Standards
      for dissemination include that the program has the ability to go to scale, has training and
      technical support available, and a statement of the causal mechanisms relating the
      intervention to the outcome (Flay et al., 2005). This study will provide a solid base for the
      next step in translating research to practice and policy. At the end of the study, the
      materials and knowledge will be in place to conduct an effectiveness or broad-based
      dissemination effort.

      The Community Advisory Group, including homeless providers, homeless youth, landlords,
      substance use treatment experts and policy makers will meet throughout the project period,
      shaping study procedures, and easing transition of intervention to practice by the end of the
      study. Furthermore, Nationwide Children's Hospital (NCH) has led several large housing
      initiatives in the city, and MPI Kelleher's primary appointment is with NCH, where he works
      with the City, United Way and housing developers. Engagement will continue beyond the study
      period between researchers and community partners in order to support implementation of the
      prevention intervention. Also, at the end of the study period, a conference will be held at
      The Ohio State University to engage executive directors and their staff from drop-in centers
      from around the country, as well as other homeless youth researchers and providers.

      Phase I (UG3) Using the same recruitment strategy, eligibility criteria and assessment
      package (including stress biomarkers) as Phase II, a non-randomized pilot of the housing +
      opioid and related risk prevention services intervention (N = 21) will be completed in year
      1. The sample size of 21 reflects three months of recruitment of seven youth/month. All youth
      will receive the 6-month housing + opioid and related prevention services intervention. Youth
      will be assessed at baseline, 3 and 6-months using the proposed assessment battery, and
      qualitative interviews. The primary purpose of this phase is to document feasibility of
      recruitment, acceptability of the intervention, and initial pre-post change on targeted
      outcome measures. However, other activities, including creating a base of landlords to
      provide rentals to youth and initiating the Community Advisory Group, will also be a focus.
      As the housing + prevention services and assessment battery are identical in Phase 1 and
      Phase II, they are described in detail following the description of Phase II. Those aspects
      unique to Phase I are discussed immediately below.

      Phase I: Assessment of acceptability, feasibility and initial efficacy of the intervention.
      Several studies assess intervention acceptability, feasibility and initial efficacy using
      similar procedures to those described below (von Haastregt et al., 2007; Zlotnick et al.,
      2003). Acceptability of the intervention will be assessed by the retention of youths in the
      intervention, the total number of advocacy sessions attended, length of time remaining in
      project supported housing, and by the percentage of eligible youth who agree to participate
      in the study. In addition, the extent to which landlords consent to continuing participation
      in the second phase of the trial is essential. Assessment of feasibility includes
      documentation of 1) whether participants can be recruited, engaged, and maintained in the
      housing + opioid and related risk prevention services as proposed, data which can be obtained
      from RA screening forms and advocate records (meetings attended, maintenance of housing), and
      2) whether the timeline proposed for housing youths (anticipated to average 4 weeks, and time
      to housing will be tracked) and other intervention procedures can be maintained as proposed.
      In order to estimate initial efficacy, we will assess youth at baseline, 3 and 6-months to
      determine change in identified targeted outcomes (e.g. opioid and other substance use,
      homelessness and related problems). In addition to the quantitative analysis, qualitative
      interviews with each youth will provide a fuller understanding of the youths' response to the
      intervention.

      Phase I: Quantitative Analysis. Repeated measures ANOVA will be used to test the efficacy of
      the intervention (time effects). Three testing occasions (e.g., baseline, 3, and 6 months)
      will be the within-subject dependent variables. The primary outcome is opioid use, and
      secondary outcomes are listed below under "dependent variables." It is predicted that there
      will be a main effect of time; youth will show reductions in opioid use, and improved
      functioning in other domains at post-intervention (6-months).

      Phase I: Qualitative Analysis. In order to increase our understanding of youths' response to
      the intervention such as experiences associated with differing levels of housing success and
      satisfaction with services, each youth at 6 months post-baseline will be interviewed
      regarding their experiences in the study. Supplementing the quantitative findings, interviews
      can provide better understanding of factors that promote engagement and success among youth
      as well as factors that prevented youth from successfully maintaining their housing.
      Additionally, qualitative data can help explain any unexpected findings, and provide a
      greater richness when reporting and interpreting the quantitative outcomes. Dr. Brittany
      Brakenhoff conducted a mixed methods study (funded by NIDA, R36DA041530) in which youth were
      interviewed regarding their perceptions of barriers to safe sex. She is an expert in
      qualitative methods and will lead the qualitative data collection. The qualitative portion
      will follow a phenomenological approach, which provides a framework for collecting and
      analyzing qualitative data as a way to better understand how youth experienced the
      intervention providing insight into youths' perceptions of whether they benefited from the
      intervention in a way that was meaningful to them (Creswell, 2012). Youth will be asked about
      their overall experience in the research study as well as their perception of how the
      intervention impacted their life. Youth will be asked to discuss aspects of the intervention
      they benefited from, aspects they did not find helpful, and how to make the intervention more
      helpful. All interviews will be independently coded by three members of the research team and
      discrepancies in coding will be discussed until an agreement is reached. NVivo 11 (QSR
      international) will be used to assist with coding. Member checking will provide additional
      verification of the results, a subsample of 5 youth who participated in the non-randomized
      pilot will be asked to review and provide feedback on the initial qualitative findings. While
      quantitative data can show whether participants changed their behavior, qualitative data can
      determine if those changes actually resulted in perceived meaningful improvements in the
      participants' lives.

      Phase II (UH3) In Phase II, 240 homeless youths between the ages of 18 to 24 years recruited
      from the streets and drop-in center will be randomly assigned to 1) 6-months of housing +
      opioid and related risk prevention services (n = 120), or to 2) opioid and related risk
      prevention services alone (n = 120). In addition, sll youth will be screened using the Scale
      for Suicide Ideation - Worst Point (SSI-W). Those who receive a score over 10, indicating
      moderate suicide risk, or report a past-year suicide attempt will be eligible for 10 sessions
      of Cognitive Therapy for Suicide Prevention (CTSP). We expect that approximately N =100 youth
      will meet the criteria for receiving CTSP, and that these youth should be nearly equally
      distributed in the housing + risk prevention services condition (N = 50) and risk prevention
      services alone (N = 50). We considered a design that included an assessment only condition,
      but given the level of risk and need of this population, we rejected this option. Using an
      intent to treat design, follow-up assessments will be completed at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months
      post-baseline. Standard methods of cost analysis will be used to estimate the cost of each
      intervention condition. We have consistently obtained adequate follow-up rates with homeless
      samples in our prior research (between 83-100% follow-up rates at 9 months for homeless
      mothers, and 75% at 12 months for non-housed homeless youth samples). In our efforts to
      maintain acceptable follow-up rates, we will obtain extensive locator information at the
      baseline assessment in which participants designate hang-out spots and agencies they frequent
      in Columbus, as well as collaterals. Collaterals may include friends, family members,
      probation/parole officers or social workers who would likely know where the participant would
      be if project staff lost touch with them. At each follow-up appointment, the research
      assistant (RA) will update locator information. We have also found that homeless youth who
      feel connected to our program and its advocates/RAs stay in contact. Upon completion of the
      baseline assessment interview, youths will be randomly assigned to the intervention
      conditions using a computerized urn randomization program. Four advocates will provide
      services so that advocate effects can be examined (Baldwin et al., 2011), and each advocate
      will provide all opioid and related risk prevention services to the youth on their caseload.
      Advocates will be crossed by condition to "equate" conditions on advocate characteristics.
      This approach is preferred over nesting as advocates in both conditions are trained in the
      same procedures which include SBOA, MI, and HIV risk and suicide prevention (CTSP). Nesting
      would likely be considered the better choice if treatment philosophies differed among the
      intervention conditions. RA's will be blind to condition at all assessment timepoints.

      Project Intervention: Housing + Prevention Services versus Prevention Services alone Housing
      + Opioid and Related Risk Prevention Services integrates independent housing, Strengths-Based
      Outreach and Advocacy (SBOA), HIV prevention and MI (Miller & Rollnick, 2012) and Cognitive
      Therapy for Suicide Prevention (CTSP). In the housing + opioid and related risk prevention
      services condition, youth will be housed in an apartment of their choosing and receive six
      months of utility and rental assistance of up to $600 per month. The independent housing is
      not contingent on the youth's substance use or attendance in prevention services. SBOA, MI,
      HIV risk and suicide prevention occur simultaneously in this approach. Addressing basic needs
      but not opioid and other drug use, through MI and service linkage, may lead to difficulty in
      maintaining basic needs and vice versa. During the intervention, advocates assist youth in
      accessing community supports so that if more assistance is needed at the end of the
      intervention period, youth will have been linked to those additional supports. Findings from
      the pilot study with non-service connected youth indicated that up to 26 advocacy sessions
      should be offered. Each component of the intervention is described below.

      Strengths-Based Outreach and Advocacy (SBOA). Those individuals experiencing homelessness
      with access to a social service worker, or who utilize community services, are more likely to
      exit homelessness (Dworsky & Piliavin, 2000; Raleigh-DuRoff, 2004; Zlotnick et al., 2003). In
      general, the range and severity of adverse outcomes increases over time; the longer a young
      person experiences homelessness, the more likely they are to experience opioid and other
      substance use, victimization and mortality, and the harder it becomes to exit street life
      (Ferguson et al., 2011; Milburn et al., 2006; Scutella et al., 2013), highlighting the
      importance of engaging disconnected youth to services. SBOA focuses on identifying and
      engaging youth from the streets and drop-ins/shelters etc. and assisting these youth to meet
      their basic needs (i.e., referrals to food pantries), obtain government entitlements (i.e.,
      SSDI/SSI, cash assistance, food stamps), and connect to other needed supports (education, job
      training). The advocates provide referrals and/or transport youth to appointments as needed.
      The initial meeting provides an opportunity to gather information. The advocate will review
      each of six general areas with the youth to gather a history and picture of the current
      situation: (1) housing needs; (2) health care; (3) food; (4) legal issues, (5) employment and
      (6) education. The advocate will assist youth assigned to the opioid and related risk
      prevention services only comparison condition to obtain housing within the community, as is
      usually provided with SBOA, but unlike the youth in the housing intervention, they are not
      provided housing by the project. Once this review is complete, an initial intervention plan
      is developed with specific goals and objectives. Advocates are available 24 hours for crises.

      HIV prevention. Some have argued that HIV prevention should be offered to all individuals
      seeking therapy for drug problems (Roehrich et al., 1994). Every youth will receive the
      2-session intervention which uses cognitive-behavioral techniques with a focus on skills
      building/behaviors (role plays with condom application, cleaning needles,
      communication/negotiation and problem solving), used in prior projects with homeless youth
      with success reducing risk behaviors (e.g., Carmona et al., 2014; Slesnick & Kang, 2008).
      Successful practice of skills is expected to increase confidence and self-efficacy which is
      expected to increase the youth's use of skills including condom use and negotiation in other
      micro-system interactions. The first session is devoted to AIDS education, assessment of
      risk, risk reduction and skills practice. Session 2 focuses on sexual assertiveness and
      practicing negotiation. Role plays are incorporated to allow the youth to practice social
      competency skills relevant to their life situations.

      Motivational Interviewing (MI). Typically offered as a brief intervention of 1-2 sessions,
      Motivational Interviewing (MI, Miller & Rollnick, 2012) has a strong record of efficacy in
      the prevention and treatment of alcohol and other drug use disorders (Copeland et al., 2015;
      Miller & Rollnick, 2012). MI assumes that the responsibility and capability for change lie
      within the client and needs to be evoked (rather than created or installed). Baer, Peterson
      and Wells (2004) provide some rationale for utilizing brief feedback and motivational
      intervention with street living youth - the intervention is less costly and demands much less
      of a hard-to-reach population than more intensive interventions. Utilizing a sample of
      runaway adolescents recruited from a runaway shelter, Slesnick et al. (2013) found that
      substance use reductions were significant for those assigned to MI even to two years
      post-treatment. The advocate will administer MI. Four principles guide the practice of MI:
      express accurate empathy, develop discrepancy, roll with resistance and support
      self-efficacy. The Project Match manual was adapted for homeless/runaway youth in prior
      trials in consultation with William R. Miller and Bo Miller (NIAAA grant no. R01AA12173 and
      NIDA grant R29DA11590). Adaptation of the manual included attention to the unique life
      situation of homeless youth in understanding motivations and challenges to recovery while
      homeless. Session 1 begins with a period of open-ended MI, to establish therapeutic rapport
      and elicit client change talk. In session 2 the advocate continues to focus on enhancing
      intrinsic motivation for change, developing discrepancy, transitioning as appropriate into
      the negotiation of a change plan and evoking commitment to the plan.

      Cognitive Therapy for Suicide Prevention (CTSP). The Cognitive Therapy Intervention for
      Suicide Attempters, developed by Aaron Beck, Gregory Brown and Amy Wenzel (Wenzel, Brown, &
      Beck, 2009) has shown promising results for both adults (Brown et al., 2005) and youth (Brent
      et al., 1993; Stanley et al., 2009). This approach is innovative in that suicidal behavior is
      the primary target for treatment, rather than being secondary to an underlying psychological
      disorder, which has been the standard in the field (Wenzel et al., 2009). As a short term
      treatment (10 sessions), the intervention is particularly feasible for youth who have high
      rates of treatment refusal and drop-out. CTSP is based upon the theoretical assumption that
      the manner by which people think and interpret their life events determines their emotional
      and behavioral responses to those events. Hence, maladaptive cognitions associated with
      suicidal ideation are the primary focus of the treatment. Given that the intervention
      protocol was developed based on empirical studies designed to identify cognitive processes
      relevant to suicidal acts, targeted vulnerability factors include hopelessness, social
      isolation, poor problem solving, and impaired impulse control. The treatment is designed as a
      10 session protocol including weekly or bi-weekly meetings.

      A crisis plan is developed in the first session and is expanded as therapy progresses. It
      includes emergency contact numbers as well as positive coping behaviors, such as walking or
      taking a hot bath that the client can perform alone. Consistent with the Interpersonal Theory
      of Suicide (Joiner, 2002) and Rudd's theory (2004, 2006), the experience of prior suicidal
      behaviors is considered associated with increased risk for future suicide attempts.
      Therefore, assessment of recent suicidal thoughts and behaviors is conducted every session.
      Clients in need of additional mental health treatment or services are referred to those
      respective agencies. The treatment process is highly structured and consists of three phases.
      During the initial phase of treatment (sessions 1-4) clients are educated about the cognitive
      model and a cognitive case-conceptualization is developed to guide the intervention based on
      client's individual risk-factors and experiences. Specifically, automatic thoughts, core
      beliefs, and key life events associated with suicidal behaviors and thoughts are identified.
      The middle phase of treatment (sessions 4-7) focuses on both cognitive restructuring and
      behavior change through a variety of cognitive techniques designed to address
      suicide-specific risk factors. For example, therapists teach clients positive behaviors, such
      as distraction, relaxation, and intense physical sensations. These techniques can be used to
      cope with a suicidal crisis and may mitigate the effect of the acquired ability to enact
      lethal injury. Another form of coping is through a personal support system. Thus, therapists
      help clients develop/strengthen their social network, which may include other homeless youth,
      intimate partners, pro-social adults and drop-in center staff. Therapists can also work with
      the client to create a hope kit, which includes reasons to live such as memories, letters,
      pictures or other reminders of positive relationships with others. Although relationships
      with parents are problematic, some youth maintain positive relationships with extended family
      members or siblings, mentors or friends. Creating a hope kit and accessing support systems
      can create a sense of connection and belongingness. The objective of the later sessions
      (8-10) is to prevent relapses through practicing the newly-acquired skills through a guided
      imagery process. Youth may receive up to 9 maintenance sessions within 6 months
      post-baseline.

      Housing. Those randomized to receive housing + opioid and related risk prevention services
      will receive each prevention component above, plus 6-months of housing. The Housing First
      Model was developed by Pathways to Housing to provide immediate access to independent
      apartments and supportive services for the most vulnerable homeless people with severe mental
      illness and substance use disorders, without any prerequisites for sobriety or participation
      in psychiatric treatment (Tsemberis et al., 2004; Tsemberis & Asmussen, 1999). It is based on
      the beliefs that housing is a fundamental human right, recovery from mental illness is
      possible, and that consumers can make competent choices (Tsemberis et al., 2004). The central
      tenet of Housing First is that consumers have choice/control over "where they live, how they
      live, who they allow to live with them, who enters the home, to abstain from substance use or
      not, to comply with treatment demands or not, and the support that they receive" (Greenwood
      et al., 2005, p. 225). These Housing First principles underlie various housing approaches
      (HUD, 2014). The advocate will work with the youth to identify appropriate housing among the
      available choices, and will initiate the procedure for payment from Nationwide Children's
      Hospital directly to the landlord once housing is identified. The project will cover damage
      deposit, application fees (including FABCO report, credit report), and will automatically pay
      the landlords the rental checks at the beginning of each month. As in the prior Stage 1 and 2
      studies, Nationwide Children's Hospital will not sign leases on behalf of the youth, and so
      the youth will sign the lease. The amount budgeted in this application for rent includes that
      needed for both rent and utilities. Considerations. While we may not be able to prevent
      contamination of sharing housing across groups, we propose some strategies to reduce its
      impact should it occur. At each follow-up, youth will be asked to note if they know other
      youth in the research project, and to identify those youths' names. We can then link
      intervention condition with the youth to provide some estimate of contamination. We will
      fully describe any probable contamination from both a research and clinical perspective.
    
  