
    
      Objective:

      To determine the relationship among neuroinflammation, Permeability-glycoprotein (P-gp)
      function and mild neurocognitive disorder (MND), a cognitive disorder associated with HIV
      infection.

      Study Population:

      HIV seropositive subjects with MND, HIV seropositive subjects with normal cognitive function,
      and HIV seronegative control subjects.

      Design:

      Subjects will undergo history and physical exam, screening laboratory tests, EKG, brain MRI
      and neuropsychological evaluation. HIV-seropositive subjects will be stratified based on
      results of neuropsychological evaluation into HIV-seropositive controls (i.e., cognitively
      normal) and HIV-seropositive with MND. All subjects will receive brain PET imaging with
      [11C]dLop after P-gp blockade to measure the function of P-gp at the blood-brain barrier.
      P-gp will be blocked prior to the PET scan with tariquidar. HIV-seropositive subjects will
      receive one lumbar puncture at baseline and one lumbar puncture after P-gp blockade with
      tariquidar to measure CSF concentrations of anti-retroviral medications and to measure
      biomarkers of blood-brain barrier integrity and inflammation in the CSF. HIV-seronegative
      subjects will receive one lumbar puncture at baseline to measure biomarkers of blood-brain
      barrier integrity and inflammation in the CSF.

      Outcome Measures:

      The main outcome measures of the study is brain uptake of [11C]dLop in response to P-gp
      blockade with tariquidar. We will correct for individual metabolism of tariquidar by
      measuring the plasma concentration of tariquidar during the P-gp blocked scan.

      As a secondary outcome measure, concentrations of anti-retroviral medications in CSF will be
      measured in HIV seropositive subjects with and without MND. CSF concentrations will be used
      as a surrogate marker for CNS delivery of anti-retroviral drugs.
    
  