
    
      Introduction

      The duration and severity of tissue hypoxia have been related to increased mortality.
      Maintenance of adequate oxygen delivery (DO2) is essential to preserve organ function, as a
      sustained low DO2 is a path to organ failure and death. DO2 does not have influence on oxygen
      consumption (VO2) until it reaches critically low values (DO2crit), when VO2 starts to fall.
      Low cardiac output states (cardiogenic, hypovolemic and obstructive types of shock), anemic
      and hypoxic hypoxemia are characterized by a decreased DO2 but preserved oxygen extraction
      ratio (OER=the ratio of DO2 to VO2, VO2/ DO2) so that DO2crit remains normal. In distributive
      shock, the oxygen extraction capability is altered so that the critical oxygen extraction
      ratio is typically decreased. These situations are typically associated with an increased
      DO2crit, and VO2 can become dependant on DO2 even when the latter is normal or elevated.
      These observations help to characterize the four principal types of circulatory shock,
      however this classification is somewhat simplistic as several types of alternations may
      coexist, in particular in cardiogenic shock. Rhodes et al. reported that outcome was more
      favorable in septic patients whose VO2 increased after dobutamine administration. DO2 also
      increased in survivors. On the other hand DO2 did not increase in patients whose VO2 did not
      increase. In dobutamine test proposed by Rhodes et al. the hemodynamic response was
      influenced by cardiovascular reserve and the degree of stimulation of adrenoreceptors at
      baseline. Unfortunately global measurements of DO2 and VO2 may not be sensitive enough to be
      clinically relevant. They may fail to detect regional perfusion abnormalities as in
      splanchnic circulation.

      Measurement of mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO2) from the pulmonary artery is used for
      the calculations of the VO2 and has been advocated as an indirect index of tissue of tissue
      oxygenation and prognostic predictor in critically ill patients. Catheterization of pulmonary
      artery is costly, has inherent risks and its usefulness remains under debate. Not
      surprisingly the monitoring of central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO2) was suggested as a
      simpler and chipper assessment of global DO2 to VO2 ratio.

      Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a technique for continuous, non-invasive, bedside
      monitoring of tissue oxygen saturation (StO2). Like pulse oximetry, NIRS uses the principles
      of light transmission and absorption to non-invasively measure the concentrations of
      oxygenated hemoglobin and reduced hemoglobin in tissue. NIRS offers greater tissue
      penetration and does not discriminate between compartments. Therefore it provides a global
      assessment of oxygenation in all vascular compartments (arterial, venous and capillary) in
      sample volume of underlining tissue. We have previously shown that thenar muscle tissue
      oxygen saturation during stagnant ischemia decreases slower in septic shock patients compared
      to patients with severe sepsis, localized infection and healthy volunteers. This may be due
      to microcirculatory or metabolic changes, and probably correlates to muscle tissue oxygen
      consumption. The rate of StO2 decrease correlated with SOFA score, norepinephrine
      requirement, and plasma lactate concentration. As recently described, StO2 in sample volume
      of underlining tissue depends in vivo on 3 major determinants: the concentration in
      oxy-hemoglobin, capillary recruitment and the vascular size (vasodilatation or constriction).
      The StO2 during stagnant ischemia has then to be viewed in light of these determinants. The
      gradual decrease (slope) of StO2 after cuff inflation-induced vascular occlusion depends
      mainly on the augmentation of the concentration of deoxy-hemoglobin and estimates tissue
      oxygen consumption and to a lesser degree on vessel de-recruitment. The StO2 upslope during
      reperfusion (cuff deflation) can be analyzed in light of flow papers during
      ischemia/reperfusion test. Vasodilatation after ischemia leads to recruitment of more vessels
      and increase in the local blood flow, which in turn results in a StO2 increase. It remains
      unclear which of the described changes is more influential, however this StO2 increase
      mirrors the maximal local DO2 at the time of measurement. The development on NIRS signal
      processing might be able to provide a clinical important tissue hemoglobin concentration
      index and local oxygen consumption as shown by De Blasi et al., such an index may help to
      clarify the mechanism(s) by which StO2 signal varies.

      The aim of our study was to study skeletal muscle oxygen kinetics in low flow state due to
      combined cardiogenic and septic circulatory failure, relate it with central heamodynamic
      variables and outcome. We hypothesized that basal StO2 could relate to ScvO2, because blood
      flowing through upper limb muscles importantly contributes to flow through superior vena
      cava. The second hypothesis was that decrease of skeletal muscle OER and lower muscle oxygen
      consumption are more pronounced in patients with septic component of circulatory failure due
      to microcirculatory and metabolic changes seen in sepsis, what results in higher mortality.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS

      Patients Study protocol was approved by the National Ethics Committee of Slovenia, informed
      consent was obtained from all patients or their relatives. Study was performed during October
      2004 and January 2006. After initial hemodynamic resuscitation, transthoracic ultrasound
      heart examination was performed in all patients admitted to our ICU. In patients with primary
      heart disease, low cardiac output, and no signs of hypovolemia, a right heart catheterization
      with a pulmonary artery floating catheter (PAFC)(Swan-Ganz CCOmboV CCO/SvO2/CEDV, Edwars Life
      Sciences, USA) was performed after decision of treating physician. The site of insertion was
      confirmed by the transducer waveform, the length of catheter insertion and chest radiography.
      In all patients systemic arterial pressure was measured invasively using radial or femoral
      arterial catheterization. Patients with inserted PAFC and signs of low flow state (cardiac
      index less then 3.0 L/min/m2) were included in our study. PAFC data were calculating using
      standard formula.

      Localized infection, severe sepsis and septic shock were defined according to ACCP/SCCM
      consensus conference definitions (1992). All patients received standard treatment of
      localized infection, severe sepsis and septic shock including: source control, fluid
      infusion, catecholamine infusion, organ failure replacement and/or support therapy, intensive
      control of blood glucose and corticosteroid substitution therapy. Mechanically ventilated
      patients were sedated with midazolam and/or propofol infusion and no paralytic agents were
      used.

      Measurements

      Skeletal Muscle Oxygen Kinetics

      Thenar muscle StO2 was measured non-invasively by NIRS (15mm Probe, InSpectra™, Hutchinson
      Technology Inc., USA). The values were continuously monitored and stored into a computer
      using InSpectra ™ software. The StO2 was monitored before, during and after upper arm
      ischemia-reperfusion test (UIRT) which was standardized as follows: a rapid cuff inflation
      above elbow towards 260 mmHg to stop flow and to induce a decrease in StO2 for 90 seconds,
      cuff deflation with continuous measurement of StO2 increase, overshooting and stabilization.
      Measurements were performed immediately after PAFC insertion (in first 24 to 72 hours after
      admission), the second measurement was performed 12-24 hours after the first measurement, the
      third measurement was performed (only if patient was still alive and still had PAFC inserted)
      in 48 hours after the first measurement. In spontaneously breathing patients and healthy
      volunteers measurements were performed after 15 minutes of bed rest, avoiding any muscular
      contractions.

      In figure 1 schematic StO2 measurement line-drawing during UIRT is presented. The following
      parameters were obtained: basal StO2 (%): basal StO2 before cuff inflation (maximal thenar
      muscle StO2 was found by moving probe over thenar prominence); StO2 downslope during cuffing
      (∆downStO2)%/sec); StO2 upslope (∆upStO2)%/sec) after cuffing release; overshootStO2 (%):
      maximal StO2 after cuffing release. Inspectra measures content of hemoglobin in sample volume
      of underlining tissue - Tissue Haemoglobin Index (THI). Average of muscle THI before and at
      the end of cuff inflation was reported. These data were automatically obtained using the
      Inspectra Analysis Program V2.0 (Hutchinson Technology Inc., USA) running in MatLab 7.0
      (MathWorks Inc., USA). Estimation of muscle oxygen consumption (mVO2Nirs) and muscle oxygen
      extraction ratio (mOER) were calculated using the following formulas:

      mVO2Nirs= ΔdownStO2 * THI* (-1), mOER(%)= (1- basalStO2/overshootStO2)* 100.

      Severity of disease Sepsis-related Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA score) was calculated at
      the time of each measurement to asses the level of organ dysfunction. Dobutamine,
      norepinephrine requirement represented the dose of drug during the Sto2 measurement. Used of
      levosimendan is reported if patient received the drug less then a week before inclusion in
      the study. Use of intra-aortic balloon pump during ICU stay is reported.

      Laboratory analysis Blood was withdrawn from superior vena cava approximately 2cm above right
      atrium and pulmonary artery was performed at the time of each StO2 measurement to determine
      ScvO2 (%) and SvO2(%) respectively. In view of the known problems arising during sampling
      from pulmonary artery, including the possibility of contaminating artery blood with pulmonary
      capillary blood, all samples from this site were withdrawn over 30s, using a low-negative
      pressure technique, and never with the balloon inflated . A standard volume of 1mL of blood
      was obtained from each side after withdrawn of dead-space blood and flushing fluid. All
      measurements were made using a cooximeter (RapidLab 1265, Bayer HealthCare, Germany).

      Plasma lactate concentration was measured using enzymatic colorimetric method (Lactate, Roche
      Diagnostics, Germany) at the time of each StO2 measurement.

      Data analysis StO2 curves were analyzed by Inspectra Analysis Program V2.0. Linear regression
      was used to extrapolate the rate of Δdown- and Δup- StO2 during UIRT. Data was expressed as
      median ± standard deviation (SD). Non parametric test: Kolmogorov-Smirnov, Wilcoxon and
      Fisher exact test were used (SPSS 10.0 for Windows ™, SPSS Inc., USA). Spearman correlation
      test was used to determine correlation. To compare muscle tissue StO2 variables during UIRT,
      ScvO2 and SvO2: bias, systemic disagreement between the measurements (mean difference between
      two measurements), and precision, the random error in measuring (standard deviation of bias),
      were calculated. The limits of agreement were arbitrary set by Bland and Altman as the bias±
      2 SD. To determine the variables independently associated with survival uni- and multivariate
      logistic regression (Forward Stepwise (Likelihood Ratio)) was used. The p value of <0.05
      (2-tailed) was considered statistically significant.
    
  