
    
      Elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations are a risk factor for
      cardiovascular diseases. (1) Cholesterol lowering drugs are the most frequently prescribed
      medications in the U.S. and are known to have muscle, kidney and liver side effects for some
      users. Recent reviews conclude that benefits outweigh risks reporting statin and other
      cholesterol-lowering drugs to be safe and effective for most users. (2, 3, 4, 5) The new
      blood cholesterol level guidelines may recommend that more people take cholesterol lowering
      medications. According to the American Heart Association (AHA), total cholesterol levels
      should be below 180 mg/dL, with levels from 200 mg/dL to 239 mg/dL considered borderline
      high. Total cholesterol of 240 mg/dL and above is considered high. (6) However, published
      studies on the effect of blood lipids suggested that the actual cholesterol level itself is
      not the most important risk factor. It is the ratio between the level of total cholesterol
      and HDL that played a major role in the cardiovascular risk. The ideal HDL/cholesterol ratio
      should be higher than 25%. The ideal triglyceride/cholesterol ratio should be below 2.0. It
      is estimated that over 50 million adults in the U.S. have lipid levels higher than the above
      recommendations. (6) For persons who prefer conservative care, dietary modification is
      considered a first approach to the treatment and control of high cholesterol. (1, 7, 8)
      Hypertension is another risk factor for cardiovascular diseases and has close links to high
      blood cholesterol. (8) Between 40 and 50 million Americans have hypertension, which is
      defined as systolic blood pressure of at least 140 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure of at
      least 90 mm Hg. (8) Hypertension is strongly, continuously, and independently related to
      coronary artery disease (CAD), stroke, renal disease, and all-cause mortality. For every
      7.5-mm Hg increase in diastolic blood pressure, CAD risk increases 29% and stroke risk
      increases 46%. These risks have been shown for women as well as for men. Even within the
      high-normal blood pressure range, higher measurements result in greater risk of
      cardiovascular diseases. (9-10) It has been reported that diet and nutritional supplements
      are effective in reducing elevated blood pressure and reducing the risk of heart attack and
      stroke. (11-15) Diet and supplements have also been shown to have effects in reducing blood
      cholesterol. (16, 17)

      Traditional dietary control has focused on reducing intake of saturated fat and cholesterol.
      Recent studies have suggested that the traditional focus of lipid management may have been
      overly simplistic and that diets might be more effective if more attention was given on
      including certain foods or factors rather than just avoiding saturated fat and cholesterol.
      Gardner et al 2005 reported improved results with more plant-based foods, such as whole
      grains, vegetables, legumes, and fruits while simultaneously limiting saturated fat and
      cholesterol. (17) It has been reported that nutritional supplements and diet can reduce serum
      lipids and blood pressure. There are no reports on the effects of nutritional supplement on
      HRV despite the close link of the autonomic nervous system activity on regulation of blood
      pressure.

      The Standard Process 21 day Purification Program consists of a controlled food intake regimen
      of mostly fruit and vegetables with restricted calories, protein and fats plus daily use of
      herbal and whole food based supplements. A recent case series of 28 chiropractic patients
      showed that the use of the SPPP resulted in significantly lowered total cholesterol. (18).

      This study will investigate the effects of the SPPP in participants with elevated total
      cholesterol. The program requires the subjects to eat a modified; mostly fruits and
      vegetables diet and take the SPPP nutritional supplements for three weeks

      The outcome measures of this study are supported in the literature as risk factors for
      cardiovascular and other conditions, e.g., serum lipids, C - reactive protein, homocystine,
      blood pressure, high BMI and heart rate variability (HRV).
    
  