
    
      Funded by the federal Regional Partnership Grant (RPG) Program, the Enhancing Permanency in
      Children and Families (EPIC) is a partnership between child welfare, juvenile count and
      behavioral health to holistically address substance misuse and associated parenting needs of
      child welfare-involved families. The overall goals and objectives of the intervention are to
      1) Increase timely access to services among substances abusing parents involved in the child
      welfare system in Fairfield and Pickaway counties, 2.Enhance child safety and improve
      permanency and 3. increase child, parent, and caregiver well-being.

      Eligible participants are matched with peer recovery supporters who mentor parents through
      the process. Parents are also referred to Family Treatment Drug Court (FTDC) with the option
      to receive Medications for Opioid Use Disorders (MOUD), and lastly when children are placed
      at home with parents or with kinship caregivers, relational skill building services that
      include financial assistance for child care, respite and transportation services. EPIC
      participants receive substance abuse and behavioral health treatment services through local
      providers including from two partner agencies: Integrated Services for Behavioral Health and
      Ohio Guidestone.

      Data collection: Participating parents complete surveys as baseline and again and study
      completion (6 months to 1 year). Parents complete questions related to themselves (e.g.
      Addiction Severity Index, CES-D) and for one focal child (e.g. CBCL).

      To evaluate EPIC, a quasi-experimental design will be employed through a two-stage sampling
      procedure. This design provides the ability to assess (1) the effects of EPIC on access to
      services for the families in the two intervention counties, and (2) the independent effects
      of additional services provided under EPIC that may be over and above Ohio START (an
      intervention administered through the Public Children Services Association of Ohio) and
      treatment as usual (TAU). In the first stage, two comparison counties will be identified for
      each of the two intervention counties. One comparison county will be part of the Ohio START
      program while the second will be a county that has no major interventions to address
      substance use among child welfare families. Counties are matched based on child population
      size, rate of child protective services referrals, percent of naloxone administrations per
      adult population, percent white, percent poverty, child welfare tax levy, and to the extent
      possible, behavioral health service availability. During the second stage, EPIC families are
      matched with substance using families in each of the comparison counties.

      Parents may consent to one or all three components of EPIC based on the specific needs of
      each family, however all parents receive intensive case management services, including
      frequent home visits from caseworkers and peer recovery supporters.
    
  