
    
      Colorectal cancer remains the commonest cancer among men, and third commonest among women in
      Saudi Arabia . Presentation with metastatic disease occurs in almost one third of patients ,
      with 5-year survival decreasing significantly from 90% in stage 1 to 14% once the disease is
      metastatic . There is enthusiasm in the potential for liquid biopsies to provide easily
      accessible genetic biomarkers for mutational cancer characterization . Epidermal growth
      factor receptor (EGFR) monoclonal antibodies are widely used in the treatment of advanced
      colorectal cancer that do not harbor RAS mutations (RAS wild type). Hence genotyping of
      oncogenic RAS mutations is essential to be done prior to initiation of systemic therapy for
      such patients as the presence of these mutations predict resistance to EGFR targeted
      antibodies such as cetuximab and panitumumab . Treatment of metastatic CRC has become more
      complex and precision medicine approaches have evolved in recent years with the discovery of
      new oncogenic (potentially targetable) pathways . The prognosis of metastatic colorectal
      cancer has improved from 6 months with best supportive care to more than 2 years with
      multi-agent chemo and targeted therapy including anti EGFR antibodies . Targeting other
      singling pathways in CRC such as adding vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors has
      benefitted patients as well . It is estimated that 55% of patients with metastatic colorectal
      cancer (mCRC) will have oncogenic mutations in KRAS and NRAS. Detection of such mutations has
      been done on tissue biopsies with the disadvantage of this being an invasive procedure, and
      data suggesting that such testing may not be reflective of the true mutational burden of the
      disease since a single fragment of tissue may be inadequate to reflect the intratumoral
      heterogeneity. There is increasing evidence suggesting that liquid biopsies or blood based
      mutational profiling can provide a more comprehensive molecular profile of the disease, and
      carries the advantage of being minimally invasive. Serial liquid biopsies can act as a tool
      to identify spatial and temporal heterogeneity predicting response or resistance to targeted
      agents, and can shed light into the emergence (or disappearance) of specific mutations that
      may potentially be targeted with newer anti cancer agents . To account for this molecular
      heterogeneity, the genomic profiles of metastatic colorectal cancer patients should be
      examined at different time points during the course of therapy using liquid biopsy .

      There have been small studies that examined mechanisms of resistance to anti EGFR monoclonal
      antibodies in mCRC using liquid biopsy. A study of 37 mCRC patients who were treated with
      cetuximab found that 40% of them developed RAS mutations at progression 10). Another study
      with limited number of participants examined patients with mCRC treated with panitumumab and
      found that 9 out of 24 patients (38%) developed KRAS mutations on treatment as a mechanism of
      acquired resistance to anti EGFR therapy . Furthermore, fewer studies with limited number of
      patients used liquid biopsy as a biomarker when re-challenging mCRC patients with EGFR
      monoclonal antibodies. The majority of these studies were retrospective. However, one was the
      first prospective trial and had a similar protocol to our study. It included 28 patients and
      reported that 52% of these patients were RAS wildtype at re-challenge with cetuximab - when
      these patients were exposed to, and progressed on cetuximab in the first line setting. This
      study showed that re-challenge with cetuximab significantly improved progression free
      survival when RAS was found to be wild type on circulating tumor DNA(12). One of the
      limitations of this study was that a single liquid biopsy sample was done (prior to
      re-challenge with cetuximab) and hence does not display the predicted "switch" of the RAS
      target, which the investigators plan to study in our trial. Furthermore, a more recent study
      protocol has been published at BMC Cancer where the investigators plan to study 120 patients
      and perform liquid biopsy analysis every 3 months while patients are on first line cetuximab.
      This is to study the evolution of the RAS target, and to correlate this with disease
      response, as well as help guide therapy with EGFR inhibitors in mCRC patients. However, based
      on limited data, current guidelines have not yet adopted testing using liquid biopsy and
      using this strategy to decide on re challenge of anti EGFR therapy in 3rd line setting or
      not, which is the question investigators would like to answer in this study.

      Circulating cell free DNA (cfDNA) consists of small nucleic acid fragments liberated from
      cells by rupture, necrosis or apoptosis originating from normal and deceased cells, and is
      now increasingly being used to detect RAS (and other) mutations in patients with advanced
      colorectal cancers. There is new evidence that G12C RAS mutation can be targeted with a novel
      anti cancer agent .

      the investigators aim to perform cfDNA testing on patients with advanced colorectal cancers
      who have no RAS mutations i.e wild type (and hence start on EGFR inhibitors - which is
      standard of care treatment) pre third line therapy. This will help the treating physician
      decide whether to give these patients with RAS wt status an anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody or
      standard third line therapy (Regorafenib or TAS-102). These patients will be collected over
      an 18 month period. The cfDNA test at second progression (i.e prior to third line systemic
      therapy) will determine whether the subset of patients who may have developed RAS mutation(s)
      after progression to first line therapy (or other mutations as a mechanism of resistance)
      with anti - EGFR monoclonal antibodies have switched their RAS status and became wild type.
      This will support the re-challenge of EGFR inhibitors in the third line setting, and has the
      potential of changing the colorectal cancer treatment guidelines. Upon this, the principle
      investigator will decide whether to re-challenge with anti EGFR inhibitor. The investigators
      aim to study 60 patients in total and have 30 patients at least in the rechallenge (with anti
      EGFR mAb) group.

      Materials and Methods

      Patients will have their standard of care (SOC) biopsy of tumor/ metastatic site to confirm
      diagnosis, and determine RAS status. Once RAS wild type, and primary disease is left sided,
      these patients will receive standard chemotherapy (choices of FOLFOX, FLOFIRI, CapeOX,
      XELIRI) with an anti EGFR mAb (cetuximab or panitumumab). Upon progression of disease, second
      line systemic chemotherapy +/- anti VEGF antibody will be given as per SOC. Upon second
      progression, patients will be enrolled into the study as per inclusion criteria and consent,
      and a cfDNA blood test will be drawn, and RAS status will be examined. If RAS is wildtype,
      then the investigator will decide whether to re-challenge with an anti EGFR antibody (see
      study schema - figure 1), or give SOC third line chemotherapy (Regorafenib or TAS-102).

      Disease assessments will be done every 8 - 12 weeks as per SOC using CT scans, and/or MRI,
      and will be reported as per RECIST criteria v1.1.

      Methods for cfDNA Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) from CRC patients cfDNA extraction Blood
      samples will be collected in K2EDTA tubes (BD Vacutainer® Blood Collection Tubes, Becton
      Dickinson, Franklin Lakes, USA) and sent to the Translational Pathology Laboratory. The
      plasma fraction will be separated from the blood cells by two consecutive rounds of
      centrifugation for 30 min at room temperature at 1600 × g. The collected plasma was aliquoted
      and stored at -80 °C until use. cfDNA is extracted from plasma volumes ranging from 0.4 to
      5.5 ml using the MagMax Cell-Free Total Nucleic Acid Isolation Kit (Thermo Fisher Scientific,
      Waltham, USA) according to the manufacturers' instructions. The cfDNA quantity was assessed
      with the dsDNA HS assay kit by the Qubit 2.0 Fluorometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific). cfDNA
      quality was assessed with the Agilent Tap Station System (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara,
      USA). Only cfDNA samples with a clear fragment size peak between 140-200 bp will be
      considered for analysis.

      NGS library preparation NGS libraries will prepared from 10 ng of cfDNA following the
      Oncomine™ Pan-Cancer Cell-Free Assay (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Our general library
      preparation protocol is based on a two-cycle multiplex touch-down PCR reaction with a
      temperature range from 64 °C to 58 °C, which allowed to amplify target regions and introduce
      unique molecular identifiers. The resulting tagged amplicons of around 100-140 bp length are
      then cleaned up using Agencourt AMPure XP (Beckman Coulter, Brea, USA) at a bead to sample
      ratio of 1.5× and purified products are eluted in 24 μl low TE buffer. A second round of PCR
      (18 cycles) will be performed in a total volume of 50 μl to amplify the purified amplicons
      and introduce Ion Torrent™ Tag-Sequencing adapters containing sample-specific barcodes. The
      resulting library of target DNA fragments will be purified by performing a two-step cleanup
      using Agencourt AMPure XP (Beckman Coulter) at a bead to sample ratio of 1.15× and 1.0×,
      respectively. The purified libraries re then diluted 1:1000 and quantified by qPCR using the
      Ion Universal Quantitation Kit (Thermo Fisher Scientific). The quantified stock libraries are
      then diluted to 100 pM for downstream template preparation.

      Sequencing NGS libraries will be sequenced on an Ion S5™ instrument (Thermo Fisher
      Scientific) using semiconductor sequencing technology. Briefly, sequencing runs are planned
      on the Torrent Suite Software™ v5.10, libraries are pooled and loaded on an Ion 540™ chip
      using the Ion Chef™ instrument (Thermo Fisher Scientific). The loaded chip is then sequenced
      using 500 flows. Raw data are processed automatically on the Torrent Server™ and aligned to
      the reference hg19 genome. QC will be performed manually for each sample based on the
      following metrics; number of reads per sample>15,000,000 (for Oncomine™ Pan-Cancer Cell-Free
      Assay libraries aries), on-target reads >90%, read uniformity >90%, median molecular coverage
      >500×, median read coverage >15,000. Tissue NGS libraries are then sequenced according to the
      manufacturer's instructions. The sequencing data of the QC passing samples are then uploaded
      in BAM format to the Ion Reporter™ Analysis Server for variant calling and annotation.

      Data Analysis For plasma samples variant calling is performed on Ion Reporter™ (IR) Analysis
      Software v5.10 using the Oncomine™ TagSeq Pan-Cancer Liquid Biopsy w2.0 workflows. The
      analysis pipeline also includ signal processing, base calling, quality score assignment,
      adapter trimming, PCR duplicate removal, and control of mapping quality. Coverage metrics for
      each amplicon is obtained by running the Coverage Analysis Plugin software v5.6 (Thermo
      Fisher Scientific). Identified variants are only considered if the variant had a molecular
      coverage of at least three, indicating that the variant is detected in three independent
      template molecules. Finally, all candidate mutations are manually reviewed using the
      Integrative Genomics Viewer. Further annotation will be performed by Qiagen QCI platform and
      in-house oLIMS system.
    
  