
    
      Non-24-Hour Sleep-Wake Disorder (N24HSWD) occurs when individuals are unable to synchronize
      their endogenous circadian pacemaker to the 24-hour light-dark cycle, and the timing of their
      circadian rhythm instead reflects the intrinsic period of their endogenous circadian
      pacemaker. As a result, the circadian rhythm of sleep-wake propensity in these individuals
      moves gradually later and later each day if there circadian period is > 24 hours and earlier
      and earlier is < 24 hours. These individuals will be able to sleep well at night when their
      sleep-wake propensity rhythm is approximately aligned with the 24-hour light-dark and social
      cycle. However, after a short time, the endogenous sleep-wake propensity rhythm and the
      24-hour light-dark cycle will move out of synchrony with each other, and they may have
      difficulty falling asleep until well into the night. In addition to problems sleeping at the
      desired time, the subjects experience daytime sleepiness and daytime napping. As time
      progresses, the endogenous circadian rhythm of sleep-wake propensity in these individuals
      moves further and further away from the 24-hour light-dark cycle and gradually, these
      individuals are unable to sleep at night and as a result experience extreme sleepiness during
      the daytime hours and more frequent naps with a longer duration. Eventually, the sleep-wake
      time moves back into alignment with the social time for sleep and the individuals sleep well
      at night and have decreased daytime napping. The alignment between their endogenous circadian
      rhythms and the 24-hour day is temporary as they are continually drifting later and later
      each day.

      The study is comprised of one 24-month treatment phase, as all subjects enrolled in the trial
      have already been diagnosed with N24HSWD. Frequency of study visits will depend on the
      subject's prior length of exposure to tasimelteon; accordingly, subjects will be assigned to
      one of two groups upon enrollment into the study. The short-term exposure group will consist
      of subjects for which it is possible at screening that they have been exposed to tasimelteon
      for less than 6 months. The long-term exposure group will consist of subjects who have more
      than 6 months of exposure to tasimelteon.

      After completion of the 24-month treatment phase, subjects have the option to enroll into the
      optional open-label extension sub-study for an additional 52 weeks. Frequency of visits will
      be identical regardless of previous exposure (short term/long term).
    
  