
    
      Substantial numbers of depressed adolescents either decline antidepressant medication or
      quickly discontinue such medications before benefits are expected. Recent controversies
      regarding the safety of SSRI anti-depressants are likely to increase medication refusal. More
      than half of depressed adolescents identified in primary care prefer psychosocial treatments,
      compared to 20% who prefer medication. Among the psychotherapy alternatives to medication,
      cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) has the strongest research support.

      The STAND study is a two-arm, randomized, efficacy-effectiveness trial in primarily a Health
      Maintenance Organization (HMO), comparing a treatment as usual (TAU) control condition to TAU
      plus brief, individual, collaborative care CBT delivered in primary care. We will enroll 240
      youth ages 12 to 18 who, during this depressive episode, have either declined anti-depressant
      medication or who received a single dispense of anti-depressant medication but quickly
      discontinued. All enrolled cases will be reassessed periodically throughout a 24-month
      follow-up period. The primary clinical outcome is recovery from the index episode of major
      depression, assessed via research diagnosis. Secondary outcomes include continuous depression
      symptomatology; depression response; rates of new, recurrent episodes of major depression in
      the follow-up period; improvements in psychosocial function; clinical improvement; reduction
      in depression-related dysfunction; parent/youth attitudes regarding treatment. We will also
      examine incremental cost-effectiveness of CBT compared to TAU from the HMO, family, and
      societal perspectives. We will conduct exploratory analyses of mediation and moderation of
      depression treatment outcomes, and employ data from the TAU control condition to estimate the
      usual outcomes for depressed youth who refuse/discontinue antidepressant medication. Finally,
      we will examine how provider, parent and youth barriers, attitudes and beliefs moderate
      outcomes, as well as possibly change over time as a function of participation in this
      program.

      The validation of a primary care model for brief CBT may prove to be a significant benefit to
      the sizeable numbers of depressed youth identified in primary care, and who elect not to try
      anti-depressant medication or quickly discontinue an initial trial.
    
  