
    
      This is a international study by Ghent University that will initially involve people from
      Belgium, Italy and the UK.

      Previous studies of alerting dog accuracy are either case studies or retrospective studies
      that rely on memory recall of information about alerting behaviour, with the risk of memory
      bias that reduces reliability.

      The use of electronic diaries has been described as more accurate and has better compliance
      than paper ones. Nowadays, electronic diaries offer the possibility of receiving live
      information and/or timed answers, thereby increasing compliance and decreasing the incidence
      of memory bias. This would be the first time that "real time" information about dog behaviour
      and seizures in the same patients is collected systematically. This will facilitate the
      analysis of the specificity and sensitivity of alerting behaviour as perceived by the owner.

      During a three-month period, systematic data on the occurrence of seizures in the patient and
      on alerting behaviour by the dog will be collected. This information will increase the
      knowledge of the type of alerting behaviours that the dogs display and will allow to
      calculate the specificity and sensitivity of dog behaviour interpreted by the owner as
      predictive of a seizure. Depending on availability of trained and untrained dogs, possible
      differences in the alerting behaviour between both types of dogs and in their alerting
      specificity/sensitivity will be studied.To avoid recall bias the information will be received
      live through a back-end.

      To be able to participate, the volunteers will grant the investigators permission, via the
      informed consent, to contact their neurologist to confirm their epilepsy diagnosis and to
      send monthly reports of the electronic diary (see below) to their neurologist.

      It will be stated clearly in the instructions and the informed consent that the purpose of
      the app is to collect data to investigate dog behaviour and that the app is not intended as a
      monitoring tool for the patient. In the instructions and informed consent the investigators
      will be insisting that the volunteers only use the app when they are in a safe position
      or/and have recovered fully from the seizure.

      The documents will also include a recommendation to contact their neurologist should a sudden
      change in the frequency or duration of the seizures occur. In addition, the research team
      will provide monthly reports of the volunteers' electronic diary to their treating
      neurologists. Before the start of the study, Prof. De Herdt will contact the treating
      neurologist to inform them and to confirm the epilepsy diagnosis.

      Electronic Diary

      A smartphone app for Android and iOS will be developed with a main focus on
      user-friendliness. The App's main screen will display two buttons. The first button is to add
      alert events by the dog (= behaviour interpreted by the owner as an alert), i.e., to indicate
      that the dog has alerted. The second button is to add a seizure event (= to indicate a
      seizure is occurring or has just occurred). A calendar will show the alert and seizure
      entries on each day. When one of the two buttons is pressed, the time at which this occurred
      will be registered. It will not be possible to change the entry time, but the patient will
      have the option to indicate if the seizure happened at a time different from the time of the
      entry by accessing the seizure entry on the calendar. Once 24 hours have passed, the seizure
      entry can no longer be modified.

      When the patient does not enter any seizure for a whole day, a notification will appear the
      morning after to ask to confirm that there were no seizures during the previous day. Extra
      information about the presence/absence of auras and/or prodromi can be entered during the 24
      hours after a seizure occurred, by accessing the seizure entry on the calendar. Data
      introduction and storage will be possible even without internet connection. The data will be
      uploaded to a database as soon as the phone is connected to a Wi-Fi signal. Compliance will
      be monitored and patients that are not filling in information regularly (at least once a
      week, but depending on the frequency with which they experience seizures) will be contacted
      to verify whether there are any problems using the App and to resolve potential problems.

      Data management and informed consent

      The collected data will be treated in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation
      (EU) 2016/679. The back-end will be SSL certificated and the data will be processed only via
      the Athena platform and will never be stored or processed locally. The data will be
      anonymized for analysis, and the database of patients will be coded and stored also in the
      UGent central IT environment. The database will only be accessed by the supervising team from
      Ghent University.

      The patients will have the right to request information about the state and usage of their
      data and to request to modify or remove their data from the database at any point. All
      personal information that could allow us to identify the patient will be destroyed at the end
      of the study.
    
  