
    
      Material and methods A historical and concurrent follow up study was conducted at
      Songklanagarind Hospital, an 853-bed tertiary care hospital in southern Thailand, after
      approval by the Ethics Committee, Prince of Songkla University at November 15th, 2012.
      Written informed consent was signed by all parents who participated in the study.

      Participants Children aged ≤ 5 years old who received general anesthesia (GA)and developed
      intraoperative or post-anesthetic care unit (PACU)desaturation were included in the study and
      was defined as desaturation group. The exclusion criteria were ASA (American Society of
      Anesthesiologist) classification 4 or 5, preoperative oxygen saturation < 95% at room air,
      required preoperative endotracheal tube intubation (ETT) or mechanical ventilation, had
      congenital heart disease or open heart surgery, had neurosurgery, had preoperative delayed
      development, and had perinatal hypoxia or fetal growth retardation. Perioperative
      desaturation was defined as oxygen saturation < 95% for more than 10 seconds [9]. Children in
      desaturation group were matched with children in non-desaturation group one per one by the
      same sex, same age within the same year of general anesthesia, same type of surgery and same
      technique of anesthesia. Non-desaturation group was defined as children who did not developed
      perioperative respiratory events eg; desaturation, laryngospasm, bronchospasm, upper airway
      obstruction and reintubation. After a child from desaturation group was identified, one child
      from non-desaturation group was randomly selected from the lists of 3 to 4 children matching
      with same demographic, same surgery and same anesthesia profile above. The parents of both
      groups were contacted by the investigator by phone call and invitation postcard. If selected
      child in the non-desaturation group was declined by the parents or could not be reached, the
      next child on the list would be randomly selected.

      Outcome of interest The outcomes of interest were divided into growth developmental outcome
      and intelligence outcome. The intelligence outcome and growth developmental outcome were
      evaluated at least 6 months after exposing to general anesthesia. Children aged between at
      least 2 years and not more than 9 years were equally compared the outcomes of interest
      between desaturation and non-desaturation groups.

      For growth development outcome, preoperative body weight, percentile weight, height and
      percentile height were compared with the current body weight, current height, percentile
      weight and percentile height. Month age of first meaning word and month age of first walk
      will be asked.

      The main outcome will be intelligence score or intelligence quotient (IQ) score. There are
      two intelligence tests available in Songklanagarind hospital which are suitable for testing
      intelligence outcome in this study; the Standford Binet form L-M and Wechsler Intelligence
      Scale for Children, 3rd edition (WISC-III). The same aged of children in desaturation and
      non-desaturation groups were appointed to have an IQ test during the study period. A child
      psychologist (T.D.) performed the IQ test in all children. The Standford Binet form L-M was
      the main intelligence test used in our study. It measures cognitive ability regarding verbal
      reasoning, quantitative reasoning, abstract and visual reasoning and short-term memory skills
      and a wide range of IQ score varying from 20 to 140. The suitable age for using the Standford
      Binet form L-M is between 2 to 7 years old. The WISC-III test was used for supplemental test
      for children who reached the ceiling aged of 7 years and still could not complete IQ
      measurement. The WISC-III consists of 2 main subtests eg; the verbal subtests and performance
      subtests (nonverbal subtest) which the average IQ score was used to compared between 2
      groups. The same IQ score of each IQ test was considered to have the similar level of
      intelligence outcome in the study. The type of IQ test was recorded and compared between 2
      groups.

      The potential predictor variables The children and family related predictors and anesthesia
      related predictors were included in the data record. The children and family related
      predictors were history of prematurity, history of parental smoking, religion, mother age at
      delivery, mother occupation, father occupation, monthly family income, mother education,
      father education, children education, training by parents (no, partial or regular) and
      children capability (full help, partial help or no help).

      Definition of training by parents Training by parents was defined as developmental
      stimulation and training by parents or caregivers including with the following statement eg;
      (1) teaching them to do thing by themselves compatible to their age, if you do regularly in
      days or weeks considered to be regular stimulation and training,if you do sometimes or once
      in a while considered to be partial stimulation and training. (2) asking them a simple
      question to stimulate their mind, if you do regularly in days or weeks considered to be
      regular stimulation and training, if you do sometimes or once in a while considered to be
      partial stimulation and training. (3) Taking them outside for a ride or to the playground and
      stimulating them by showing things, people, animal or asking questions, if you do regularly
      in days or weeks by both taking them outside and stimulating their mind considered to be
      regular stimulation and training, if you do sometimes or once in a while considered to be
      partial stimulation and training, if you take them outside but not stimulate their mind
      considered to be partial stimulation and training. (4) Buying them a stimulation toys and
      play with them, if you buy toys and play with them regularly in days or weeks considered to
      be regular stimulation and training, if you buy them toys but not play with them considered
      to be partial stimulation and training or if none of the 4 items is performed considered to
      be no stimulation and training. Training by parents was classified as 3 categories which were
      no training, partial training or regular training.

      Definition of children capability Children capability was defined as capability of children
      who are able to do things by themselves compatible to their age. For 2 to 3 years of age,
      children can climb up stair and down stair, can climb off the cot and can take off their
      cloth. For 3 to 5 years of age, children can eat by spoon, can take a shower, can brush their
      teeth and can ride a 3 wheel bike. For 5 to 6 years of age, children can get dressed with no
      button, can go to the toilet and can wear shoes without shoelaces. For 6 to 8 years of age,
      children can draw and write on the paper, can get dressed and do the button and can tie a
      shoelace. Children capability was classified as 3 categories which were full help, partial
      help and no help.

      Anesthesia related predictors were ASA classification, time of repeated GA, type of surgery,
      choice of GA, technique of GA, induction agents, intubation agents, inhalation agents, gas
      mixed with oxygen, narcotic and duration of anesthesia.

      Statistical analysis Analysis was performed with the R program version 2.14.1. Descriptive
      statistics was computed for all variables and include frequency, proportion, mean + standard
      deviation (SD) and median (interquartile range; IQR). Predictor variables were continuous or
      categorical data either originally or if categorical data, after categorizing by selection of
      suitable cut points.

      The growth developmental outcome eg; the current body weight, current height, percentile
      weight and percentile height including other continuous data such as age at index GA, the
      current age, weight and height at index GA, percentile weight and height at index, mother age
      at delivery, monthly family income, first meaning word, first walk, time of repeated GA,
      duration of anesthesia were analyzed by Student's t- test or non- parametric rank sum test as
      appropriate.

      Categorical data consisting of children and family profiles eg; gender, history of
      prematurity, history of parental smoking, religion, mother occupation, father occupation,
      mother education, father education, children education, training by parents, children
      capability; and anesthesia profiles eg; ASA (American Society of Anesthesiologist)
      classification, type of surgery, choice of GA, technique of GA, induction agents, intubation
      agents, inhalation agents, gas mixed with oxygen and narcotics were compared using the
      Chi-square test or Fisher 's exact test as appropriate.

      The IQ score was compared between desaturation and non-desaturation group using simple linear
      regression model. The other explanatory variables that may be related to IQ score, percentile
      weight and percentile height were analyzed using multiple linear regression models if showing
      some evidence of differing across outcome categories in univariate analysis (p ≤ 0.2). The
      magnitudes and precision of associations will be indicated by adjusted coefficient and their
      95% confidence intervals. In multivariate modeling techniques, association with outcome will
      be considered significant if the likelihood ratio p-values are ≤ 0.05.

      Sample size calculation The sample size calculation is based on comparison of an IQ score
      between desaturation group and non-desaturation group after receiving general anesthesia.
      According to National Thai Survey of 72,780 school children over 76 provinces in 2007-2008
      using the Standard Progressive Matrices (SPM parallel version; updated 2003)45, the average
      IQ score of Thai children is 98.59 whereas the average IQ score of southern Thai children is
      a bit lower (96.85). We assumed that 5 point difference in IQ score would have an impact to
      the intelligence outcome of school children (aged < 9 year old). Therefore, the sample size
      for testing hypothesis of a difference between 2 means based on the mean difference of IQ
      score of 5 and standard deviation of 12 would be 91 children per group under a power of 80%
      and type I error of 5% and 102 children per group would be required to compensate of 10% drop
      out under data collection.
    
  