
    
      Diabetes complicates 6-7% of pregnancies annually and approximately 85% of these cases are
      women diagnosed with gestational diabetes (GDM).1,2 The prevalence of GDM varies within
      populations based on obesity rates, maternal age and ethnicity. GDM is diagnosed during the
      third trimester through a two-step process of a 50-gram oral glucose challenge screen and a
      subsequent 100-gram oral glucose challenge test if the woman screens positive. Once the
      diagnosis is confirmed women are asked to monitor their glucose levels with finger sticks at
      least four times a day (fasting and post-prandial) and medication is added when glucose
      target goals cannot be reached by diet and exercise alone. Approximately, 15% of women will
      not reach glucose target goals with diet and exercise alone and will require medication.
      These women are then diagnosed with class A2 GDM by the White classification of diabetes.

      Identification of women with GDM who require treatment is essential in optimizing pregnancy
      outcomes for these women. Treatment of GDM results in lower neonatal morbidity, reduced
      incidence of large for gestational age infants (LGA), reduced incidence of preeclampsia and
      shoulder dystocia and a reduced need for cesarean delivery.3-5 Since LGA infants are at
      higher risk for hypoglycemia which may necessitate admission to the neonatal intensive care
      unit (NICU), treatment of GDM reduces the incidence of LGA infants resulting in less
      hypoglycemia and NICU admissions.

      Given that pregnancy outcomes are directly tied to blood glucose control, it is essential
      that women with GDM play an active role in the monitoring of their disease. The frequency of
      monitoring and frustration with diet can lead to issues with patient compliance and
      ultimately impact their pregnancy outcomes. One study found that just over half of women
      successfully tested their blood glucose via finger sticks ≥ 80% of the time. About 25% of the
      women in the same study had <90% of the values matching in their glucometer and their blood
      glucose log.6 Given these issues with compliance the need for a better and more convenient
      monitoring system is evident. Continuous glucose monitors (CGM) are a relatively new device
      that have yet to be fully explored for their utility in pregnancy. The current generation of
      CGM has had exponential growth in the clinical care of diabetes, driven primarily by the
      improved accuracy of these devices, longer duration sensor life (ranging from 7-14 days in
      currently available models), and the ability to collect these data without performing
      calibration of the sensors with fingerstick glucose readings. Continuous Glucose Monitoring
      in Women with Type 1 Diabetes in Pregnancy Trial (CONCEPTT), demonstrated the utility of CGM
      data to decrease the frequency of adverse neonatal outcomes in a pregestational diabetes
      population.7 A more recent trial of blinded CGM data in women with GDM showed mean sensor
      glucose was significantly higher in women who delivered LGA infants. The 24-hour mean glucose
      was different between groups in this study (112 mg/dL vs. 104 mg/dL, p=0.025), driven by
      higher overnight mean glucose levels (108 mg/dL vs. 99 mg/dL, p=0.005).8 Given that this is
      not a time that women with GDM would normally be monitoring their blood sugar it is evident
      that CGM may be useful, not only in increasing patient compliance by eliminating the need for
      measuring serum glucose via finger sticks and a glucometer four times a day but by allowing
      for monitoring of blood glucose levels at times that are not normally convenient for testing.
    
  