
    
      1. Background

           Quality assessment of acute stroke care is organized in regional stroke registries in
           Germany - for the federal state of Berlin in the Berlin Stroke Registry (BSR). The
           current documentation of the Berlin Stroke Registry is focused on the documentation of
           process quality in participating hospitals.

           So far, outcome quality is only assessed by surrogate parameters such as complications
           and mortality during in-hospital stay. However, according to consensus recommendations,
           disability-free survival versus death and dependency is the most important outcome
           measure after acute stroke. Because of the high variability of the clinical course after
           stroke, this outcome is generally assessed after three months by using the modified
           Rankin Scale (mRS).

        2. Motivation

           In early 2015, several published trials showed that mechanical thrombectomy improves the
           prognosis of ischemic stroke patients with acute large artery occlusion of proximal
           brain supplying arteries. Currently, this invasive catheter based treatment is not
           available in many hospitals with acute Stroke Unit. It is likely that the quality of
           technical procedures depends on the expertise and experience of treating
           interventionalists. Current studies suggest a close relationship between effectiveness
           of the approach and time to treatment, similar to intravenous thrombolysis. This time
           dependency makes prehospital triage more challenging because selection of the
           appropriate facility is likely to influence patient outcome.

           Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is less frequent than ischemic stroke but is associated
           with worse prognosis. Recent studies suggest that blood pressure lowering may improve
           prognosis if started during the hyperacute phase of ICH. With limited scientific
           evidence, many patients undergo neurosurgical intervention. It remains unclear whether
           delivery of hemorrhagic stroke patients to hospitals with neurosurgery leads to better
           outcome.

           Hence, pre-hospital care with delivery to more or less specialized clinical facilities
           may have a crucial impact for both subtypes of stroke. The introduction of specialized
           stroke ambulances (Stroke Emergency Mobiles, STEMOs) opens new avenues for pre-hospital
           stroke diagnosis, treatment and patient triage. The effects of STEMO care are planned to
           be assessed by the parallel B-PROUD-Study (NCT02869386).

        3. Purpose

           The B-SPATIAL-Registry will provide a tool of quality assessment for new specific
           treatments. It will also enable the participating hospitals to compare the quality of
           care of their own facility.

           Because this registry represents an quality monitoring initiative, the telephone
           follow-up is collected with an opt-out solution, allowing to decline participation after
           the patients are informed on the follow-up telephone call at discharge and through a
           letter send one month prior to the actual call. As written informed consent is not
           required, this method will facilitate a high follow-up rate particularly in patients
           with severe neurological deficits or treated in non-academic hospitals.

           In B-SPATIAL we want to identify key quality indicators that assure valid quality
           assessment despite reduced documentation load in future quality management.

           Specific Aims of the registry:

             -  Assessment of proportions of patients receiving specific treatments (based on total
                number of eligible)

             -  Evaluation of treatment specific indicators for process quality including
                pre-hospital care

             -  Evaluation of outcome quality (survival, level of disability and quality of life
                after 3 months)

           Pre-specified analyses:

           Ischemic stroke

             -  Intravenous hospital based tPA rate in treatment candidates

             -  Time to treatment in intravenous tPA

             -  Rate of secondary interhospital referral

             -  Proportions of patients receiving endovascular thrombectomy

             -  Time to groin puncture and reperfusion in patients with endovascular thrombectomy

             -  Proportions of used devices

             -  Proportions of patients with general/non general anesthesia (conscious sedation)

             -  Secondary intracranial hemorrhage

             -  Functional outcome according to mRS at 3 months

           Hemorrhagic stroke

             -  Time to start of intravenous antihypertensive treatment

             -  Time to start of PCC in patients with OAC or specific reversal of NOACs

             -  Rate of surgical treatments

             -  Rate of secondary interhospital referral

             -  Enlargement and final volume of ICH

             -  Functional outcome according to mRS at 3 months

           Data sources

           The documentation will include pre-hospital, in-hospital and post-discharge processes
           such as:

             -  Emergency medical service (EMS)

             -  Acute in-hospital stay

             -  Follow-up (first choice: telephone, second choice: written questionnaire, third
                choice: FU regarding vital status from registration offices)

        4. Patients

           In order to ensure valid analysis of treatment rates in participating hospitals,
           patients will be included according to the following inclusion criteria:

             -  Patients with hospital main discharge diagnoses according to ICD 10: Ischemic
                stroke (I63) or TIA (G45.0-G45.3 and G45.5-G45.9, respectively) and

                  -  Onset of symptoms within 6 hours of hospital arrival

                  -  In patients with TIA diagnosis: Persistent neurological symptoms at hospital
                     arrival (emergency department documentation)

             -  Patients with main discharge diagnosis of intracranial hemorrhage and hospital
                admission within 6 hours of stroke onset.

             -  Patients with other main discharge diagnoses and documented intravenous
                thrombolysis (OPS 8-020.8) in order to monitor the treatment rate of stroke mimics

        5. Data documentation

             -  Data will be entered in all participating hospitals via remote access to the
                databank

             -  Data will be entered with pseudonyms but identification will only be possible in
                local hospitals via register-logs that will be safely stored in the hospitals.

        6. Databank characteristics

             -  For data entry, we will use the REDcap databank software with access from all
                participating hospitals.

             -  Dedicated computers will be used and safely stored in participating hospitals.
                Encryption and password algorithms will protect the remote access to the databank.

             -  The registry databank will be stored and hosted on a protected server of the
                Charité IT department.

             -  For statistical evaluation, the REDcap databank will be exported in an SPSS-based
                data format, stored on the server of the Center for Stroke Research Berlin (CSB)
                with exclusive access by the researchers of the Clinical Epidemiology and Health
                Services Research in Stroke (CEHRiS) working group.

        7. Responsibilities

             -  Data entry: Study nurses in participating hospitals

             -  Databank in Charité IT-center: Charité IT department and databank manager of the
                Clinical Research Units

             -  Scientific evaluation: PI of CEHRIS (Dr. Bob Siegerink in cooperation with Heinrich
                J. Audebert, Martin Ebinger and Christian Nolte)
    
  