
    
      Rationale: Psychological health (PH) disorders continue to be the highest consumer of
      inpatient bed days and are in the top 10 diagnoses for Active Duty Service Members (ADSM)
      lost duty days and appointment utilization. Cognitive therapies (CT) are the evidence-based
      choice for PH conditions. Little is known about the cognitive contents of Military Identity
      (MI) and the potential for identifying specific cognitive vulnerabilities and resources
      common in ADSMs. Understanding the role of MI in common military PH conditions can inform the
      development of new military-specific clinical strategies for CTs.

      Study Objective: To validate findings from a pilot Military Identity (MI) study utilizing a
      self-schema model to determine core cognitive contents of MI and to explore relationships
      between MI and psychological well-being (PWB).

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: Describe the core cognitive content of MI in active duty service members.

      Aim 2: Examine the effect of MI on information processing response times.

      Aim 3: Explore the relationship between MI and self-perceived psychological well-being
      scores.

      Design: A descriptive cross-sectional mixed methods content analysis and a four-group
      information processing paradigm will be utilized to investigate a stratified sample of ADSMs
      across Joint Services (25% sample from each Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine).

      Methods: Open-Ended and Closed-Ended Identity Attribute Tasks will be used to explore MI
      content as well as a 60 attribute response time task along with a demographic questionnaire,
      Inclusion of In-group in Self Scale, and Ryff's PWB Scales. All measures will be collected
      via computerized software program developed by Harvard's Project Implicit.

      Dissemination of Results: Results from the study will be disseminated through publications,
      poster and/or podium presentations at professional annual conferences such as the American
      Psychological Association (APA), Military Health Systems Research Symposium, Association of
      Military Surgeons United States (AMSUS), and Tri-Service Nursing Research Program (TSNRP).
      Manuscripts will be submitted for publication to appropriate journals such as Military
      Psychology, Military Behavioral Health, and Military Medicine.
    
  