
    
      This study consists of two parts; in the first part, the translation and cross-cultural
      adaptation were undertaken, and in the second part, analyses of psychometric properties of
      OB-Quest Turkish were performed.

      Part I: Translation and cross-cultural adaptation

      The developers of the original questionnaire were contacted to seek their permission to
      translate the OB-Quest into Turkish and permission was obtained by the researchers via email.
      The five-stage translation-back translation method proposed by Beaton et al were used in the
      cross-cultural adaptation of the questionnaire (Beaton et al., 2000).

      The first stage included translation procedures, and two therapists translated the
      questionnaires' English form into Turkish. In the second stage, two translations were
      compared to avoid any discrepancy and converted a single text by the research team.
      Generally, OB-Quest has a simple and understandable sentence structure. Therefore, it did not
      require any cultural adaptation, simple arrangement was enough to provide clarity.
      Researchers arranged on the last two items. These items consisting of a single sentence were
      divided into two as 'example and question', to overcome the complexity of the questions and
      maintain the integrity of the meaning. After the corrections, researchers had an agreement on
      the Turkish version of OB-Quest. In the third stage, the back translation of the final text
      from Turkish to English was made by two native English speakers whose Turkish very well. In
      the fourth step, the researchers compared the original text with the last English form and
      produced the final version. The final stage covered the pilot study to get understanding
      items. After the translation process was completed, a pilot study was conducted with a group
      of 30 people. Participants approved the final version was appropriate and understandable. The
      participants in the pilot study did not include in the sample group.

      Part II Analysis of the psychometric properties of OB-Quest
    
  