
    
      Airway management is considered a cardinal aspect of anesthetic practice and of emergency and
      intensive care medicine. Endotracheal intubation is a simple, safe, rapid and nonsurgical
      method that achieves all the objectives of airway management which include maintaining a
      patent airway, lung protection from aspiration and allows leak free ventilation during
      mechanical ventilation. Even though endotracheal intubation isn't a complication free
      procedure, some of them life-threatening. It is important to anesthesiologists to be alert to
      these complications and to have an effective plan to avoid and manage these complications
      when they occur .

      If a clear airway can't be guaranteed, it can be fatal. In 1990, an analysis of
      anesthesia-related closed claims in the USA declared that respiratory system adverse outcomes
      were the lone largest class of injury and that the percentage of death or catastrophic brain
      insult associated with it was much higher than that associated with cardiovascular
      problems.Since then, it became a priority to decrease the serious adverse outcomes associated
      with airway management; major protocols for difficult airway management have been defined,
      developing new reliable airway devices, and adequate monitoring of ventilation by pulse
      oximetry and capnography have become a standard. Thanks to these efforts, the incidence of
      these serious adverse outcomes is likely to be reduced, and airway management can now be
      considered as a safe procedure.

      Endotracheal intubation is still the "gold standard" in airway management . If with using
      traditional techniques or video-assisted techniques which can be used when there is
      intubation failure or anticipated difficult airway. Video-assisted techniques may help to
      increase intubation success.

      Video-assisted techniques allow to indirectly visualize the laryngeal structures with fiber
      optical or camera chip technique and to show the video picture on an external or built-in
      monitor.

      Fiberoptic intubation has been considered for a long time the gold standard technique for
      intubation when there is anticipated or known difficult airway or as a rescue device in can't
      intubate but can ventilate scenarios . Fibreoptic intubation can be a hard skill to teach,
      gain and keep.In this context, closed claims analysis has declared severe complications such
      as catastrophic brain insult and death occurred with anticipated difficult airway management
      and awake intubation. Therefore, it is considerable to develop simple, dependable, safe, and
      effective intubation devices.
    
  