
    
      This is a prospective randomised controlled intervention study on obese human subjects with
      Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus undergoing obesity surgery (n=80). Patients will be recruited from
      those already due to undergo bariatric surgery within the context of the obesity clinic
      (Imperial College London). Patients will be randomised to either of two treatment protocols.

      Protocol A-Conservative Management: On admission to hospital all pre-operative oral
      antidiabetic agents and insulin are stopped and glucose monitoring is carried out every four
      hours at the same time as routine observations. Actrapid insulin is administered with glucose
      as per standard sliding scale (Appendix A). Just prior to discharge, total insulin
      administered over the previous 24 hour post-operative period is calculated. Based on the
      results of ward based glucose monitoring, post-operative patients can be divided in two broad
      categories.

      The first group includes patients who are able to maintain euglycaemia without exogenous
      insulin administration. These patients are discharged home on their preoperative Metformin
      dose and are advised to continue monitoring their fasting glucose levels at home. If fasting
      glucose levels of less than 4 or more than 10mmol/l are recorded at home, the patients are
      encouraged to contact the obesity clinic physicians for advice.

      The second group includes patients experiencing hyperglycemic episodes in the immediate
      post-operative period. These patients are discharged home on their preoperative Metformin
      dose and once daily insulin Glargine as decided by the discharging doctor (or based on half
      their last 24 hour requirements) and are advised to continue monitoring their fasting glucose
      levels at home. If fasting glucose levels of less than 4 or more than 10mmol/l are recorded
      at home, the patients are encouraged to contact the obesity clinic physicians for advice.

      Protocol B-Intensive management: On admission to hospital all pre-operative oral antidiabetic
      agents and insulin are stopped and glucose monitoring is carried out every four hours at the
      same time as routine observations. Actrapid insulin is administered as per standard sliding
      scales (appendix A). Just prior to discharge, total insulin administered over the previous 24
      hour post-operative period is calculated. Based on the results of ward based glucose
      monitoring patients are discharged home on metformin 1000mg BID and/or the equivalent amount
      of Glargine insulin requirement in previous 24 hours prior to discharge. These patients are
      also advised to continue glucose monitoring at home and will be contacted every day and their
      medication adjusted to maintain a fasting glucose between 5 and 7mmol/l. When this is
      consistently achieved the investigators will stop calling, but patients will be encouraged to
      continue monitoring their blood sugars and contact the investigators should they experience
      any problems with their glycaemic control.

      Venesection will take place at 10 days, 3, 6 and 12 months post-operatively and yearly
      thereafter for fasting glucose and HbA1c as part of the routine care of patients of the
      obesity clinic. As part of clinical management we will ensure that all patients with diabetes
      will have a kidney (2 samples of morning urine albumin creatinine ratio), nerve (nerve
      conduction study, including thermal threshold testing) and eye (retinal photograph) tests
      once before and within 1, 2 and 3 years after surgery. These tests are all non invasive and
      except from the nerve tests are performed routinely for all patients with diabetes at least
      yearly and if performed in the community they will not be repeated.Therefore, other than the
      nerve conduction studies, there will be no extra burden to the patients as a result of the
      study.
    
  