
    
      There were nearly 12 million admissions to US jails in 2012. Jailed individuals face a
      disproportionate risk for suicide. The time of arrest and jail detention represents an acute
      stressor that further exacerbates this risk. The epidemic of suicide during jail detention
      has been recognized. However, less attention has been paid to the high suicide risk and
      mortality in the months following jail release, as individuals re-enter their communities,
      are faced with financial, legal, and social stressors, and have increased access to lethal
      means (e.g., drugs, cars, firearms). Given that roughly 10% of all suicides in the U.S. with
      known circumstances occur following a recent criminal legal stressor (often arrest and jail
      detention), reducing suicide risk in the year after jail detention could have a noticeable
      impact on national suicide rates. Unlike prison, where individuals have already been
      sentenced and typically stay from months to years, most pretrial jail detainees are released
      within days. Therefore, brief interventions are required. Stanley and Brown's Safety Planning
      Intervention (SPI) is a brief, adjunctive suicide risk reduction intervention developed for
      suicidal patients presenting to urgent care settings. SPI incorporates evidence-based suicide
      risk reduction strategies in a low intensity, low cost intervention that can be delivered by
      a broad range of clinicians, making it scalable in the mental health resource-poor justice
      system. SPI reduces subsequent suicidal ideation and attempts among at-risk individuals in
      emergency rooms. However, there is no previous test of this intervention (or any other) for
      reducing suicidality following jail release. This RCT evaluates the effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of SPI for reducing suicide events (attempts, suicide behaviors, and
      suicide-related hospitalizations and emergency department visits) and attempts among 800
      suicidal pretrial jail detainees from two jails in the year following jail release. It
      assesses critical mechanisms of suicide reduction in our target population: treatment
      utilization, suicide-related problem-solving, and belongingness. SPI will consist of safety
      planning during jail detention and follow-up phone sessions after jail release. Research with
      previously incarcerated individuals and with suicidal individuals in the community has shown
      that telephone follow-up intervention is feasible and powerful in building trust and reducing
      risk among these disenfranchised, isolated populations. This study will be the first
      randomized evaluation of a suicide prevention intervention in the vulnerable year after jail
      release. Beyond the human suffering and costs at an individual level, suicidal behavior
      incurs high economic costs in terms of health care costs and lost productivity. Jails are a
      catchment area for at-risk individuals at a time of high life stress and high suicide risk,
      providing an important opportunity for suicide prevention intervention, one that is currently
      being missed. This study will provide the data on costs and cost-adjusted outcomes that
      systems need to make informed decisions about adoption, speeding implementation. Thus, this
      study will contribute to knowledge about both mechanisms of action and system-level
      intervention effects.
    
  