
    
      Single arm, prospective unblinded study on post Watchman LAA closure device implant
      anti-coagulation management at a primary center (Vanderbilt Medical Center) and up to 5
      additional high volume LAA implant centers. This trial will be designed to evaluate the use
      of dabigatran for 90 days post implantation of an LAA closure device (Watchman LAA Closure
      Device, Boston Scientific Inc.).

      The drug will be initiated on the morning following device implantation, taken BID per
      package insert dosing and until follow-up 90-day post implant TEE. Aspirin monotherapy will
      be utilized in conjunction at 81 mg for up to 12 months, after which the patients will be
      exited from the study and further treatment decisions will be made by the following physician
      (see Schedule of Study Procedures at end of protocol). The objective of this trial is to
      evaluate safety and efficacy of a 90-day period of dabigatran etexilate following LAA closure
      to prevent device associated thrombus, while minimizing adverse bleeding by eliminating the
      need for clopidogrel.

      This is a single arm pilot study with the option (pending collaboration with additional
      funding source) to expand to a full single arm non-inferiority trial design with 80% power to
      detect a 1.4% difference with the non-inferiority margin 1% in absolute rate of DAT (control
      rate 3.9%).

      Prospective, non-randomized single arm study. Comparison will be made to historical controls
      based on published one year DAT rates from PROTECT-AF, PREVAIL clinical trials, and
      EWOLUTION, and ACP/Amulet registries.

      Echocardiography (TEE) will be performed at 90 days (3 months, +/- 2-week window), and again
      at 1-year post implant (+/- 4 weeks). Selected images will be interpreted by echo lab at
      coordinating center in an anonymous fashion (patient data de-identified). Ideal imaging will
      incorporate 0, 45, 90 and 135 degree angled views on the device at follow up.

      Drug will be dispensed as part of the clinical trial supplied from the sponsor and each
      patient will receive a complete 90 days' supply up front. They will have a drug visit on the
      day of TEE with the research coordinator to hand back any remaining dabigatran, with clear
      instruction to stop the drug and only take ASA following confirmation of closure on TEE (no
      peri-device leak on Doppler of >5mm). A decision to continue anti-coagulation post closure
      90day TEE will be made by the physician discretion based on TEE findings. If thrombus is
      found at the 90 days TEE, anti-coagulation may be extended another 6 weeks with repeat TEE
      imaging to confirm clot resolution at the discretion of the investigator. In the unlikely
      event of embolization or Doppler leak >5mm, decision on extending anti-coagulation, or
      re-implanting a device will be made by the following physician.

      Additional baseline data collection: Patient demographics, medical history, age, sex, and
      prior use of anti-coagulants or anti-platelet medications will be collected. CHADS 2 Vasc,
      and HAS-BLED score calculated. Main indication for LAA closure must be documented. Baseline
      CBC and BMP required on day of implant or up to 1 week pre-procedure (typical standard of
      care labs at time of implant). This will include a recent calculation of Creatinine Clearance
      (using Cockroft Gault and using patients actual body weight) and dosing of study drug will be
      made in accordance (see below). Repeat PCV or hematocrit on the morning after Watchman LAAC
      implantation will be per hospital standard. PCV or hematocrit value pre-implant and at the
      post 90-day visit will be analyzed.

      Calculation for dabigatran dosing:

      CCr={ (l40-age) x weight in kg)/(72 x SCr) } x 0.85 (if female)

      Implant procedure variables to collect include access site, sheath used for deployment (WAS),
      device size at implant and number of implant attempts. LA pressure mean if available.
      Presence of angiography contrast or Doppler Echo leak, thrombus, or pericardial effusion post
      implant will be recorded. At 90 days, TEE report findings and image review (standard of care)
      with drug dosing visit with research coordinator and return of any remaining study drug.

      1 year TEE (standard of care) with a research exit visit with MD, physician extender, or
      research coordinator, with documentation of ASA tolerance, dosing, and any late bleeding
      episodes or hospitalizations (typically should be reported as AE/SAE when first knowledge of
      event is determined). TEE images will be sent to the primary study site (Vanderbilt
      University Medical Center) and core TEE lab will review to confirm presence or absence of
      DAT. In cases of CTA utilized for follow up, similarly images will be reviewed by chest
      radiology team at Vanderbilt.

      Medication administration with 90 days of dabigatran to be dispensed by pharmacy ideally one
      time (180 capsules).
    
  