
    
      There are roughly 15 million cancer survivors in the US, comprising 4% of the populace. The
      number of cancer survivors is skyrocketing due to a confluence of the following factors: 1)
      Americans are aging; 2) cancer is an age-related disease (>60% of cancer survivors are age
      65+); and 3) improvements in early detection and treatment have resulted in many common
      cancers having 5-year cure rates that surpass 90%. Rising numbers of cancer survivors is good
      news, but over $130 billion annually is needed to address subjects long-term health and
      psychosocial needs.113 Compared to others, cancer survivors are at higher risk for other
      cancers, CVD, osteoporosis, and diabetes. Accelerated functional decline also is a major
      problem for cancer survivors, especially those who are older. Baker et al. found that
      compared to age-matched controls, cancer cases (n=45,494) had significantly lower physical
      and social functioning, vitality, mental health, and HRQoL (p<0.001). Results of others are
      similar and suggest that cancer survivors face functional decline that threatens subject
      ability to live independently, posing a burden to themselves, subject families and the health
      care system. Programs exist in land grant universities in all 50 United States. Certified MGs
      complete > 100 hrs. of training and community service (CS) and 25 hrs./year of CS to maintain
      active status. In surveying 184 MGs in AL, the investigators found that 71% were "extremely
      interested" in mentoring a cancer survivor on vegetable gardening for subject CS, and an
      extra 26% stated that "they were interested and wanted to learn more." Thus, the project is
      of great interest and builds on an extant infrastructure for sustainability. Ultimately, this
      intervention could be disseminated to states with 3 growing seasons and adapted to colder
      weather in those with 2 growing seasons (36 states where 10.8 million older cancer survivors
      reside). The intervention also could be adapted for persons with other chronic diseases in
      which physical functioning and lifestyle behaviors are key. Finally, this project is
      significant because the intervention has great potential for sustainability since gardening:
      (a) involves many activities which prevent burn-out common with other forms of exercise, and
      allows participants to pursue PA outdoors which is related to greater enjoyment; (b) provides
      a sense of achievement and zest for life that come from nurturing and observing new life and
      growth; and (c) imparts natural prompts since plants require regular care (watering) and
      attention (harvesting) and serve as continual and dynamic behavioral cues.
    
  