
    
      Aim#1: Evaluate the effect of TRE with ad libitum intake on weight and body composition.

      H 1.1: Individuals in the TRE and CR groups will have similar weight loss, which will be
      greater than weight loss achieved in the non-TRE group (primary outcome).

      H 1.2: TRE will result in greater loss of loss of total body fat (quantified by DXA) and
      greater loss of hepatic/visceral fat/ectopic fat (quantified by MRI) than CR.

      Aim#2: Assess the effect of TRE with ad libitum intake on caloric balance. H 2.1: TRE will
      reduce caloric intake compared with non-TRE [gold-standard interviewer administered 24-hour
      dietary recall (primary outcome)] with similar reduction as with CR, H.2.2: Compared with
      non-TRE, TRE will result in selection of more nutrient dense foods during a supervised meal
      within their eating window; this selection will be similar to CR. H 2.3 TRE will not alter
      physical activity, but will increase fat oxidation compared with CR and non-TRE.

      Aim#3: Assess the effect of TRE with ad libitum intake on metabolic flexibility.

      H 3.1: TRE will enhance metabolic flexibility compared with CR and non-TRE as measured by
      indirect calorimetry [RQ:Respiratory quotient before and during 2 step 6,6-2H2
      hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp: primary outcome].

      H 3.2: TRE will improve insulin sensitivity compared with non-TRE and similar to CR.

      H 3.3: TRE will augment greater fasting lipolysis compared to CR and non-TRE as measured by
      [U-13C] palmitate and enhance lipolysis suppression during the 2 step 6,6-2H2
      hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp.

      If these hypotheses are confirmed, this project has significant impact. First, it will
      advance understanding of the mechanisms underpinning this innovative intervention. Second,
      TRE can be a practical means of implementing prolonged fasting on a large scale, thereby
      transforming the treatment of obesity.
    
  