
    
      This is a nonrandomized, open label phase Ib/II study evaluating the safety and efficacy of
      eribulin in combination with PLX3397, a novel CSF1 inhibitor, in patients with metastatic
      breast cancer. The phase II portion of this trial will be limited to patients with triple
      negative disease.

      The phase I portion of this trial is a dose escalation of PLX3397 to determine the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) of PLX3397 when given in combination with standard dose eribulin.
      Patients will be enrolled in cohorts of three, using the dose levels and plan outlined in the
      statistical section, with 6 patients enrolled at the MTD. All patients with accessible tumor
      will be required to have a tumor biopsy at study start before starting therapy.
      Pharmacokinetics of PLX3397 and eribulin, and blood levels of CSF1 will be obtained as
      outlined in section 14. To allow rapid accrual to phase Ib, and an earlier start to the phase
      II trial, patients will be enrolled in phase I with both hormone receptor positive and
      negative disease, and at any line of therapy assuming eligibility criteria are otherwise met.

      Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) will be defined as any treatment-related toxicity meeting the
      criteria below and occurring within the first 21 days of combination therapy. Patients must
      receive at least 14 days of PLX3397 and 2 doses of eribulin during the first cycle in order
      to be considered evaluable for DLT (unless the missed doses are due to a DLT).

      Patients in each cohort will be followed for at least 3 weeks (one full cycle) before opening
      accrual to the next dose level. If one patient in any cohort develops a DLT, an additional 3
      patients will be enrolled at that level. If no additional toxicities occur in the six
      patients, then this particular dose would be used for the phase II trial, and the next higher
      dose would be considered the MTD. A minimum of 12 and maximum of 24 patients will be enrolled
      in the phase I study. The phase II trial will not open until the last patient in the phase I
      study has been followed for at least 3 weeks.

      The phase II portion of this trial will evaluate progression free survival (PFS) in patients
      with Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) treated with PLX3397 and eribulin, using the dose
      of PLX3397 determined in the phase Ib study in a two-step design. Please see the statistical
      section for details regarding enrollment and statistical design. Treatment is preceded by a 5
      to 7 day lead-in phase, in which patients will take PLX3397 alone daily. Patients with
      accessible tumor will undergo a core biopsy of tumor before the start of PLX3397 treatment,
      and then a fine needle aspiration or core biopsy will be performed on the day of or the day
      before the start of eribulin (day -1 to day 0).
    
  