
    
      Combination of atezolizumab, an immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI), and bevacizumab, an
      anti-angiogenic antibody, has shown promising anti-tumor activity and good safety profile in
      patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and good liver function reserves
      (Child-Pugh class A). Currently all trials of ICI-based therapy for HCC enrolled only
      patients with very low HBV viral loads if they had chronic HBV infection because of the
      concern of the risk of HBV reactivation on the severity and management of liver-related
      adverse events, particularly immune-related hepatitis.

      The investigators hypothesize that in patients with advanced HCC, chronic HBV infection, and
      adequate liver function reserves, the safety profile of ICI-based therapy should be similar
      to those in other patient populations as long as prophylactic anti-HBV treatment is given,
      regardless the baseline HBV viral load. This is because in patients with patients with
      lymphoma and chronic HBV infection, who have the highest risk of HBV reactivation after
      cytotoxic or immunosuppressive therapy, no HBV-related complications of clinical significance
      were noted as long as prophylactic anti-HBV treatment started before the administration of
      cytotoxic or immunosuppressive therapy.

      This is a single-arm clinical trial. Key eligibility criteria will include the following:
      histologically proven, locally advanced or metastatic and/or unresectable HCC that is not
      amenable to curative surgical and/or locoregional therapies; no prior systemic therapy for
      HCC; documented chronic HBV infection with HBV DNA > 2000 IU/mL obtained within 28 days prior
      to initiation of study treatment; at least one measurable (per RECIST 1.1) lesion; ECOG
      Performance Status of 0 or 1; and Child-Pugh class A.

      All eligible patients will receive atezolizumab 1200 mg IV plus bevacizumab 15 mg/kg IV on
      day 1 every 3 weeks. Study treatment will continue until documented tumor progression or
      occurrence of unacceptable toxicity. All eligible subjects will receive anti-HBV treatment
      (per local standard of care; e.g., entecavir) prior to start of study treatment and continue
      anti-HBV treatment for the length of the study. The primary endpoint is overall response rate
      defined as a complete or partial response, as determined by the investigator according to
      RECIST v1.1. The secondary endpoints will include safety measures (e.g., the proportion of
      subjects with ≥ grade 3 liver-related adverse events (AE) (according to NCI CTCAE v5.0),
      incidence and severity of all adverse events/ immune-related adverse events, incidence of HBV
      reactivation/ HBV-related hepatitis flare) and efficacy measures (e.g., objective response
      rate, progression-free survival, duration of response, and overall survival). This study plan
      to enroll 48 evaluable subjects, defined as subjects who receive 3 cycles of study treatment
      and the first image evaluation for tumor response. The estimated time of enrollment will be 2
      years.
    
  