
    
      This study consists of the following three phases: baseline visit, surgical procedure, and
      restoration sessions.

      At the baseline visit, participants will undergo a medical history review, physical and
      neurological examination, functional assessment of motor and sensory capabilities, a
      functional magnetic resonance image (fMRI), diffusion tensor image (DTI), and a neuromuscular
      stimulation test.

      Participants deemed eligible for continued participation will then undergo a craniotomy under
      anesthetic sedation to implant the investigational device. The surgeon will implant
      microelectrode arrays into the primary motor cortex to record neural activity associated with
      desired movements and into the primary somatosensory cortex to deliver stimulation in order
      to provide sensory perception.

      While in surgical recovery, participants will have their vital signs monitored, be provided
      pain medication and antibiotics, and undergo a computed tomography (CT). The participants may
      also undergo electromyography and microneurography while in recovery. After being evaluated
      by a physician, the participants will be discharged from the hospital to continue their
      recovery.

      After fully recovering, participants will attend restoration sessions at the Feinstein
      Institute for Medical Research's Center for Bioelectronic Medicine. Participants will attend
      up to 3 study sessions a week for approximately 12 months, with each session lasting up to 4
      hours. The sessions will progressively focus on identifying neural activity related to
      desired movements, restoring volitional control of the hand and wrist, restoring tactile
      perception, and then restoring volitional control and tactile perception of the hand and
      wrist simultaneously.

      The study will be considered complete after completion of enrollment (up to 3 participants),
      completion of study procedures by all participants, and the completion of analysis of
      identifiable study data.
    
  