
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Prostate cancer is the most common non-cutaneous malignancy among men in the western
           world. Prognostic biomarkers would be useful in stratifying patients to different
           treatments.

        -  The expression of a testosterone membrane transporter, organic anion-transporting
           polypeptide 1B3 (OATP1B3), is associated with shorter time to progression after hormonal
           ablation therapy and shorter overall survival in prostate cancer patients. 52% of
           localized prostate cancer lesions express OATP1B3, while 92% of prostate cancer
           metastases requiring hormonal ablation treatment, express OATP1B3 in soft tissue
           lesions. Expression of OATP1B3 also correlates with Gleason grade.

        -  Current imaging methods cannot predict treatment failure or resistance.

        -  Gadoxetate disodium (Gd-EOB-DTPA) (Eovist , Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc.
           Pittsburgh, PA) is an MR imaging agent which is FDA-approved gadolinium chelate for
           detecting hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), as normal hepatocytes express OATP1B3 while
           most hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) do not. However, those HCCs that do take up Eovist
           have been shown to express OATP1B3.

        -  Eovist may be useful to evaluate OATP1B3 status in patients with prostate cancer and may
           therefore serve as a prognostic and treatment biomarker.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      -Evaluate the uptake and retention of Eovist in prostate cancers.

      ELIGIBILTY:

        -  Male subjects greater than or equal to 18 years old

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance score of 0 to 2

        -  Subjects with clinically localized prostate cancer must have image guided biopsy
           confirmed prostate cancer and sufficient tissue available for OATP1B3
           immunohistochemistry (IHC).

        -  Subjects with advanced disease who have failed hormone therapy and who have sufficient
           tissue from a soft tissue or metastatic bone lesion (measuring greater than or equal
           to1.5cm in diameter at computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
           scan) available for OATP1B3 IHC.

      or

      -Subjects, for whom tissue is not available, must have a soft tissue or metastatic bone
      lesion that can be biopsied and be willing to undergo percutaneous biopsy to obtain tissue
      for OATP1B3 expression.

      DESIGN:

        -  This pilot study will accrue 25 subjects divided into two arms: 10 evaluable subjects
           with localized prostate cancer and 15 evaluable subjects with advanced disease

        -  Each subject will receive a single intravenous (IV) dose of Eovist by bolus injection

        -  All subjects will undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) prior to and immediately
           after, 10, 20 and 60 minutes post-Eovist injection
    
  