
    
      1. Specific Aims /Objectives Specific Aim 1: To determine if Edi is a predictor of
           extubation readiness. (Hypothesis: an increase of 20-50% in Edi from baseline (prior to
           ERT) will predict successful extubation.) Specific Aim 2: If the patient fails the ERT -
           We hope to determine if NAVA will provide more information about why the patient failed
           the ERT. (Hypothesis: a decrease in peak inspiratory pressure from baseline (post ERT
           failure) is predictive of high frequency diaphragm fatigue and subsequent successful
           ERT.

        2. Background and Significance The diaphragmatic function plays a pivotal role in the
           patient's ability to breathe on a ventilator, and on the successfulness of weaning from
           a ventilator and extubation. However, diaphragmatic function is not routinely measured
           in the ICU, which we would like to do in this trial.

           When the mechanical load of the respiratory system is too large or continues for a long
           period of time, the diaphragm can develop contractile fatigue[1]. This fatigue can be
           short or long term. Short term is also known as high-frequency fatigue that results from
           the accumulation of inorganic phosphate[2][3], and to a lesser extent intramuscular
           acidosis[4]. On the other hand long term fatigue, otherwise known as low-frequency
           fatigue is consistent with muscle injury[5, 6] and can persist for days. Being able to
           identify what type of diaphragm fatigue is present could help us understand the
           patient's readiness to be extubated.

           Despite the frequent use of mechanical ventilation, determining when to appropriately
           discontinue mechanical ventilation and extubate a patient remains a challenge. Many
           weaning protocols exist but are typically extrapolated from adult studies. These
           protocols can consist of but are not limited to use sprint weaning utilizing a T-piece
           (no support, just oxygen), continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or pressure
           support (PSV) trail. Usually, data is gathered through spirometry with a ventilator
           (shallow breathing index, tidal volumes, etc.) and vital signs are recorded [7, 8].
           Despite the use of protocols extubation failure range from 15-24% (Randolph) in the
           pediatric population.

           Investigators have explored physiological evidence of improving lung function to help
           determine the appropriate time to discontinue mechanical ventilation. One notable effort
           by Hubble et al was to obtain dead space to tidal volume ratio (Vd/Vt) to determine
           extubation success after a 30 minute PSV trail prior to extubation[9]. They concluded
           that a Vd/Vt ratio of less than or equal to 0.5 reliably predicted successful extubation
           (96%). However, this only provides one part of the equation - lung function- but not
           necessarily the central nervous system interaction or the work of breathing associated.

           Currently, the MSICU uses an extubation readiness test (ERT). This test determines if
           patients are eligible for discontinuation of mechanical ventilation. This test consist
           of a daily screen of changing the FIO2 (fraction of inspired oxygen) to 50% (left at
           current setting if lower than 50%) and decrease the PEEP to 5 cmH2O. Patients unable to
           maintain saturation (SpO2) of 95%, or become tachypneic, or appear uncomfortable failed
           the test; those who maintained SpO2 of 95% or higher have their mode of ventilation
           changed to minimal pressure support (PSV). Minimal PSV was determined by the
           endotracheal tube (ETT) size. Patients were classified as failing the test if at any
           time in the two hour period their SpO2 was less than 95%, their exhaled tidal volume was
           less than 5 mL/kg ideal body weight, or their respiratory rate was outside of the
           acceptable range for age. If the patient fails an ERT they are returned to their
           previous ventilator setting and evaluated for extubation readiness in 24 hours. It is
           understood that sedation is one of the primary caused of extubation failure, however
           there is additional concern regarding the diaphragmatic function. When the mechanical
           load of the respiratory system is too large or continues for a long period of time, the
           diaphragm can develop contractile fatigue[4]. This fatigue can be short or long term.
           Short term is also known as high-frequency fatigue that results from the accumulation of
           inorganic phosphate[5], failure of the membrane electrical potential[6], and to a lesser
           extent intramuscular acidosis[7], but recover quickly. On the other hand long term
           fatigue, otherwise known as low-frequency fatigue is consistent with muscle injury [8,
           9] and can persist for days. Being able to identify what type of diaphragm fatigue could
           lead us to hold on extubation readiness testing as to not re-injury.

           When patients are extubated too early, respiratory failure can occur [10, 11]. When
           extubation is delayed, lengths of time on mechanical ventilation and in the ICU stay
           both increases. This leads to additional respiratory complications such as ventilator
           associated pneumonia and overall lung damage[12]. Thus, the decision to extubate should
           be made on the basis of accurate, objective and reproducible criteria. The diaphragmatic
           activity is likely one of those criteria that are not yet measured. We aim to add some
           additional information to this body of knowledge that may link the respiratory pump
           (diaphragm) to lung function, muscle fatigue, and/or central nervous system depression.

        3. Preliminary Studies/Progress Report To our knowledge there is not previous data
           determining if Edi can predict extubation success. However, there are a few limited
           studies on low and high-frequency diaphragm fatigue in adults and animals. Dr. Laghi and
           colleagues carefully examined 11 who failed extubation and eight adults whom
           successfully weaned from mechanical ventilation. They concluded that weaning itself did
           not cause low-frequency fatigue [13]. While Edi was examined in six health adults at
           high frequency fatigue levels. Edi was found to successfully assess neural drive and
           that diaphragm fatigue did not affect respiratory drive.

           Limits to the studies mentioned above that we plan to address are: none were done in
           children with highly resistive endotracheal tubes, length of mechanical ventilation was
           not examined (low vs. high frequency diaphragm fatigue risk), there was no formal ERT,
           and examination of low and high frequency diaphragm fatigue in the same patient
           population was not done.

        4. Design and Methods a. Study Design In a prospective, blinded (Edi information blinded to
           the team) clinical trail we will study the diaphragmatic activity that occur prior and
           following our standard extubation readiness test (minimum pressure support trial). We
           will examine that diaphragmatic activity by examining the Edi prior to, during, and post
           the trial on every patient who qualifies. Furthermore, patients who fail ERT will be
           ventilated with the NAVA mode of ventilation. The entire protocol will be conducted on
           the Maquet Servo I ventilator
    
  