
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of flavopiridol (alvocidib) in combination
      with lenalidomide in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell chronic lymphocytic
      leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL).

      II. To define the specific toxicities and the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of flavopiridol in
      combination with lenalidomide in the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory
      CLL/SLL.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess preliminary efficacy of flavopiridol combined with lenalidomide in patients with
      relapsed/refractory CLL/SLL to justify future, rigorous phase II studies of the combination
      in CLL.

      II. To determine the pharmacokinetics of flavopiridol and lenalidomide alone and in
      combination in patients with CLL/SLL.

      III. To correlate select pre-treatment prognostic markers, including interphase cytogenetics
      with minimal residual disease, progression-free survival, response, and toxicity following
      combination therapy with flavopiridol and lenalidomide.

      IV. To determine patient cytokine expression profiles immediately pre-treatment, after
      flavopiridol dosing, and after combination flavopiridol and lenalidomide therapy to assess
      the impact of lenalidomide on flavopiridol induced cytokine release (interleukin [IL]-6).

      V. To assess if pre-treatment ex vivo and in vivo (day 1 and day 3 of lenalidomide) immune
      (B-cell, natural killer [NK] cell, and T-cell) activation correlates with response and
      toxicity of lenalidomide therapy.

      VI. To assess the in vivo effect of lenalidomide on flavopiridol on the modulation of
      selected intracellular pharmacodynamic targets including signal transducer and activator of
      transcription 3 (acute-phase response factor) (STAT3), myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1
      (BCL2-related) (Mcl-1), and other downstream IL-6 targets.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

      Patients receive alvocidib intravenously (IV) over 4.5 hours on days 1, 8, and 15 in course 1
      followed by a week of rest. Beginning in course 2 and all subsequent courses, patients
      receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and alvocidib IV over 4.5 hours
      on days 3, 10, and 17. Treatment repeats every 35 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  