
    
      Study Overview. This study will evaluate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of 8 sessions of
      in-home, group-based, culturally-modified, manualized diabetes-modified, behavioral
      activation treatment (Home DM-BAT) delivered by trained diabetes nurse educators among low
      income, ethnic minority seniors (age ?65 years of age) with poorly controlled T2DM (HbA1c
      ?8%), living in independent senior housing in Milwaukee using a cluster-randomized design.
      Thirty (30) senior housing sites will be randomized to Home DM-BAT (n=15) or the control
      condition (in-home, group-based supportive therapy -ST) (n=15) to control for attention. Each
      senior housing site (cluster) will have a group of 10 seniors each for a total sample size of
      300 seniors (150 in intervention and 150 in control groups). The intervention includes 8
      weekly intervention sessions and 10 monthly booster sessions. The group sessions will last
      two (2) hours. Study assessments will be performed by blinded research assistants at
      baseline, 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-months of follow-up. Primary analyses will be conducted at 12
      months post-randomization. Aim 1 will test the efficacy of Home DM-BAT on clinical outcomes
      (hemoglobin A1c, blood pressure, and LDL-Cholesterol). Aim 2 will test the efficacy of Home
      DM-BAT on behavioral outcomes (home blood glucose monitoring, diet, exercise and medication
      adherence) and quality of life. Aim 3 will determine the cost-effectiveness of Home DM-BAT
      intervention for diabetes.

      This study will apply strict principles of randomized clinical trials including
      randomization, blinding, careful tracking of all participants and intent-to-treat analyses to
      ensure robust and unbiased results. In addition, the study will be registered in
      clinicaltrials.gov and deidentified individual-patient data underlying the results of the
      study will be housed in a depository that will be made available to other researchers within
      6 months of study completion to ensure reproducibility.

      Patient Randomization: A permuted block randomization method will be used to assign subjects
      to one of the two intervention groups: (a) Home DM-BAT intervention; and (b) Control
      (GHE/ST). Block size will be varied to minimize the likelihood that the blind will be broken.
      The randomization will be stratified by senior housing type (independent senior housing,
      senior centers, and subsidized senior housing centers) and baseline HbA1c levels (8-10% vs.
      >10%). Using REDCap, RAs will collect eligibility information and enter the information into
      the study database via the secured study website. Once eligibility is confirmed, the computer
      will generate the intervention assignment based on the pre-programmed randomization scheme.
      All subjects who are randomized will be entered into the study database and analyzed
      according to CONSORT guidelines (Altman 2001).

      Avoiding Contamination: There are two strategies to avoid contamination. The first strategy
      is the cluster randomized design, which ensures that participants from the same senior
      housing site are randomized to the same intervention. The second strategy is to use the same
      nurse educator to deliver the Home DM-BAT intervention to active intervention sites and the
      same nurse educator to deliver the GHE/ST intervention to the control sites. The
      investigators have used this approach successfully in a prior RCT (R01DK081121, PI: Egede).

      Description of the Home DM-BAT Intervention: A trained nurse educator will deliver the
      manualized Home DM-BAT intervention in a group setting. Subjects will receive 8?weekly
      sessions of behavioral activation and monthly booster sessions from months 3-12. Home DM-BAT
      is extremely suitable to standard diabetes management approaches because it targets important
      diabetes management behaviors (medication taking, physical activity, health eating, and
      self-monitoring of glucose and BP). Moreover, Home DM-BAT specifically attempts to
      incorporate contingencies of environmental reinforcement for positive health behaviors, with
      a focus on medication adherence and other diabetes specific healthy behaviors including
      physical activity, healthy eating, abstinence from smoking, and involvement in pleasurable
      activities that the patient chooses, such as spending time with friends, spirituality, or
      volunteer work. These supplemental activities are directed at improving overall emotional
      well-being. All intervention sessions will be held at the senior sites on a Saturday morning
      that does not interfere with previously scheduled activities. Each group session will last
      120 minutes and will include 30 minutes for opening/icebreaker and group interaction, 30
      minutes for a previously tested diabetes education/skills training intervention based on ADA
      guidelines, 30 minutes for diabetes-tailored behavioral activation, and 30 minutes to address
      social determinant of health issues, provide support, accountability and closing. The
      investigators have piloted the Home DM-BAT intervention as noted in the preliminary studies
      section.

      Control Group (GHE+ST): Patients randomized to the control group will receive group-based
      in-home 8?weekly sessions of combined general health education (GHE) and supportive therapy
      (ST) and monthly booster sessions from months 3-12. Given that this is an effectiveness
      trial, the control group was designed to match the intervention group for both content and
      attention. The GHE component matches the diabetes education component of Home DM-BAT and ST
      component matches the behavioral activation component of Home DM-BAT. In addition, delivering
      GHE/ST to the control group will reduce attrition, maintain blinding, and maintain community
      trust. The control group will not receive diabetes education, address social determinants of
      health, or behavioral activation. The investigators have used the GHE+ST modules successfully
      in prior RCTs.
    
  