
    
      According to different theories and empirical research, attention control for external
      information and cognitive control for internal information play a causal role in cognitive
      emotion regulation ability, a critically important factor in determining resilience. Recent
      studies regarding the more specific interplay among these mechanisms in depression highlight
      the importance of considering attention control in treating impaired emotion regulation
      processes. These studies tested an interactive attention control training, in which people
      learned to disentangle scrambled sentences ("life is my party a mess") in a positive way ("my
      life is a party") by receiving eye tracking-based feedback on attention for positive
      ("party") vs. negative information ("mess"). Results indicated that participants were better
      able to reinterpret negative pictures in a positive way. Moreover, reactive attentional and
      cognitive control (i.e., when actually being confronted with a challenging task or stressor)
      seem to be influenced by perceived control or expectancy regarding the ability to cope with
      future stressors (i.e., in anticipation of a challenging task or stressor). More
      specifically, low perceived control and negative expectation bias with respect to future
      emotion regulation ability have been shown to result in an increased need for actual control
      and decreased emotion regulation abilities when actually being confronted with stressors.
      Based on these findings, it could be assumed that the effects of attention control training -
      targeting actual controlled emotion regulation processes - may be improved by adding
      techniques that influence perceived control/expectancy of emotion regulation ability (e.g.,
      psychoeducation).

      In the current study, the investigators aim to investigate whether a mouse-gaze based variant
      of the eye-gaze contingent attention training could be a promising intervention for relapse
      prevention in people vulnerable to depression. More specifically, the main aim is to explore
      whether a computer-delivered attention control training can improve depressive symptoms and
      cognitive emotion regulation ability (e.g., reappraisal ability), thereby increasing
      resilience in the face of stress, in a RMD (remitted depressed) sample. In addition, it will
      be explored whether prior psychoeducation may increase this effect.

      In each condition, a computer training, consisting of 10 sessions of about 12 minutes each,
      will be administered to remitted depressed participants. The experimental condition will
      receive an attention training with mouse-gaze contingent feedback (i.e., mouse-gaze
      contingent attention training, MCAT), comprising an undirected interpretation task
      (instruction to unscramble as quickly as possible) as a baseline phase, followed by a
      positively directed interpretation task (instruction to unscramble always positive
      self-statements) as a modification phase (MCAT-only condition). The active placebo training
      will only receive the undirected interpretation task (modification phase identical to
      baseline phase) without mouse-gaze contingent feedback (MCAT-sham condition). Furthermore, an
      additional condition will combine the experimental training with a new psychoeducation
      session (MCAT-combo condition). This psychoeducation will focus on the role of attention
      processes in generating emotions. As the training tasks, this PSE-session will be
      self-administered and delivered in a computer-based format, including interactive graphics
      and video-recordings.

      Before (pre-test) and after the intervention (post-test), selective attention bias and
      emotion regulation will be measured to investigate transfer effects of training. Also,
      depressive symptomatology and related variables will be assessed at pre- and post-test, as
      well as at follow-up, 3 and 6 months after the training.
    
  