
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS

      Tourette Syndrome (TS) is a neurodevelopmental condition that affects nearly 1% of children
      world-wide. While it can be treated with drugs and behavioral therapy, other modalities are
      being sought, especially, in cases that are resistant to standard treatment. One such
      approach that is being tested in pilot clinical studies is repetitive transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (rTMS). Noninvasive magnetic stimulation of the cerebral cortex is an important
      and useful technique in neuroscience research, as well as in diagnostic and therapeutic
      clinical investigations. Over the last three decades the magnetic stimulation procedure is
      being carried out using a device called transcranial magnetic stimulator (TMS), which uses a
      large hand-held electromagnetic coil passing high amplitude current to induce a rapidly
      changing magnetic field at a single cortical site. TMS has found clinical application in
      several neurological and psychiatric conditions such as stroke, major depression, migraine,
      movement disorders and Tourette syndrome. One limitation of conventional TMS, besides the
      bulkiness of the device and the large amount of current involved, is that it allows
      stimulation at only one cortical site at a time. Dr. Santosh Helekar of Houston Methodist
      Research Institute (HMRI) and Dr. Henning Voss of Weill-Cornell Medical College (WCMC) have
      developed a compact portable and wearable multisite transcranial magnetic stimulation (mTMS)
      device that can deliver stimuli at multiple cortical sites simultaneously or sequentially. It
      uses rapidly rotating small high strength permanent magnets to induce currents in the brain.
      As opposed to conventional TMS, the mTMS device is also ideally suited to conduct
      double-blind placebo-controlled studies because undetectable demagnetized magnets can be
      intermixed with actual magnets to allow rapid rotation of either type of magnets to be
      activated in one and the same device in a randomized protocol. Under a previously approved
      HMRI study protocol this new device has been shown to induce motor-evoked potentials (MEPs)
      in thenar muscles by highly focused stimulation of their cortical representation in the
      precentral gyrus.

      In the present pilot study, the investigators would like to conduct a randomized double-blind
      placebo-controlled clinical trial to test the therapeutic effectiveness of bilateral mTMS
      stimulation of the supplementary motor areas (mTMS-SMA therapy) in TS patients presenting
      with tics uncontrolled by standard drug and behavioral treatment. The specifics aims of this
      study are:

        1. To compare the immediate benefits obtained by TS patients subjected to two weeks of five
           day per week mTMS-SMA therapy with respect to those obtained by TS patients receiving
           placebo (sham stimulation) treatment, in terms of reduction of the frequency of tics and
           alleviation (primary end points) and of other comorbidities (ADHD and OCD, secondary end
           points) of TS.

        2. To compare the long-term benefits as above over a two-month follow up period in the same
           set of treated and placebo control TS patients

      The investigators will conduct this study in 20, English speaking, TS patients in the age
      range of 8 to 20 years. Half the patients will be randomly assigned in a double-blind manner
      to the active treatment or the placebo control (sham treatment) groups that will be
      appropriately age-and gender-matched. Randomization will be completed by the study team by
      alternating between cap A and cap B, within specific cohorts. The cohorts will be as follows:
      8-13 years of age at time of enrollment and 14-20 years of age at time of enrollment. The
      stimulus parameters used will be those that are effective in upregulating the excitability of
      the motor pathways to elicit MEPs in the thenar muscles. The investigators believe that
      mTMS-SMA therapy will produce both short- and long-term benefit for TS patients.
    
  