
    
      According to the World Health Organization Global Burden of Disease Study, for youth aged 10
      to 24 years old, schizophrenia ranked as the third among all causes of disability.
      Schizophrenia shows a marked increase in prevalence after aged 15 and many manifests in early
      20s. The term early psychosis is used for young people before and after their first
      identified psychotic episode.

      The support of family members during the treatment and recovery of early psychosis is
      critical. Schizophrenia results in serious functional impairment, including a delimited
      social networks, termination or suspension of schooling. Caregivers encounter much
      psychological distress, particularly in handling the violent behaviours, suicidal ideation,
      failures in treatment, and other illness behaviours of such students. One-third of such
      caregivers have experienced emotional difficulties, such as depression. Family
      psychoeducation intervention has been recommended as a major component in the treatment of
      early psychosis.

      International and local studies have reported positive outcomes using family psychoeducation
      interventions, but many limitations have also been identified. Many previous studies
      implemented an intensive programme design, with an emphasis on improvements in illness
      outcome of patients only. A recent review concluded that benefits of such programmes to
      caregivers were limited. There have been calls for a time-limited but more cost-effective
      programme for caregivers of a youth with early psychosis to mitigate the looming realities of
      eventual serious mental illness and family suffering. A brief Mindfulness-Based Family
      Psychoeducation programme is developed to reduce the caregiver's stress and to promote young
      people's recovery. Results from the pilot study suggested that such programme could reduce
      caregiver stress, and promote positive caregiving experience.

      A more rigorous study is proposed using a mixed methods design. A randomized controlled trial
      will be conducted to compare a mindfulness-based family psychoeducation intervention, with an
      ordinary family psychoeducation intervention. 300 caregivers of a youth who have experienced
      early psychosis will be recruited, with the assistance of five NGO collaborators. Programme
      effectiveness will be assessed by comparing outcomes measuring caregiver's perceived stress,
      positive well-being, and the young people's mental health symptoms. As part of the programme
      activity, Photovoice approach is selected to explore the complex family experiences and the
      benefits of mindfulness from the caregiver's personal perspectives. Caregivers can offer
      their voices about their burdens, and how mindfulness can benefit to the families through
      their involvement in a photo taking activity during the psychoeducation programme.
    
  