
    
      Accumulating evidence indicates that the gut microbiota plays a significant role in obesity
      and because the "ideal" composition of the gut microbiota remains poorly understood,
      modulation of the gut microbiota composition represents a potentially attractive treatment
      option against excessive gestational weight gain and adverse outcomes for obese pregnant
      women and their newborn. Dietary supplements in the form of probiotics could be an efficient
      treatment for controlling weight gain in pregnancy by inducing changes in the gut microbiota
      and could have influence on infant's microbiota, which could have important implications for
      infant development and health.

      A pilot study including 50 obese pregnant nulliparous with BMI between 30-35 kg/m2 will,
      after accepting participation, be randomized to receive daily placebo or probiotics (four
      capsules of Vivomixx®; total of 450 billion CFU/day) from gestational age 14-20 until
      delivery. The infants will be followed until 9 months of age. Shortly after birth, tissue
      composition will be measured in the infants by DEXA-scanning. The women will be monitored by
      weight, blood-, fecal- and urine samples, diet questionnaires and hospital record review.
      Vivomixx® is a probiotic mixture of 8 probiotic strains, (Bifidobacterium breve,
      Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium infantis, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus
      plantarum, Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus bulgaricus and Streptococcus thermophilus).

      This is the first pilot study in which the probiotic Vivomixx® are added in a randomized
      fashion to the standard of care in obese pregnant women. 50 pregnant women are planned to be
      included. The aim of this group size is to clarify the feasibility, compliance and to
      estimate parameters such as the standard deviation which will be used in a sample size
      calculation for a full-scale trial.
    
  