
    
      Previous data show that proteins enhance satiety, decrease hunger and decrease energy intake.
      In addition, amino acids from dietary protein act as building blocks for de novo protein
      synthesis and consumption of dietary protein therefore stimulates protein synthesis. Proteins
      from different sources differ in amino acid composition and rate of absorption. Previously,
      studies on the effects of proteins on especially muscle protein synthesis has focused on milk
      proteins, whey and casein as animal sources, but other protein sources high in essential and
      branched-chain amino acids may also have beneficial effects on muscle protein synthesis and
      appetite. Thus, in this study the effects of two hydrolysed porcine proteins (one from
      porcine blood and one from porcine muscle) on muscle protein synthesis, appetite and
      secretion of gastrointestinal hormones will be compared with the effects of hydrolysed whey
      protein. These porcine proteins have never previously been tested and it is hypothesised that
      they may induce similar effects as hydrolysed whey protein due to the high contents of
      essential and branched-chain amino acids.

      The study will be conducted as a randomised, 3-way, cross-over study. It consists of three
      visits separated by at least two weeks. It is expected that 18 normal-weight, young men will
      complete the study. They will be randomised to the order of the three proteins; hydrolysed
      porcine protein from blood (HPB), hydrolysed porcine protein from muscle (HPM) and hydrolysed
      whey protein (HW). At each visit the effects on muscle protein synthesis, appetite and
      secretion of gastrointestinal hormones will be measured/assessed. Muscle protein synthesis
      will be measured after consumption of a low (15 g) and a high (30 g) dose of protein and
      appetite and secretion of gastrointestinal hormones will be measured after the high protein
      dose (30 g). The effect on muscle protein synthesis will be measured by a flood-primed
      continuous infusion of labelled (Ring13C6) phenylalanine, muscle biopsies and blood samples.
      The effects on appetite will be assessed by visual analogue scales, an ad libitum meal and
      blood samples.
    
  