
    
      -  In vitro fertilization (IVF) is an important tool for those couples with difficulty
           conceiving or maintaining a pregnancy. In the United States, infants conceived with IVF
           account for approximately 1.6% of live births.

        -  Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), a highly prevalent gynecological disease, is often
           characterized by amenorrhea, hirsutism, polycystic ovaries on ultrasound scan, elevated
           serum luteinizing hormone (LH), low serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH),
           anovulatory infertility, pregnancy and neonatal complications; it is also an important
           cause of infertility in women of reproductive age because of the associated anovulation.
           IVF are commonly used for PCOS-associated infertility, there are still some questions
           regarding the paucity of high quality oocyte, low fertilization, and final pregnancy
           rate in women with PCOS following IVF.

        -  Depending on the particular criteria used for diagnosis and the population studied, the
           prevalence of PCOS has been reported to range from 8% to 13% in women of childbearing
           age women worldwide.

        -  Phoenixin was recently discovered using a bioinformatics algorithm which utilized
           information provided by the Human Genome Project A recently discovered hypothalamic
           neuropeptide phoenixin is involved in the regulation of the reproductive system,
           anxiety-related behaviors and pain. Phoenixin acts through its receptor, G
           protein-coupled receptor 173 (GPR173), to activate the cAMP/PKA pathway leading to the
           phosphorylation of CREB (pCREB).

        -  The expression of PNX and GPR173 in HGrC1 by RTPCR and Western blotting.
           Immunohistochemistry revealed that PNX and GPR173 are present in oocytes, granulosa
           cells and theca cells at different stages of follicular development in human ovary.
           GPR173 expression in theca cells increased according to follicle development. Treatment
           of HGrC1 cells with PNX-14 resulted in a significant upregulation of steroidogenesis
           enzymes: steroidogenic acute regulatory protein, side-chain cleavage enzyme, aromatase,
           3β-HSD, and 17α-OH.These results suggest that PNX expressed in human follicles is
           possibly involved in folliculogenesis and steroidogenesis.

        -  In the heart, phoenixin has been shown to decrease myocardial apoptosis by enhancing the
           expression of the anti-apoptotic factor, Bcl-2 and reducing proapoptotic factors such as
           Bax, Caspase 3, Cytochrome C and p38 MAPK. Also, these cascades are activated in hearts
           exposed to PNX during the early reperfusion. Using selective inhibitors of specific
           targets of cardio protection, such as PI3K and by performing WB analysis of
           phosphorylated proteins of upstream Akt,, we revealed the involvement of this cascade in
           PNX-dependent cardio protection. Phoenixin might have induced proliferation in part by
           reducing apoptosis in GCs via the same mechanism.

        -  Activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway protects against
           PCOS, which is attributed to prevention of cell apoptosis, facilitation of cell
           proliferation, induction or prevention of cell autophagy, alleviation of oxidative
           damage, and adaptation of hypoxia microenvironment.

        -  PNX may be associated with risk of developing PCOS. They proposed that PNX may provide a
           connection between multiple pathways contributing to PCOS including androgen action,
           insulin axis and apoptosis. PNX can serve as a new potential therapeutic target for PCOS
           patients undergo IVF and improved IVF outcome.

        -  Humanin is a small neuroprotective peptide identified from cDNA library of AD patient.
           Since its discovery, humanin has been shown to regulate many biological processes such
           as apoptosis, cell survival, metabolism, inflammation and oxidative stress. Published
           evidence suggests that humanin is secreted and expressed in many tissues, including the
           brain, retinal pigment epithelium, blood vessels, pancreatic beta cell, tumors and
           testes.

        -  Published evidence demonstrated the localization and distribution of humanin in human
           ovarian cells. Strong humanin expression was found in the ovary in multiple types of
           cells, including granulosa cells, oocytes and stromal cells. Further study revealed that
           follicular fluid humanin levels were correlated with ovarian reserve markers, and were
           associated with clinical pregnancy for women undergoing IVF-ICSI.

        -  Humanin is considered to exert a protective effect against apoptosis and oxidative
           stress. In preeclampsia, the rate of apoptosis was found to be increased, as a result of
           the oxidative stress that occurs in placenta.

        -  It is reported that abnormal insulin signaling is correlated with PCOS (11). IRS-1 is a
           key factor in insulin signaling pathway which has no kinase activity but its activity is
           regulated by phosphorylation/dephosphorylation. Serine phosphorylation,of IRS-1 would
           inhibit IRS-1 activity and block the activation of downstream signaling factors, leading
           to insulin resistance.

        -  There were no published data concerning humanin concentrations in pregnancy, especially
           in PCOS. Our study is the first to provide some expectations for such an association,
           demonstrating that humanin concentrations are increased in women with PCOS compared to
           controls.

        -  Autophagy is a lysosome mediated cellular process to clear misfolded protein, old or
           damaged organelle in the eukaryotes. Autophagy is an important mechanism to maintain
           cellular homeostasis and prevent tissue necrosis. Decreased expression of autophagy is
           associated with poor development of embryo and implantation failure. Moreover, Autophagy
           is physiologically involved in early normal gestation.

        -  mTOR is the crosstalk mediator between insulin signaling pathway and autophagy
           regulation. Insulin sensitivity is positively correlated with autophagy activity in
           pancreatic β cells, and insulin resistance is a common risk factor for both PCOS and
           type II diabetes.

        -  The present study demonstrate that humanin could regulate insulin signaling through
           IRS-1/mTOR in the hippocampus of APP/SP1 transgenic mice, decrease insulin resistance,
           improve autophagy in the neuron, decrease Aβ deposition and plaque formation, and
           improve learning ability and memory. These findings suggest that brain insulin signaling
           pathway, especially IRS-1/mTOR may be involved in autophagy regulation.

        -  Humanin treatment could enhance autophagy initiation and autophagy flux and decrease the
           accumulation of autophagosome to alleviate autophagy malfunction and improved IVF
           outcome in PCOS patients.
    
  