
    
      The aims were to assess the effect of changing 0.019X0.025-inch SS working archwire monthly
      on the rate of space closure, to compare the frictional resistance of unchanged and new
      working archwires in-vitro and to assess its effect on rate of space closure, to record the
      amount of ion concentration in the saliva before orthodontic treatment, before space closure
      and one month after space closure and to compare the rate of teeth movement into fresh and
      old extraction sites.

      Trial design: Randomized controlled clinical trial with a split-mouth design. Setting: Jordan
      University of Science and Technology(JUST) Postgraduate Dental Teaching Clinics and labs.

      Participants and interventions: Twenty-eight subjects with bimaxillary proclination requiring
      extraction of all first premolar teeth participated in this study. In the upper arch two
      groups were identified; group 1 having the extraction space closed using the same working
      archwire throughout 3 visits after insertion, and group 2 with the working archwire changed
      monthly.

      The working archwire in the upper arch was split into 2 halves in the midline and each one
      half was connected to the other by a wide joining hook. Patients were followed-up monthly for
      three months. At every follow up visit upper alginate impressions were taken and the working
      archwire in the upper arch was changed on one side only. Upper follow-up models were scanned
      using digital scanner and spaces were measured using digital software.

      Three unstimulated saliva samples were collected from each patient; prior to commencement of
      treatment, when 0.019X0.25-inch SS archwire was reached and before space closure and one
      month after space closure.

      The rate of extraction space closure in the upper arch, ion concentration in saliva samples
      measured using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometer (ICP-MS) and frictional
      resistance of the working archwires was measured using universal mechanical testing machine.
    
  