
    
      Despite the availability of evidence-based guidance and treatments, many patients with
      diabetes mellitus (DM) do not achieve optimal glycemic control. In prior work, patients with
      DM identified primary needs of improved access to food and nutrition education. Several
      innovative models for food services have emerged to address patient needs for improved
      healthy food access. Currently, select non-profit organizations across the U.S. deliver
      millions of medically-tailored meals (MTM) to patients with chronic illnesses, based on the
      premise that food can be as helpful as medicine in improving patient outcomes. While a
      handful of pilot studies have demonstrated success of MTM in reducing healthcare utilization
      and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) among patients with DM, no randomized trials have assessed the
      sustained impact of MTM on long-term outcomes for patients with DM. Similarly, individual
      studies of medical nutrition therapy (MNT), which includes individualized nutrition education
      and counseling, have shown benefit for improving DM outcomes. However, uptake of MNT across
      health systems has historically been extremely limited because of patient logistical barriers
      to attending the in-person visits. MNT delivered by telehealth (tele-MNT) has potential to
      overcome these barriers. Our goal is to evaluate the effect of MTM, with and without
      additional tele-MNT, on outcomes for patients with poorly controlled type 2 DM. The
      investigators will conduct a pragmatic randomized controlled trial with patients who have
      poorly controlled DM. Outcomes of interest include change in HbA1c, cost effectiveness,
      weight, diabetes self-efficacy, self-care, diabetes quality of life, and patient
      satisfaction. Investigators will assess the efficacy of 1) MTM and 2) MTM + tele-MNT compared
      to usual care in reducing HbA1c at 3, 6 (primary outcome) and 12 months and the cost
      effectiveness of each intervention compared to usual care up to 12 months. Patient
      perspectives regarding experiences with MTM and MTM + tele-MNT will also be explored to gain
      a better understanding of potential factors contributing to treatment failure and success
      within each group. The proposed research is innovative because it develops and tests a novel
      tele-MNT intervention tailored to recipients of MTM, provides a comprehensive solution to
      patient-identified nutrition needs, includes complete utilization data provided by the
      HealthShare Exchange, and leverages a unique health system and community group partnership to
      improve sustainability and scalability. Study results will inform 1) provider and payor
      decisions regarding offering and covering these services; 2) how services should be
      structured for scalability; and 3) integration of these services into the larger care
      delivery system to reduce DM disparities.
    
  