
    
      All of the participants were recruited, in a non-probabilistic way, from the Valencian
      Association of Affected of Fibromyalgia from date to april 2016. Inclusion criteria include:
      age between 18 and 70 years old and diagnosis of fibromyalgia based on the American College
      of Rheumatology (ACR) diagnostic criteria. Once they expressed their interest in taking part
      of the study, potential participants underwent an examination by a rheumatologist of the
      association to confirm the diagnosis of fibromyalgia. People with other different diagnosis,
      musculoskeletal or neurological disorders that prevented the follow-up study, infections,
      whiplash, migraine, skin hypersensitivity or heart devices were excluded.

      The participants were randomly allocated (random numbers table) to two different groups
      depending on the placement of the Kinesio Tape © (KT) by a physiotherapist which did not
      participated in the study. Thus, one group was composed by 18 women and was called "Upper
      trunk group" (UTG). The other group, composed by 17 women and called "Global trunk group"
      (GTG).

      Patients were informed about the purpose of the study, procedures and risks, and they
      provided written informed consent before the treatment. The study protocol was approved by
      the authors´ University Ethic Committee where the study was conducted. All procedures were
      conducted in accordance to the Declaration of Helsinki.

      A prospective, randomized, double blind, controlled trial was carried out. Participants were
      assessed two times, one before the intervention and another afterwards. They received a
      treatment of kinesiotaping during three weeks. Participants came to our laboratory each week
      in order to change their bandage and assure the adherence to the treatment.

      The physiotherapist who conducted the assessments was blinded to the treatment received by
      the patients and the statistician was completely blinded to the goals of the study. The
      physiotherapist who applied the treatment had an extensive experience Kinesio Tape ©.

      All enrolled participants were aware that they could receive two types of treatments but did
      not know the purposes of each treatment. They were instructed to not change their daily
      routines.
    
  