
    
      the principle investigator will randomize and equally distribute the Eligible patients
      between the selective laser sintering group (intervention group) and digital light processing
      group (control group).

        -  Diagnostic phase : for initial diagnosis, principle investigator will make primary
           impression , bite registration, face bow record and periapical x-ray for each eligible
           patients. The tooth to be extracted will be removed from the cast and replaced with an
           artificial tooth. For construction of radio graphic stent, a clear thermoplastic sheet
           will be pressed on the modified cast using a vacuum forming machine . A hole is done in
           the center of the artificial tooth packed with heated gutta percha (radiopaque material)
           for easy visualization on the cone beam during virtual implant placing. A dual scan
           protocol with cone beam CT will be made. The first scan is for the patient wearing the
           scan appliance while the second will be for the cast with the scan appliance.

        -  Planning phase : placing of the virtual implant and designing of the surgical stent will
           be done by virtual planning software .

        -  Construction of the surgical guide: principle investigator will send the Standard
           Language transformation (STL) file of the designed guide to a rapid prototyping center.
           Selective laser sintering and digital light procesing will be used for intervention and
           control group respectively. principle investigator will check for adaption of the guide
           on the cast and cement the metallic sleeve to prevent rotation during surgery.

        -  Surgical phase : principle investigator will prescribe a prophylactic antibiotic to the
           patient three days prior the surgery. Atraumatic extraction will be carried by
           periotomes and lancet. The integrity of the socket will be examined well by probe. The
           guide is stabilized in its place then drilling and implant placement will be done.
           Healing abutment is screwed in place to allow proper healing of the soft tissue. Patient
           will be instructed to avoid hard foods and follow restrict oral hygiene measures.
           Patient will be recalled after one week for postoperative inspection and assessment. A
           cone beam CT will be taken for deviation assessment.
    
  