
    
      Rationale: Several polyols (xylitol, sorbitol, erythritol) have been shown to act as
      excellent sugar substitutes, especially for in-between meals food products. Most commonly
      they are used in chewing gums, but the recent field trials also show a clear effectiveness of
      xylitol lozenges. Although sorbitol is metabolized at a slower rate than sucrose and not at
      all by most microorganisms, it can be fermented at a slow rate by all of the mutans
      streptococci including S. mutans while xylitol and erythritol are considered to be
      non-acidogenic. It has been demonstrated in some studies that xylitol reduces to a greater
      extent caries rate than sorbitol, however, the scientific committee on medicinal products is
      of the opinion that no clear data support the concept that xylitol possesses specific effects
      in vivo which validate a superiority claim over other polyols.

      Objective: It is believed that the benefits of sugar-free gums may be twofold; 1) decreased
      lactic acid production and increased salivary flow potentially leading to an increased
      buffering of acids in plaque and 2) increased supersaturation of saliva with the mineral ions
      as well as enhanced clearance of sugars from the mouth. Thus sugar substitution and salivary
      stimulation could, it has been argued, be equally responsible for the noncariogenicity of
      sugar-free chewing gum. By comparing long term effects of several polyols, on possible
      remineralization effect on incipient caries lesions and on preventing the new caries lesions
      in comparison with sorbitol,the study will help demonstrate the superiority of erythritol and
      eventually xylitol over sorbitol and will help demonstrate the role of sugar substitutes,
      beyond saliva stimulation-mediated oral benefits on dental caries prevention.Sorbitol
      lozenges are used as a positive control. The saliva and plaque sample analyses would reveal
      the possible mechanisms of the expected caries preventive effects.

      Study design: This is a double-blind, parallel, randomized, controlled study in primary
      school children around Tartu city. The allocation of the children into three groups will be
      based on classrooms for the practical reasons. The classrooms will be randomly allocated into
      the intervention and control groups. The study will last three years. During the first 2
      years, the two intervention groups will consume either xylitol or erythritol-containing
      lozenges and the control group will be provided with sorbitol-containing tablets Then, there
      will be two options, depending on the effects on caries prevention after 2 years feeding with
      the polyols and depending on the SD of the caries incidence,. If the SD >2, the groups will
      not be spilt up as the power of the study would not be high enough to see any statistical
      effect. In this case, during the third experimental year, groups will stop eating
      polyol-containing lozenges and tablets to assess the lasting preventive effects of the
      polyol. If the SD<2 , the groups will be spilt up into two sub-groups, where one sub-group
      will stop eating polyols-containing lozenges to assess the lasting effect of polyol on caries
      prevention and the other sub-group will continue consuming the polyol-containing lozenges to
      assess the long-term effect of polyol intake on caries prevention.

      Study population: The classrooms of 1st and 2nd primary schoolchildren (n=450) will be
      randomly allocated into two intervention groups (erythritol and xylitol) and into one
      positive control group (sorbitol. The list of the 1st and 2nd graders classrooms will be used
      as a sample frame. The allocation of the classrooms will be based on the random numbers
      generated by a computer.

      Intervention: The test products will be distributed to the pupils in all (erythritol,
      xylitol, and sorbitol) groups three times a day during the school days (about 200/year) by
      the teachers.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: All children will be clinically examined at the beginning of
      the trial, one -, two - and three years after the baseline examinations. All the surfaces of
      the mixed dentition (primary and permanent teeth) will be examined. The mean annual incipient
      and dentinal caries increment will be calculated. The teeth (FT) and surfaces (FS) restored
      or extracted because of caries during the study period will be calculated and included in the
      caries experience indices (dmft/DMFT). The plaque and saliva samples will be collected in
      each examination.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: There will be clinical examinations and plaque sample collection of the study
      subjects four times in this study. Each examination will take about 15 min. No risks for the
      pupils can be expected from these examinations. The children will be given a toothbrush and
      toothpaste every 6 months. After the study examinations, pupils will be driven to a museum by
      bus.
    
  