
    
      1. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has become the
           standard of care in elderly patients with severe symptomatic aortic valve stenosis and
           increased surgical risks due to advanced age and multiple comorbidity(2-4). However, in
           contrast to surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR), paravalvular leakage after TAVI is
           fairly common. More than moderate paravalvular leakage is associated with intermediate
           and long-term morbidity and mortality(5).

           Since the introduction of TAVI, implantation- and device technology have improved
           significantly. Nevertheless, mild paravalvular leakage remains a common finding after
           implantation of new generation devices. Conflicting evidence exists regarding the impact
           of mild versus none to trivial paravalvular leakage on mortality and morbidity. Several
           factors might be of influence on these conflicting results. Patients with left
           ventricular hypertrophy and no previous aortic regurgitation might experience rapidly
           rising end-diastolic pressures resulting in heart failure even at small regurgitant
           volumes as seen with mild paravalvular leakage (6-9). Moreover, paravalvular leakage
           might have greater impact on survival in patients with impaired left ventricular
           function as compared to patients with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction(10).

           Furthermore, studies have used different definitions of paravalvular leakage, assessed
           paravalvular leakage at different time intervals and used different prostheses. Since
           paravalvular leakage might decrease over time in self- expandable TAVI devices, this
           potentially influenced outcomes(11). The widely used VARC-2 criteria for paravalvular
           leakage grading comprise echocardiographic measurements only(1). Especially quantitative
           assessment of paravalvular leakage in the intermediate strata (mild-moderate) using
           echocardiography (TTE) remains difficult. TAVI under conscious sedation or local
           anesthesia more or less preclude the use of peri-operative trans esophageal
           echocardiography (TEE). TTE analysis and grading of paravalvular leakage is limited by
           patient factors such as pulmonary disease, patient habitus and prior cardio-thoracic
           surgery. Moreover, TTE has been shown to underestimate paravalvular leakage as compared
           to cardiac MRI(12-14). However,the presence of clinical relevant paravalvular leakage
           necessitates post-dilatation; therefore grading of paravalvular leakage preferably
           should be done intra-operatively.

           Hemodynamic parameters have been shown to be of great value in grading paravalvular
           leakage post implantation(15-18). These objective parameters are easily obtained during
           TAVI and have been shown to have prognostic relevance. All of these parameters are a
           function of left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP). For instance, diastolic
           delta (DD), defined as the gradient between diastolic aortic pressure and LVEDP, ≤18
           millimetres of mercury (mmHg) was associated with adverse prognosis(15). Heart rate
           adjusted diastolic delta (HR-DD) (HR-DD= [DD/heartrate] *80) <25 mmHg/beats per minute
           (BPM) was associated with mortality at 1 year in a retrospective study(16). Combined
           with angiography and (transesophageal) echocardiography, it was associated with impaired
           clinical outcome in balloon-expandable bioprostheses (16, 17). Furthermore, the aortic
           regurgitation index (ARI), defined as the ratio of the diastolic delta to systolic
           aortic pressure (Aortic regurgitation index = (DD/Aortic pressure systolic)*100) >25
           combined with angiographic or echocardiographic assessment of paravalvular leakage had a
           negative predictive value of 95%-100% for the occurrence of more than mild paravalvular
           leakage. ARI <25 was associated with 1 year mortality, even after adjustment for
           paravalvular leakage severity(18-20). However, interpretation of ARI is challenging;
           bradycardia might lead to an ARI <25 without the presence of relevant paravalvular
           leakage. Determination of ARI should therefore be performed at a heart rate between
           60-80 BPM and preferably over several cycles, especially when measured during atrial
           fibrillation or extrasystoles.

           Both echocardiographic and hemodynamic measures provide an estimation of the amount of
           paravalvular leak. In contrast to echocardiography, MRI provides accurate quantification
           of paravalvular leakage volume. In this study the investigators want to assess the
           contributive value of hemodynamic indices of paravalvular leakage based on paravalvular
           leakage volume measured by means of cardiac MRI and to assess its association with
           impaired clinical outcomes during 5 year follow-up.

        2. OBJECTIVES 2.1 Primary Objective To assess per-procedural hemodynamic indices of
           paravalvular leakage and to relate these to paravalvular leakage as quantified by
           cardiac MRI.

           2.2 Secondary Objectives To exploratory assess short- and long-term outcomes in patients
           with different severity of paravalvular leakage

        3. STUDY DESIGN The study is designed as a single center, investigator-initiated, clinical
           trial.

           In case patients want to participate there is no change of standard clinical care. After
           TAVI, study participants will receive additional cardiac MRI within 1 month. Subsequent
           3-month and 1-year out-patient clinical follow-up will be performed. Telephone follow-up
           will be performed after 2,3,4 and 5 years. The end of the study is defined as the day
           when the last patient completes her/his last visit planned in the protocol.

        4. STUDY POPULATION 4.1 Population (base) Patients with severe symptomatic aortic valve
           stenosis allocated to TAVI by a dedicated heart team will be screened for potential
           participation. The definition of severe symptomatic aortic valve stenosis is defined in
           the inclusion criteria.
    
  