
    
      Primary Objective

      (1) Objective: To determine the efficacy as measured by the objective response rate (ORR) at
      24 weeks using RECIST 1.1 criteria when patients with recurrent CCGCs are treated with
      lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab.

      Hypothesis: The ORR (complete response plus partial response) at 24 weeks seen in recurrent
      CCGC patients treated with lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab combination therapy will be improved
      compared to historical control (hypothesized ORR of 30% with combination therapy compared to
      historical ORR of ORR of 10% with chemotherapy).

      Primary Endpoint: The ORR at 24 weeks using RECIST 1.1 criteria when patients with recurrent
      CCGCs are treated with lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab.

      Secondary Objectives,

        1. Objective: To determine the efficacy of lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab in recurrent
           CCGCs.

           Hypothesis: The ORR by immune RECIST (iRECIST) criteria, progression-free survival (PFS)
           rate and clinical benefit rate (CBR) (complete response plus partial response plus
           stable disease) at 24 weeks, as well as duration of response and PFS observed in
           recurrent CCGC patients treated with lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab combination therapy
           will be improved compared to historical control.

           Endpoint: To determine the ORR using iRECIST criteria at 24 weeks when patients with
           recurrent CCGCs are treated with lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab.

           Endpoint: To assess the duration of response when patients with recurrent CCGCs are
           treated with lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab.

           Endpoint: To assess the PFS when patients with recurrent CCGCs are treated with
           lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab.

           Endpoint: To determine the 24 week PFS rate of lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab in this
           population.

           Endpoint: To determine the CBR at 24 weeks of lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab in this
           population.

        2. Objective: To describe the adverse event (AE) profile of lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab
           in this patient population.

      Exploratory Objectives

        1. Clinical Objectives: To evaluate the effect of potential prognostic factors (baseline
           patient and tumor characteristics, notably: initial performance status, stage at
           diagnosis and platinum-free interval), on the efficacy of lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab
           in this population.

        2. Translational Objectives: To evaluate the pre- to post-treatment changes in the
           frequency of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in patients receiving lenvatinib plus
           pembrolizumab.

        3. Translational Objectives: To evaluate the pre- to post-treatment changes in the
           frequency and gene expression profile of different lymphocyte (e.g. CD4, CD8, Treg, B
           cells) and myeloid (e.g. DCs, MDSCs) subsets in patients receiving lenvatinib plus
           pembrolizumab.

        4. Translational Objectives: To identify predictive biomarkers of response in patients
           receiving lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab (e.g. PD-1/PD-L1/VEGF expression).

        5. Translational Objectives: To evaluate the pre-to post-treatment changes in the
           concentration of relevant cytokines/chemokines (e.g.: GM-CSF, G-CSF, VEGFA, IL2, IL12,
           IL13, IL6, Interferons) in patients receiving lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab.
    
  