
    
      Design

      Noninvasive prospective multi-center study of an interactive 2-way, wireless or
      site-independent, audiovisual telemedicine system designed for real-time remote examination
      of acute stroke symptoms and deficits as a basis for treatment consultation and
      recommendation.

      Study aims (1) to determine the impact of a site-independent, remote, telemedicine
      consultation system on decision making in the Emergency Department, regarding the decision to
      treat or not to treat with thrombolytics; (2) to assess the numbers of patients who receive
      thrombolytics and the time to treatment in patients evaluated by telemedicine versus
      telephone only; (3) to assess the appropriateness of thrombolytic treatment decisions in
      telemedicine versus telephone-only consultations; and (4) to assess the completeness of the
      data collection in telemedicine versus telephone-only consultations.

      60 patients in Arizona with acute presentation of stroke symptoms, per bedside practitioner
      discretion (onset generally less than 12 hours and likely less than 3 hours)

      Two arms: Video Camera/Telemedicine (Intervention n = 30) and No Video Camera/Telephone only
      (Control n = 30)

      Assessments

      All cases will undergo the following assessments:

      Patient-Level Visits

      Baseline: Pre-stroke Modified Rankin Scale (demographics), pre-treatment Modified Rankin
      Scale, medications during prior 3 days, physical exam and vital signs, NIHSS, Modified NIHSS,
      EKG, screening labs, and head CT scan

      Treatment: Treatment times, thrombolytic safety outcome, and recanalization treatment

      Day 90: Modified Rankin Scale, Barthel Index, and mortality

      End of Study: End of study/Termination

      Meta-Level Reviews

      Adjudication: Post case completion, review and evaluation of each remote consultation on
      whether the recommendation for or against thrombolytic therapy was appropriate, given the
      information presented at each of 3 levels of adjudication.

      Central Read: Post case completion, review and evaluation of each Baseline head CT scan
      interpretation on whether there was a CT contraindication to thrombolytic therapy.

      Trial Groups

      There will be two trial groups in this study. The investigators hypothesized (based upon
      sample size calculations) that the correct treatment will be recommended at rates of 80%
      (telephone) and 90% (full telemedicine).

      Target Population

      60 AZ patients will be randomized to either telephone-only or video telemedicine
      consultation. Appropriateness of therapeutic decision-making, numbers treated, time to
      treatment, and completeness of data collection will be evaluated and compared for each group.

      If the protocol or grant application is investigator-initiated, a 200-word (or less) abstract
      of the proposed protocol or grant application must be included (an abstract included in an
      NIH or other submission is acceptable). If the protocol is sponsor initiated, a summary
      written by the Mayo investigator must be included. Summary should include: 1) Hypothesis, 2)
      Basic study plan, 3) Statistical method/rationale, 4) Scientific basis or justification, 5)
      Inclusion/exclusion criteria, and 6) Monetary consideration. You may type or cut and paste
      from an existing document to address this question

      Objectives

        1. to determine the impact of a site-independent, remote, telemedicine consultation system
           on decision making in the Emergency Department, regarding the decision to treat or not
           to treat with thrombolytics;

        2. to assess the numbers of patients who receive thrombolytics and the time to treatment in
           patients evaluated by telemedicine versus telephone only;

        3. to assess the appropriateness of thrombolytic treatment decisions in telemedicine versus
           telephone-only consultations; and

        4. to assess the completeness of the data collection in telemedicine versus telephone-only
           consultations.
    
  