
    
      Soft tissue sarcoma (STS) is a relatively rare type of malignant tumor. For patients with
      recurrent/distant metastasis/unresectable advanced soft tissue sarcoma, chemotherapy with
      doxorubicin and ifosfamide is the standard treatment, but the effect is limited.

      Targeted drugs represented by anti-angiogenesis targeted drugs have had certain clinical
      benefits in the treatment of sarcoma. Among them, anlotinib, a multi-target receptor tyrosine
      kinase inhibitor, is effective for STS of various tissue types and the safety is tolerable.
      Previous clinical studies have found that anlotinib has a certain effect on a variety of
      solid tumors including thyroid cancer, lung cancer, soft tissue sarcoma, and kidney cancer.
      In 2016, a phase II clinical study evaluated the efficacy and safety of anlotinib advanced
      STS, especially synovial sarcoma and alveolar soft tissue sarcoma. The study included 154
      patients with evaluable efficacy, with an ORR of 10.13% and a median PFS of 5.63 months. Even
      so, the limited efficacy of targeted drugs remains a bottleneck. For advanced unresectable or
      widely disseminated soft tissue sarcomas, a combined clinical trial is the best way to obtain
      evidence-based medical evidence.

      In recent years, anti-PD-1 antibodies have been reported as effective treatment in solid
      tumors, and their clinical application has become increasingly widespread. The anti-PD-1
      antibody Toripalimab has also been listed recently, and its clinical application prospects
      are huge. Anti-PD-1 antibodies also have been proved effect better in combination with
      targeted therapies. Multiple in vitro studies have shown that low-dose anti-angiogenesis
      targeted drugs can reduce hypoxia, increase CD8+ T cell infiltration, reduce tumor-associated
      macrophage (TAM) recruitment in non-small cell lung cancer and reduce tumor and serum. The
      level of TGF-β is increased, thereby enhancing the anti-PD-1 antibody effect and
      significantly inhibiting tumor growth and metastasis. At the same time, by evaluating the
      therapeutic effects of combination therapy in other tumors, we aim to investigate that
      anti-angiogenesis targeted drugs combined with anti-PD-1 antibodies have considerable
      potential for sarcoma treatment.

      At present, a number of clinical trials of anti-angiogenesis targeted drugs combined with
      anti-PD-1 antibody for tumor treatment are underway or will be carried out, but the clinical
      study of anti-PD-1 antibody with anlotinib has not yet started. In response to the above
      problems, the aim of this study was to explore the efficacy and to assess the safety of
      anti-PD-1 antibody in the treatment of refractory and advanced STS patients with first-line
      treatment failure, which would provide patients with STS better treatment options.
    
  