
    
      The aim of this study was to compare the effect of resistance training with different
      frequencies on total, android, gynoid and trunk body fat in obese older women. Recruitment
      was carried out through newspaper and radio advertisements, and home delivery flyers in
      residential neighborhoods. All participants completed health history and physical activity
      questionnaires, and met the following inclusion criteria: 60 years of age or older, relative
      body fat ≥ 32 assessed by whole body dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), physically
      independent, free from cardiac or orthopedic dysfunction that would have precluded them from
      performing the tests or the training program associated with the study, not receiving
      hormonal replacement therapy, and not performing physical exercise more than once a week in
      the six months preceding the beginning of the investigation.Written informed consent was
      obtained from all participants after a detailed description of study procedures was provided.
      This study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and approved by the
      local Ethics Research Committee, and was carried out over a period of 16 weeks, with 12 weeks
      dedicated to the resistance training program, and 4 weeks directed to testing.
      Anthropometric, body composition, and dietary intake measurements were performed during weeks
      1-2, and 15-16. A supervised progressive resistance training was performed between weeks
      3-14. The control group did not perform any type of organized physical exercise during the
      study period. Supervised resistance training was performed during the 12 weeks of training.
      All participants were individually supervised by physical education professionals throughout
      each training session to ensure that the study's training protocol was followed and to ensure
      subject safety. The group 2X performed the program twice a week (Tuesdays and Thursdays),
      while group 3X performed three sessions a week (Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays). The
      progression of training loads in each exercise occurred, when a participant completed 15
      repetitions in two consecutive sessions, with increases of 2-5% in exercises for the upper
      limbs, and 5-10% in exercises for the lower limbs. At the end of each session, one static
      stretching exercise at the point of discomfort for 15 seconds was performed for all major
      muscle groups for a total of exercises. Participants were asked not to perform any other type
      of organized physical exercise during the entire study period.
    
  