
    
      In 2004, the American Academy of Pediatrics disseminated clinical practice guidelines for the
      management of neonatal hyperbilirubinemia. Using the infant's age in hours, serum bilirubin
      levels are applied to hour-specific nomograms to assess risk of developing significant
      hyperbilirubinemia as well as the necessity for treatment. Prior guidelines did not include
      nomograms for either. A systems approach to managing neonatal hyperbilirubinemia, including
      use of the nomograms, has been shown to improve outcomes and patient safety.

      Despite the existence of these guidelines, decision support does not exist within MGH
      clinical information systems for managing neonatal hyperbilirubinemia. We propose to create
      BiliCurves, an application that integrates perinatal information from the obstetrical health
      record with that of the newborn's, providing seamless reporting of neonatal bilirubin results
      in the context of the practice guidelines and relevant obstetrical data. BiliCurves will
      graphically superimpose bilirubin results onto hour-specific guideline nomograms that
      providers can view when viewing bilirubin results. We propose to randomize BiliCurves access
      to pediatric providers, and study its effects on management of hyperbilirubinemia both during
      birth hospitalization as well as in the outpatient setting after discharge. We hypothesize
      infants treated by physicians with BiliCurves access will receive birth hospitalization
      phototherapy at a higher rate and readmission for hyperbilirubinemia at a lower rate than
      that of the control group. We also hypothesize that physicians with BiliCurves access will
      report greater ease and confidence in nomogram use and providing evidence-based care as
      BiliCurves obviates the provider having to have access to paper based versions of the
      nomogram (usual care) as well decreases potential errors in plotting test results on the
      nomograms.
    
  