
    
      This is a non-controlled prospective cohort study, recruiting community-dwelling older
      persons aged >55 years, from various senior activity centres, day care and community centres
      in the North-East region of Singapore. A mobile community-based platform for frailty and
      physical fitness assessment will be anchored at the void decks of public housing blocks,
      senior activity centres (SACs), senior care centres (SCCs) or community clubs for
      accessibility. The platform will be maintained at each site for 2-3 consecutive weeks, and is
      managed by members of the multidisciplinary team, with the same site being re-visited at
      yearly intervals to allow follow-up. Each participant undergoes a multi-domain geriatric
      screen and physical fitness assessment, and will be triaged by physical frailty status for
      stage-specific care.

      Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants, and ethics approval has been
      obtained from the Institutional Review Board of Singhealth.

      Measures Multi-domain geriatric screen The multi-domain geriatric screen includes assessment
      of (i) socio-demographic characteristics (including social support network, socio-economic
      status, education and employment); (ii) mood as assessed using the 15-item Geriatric
      Depression Scale; (iii) cognitive performance using the locally validated modified Chinese
      version of Mini Mental State Examination (CMMSE); (iv) nutrition using the Mini Nutrition
      Assessment-Short Form (MNA-SF) and Subjective Global Assessment (SGA); (iv) physical activity
      level based on a structured questionnaire to assess the time spent on physical activities
      over the last 7 days; (v) functional performance using Barthel's Index for activities of
      daily living (ADLs) and Lawton and Brody's instrumental ADLs, as well as Life Space
      Questionnaire (LSQ) for functional mobility; (vi) quality of life on EuroQol 5 dimensions
      (EQ-5D-5L) questionnaire and a visual analogue scale; (vii) sarcopenia using SARC-F
      questionnaire enquiring ability to carry a heavy load, walking, rising from a chair, climbing
      stairs and falls, has been validated as a suitable tool for community screening for
      sarcopenia.

      Frailty Assessment Frailty screening will be based on the 5-item FRAIL scale, which assesses
      for self-reported fatigue, resistance, ambulation, illnesses and loss of weight, to
      categorize participants as frail (score 3-5), pre-frail (1-2) or robust (0).

      Physical frailty will be objectively assessed using modified Fried's criteria, with frailty
      defined by the presence of at least 3 and pre-frailty as 1-2 of 5 components - exhaustion,
      slow gait speed, weak grip strength, low body mass index (BMI<18.5kg/m2) and low physical
      activity.

      Grip strength will be measured using a JAMAR hand dynamometer, with 2 trials for each hand,
      and the maximum value will be used for analysis. Gait speed will be based on time taken to
      walk 10m at usual pace. Weakness (<18kg for women and <26 kg for men) and slowness (<0.8m/s)
      will be defined using reference values from the Asian Working Group for Sarcopenia

      Physical Fitness Tests The physical fitness test battery was modified from the Senior Fitness
      Test. Participants who report feeling unwell on pre-assessment screening will be exempt from
      fitness tests.

      Lower body strength and power will be measured using the chair stand test, in which the
      participant will be instructed to rise as fast as possible from seated to a full standing
      position, while keeping the arms folded across the chest. Time taken to complete 5 chair
      stands as well as the number of full chair stands performed in 30 seconds will be recorded.

      In addition to grip strength, upper limb dexterity will be assessed using the box-and-block
      test, in which participants pick up blocks and place them in the box on the other side across
      a barrier as quickly as possible. The number of blocks transferred in 1 minute will be
      recorded. 2 trials will be performed, one for each arm, and the better performance will be
      used for analysis.

      Dual-task gait performance will be assessed by asking the participant to walk 10-metres while
      performing serial 2-step forward calculation and animal naming without specific instruction
      on task prioritization. Gait speed and number of correct calculations on the dual-task
      protocol will be recorded.

      Upper and lower body flexibility will be assessed using the back-scratch and chair
      sit-and-reach tests respectively, with 2 trials for each test, and the better performance
      will be used for analysis. The back-scratch test is performed with the participant placing
      one hand behind the shoulder and the other hand up the middle of the back, fingers extended.
      The distance (cm) the middle fingers are short of touching (-) or overlapping (+) will be
      recorded. In the chair sit-and-reach test, participant sits on the edge of a chair with one
      leg extended in front while reaching forward with the hands toward the toes. The distance
      (cm) from the extended third finger to tip of toe (+ for beyond, and - for behind the toe)
      will be recorded.

      Dynamic balance (agility) will be assessed on the Timed Up-and-Go Test, which requires the
      participant to stand from a seated position, walk as quickly as possible around a cone 3m
      ahead of the chair, and return to a fully seated position. The balance subtests of the Short
      Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) was also adopted, including side-by-side, semi-tandem and
      tandem standing.

      Cardiorespiratory endurance will be evaluated using the 6-minute walk test (6MWT), along a
      walkway of at least 20m and with constant encouragement throughout the test. The total
      distance walked in 6 minutes will be recorded, and rest is permitted anytime during the test.

      Each participant will be scored on the SPPB for a composite measure of physical performance,
      applying established cut-offs on the individual tests of gait speed, balance and chair stand.

      Body Composition Participants will under Bioimpedance Analysis (BIA) (MC-780M, TANITA, Tokyo,
      Japan) for measurement of muscle mass.

      Intervention for pre-frail older adults Pre-frail will be operationalized as the presence of
      1-2 positive responses on FRAIL, or FRAIL score of 0 but with objective weak grip strength
      and/or slow gait speed. The latter takes into consideration the potential for under-reporting
      of symptoms on the FRAIL questionnaire.

      Participants meeting operational criteria for pre-frailty will be enrolled in a group-based
      physical exercise and nutritional intervention programme, delivered over 4 months. The
      intervention will commence 3 months from the baseline screening.

      Group-based, as opposed to traditional individual physiotherapy sessions, has been shown to
      boost older persons' motivation for participation and potentially addresses the social
      contribution to frailty.

      Participants will undergo weekly 1-hr exercise sessions designed to challenge all major
      muscle groups with specific emphasis on strength training, in addition to gait, balance and
      endurance exercises, to target the major frailty elements of weakness and gait deficit, with
      demonstrated effectiveness for falls prevention in older adults. Upper limb strengthening
      exercises will be conducted through the use of therabands or free weights (e.g. bottled
      water) for resistance. The exercises will be made progressively more difficult over time
      (e.g. increasing the number of repetitions) according to group's progress, yet also catering
      for individual variability, under supervision of the physiotherapist. Endurance exercise will
      consist of outdoor walking. Targeting to each older adult's individual intensity level with
      progression as they improve ensures that the exercises remain physically challenging to
      provide sufficient stimulus. An individually prescribed structured home exercise programme
      with pictorials and explanations at the end of each session will be provided so that
      participants can continue with the exercises between sessions to achieve an optimal frequency
      of exercising at least three times a week, with a checklist to record adherence.

      Nutritional intervention (6 group-based session) will be delivered with the aim of
      facilitating healthy eating habits to achieve adequate protein, energy, Vitamin D and fluid
      intake through regular foods and beverages without the need for nutritional supplements.
      Educating older adults to evaluate and adapt their nutritional intake, taking into
      consideration their dietary habits, can be expected to improve sustainability of effect and
      adherence. A group grocery-shopping trip will be conducted to provide guidance on choosing
      quality food within budget.

      All participants will be followed up at 6-, 12- and 24-month. Participants enrolled in the
      intervention programme will have their physical performance measures at 3-month (immediate
      pre-intervention). Subsequent follow-up visits will be at the end of the 4-month
      intervention, 6- and 12-month post-intervention.
    
  