
    
      Methodology:Patient Inclusion / Exclusion Criteria:Patient's who present with non-radicular
      low back with or without sclerotomal, referred leg pain and who have failed conservative care
      for 5 months or otherwise meet clinical criteria for performing diagnostic discography are
      potential candidates for recruitment in this study. The criteria are as follows:Inclusion /
      Exclusion:· Age 21 - 55· No prior spine surgery.· No neurological deficit.· VAS > 3.0· The
      patient has been referred for provocative discogram diagnostic study with a suspected single
      level internal disc derangement.· Normal psychometric screening.For healthy control subjects
      the criteria will be as follows:· Age 21 - 55· No spinal deformity· No prior spine surgery.·
      No history of disabling back or leg pain.· No history of back pain for the past 6 months
      year. Patient Recruitment: A total of 80 subjects, divided into four groups ( 20 per group),
      are being sought for this study. Group C will be a population of healthy control subjects to
      be compared with Group U, unhealthy subjects. Group U will represent the first 20 patient
      participants who are referred for discogram procedures. Group DP will consist of a separate
      group of 20 patients being referred for discogram testing whose results are positive. Group
      DN will consist of 20 patients whose discogram results are negative. Statistical criteria for
      valid analysis requires separate non-overlapping grouping of patients to maintain the
      accuracy of the Type 1 error estimate in the analysis of results. A total of 80 patients will
      be sought as the analysis of sensitivity and specificity requires a minimum number of false
      positive and false negative results to be present in each subgroup for the analysis to be
      performed. The TBI practice is equipped with electronic scheduling, medical record and
      billing systems. This poses significant advantages for patient recruitment to this project.
      On a daily basis, the Project Coordinator (PC) can access daily schedules for patients
      entering the system for all 17 TBI physicians. This can be cross-correlated later with
      exiting diagnosis and diagnostic orders to ensure maximum capture of potential candidates.The
      attending physician's medical assistant, on being notified of the need for a discogram, will
      contact the PC. The PC then will review the chart and confer with the attending provider to
      confirm entrance requirements. The patient will be asked for permission to be contacted by
      the PC for soliciting participation in the project. Upon obtaining permission, the PC will
      contact the patient and explain the project and signed informed consent obtained from those
      who agree to participate. Those whom do not sign consent to participate or consent to be
      monitored will continue with their care and be purged from the project records. Patients will
      then be scheduled for CERSR evaluation prior to performance of the diagnostic procedure. The
      PC will perform the CERSR test at the designated appointment and will provide the Principal
      Investigator (PI) with the test results for interpretation without identification of which
      diagnostic procedure or group assignment the patient is in. To ensure blinding of the PI, the
      demographic fields usually maintained in the CERSR software will be left blank with the
      exception of the patient identifier. Separate records will be maintained by the PC with
      respect to this information as well as report of findings from discogram as may be
      appropriates.The surgeon co-investigator will review the discogram results on each patient
      and partition them into positive and negative results based both on morphologic and pain
      concordance criteria. Testing will continue until a full block of 20 subjects for each group
      is obtained. The PC will also solicit healthy subjects from the TBI and Presbyterian Hospital
      staffs numbering several hundred in total. All healthy volunteers will be compensated $50.00
      for their time and inconvenience in participation in the CERSR test. Psychometric Screening:
      Psychometric screening of all participants (healthy and patient) will be performed using the
      SCL90-R. This instrument has been used successfully for years as a strong psychometric
      screening tool that incorporates evaluation for somatization. Our consulting psychologist,
      Dr. Block, whose sole practice for 15 years has been the evaluation and treatment of spine
      pain patients, will perform the scoring of the SCL90-R. Subjects whose scores are high on the
      somatization scale alone or whose total scores are suggestive of strong psychosocial
      component will not be included.CERSR Evaluation and Interpretation:The CERSR evaluation will
      consist of the standardized tests for upright standing, flexion and weight bearing.
      Interpretation will similarly follow the proscribed method considering the maximum RMS,
      uniformity, centrality, organization and location as described in the Appendix I. Outcome of
      the analysis will the classification of the patient into disc, healthy or other.. Interpreter
      blinding:The PI will perform interpretation of the CERSR tests without knowledge of the
      patient's group membership. The surgeon co-investigator will assess discogram results without
      knowledge of the CERSR test results. At the end of the study, PI interpretation will be
      joined with the database on subject status and patient outcome from diagnostic testing, as
      appropriate. Analysis will be performed with patients grouped according to their group status
      (C, U, DP, DN).Interpretation of Diagnostic Testing:A positive discogram will be determined
      following the Dallas protocol for abnormal morphology within the inner disc and the
      reproduction of exact pain or similar pain with disc pressurization.AnalysisAnalysis 1:
      Healthy (n=20) Unhealthy (n=20) Abormal CERSR False Positive Positive Normal CERSR Negative
      False Negative Analysis 2: Disco Positive(n = 20) Disco Negative(n = 20) Abnormal CERSR
      Positive False Positive Normal CERSR False Negative Negative Using the proprietary CERSR
      methods of analysis (max RMS, uniformity, centrality, organization) to classify patients into
      healthy, disc or other. Sensitivity, specificity and predictive values will be calculated for
      patients who are healthy versus those who have positive and negative CERSR tests. This
      analysis will establish the minimum boundaries of the CERSR technology and its ability to
      differentiate normal from unhealthy subjects as well as establish the generalizability of
      interpretation in the hands of this investigative group. A healthy subject whose CERSR test
      is identified as having characteristics of unhealthy patients will be classified as a false
      positive. Patients with suspected discogenic pain who fail to be classified by myoelectric
      patterns as unhealthy will be identified as having false negative tests. The second analysis
      will examine sensitivity, specificity and predictive values for differentiating discogenic
      pain generators from non-discogenic pain generators. Patients with positive CERSR tests for
      disc patterns of pain who are classified by discogram as being negative will be considered
      false positives. Patients with negative CERSR tests who are classified by discogram as being
      positive for discogenic pain will be considered false negatives. This test will distinguish
      the accuracy of pattern in separating discogenic pain from nondiscogenic sources.
    
  