
    
      STUDY DESIGN AND DURATION Project 1 and 2: This multi-site open-label exploratory clinical
      trial (phase IIb) on examination of the effects of non-invasive transcutaneous spinal cord
      stimulation will take place at the University of Calgary and, UBC, Canada. In a
      pseudo-randomized controlled 2×2 between-subject factorial design.

      Project 3: This is a multi-site open-label case study exploring the effects of invasive
      epidural spinal cord stimulation on a small number of individuals with spinal cord injury who
      underwent epidural implantation in Canada or abroad.

      Duration of study participation for each participant Eligible participants will be enrolled
      into the study. Four visits (1 screening session and 3 assessment + stimulation sessions) for
      project 1 and 21 visits during a month (1 "screening" session, 5 "assessment+ stimulation",
      and 15 "stimulation only" sessions) for Project 2 will be conducted. Eligible participants
      who are involved in Project 3 will make two separated visits to our laboratory: one screening
      session and one "assessment + stimulation" session.

      Briefly, the study involves the following:

      Project 1, 2, and 3, Visit 1: Screening Phase After providing informed consent, participants
      will be assigned a unique study number and will be then be assessed for study eligibility.
      Baseline assessments at this phase include a tilt-up test (to confirm orthostatic
      hypotension), administration of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment Scale, a take-home bladder
      and bowel diary (to monitor bladder incontinence and frequency of bowel movements), as well
      as a take-home Bristol Stool Scale (to monitor constipation). Prior to leaving the site,
      participants will then be equipped with a 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitor in order
      to establish a baseline parameter of severity and frequency of spontaneous episodes of
      autonomic dysfunction and orthostatic hypotension.

      Project 1, Visits 2- 4 Participants that meet preliminary eligibility requirements will
      undergo baseline measurements including sympathetic skin responses, cerebral blood flow
      measurement, cardiovascular monitoring and blood tests (to measure catecholamine level in
      serum before, during, immediately after tilt up test).

      Participants will complete questionnaires, which will establish baseline parameters for
      self-reported assessments of severity and frequency of autonomic dysfunction, bladder
      incontinence, and neurogenic bowel Score.

      In this randomized crossover study, participants will randomly receive one session of
      mid-thoracic non-invasive transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation, lumbosacral non-invasive
      transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation or field block anesthesia. Cardiovascular and
      neurological outcomes will be measured immediately after stimulation. The stimulation
      sessions will be separated by at least 72 hours to avoid any interference carry-over effects
      at each stimulation site. non-invasive transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation is approved
      under protocols: UBC-Protocol 06 24 14 ca; UCLA, CA - IRB# 14-000158-CR- 00002.

      Project 2, Visit 1, Screening Phase After providing the informed consent form for this part
      of the study (long-term application of Non-invasive Transcutaneous Spinal Cord Stimulation),
      participants will undergo baseline assessment (explained above) to record severity and
      frequency of spontaneous episodes of autonomic dysfunction and orthostatic hypotension.
      participants will be asked to participate in stimulation sessions for four consecutive weeks,
      with five one-hour sessions of stimulation per week.

      Project 2, Visit 2: Baseline measurement and first stimulation session Participants will
      return 72 hours after the screening phase (explained above). All neurological and
      cardiovascular outcomes will be measured before applying the first stimulation session.
      Outcomes will be measured in two positions: a) Supine, b) ~ 70° upright tilt-test, executed
      in a random order. Participants will then be pseudo-randomized (1:1) to one of the
      stimulation conditions: 1) Mid-thoracic or 2) Lumbosacral stimulation to receive 60-minute
      stimulation. Total anticipated time is 3-4 hours including set-up and stimulation.

      Project 2, Visits 3 to 20: Stimulation sessions Participants will return to the clinic 24
      hours after the first stimulation. All stimulation parameters are identical. Total
      anticipated time is 2 hours including set-up and one-hour of stimulation. No cardiovascular
      or neurological outcome will be measured during visits 3 to 20. At the end of 6th, 11th,
      16th, and 21st stimulation sessions, neurological bowel Score and the Montreal Cognitive
      Assessment will be performed. Participants will be sent home with bladder, bowel, and sexual
      function assessment questionnaires.

      All visits will include one tilt-up test with no stimulation, and one with the specific
      stimulation for that condition, executed in a random order.

      Project 2, Visit 21: Last stimulation session and post-intervention outcome measurement In
      the last visit, participants will receive the last stimulation session, and the
      cardiovascular and neurological outcome will be measured before and immediately after
      stimulation. Cardiovascular outcomes measured before and after last stimulation session in
      two positions: a) Supine and b) ~ 70° upright tilt-test, executed in a random order.

      Project 3, Visit 2 For invasive epidural spinal cord stimulation, only individuals who have
      previously been implanted with an epidural stimulator will be invited to participate.
      Participants will undergo one "assessment + stimulation" session.The the instructions which
      are approved under protocols UBC-Protocol 06 24 14 ca; Louisville, KY - IRB Number: 14.0738;
      Minnesota, MN - IRB Number: 4697-B, USA Veteran's Affairs: IRB Number: 16-4115 will be
      followed. Outcomes will be measured before and immediately after stimulation. Total
      anticipated time is 3-4 hours including set-up and all assessments which can be completed in
      one day.

      PROCEDURES AND ASSESSMENTS

      Project 1, 2, and 3, Visit 1: Screening Phase

      A screening assessment to determine study eligibility will be performed during this visit.
      After the participant has provided informed consent, he/she will be assigned a unique study
      number and the following information will be collected:

        -  Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria

        -  Medical History

        -  Demographic information

        -  Weight and height

        -  Concomitant Medication and Procedures

        -  Previous allergies and adverse events to medications

      The following procedures will be conducted:

        -  Self-reported American Spinal Injury Association Impairment Scale

        -  Autonomic assessment of baseline blood pressure and heart rate and orthostatic
           instability (i.e., Tilt up test)

        -  Pregnancy test by a Pregnancy Test Kit (Women of Child Bearing Potential)

        -  Administration of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment.

      The following take home material will be provided:

        -  Bladder and Bowel Diary (to collect three days of information on incontinence and
           frequency)

        -  Bristol Stool Scale (to collect 3 days of information on stool consistency) Project 1,
           Visits 2 to 4, Project 2, Visits 2 & 21, and Project 3, Visit 2

      The following information will be collected:

        -  Confirmation of Eligibility

        -  Completed Bladder and Bowel Diary provided at Visit 1

        -  Completed Bristol Stool Scale provided at Visit 1

      The following questionnaires will be administered:

        -  Self-reported assessments of severity and frequency of autonomic dysfunction

        -  Adverse Events following electrical stimulation

        -  Bladder incontinence

        -  Neurogenic bowel Score

        -  Female Sexual Distress Scale and Female Sexual Function Index, females only

        -  International Index of Erectile Function-15, males only

      The following procedures will be conducted:

        -  Blood tests to measure Catecholamine level in serum before, during, immediately after
           tilt up test.

        -  24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitor

        -  Sympathetic skin responses Test

        -  Continuous beat-to-beat measurement of Systolic Blood Pressure, Diastolic Blood
           Pressure, and Mean Blood Pressure from right finger

        -  Every minute blood pressure from left Brachial artery Project 2, Visits 6, 11, and 16

        -  Completed Bladder and Bowel Diary provided at Visit 5, 11, and 15

        -  Completed Bristol Stool Scale provided at Visit 5, 11, and 15

        -  Self-reported assessments of severity and frequency of autonomic dysfunction

        -  Bladder incontinence

        -  Neurogenic bowel Score

        -  Female Sexual Distress Scale and Female Sexual Function Index, females only

        -  International Index of Erectile Function-15, males only

        -  Adverse Events questionnaire following electrical stimulation For all visits other than
           the screening phase, participants will be asked to abstain from drugs that directly
           influence their blood pressure, (e.g., midodrine, fludrocortisone, nifedipine).

      Patients will also be asked to arrive having not exercised vigorously for the past 24 hours
      and to have abstained from caffeine, alcohol, cannabis, and withhold medications for the
      previous 12 hours and to consume a light breakfast. Upon arrival to the laboratory,
      participants were asked to empty their bladders to minimize the influence of reflex
      sympathetic activation on peripheral vascular tone.

      Non-invasive Transcutaneous Spinal Cord Stimulation The non-invasive transcutaneous spinal
      cord stimulation will be performed within the scope of the previously approved ethics by UCLA
      (45). A stimulator will be utilized for one hour of stimulation. Transcutaneous stimulation
      will be applied using a self-adhesive cathode electrode with a diameter of 30 mm placed on
      the skin between the TVII and TVIII spinous processes (approximately corresponding to the T8
      spinal segment) at the midline over the vertebral column. For lumbosacral non-invasive
      transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation, the cathode will be placed on the skin between the LI
      and LII spinous processes (approximately corresponding to the L2/3 to S4/5) at the midline
      over the vertebral column. Two self-adhesive anode electrodes with a size of 5 × 9 cm will be
      symmetrically located on the skin over the iliac crests. Based on previous works it is expect
      that stimulation will be delivered at 30 Hz as monophasic, 1-ms pulses, to provide afferent
      input to the region of the spinal cord where sympathetic preganglionic neuron cell bodies are
      located (24). The current will be increased from 10 mA until blood pressure is normalized.
      Skin temperature will be monitored in the vicinity of the stimulating electrodes with skin
      temperature probes.

      In invasive epidural spinal cord stimulation, the use of use of stimulator is associated with
      some risks, including lead migration causing changes in stimulation or reduced functional
      benefit, lead breakage, over or under stimulation, battery failure, persistent pain at
      stimulation site, unpleasant sensation or motor disturbance, spinal cord pressure at
      stimulation site, In non-invasive transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation, again, no adverse
      event is expected as only parameters and electrodes approved by Health Canada will be
      utilized in this study. Also, skin temperature for potential irritation will be monitored
      frequently. Stimulation could elicit autonomic dysfunction, however so far autonomic
      dysfunction has not been directly observed in the published non-invasive transcutaneous
      spinal cord stimulation studies. Furthermore, cessation in stimulation immediately reduces
      blood pressure, and blood pressure closely will be measured during procedures. In case of
      adverse events, the participant's primary physician would be notified as needed.

      Subjects who choose to participate in this trial will be required to give a significant
      commitment to this study without the guarantee of any benefit. The risks associated with this
      study are warranted in humans because of the potential direct benefit of the study
      participants and the spinal cord injury community.

      Monitoring during experiment Participants will be continuously monitored for any signs of
      risks or discomfort. As mentioned, cardiovascular signals such as blood pressure and heart
      rate will be measured frequently. For non-invasive transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation,
      skin temperature will be additionally measured. If adverse events occur the testing session
      will be immediately discontinued. If any complications arise, the experiment will be
      immediately stopped. In addition, the participant's primary care provider will be notified as
      necessary if serious adverse events occur.

      Data from an autonomic assessment of individuals included in ongoing clinical trials at
      Foothills Medical Centre (Calgary) and Vancouver General Hospital (Vancouver) with invasive
      epidural spinal cord stimulation or/and non-invasive transcutaneous spinal cord stimulation
      after spinal cord injury will be analyzed at Phillips Lab at University of Calgary or within
      ICORD (UBC). Furthermore, individuals who underwent implantation surgery, either at the
      above-mentioned study centers or elsewhere, (i.e. as part of a clinical trial or as treatment
      option), will be assessed and analyzed by Dr. Phillips Lab research team or at ICORD.

      Finally, Dr. Phillips lab research team will examine individuals (healthy or following spinal
      cord injury) using transcutaneous stimulation. No invasive procedure will be carried out. All
      research protocols for the above-mentioned assessments have been previously approved by the
      respective research ethics boards at the University of Louisville, UCLA, the University of
      Minnesota, and UBC: UBC-Protocol 06 24 14 ca; Louisville, KY - IRB Number: 14.0738;
      Minnesota, MN - IRB Number: 4697-B, USA Veteran's Affairs: IRB Number: 16-4115.
    
  