
    
      Prehypertension is a predisposing condition for morbidity in hypertension and cardiovascular
      diseases. This has been defined as a systolic pressure from 120 to 139 mmHg or a diastolic
      pressure of 80-89 mm hg. The prevalence of this condition estimated to be at least 2 times
      higher than hypertension and those who have prehypertension 4 times more likely to progress
      to hypertension than normotensive people. Although, hypertension is a multi-factorial
      disease, lifestyle is associated mainly to its development. According to information,
      lifestyle changes may prevent more than 70% of primary hypertension and health education is a
      key strategy to promote lifestyle modification. Health education via electronic pathways such
      as mobile text messaging or virtual communities may provide more availability and adherence
      than printed media. Regarding lower costs of such electronic resources and continuity of
      interventions through these ways, assessing their effectiveness compared to a printed
      material may help health educators to choose proper methods for improve their educational
      attempts. Therefore, the current study aims to compare different tools for health education
      about healthy lifestyle in people with prehypertension. For this, educational interventions
      with similar content among 3 groups of people will be conducted (i.e., first group via mobile
      text messaging, second group using virtual communities, and third group by brochures as a
      printed media). A control group also will be considered without any intervention. Several
      phases are considered in the study. In phase 1 using health centers located in Qazvin city,
      people would be invited to a free screening program of prehypertension. Then, an eligible
      sample will be divided in three groups using a random allocation process (each one including
      100-150 people with prehypertension). The blood pressure and health promotion lifestyle
      profile II (HPLP II) will be measured before intervention. A standard educational content
      using approaches of lifestyle promotion defined in HPLP II would be available for
      intervention groups during a time period of 1 month concurrently. At final phase, one month
      after termination of intervention blood pressure as primary outcome and lifestyle changes
      along with self-efficacy for lifestyle modification as secondary outcomes will be measured.
      This study may suggest effective ways for health education which is applicable by health care
      professionals to promote health status among people at risk of hypertension.
    
  