
    
      Mantle cell lymphoma cell express a protein called CD20. Ibritumomab tiuxetan is an antibody
      targeted against CD20, which carries a radioactive material called 90-Yttrium. The
      radioactivity will be delivered to the cancer cells by the antibody will help killing the
      mantle cell lymphoma cells. Before treatment starts, patients will have a physical exam,
      including blood and urine test. Patients will have a chest x-ray and CT scans of the abdomen
      and pelvis. Bone marrow samples will be taken with a large needle. A cardiogram (EKG) will be
      performed before therapy and after 1 and 3 months of therapy.

      Patients in this study will receive one dose of rituximab in the vein over 6 to 8 hours on
      the first day of treatment. This will be followed by an infusion of antibody labeled with
      radioactive indium, which will allow imaging of the tumor sites and normal tissue site that
      will bind the antibody.

      Imaging will be performed twice in the nuclear medicine department of Day 1, and once on
      either Day 2 or 3. On day 8 (7 days after the first dose of rituximab), patients will receive
      a second dose of rituximab. This will immediately be followed by a dose of Ibritumomab
      tiuxetan given by vein over ten minutes. Patients will receive diphenhydramine (Benadryl) by
      vein and mouth and acetaminophen (Tylenol) by mouth before each dose of rituximab. This is
      done to prevent fever and chills. All treatments will be given in an outpatient setting.

      Blood test will be taken weekly during the first 3 months, the every 3 months for 1 year, and
      then every 6 months for 3 years. CT scans, x-rays, and bone marrow biopsies will be repeated
      if needed after 3 months of therapy and every 3 months for 1 years, then every 6 months for 3
      years. If tumors do not shrink after 3 months of therapy or increase in size, patients will
      be offered a different treatment.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 35 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  