
    
      The study is a prospective cohort study, and its subjects are childbearing couples who are
      seeking assisted reproductive technologies for having a baby in the reproductive center in
      Tongji Hospital.

        1. All enrolled couples will be needed to sign an informed consent and complete a
           questionnaire for collecting information about demographics, life-style, and medical and
           reproductive histories.

        2. Biological samples will be collected from the participants to measure phthalates
           metabolites in order to evaluate the exposure of single person or the couple in
           different time phase.The samples include urine, blood that will be left after the
           hormones measurement for both spouses. The follicular fluid will be obtained from
           females on the day of oocyte retrieval. The left sperm samples after sperm analysis will
           be obtained from men. In the reproductive center of Tongji Hospital, hormone measurement
           for women and sperm analysis for men are required for the In vitro fertilization and
           embryo transfer in order to evaluate the fertility of couples.And the blastocyst culture
           medium will be obtained from couples after blastocyst transfer. All samples will be
           stored at -80℃ until further analysis.

        3. Measurements of phthalates metabolites in the biological samples.

        4. Collecting data from electronic medical records and follow-up.The basic information,
           clinical data and reproductive outcomes of the subjects will be collected by reviewing
           the electronic medical charts, including the height, weight, basic hormone levels,
           stimulation protocol and time, insemination protocol, fertilization rate, cleavage rate,
           excellent embryo rate, blastocyst formation rate, clinical pregnancy rate, as well as
           live birth rate，the newborns' height, weight, and gestational age, etc.

        5. Analyze the miRNA expression profiles of blastocyst culture medium.

        6. Statistical analysis. The investigators will analyze the association between the
           couples' phthalates exposure levels and the reproductive outcomes, and explore the
           association among periconceptional phthalates exposure, epigenetic changes and
           reproductive outcomes.
    
  