
    
      Cancer is the most common cause of death in Taiwan since 1982. The incidence of cancer is
      increasing worldwide, including Taiwan. Cancers in early stage can usually treated with
      surgery with a good prognosis. However, the prognosis for recurrent, locally advanced or
      metastatic cancers are poor with a shorter survival. Systemic treatments are usually
      indicated for these patients. Chemotherapy is the main stay for advanced cancer patients.
      However, the advances in the understanding of cancer biology and identification of targeted
      therapeutics not only increase the treatment strategies of cancer but also improves the
      survival and quality of life of the cancer patients. There are more and more molecularly
      targeted therapy developed and approved for the treatment of advanced cancer patients
      currently, which makes the beginning of precision cancer medicine. There are more and more
      treatments can be used based on the genetic aberrations of the cancers. Because one cancer
      type may habor various genetic aberrations, it is not enough to check only one or a few genes
      for a patient to choose the adequate treatment. Because the advance in multiplex genomic
      test, several NGS-based cancer-associated genetic panel test (oncopanel) have been developed
      and used to identify the genetic alterations in each patient, particularly the actionable
      genes. Large scale checks of oncopanel have been executed in US. The study showed the genetic
      alterations in various cancer types and 11% of the patients had further molecular targeted
      therapy based on the result of the oncopanel test. The similar program was done in Japan.
      Moreover, the oncopanel test have been implicated in their clinical practice and the cost was
      reimbursed by the government in Japan and Korea recently. The precision medicine and such
      personalized treatment is the trend for cancer treatment. The trend of such treatment
      patterns is also observed in Taiwan. The genetic background for cancer treatment may also be
      different among different areas and races. There is lack of Taiwanese data of genetic
      alterations in cancer patients. To understand the landscape of genetic aberrations of cancer
      in Taiwan, large scale survey of the cancer patients is indicated. In this pilot study, the
      investigators want to evaluate the landscape of genetic aberrations in cancer patients via
      oncopaenl test and collect the clinical data of the patients. The result of the oncopanel
      test will be returned to patient and their attending physician for reference of their further
      treatment. In addition, the investigators want to correlate the clinical outcome with the
      genetic aberrations of the cancer patients in Taiwan. Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST)
      is a rare cancer compared with the other solid tumors. C-KIT or PDGFRA mutation is found in
      approximately 85-90% of GISTs. Imatinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting c-KIT, has
      been used to treat advanced GIST successfully since 2000. However, resistance to imatinib may
      develop either via secondary mutation of c-KIT or primary resistance to those with wild type
      c-KIT and PDGFRA. Although sunitinib and regorafenib have been approved as second and third
      line of treatment for advanced GIST, the progression free survival were only 6.8 and 4.8
      months, respectively. The genetic landscape of GIST with wild type c-KIT and PDGFRA was less
      studied. In the current study, wthe investigators want to focus on the GISTs with wild type
      c-KIT and PDGFRA to perform the NGS oncopanel for these patients. Then the investigators can
      understand the genetic aberrations of these patients (wild type GIST) and help for searching
      the potential treatment targets to the participants.
    
  