
    
      Dizziness is a common condition that is responsible for a significant degree of material
      morbidity and burden on our health service. There are multiple causes of dizziness, and these
      originate from pathologies affecting a large variety of different organ systems. Dizziness is
      usually episodic and short-lived, so when a patient presents to their health care provider,
      examination is often normal. As such, diagnosis is challenging and patients often experience
      significant delay in receiving a diagnosis. We have developed a device for monitoring
      dizziness and in 2018 we evaluated the device by undertaking a clinical trial involving
      healthy volunteers. Following the promising results from the first trial, we will conduct a
      second trial in 2019 on patients suffering from dizziness.

      During the healthy volunteer trial, a minor issue was encountered relating to long-term daily
      wear of the device's electrode pads. Specifically, nine participants reported varying degrees
      of skin redness and inflammation beneath their electrode pads, mostly occurring after around
      two weeks of wear. The issue was self-limiting and resolved after a few days of non-wear. The
      team worked closely with a consultant dermatologist in order to monitor and manage this
      adverse event.

      Since the issue was identified, the team has consulted with a number of people with relevant
      expertise in order to determine the causes of the issue and to find the most viable solution.
      Based on these discussions, we propose that the causes of this issue were due to a
      combination of wear duration, and/or repeated removal, and/or the specific type of electrode
      pad used. To confidently identify the cause of this issue and to evaluate a number of
      possible solutions, we intend to undertake a trial to evaluate the tolerability of
      alternative electrode pads and different patterns of wear.
    
  