
    
      The Emphysema/COPD Research Center will enroll up to 3000 subjects at the University of
      Pittsburgh. The experimental procedures that will be conducted as a part of the Emphysema
      Research Registry include gathering basic personal information (e.g., name, address, phone
      number, etc.), asking basic screening questions (which may involve the examination of past,
      current, and future medical records with an authorized release and the collection of
      personally identifiable medical record information), completing two breathing questionnaires,
      performing screening lung function tests to determine breathing capacity and blood oxygen
      levels, to have blood drawn, to complete a measurement of leg muscle strength, and to have a
      measurement of body fat.

      The breathing questionnaires are known as the St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ),
      the Medical Research Council Dyspnea Questionnaire (MRCDQ) and COPD assessment Test (CAT).
      These are paper and pencil questionnaires that inquire about respiratory symptoms, quality of
      life, and shortness of breath.

      Breathing tests are routine clinical tests that measure lung function; spirometry (measures
      the ability to move air in and out of the lungs), lung volumes (measures the amount of air
      trapped in the lungs), diffusing capacity (measures how well lungs transfer oxygen to blood),
      forced oscillometry testing (measures respiratory resistance), and pulse oximetry (measures
      blood oxygen levels). In addition, subjects will be asked to inhale two puffs of albuterol,
      which is an inhaled medicine (bronchodilator) that may open up breathing passages, and to
      repeat some of the breathing tests.

      The initial blood work will consist of two samples. The first sample will examine routine
      tests such as blood chemistries (such as sodium and potassium), hemoglobin, blood count, and
      blood sugar. The second sample will involve DNA testing. The DNA in your cells is what
      determines your genetic makeup. The DNA studies that will be done for this Research Registry
      will be restricted to studies of genetics associated with COPD. The total amount of blood
      drawn will be 5 tablespoons or less. A separate consent form, Consent 2, addresses this
      second blood draw in detail. In addition to the initial blood draw, the participant will be
      asked to contact the center when they are experiencing a COPD exacerbation (increased cough,
      change in sputum, shortness of breath, etc.). At that time, the participant will be asked to
      either come to the clinic or allow a study coordinator to go to them and obtain an additional
      sample of blood. The total amount of this sample will be less than 2 tablespoons. Biologic
      samples (serum plasma) will be under the control of the principal investigator of this
      research project. To protect confidentiality, all personal identifiers (i.e. name, social
      security number, birth date) will be removed (de-identified) and replaced with a specific
      code number. The information linking these code numbers to the corresponding subjects'
      identities will be kept in a separate, secure location. The investigators on this study will
      keep the samples indefinitely. Biological samples may (or will or will not) be given to
      investigators outside of UPMC or may be utilized in future studies.

      Leg muscle strength will be measured using an isokinetic dynamometer (MERAC, Universal, Cedar
      Rapids, IA) in all subjects. Strength will be measured as peak angular force (Newton-m)
      generated at an angular velocity of 60ยบ/sec during three maximal continuous repetitions.
      Subjects will be provided standardized instructions and perform practice maneuvers to ensure
      smooth torque curves.

      Body fat testing, also known as Fat Free Mass (FFM) testing, will be measured using a single
      frequency bioelectrical impedance method in the supine position, as the mean of two
      measurements (one on each side of the body), using equipment previously used by the Emphysema
      Research Center (BIA 101/s RJL-Systems, Detroit, MI). The FFM index will be calculated by
      dividing FFM by height in meters2 as an accurate measure of muscle mass.

      All study procedures including Informed Consent, breathing questionnaires, breathing tests,
      blood work, leg muscle strength testing, and body fat testing will be conducted at the
      Emphysema/COPD Research Center, located in Suite 1211, Kaufmann Building. The informed
      consent usually takes 30 minutes, the Patient Data Form will require 5 minutes to fill out,
      the two breathing questionnaires will take 15 minutes, the screening lung function tests
      usually take less than 1 hour, the blood work will take 15 minutes, the leg muscle strength
      testing will take 10 minutes, and the body fat testing will take 5 minutes.

      The information from each subject will be entered into the Emphysema Research Registry. The
      information will be held here until a research protocol is developed or an outside
      investigator approaches Dr. Frank C. Sciurba. The information gathered (basic personal
      information, basic screening questions, breathing questionnaires, screening lung function
      tests, blood work, leg muscle strength, and body fat) will be updated periodically, based on
      investigator need.
    
  