
    
      Following the informed consent process, subjects will fill out a baseline questionnaire
      consisting of demographic information, visual analog scale (VAS) pain scores for neck and arm
      pain, and the Neck Disability Index Questionnaire (NDI).

      Following surgery, the surgeon will fill out an operative data collection sheet to record
      information such as: levels fused, type of instrumentation, pre- and post-operative sagittal
      alignment, and intra-operative complications (if applicable). Subjects will be randomized
      into the "collar" or "no collar" group immediately following surgery, using a computer
      generated randomization scheme, so as not to influence the surgeon's operative technique. If
      the patient is randomized to the "no collar" group, he or she will actually have a hard
      cervical collar placed in the operating room after surgery. This will remain in place for 1
      to 2 days and be discontinued prior to discharge. If the patient is randomized to the
      "collar" group, he or she will have the hard cervical collar placed after surgery. The collar
      will be removed/exchanged for bathing, grooming, and dressing changes only. It will remain in
      place for 12 weeks.

      The patient will undergo usual and customary clinical and radiographic follow-up. This
      includes physical examination and cervical radiographs taken at 2 weeks, 12 weeks, 6 month,
      and 1 year. VAS and Neck Disability Index scores will be obtained at the 2 week, 12 week, 6
      month, and 1 year follow-up visits. Radiographs will be assessed by a two independent
      radiologists for instrumentation failure (defined as any of the following: screw loosening,
      screw breakage, rod breakage, screw dislodgement) and fusion status. Solid fusion will be
      defined as bridging trabecular bone between or along the lateral masses/facet joints of the
      operated segments as assessed on a lateral cervical radiograph. In addition, the overall
      sagittal alignment of the spine will be measured. For the primary outcome of the study, final
      follow-up at 1 year would be considered satisfactory to determine differences in
      pseudarthrosis and instrumentation failure.
    
  