
    
      Frailty is a geriatric syndrome characterized by reduced homeostatic reserves, exposing the
      organism to extreme vulnerability to endogenous and exogenous stressors.

      Frailty is prevalent in older people and involves a progressive physiological decline of
      multiple body systems, typical signs and symptoms include weight loss, fatigue, muscle
      weakness, slow or unsteady gait declines in activity.

      Frailty is increasingly recognized as an important prognostic indicator in heart failure (HF)
      and is more prevalent in HF than the general population.

      The identification of frailty in its early stage is important because interventions may
      potentially prevent, or delay the clinical consequences of frailty.

      Of particular focus in this study will be walking speed as prior research has demonstrated
      that slow gait speed has the strongest prognostic ability of the traditional components used
      to assess frailty, and has been reported as one of the strongest to predict adverse outcomes,
      such as mobility disability, falls, or hospitalization.

      Also of interest is the detection of posture changes as this may have implications for
      detecting changes in sleeping habits and could also provide context for other biomarker
      signals collected by the LINQ device.

      The literature has been reviewed and the scientific soundness of the proposed analytical
      techniques evaluated. The rationale for this study design is to evaluate the feasibility of
      using the Reveal LINQ™ to monitoring walking patterns.

      HF patients (the target population for the study in discussion) would make it possible to
      test the sensitivity of the accelerometer embedded in the LINQ device in a small cohort of
      subjects with reduced mobility and for which frailty is more prevalent than the general
      population, as well as recognized as an important prognostic indicator.

      No risk to the subjects is expected with this study.
    
  