
    
      Advanced (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) COPD is a condition with a negative
      prognosis that causes symptoms such as wheezing and fatigue that dramatically reduce the
      quality of life of the person with the disease.

      Typically, the advanced stage of COPD is characterized by a fluctuating pattern and recurrent
      hospitalizations, and by a vicious circle in which dyspnoea increases and exercise tolerance
      reduces, which in turn causes depression and associated social isolation, low quality of life
      and increased risk of death.

      Muscle dysfunction in these patients contributes together with dynamic hyperinflation to
      increased fatigue and dyspnoea during exercise, leading to early interruption of exertion,
      before reaching maximum aerobic capacity.

      The European and American guidelines of the American Thoracic Society / European Respiratory
      Society relating to the patient with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) emphasize
      the need for the patient to undergo Respiratory Rehabilitation (RR) programs. The RR should
      include training programs as they improve exercise capacity, dyspnoea and quality of life
      more than programs that do not include training.

      However, although there are many studies referring to the benefits of physical exercise in
      patients with COPD with mild to moderate severity, the recent guidelines provide few
      recommendations for types of training and its efficacy for patients with advanced disease
      that have already developed Chronic Respiratory Failure (CRF) and use of Long Term Oxygen
      Therapy (LTOT).

      Thanks to a retrospective study on 1047 patients, the Authors have previously shown that
      patients with COPD with CRF respond to a rehabilitation program (in terms of exercise
      tolerance, blood gases, dyspnoea and quality of life) as well as COPD patients without CRF.

      A recent meta-analysis conducted by Paneroni et al. supports the effectiveness of exercise in
      improving quality of life and functional capacity in patients with severe COPD (FEV1 <35%),
      with or without CRF. The study showed that so far the training proposed to these patients is
      mainly of moderate intensity endurance and performed primarily through the continuous use of
      exercise bikes or free walking. In a similar way to patients with moderate or mild severity,
      the setting of the exercise was mainly proposed using a speed or a load that approximates
      around 70% of the maximum value reached in an incremental test.

      Regarding the type of exercise to be used in patients with COPD, several recent papers
      suggest the opportunity to use the interval training even in high intensity. The purpose of
      the High Interval Training is to repeatedly stress the cardio-respiratory and muscular
      system, above "what is normally required for normal activities, through" bouts of high
      intensity and short duration exercise".

      In subjects with COPD this type of training could guarantee a delay in the development of the
      dynamic hyperinflation mechanism typical of the pathology, and could guarantee greater
      physiological modifications with respect to the classical submaximal continuous training.
      Despite some physiological studies have tested this effect, the results of the clinical
      application of these interventions appear - in subjects with moderate COPD - similar to that
      obtained with continuing training. However, the protocols proposed to date appear to be
      diversified in terms of approach, especially concerning intensity and duration of the active
      and passive phases.

      To our knowledge, no study have been performed in COPD with CRF patients to evaluate the
      effects of High Interval Training compared to continuous submaximal training and no protocols
      on different interval trianing have been compared. Indeed, studies conducted on healthy
      subjects or on other pathologies, show how the interval training protocol induces, in a
      specific and diversified way, physiological modifications to the cardio-respiratory and
      muscular systems.

      In patients with respiratory failure with marked muscular dysfunction and associated systemic
      changes (systemic inflammation, vascular changes, pulmonary hypertension, right heart
      failure, etc.), the evaluation of the best training program would reinforce the
      rehabilitative indications not yet fully proposed in the Guidelines. Moreover, the evaluation
      of the response to different training stimuli could provide important information on the
      reversibility of the intolerance to the effort in this patient population.
    
  