
    
      This study will be a double-blind randomized controlled trial, parallel in two groups
      (intervention group and sham). Participants will initially be evaluated by a trained
      investigator who will be blinded and assigned randomly (random numbers generated on the
      computer) block for the intervention and sham groups by an opaque envelope draw. Participants
      will be randomized into two groups: intervention and sham. Both groups will undergo a
      kinesiotherapy program once a week for 6 consecutive weeks.

      Also, participants in the intervention group will receive, once a week, a manual therapy
      protocol, while participants in the Sham group will receive traditional massage. When making
      the invitation to participate in the survey, individuals will not be required to participate
      if they do not agree, and therefore will not be penalized. Participants who agree to
      participate in the survey will sign a Free and Informed Consent Form and will be informed of
      the possibility of withdrawing from the survey at any stage, without penalty. The collection
      of the evaluation and intervention will be carried out in a salon Clinic School of
      Physiotherapy in the Center of Health and Sports Sciences (CEFID) of the State University of
      Santa Catarina (UDESC) in the city of Florianópolis- SC. All personal identification data of
      the participants will be preserved according to resolution of the national health council,
      taking into account the possibility of scientific dissemination of the results obtained. The
      risks of these procedures will be medium, since the participant may present muscle pain after
      the intervention protocol. To minimize these risks will be available, if necessary,
      attendance at the Clinic School of Physiotherapy. The sample will be selected in a
      non-probabilistic way for convenience. This study will include women diagnosed with breast
      cancer who have undergone breast surgery with curative intent and who have completed
      chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy treatments.
    
  