
    
      There is not a consensus definition of immunologic nonresponder individuals. In this study,
      we described patients whose cluster of differentiation 4（CD4)+ T-cell count remained below
      200 cells/ul after 2 years of effective antiviral as immunologic nonresponders, in which
      viroimmunological dissociation implies a greater risk of AIDS related and non-AIDS-related
      illnesses. Immune-based therapy such as interleukin (IL)-2 and IL-7 have been shown to
      increase CD4 T-cell counts but yielded no clinical benefit in a large randomized study. We
      have reported that umbilical cord Tissue Mesenchymal Stem Cells (UC-MSC) treatment is safe
      and can significantly decrease systemic immune overactivation and improve immune
      reconstitution in INR patients. Meanwhile, we did not find that there was a significantly
      transitory increase in peripheral CD4 T-cell counts within 1-2 weeks since the onset of each
      MSC infusion. More important, umbilical cord-MSCs were found to be with a potential to
      produce IL-7 and T-cell growth factor transforming growth factor (TGF)-β in vitro and in vivo
      and preferentially expand CD4 T-cell response in the recipients. Therefore, development of
      novel interventions to reduce immune overactivation/inflammation and enhance immune
      reconstitution in INRs is a high priority.

      Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized donor peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells (MNCs) are a heterogeneous population of immune cells that have a potential role in
      immunomodulation and hemopoiesis. Here, we hypothesized that human leukocyte antigen
      (HLA)-mismatched MNCs transfusion can be used to comprehensively restore or boost the host
      holistic immune system for INR patients, to the degree similar as immune responders.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the safety and initial efficacy of allogeneic
      adoptive immune therapy (AAIT) for INR patients. 20 INR patients received i.v. transfusion
      one round (3 times) of 2.0-3.0*10E8 cells/kg of MNCs as the treated group. All of them
      received the conventional treatment for AIDS. The CD4 T cell numbers, HIV reservoir, side
      effects, symptom improvement, control of opportunistic infections and will be evaluated
      during the 96-week follow up.
    
  