
    
      Determination of cardiac output (CO) is often desirable for assessing a patient's hemodynamic
      condition during the surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass. However, the current methods
      of continuous CO measurement are still based on invasive technique, such as thermodilution
      via pulmonary artery catheter (Swan-Ganz), transpulmonary thermodilution via PiCCO kit, or
      pulse contour analysis via arterial line (FloTrac or PiCCO). Noninvasive CO measurement to
      all patients is currently impractical, because most measurement methods available are based
      on invasive techniques. However, two developing trends for this kind of monitor had occurred.
      There are one shifting toward noninvasive technologies and the other trend toward continuous
      measurement rather than intermittent measurement. Therefore, continuous CO (CCO) monitoring
      with less invasive would be desirable.

      The pulse contour method is one of the technologies used for min-invasive monitoring of CO.
      It is based on the relationship between arterial blood pressure and stroke volume and has
      been greatly improved since early 1950s. Arterial waveform-based CO is frequently used in
      current medical practice, but it still requires arterial puncture. Pulse wave transit time
      has been proven to have good correlation with stroke volume. Pulse wave transit time consists
      of a pre-ejection period, pulse wave transit time through the artery, and pulse wave transit
      time through the peripheral arteries, which compensates for the effect of changes in systemic
      vascular resistance (SVR). Based on the relationship between pulse wave transit time and
      stroke volume, the noninvasive device, estimated CCO (esCCO), via measuring electrocardiogram
      (ECG), pulse oximeter wave, and arterial blood pressure had been developed by Sugo et al.. It
      has the great advantage to simplify CO measurement by combining the results of these familiar
      noninvasive monitoring techniques. Thus, it may be a useful technique for optimizing medical
      treatment.

      In one previous study, esCCO was compared with continuous thermodilution CO (TDCO),
      measurements in 36 postoperative cardiac surgery patients, showing a bias (mean difference)
      of -0.06 and a precision (1 SD) of 0.82 L/min. In addition, esCCO was compared with
      intermittent bolus TDCO, showing a correlation coefficient of 0.82 (P < 0.001, n = 24), a
      bias of -0.63, and a precision of 1.01 L/min (n = 119). The results of clinical use of esCCO
      suggest that its measurement accuracy is comparable to the thermodilution method in general
      population. However, no any intraoperative comparison for cardiac surgery patients was
      reported before. This study is designed for the accuracy in the patients undergoing cardiac
      surgery.

      Specific aims

        1. To investigate the correlation of esCCO and the traditional CO measurement in cardiac
           surgical patients.

        2. To investigate the intraoperative t accuracy of time point between ecCCO and traditional
           CO measurement for patients undergoing bypass cardiac surgery.
    
  