
    
      During the early 1980s, human plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccines were developed in China.
      The production of these vaccines has not been adequate to meet China's need. Since the
      introduction of recombinant vaccines which can be produced in large quantity, at low cost,
      the emphasis has been placed on a search for a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine. This vaccine
      is thought to be safe, immunogenic, particularly in infants born to carrier mothers. Since
      1992, the 5mcg recombinant hepatitis B vaccine has been used as one of the vaccines in the
      expanded immunization programs (People's Republic of China). The 5ug recombinant hepatitis B
      vaccine (yeast) is efficacious in short time but not to persistent in neonates. The primary
      safety objective of this study is to assess the safety of 10 mcg recombinant hepatitis B
      vaccine in the chinese health neonates. The primary immunogenicity objective is to assess the
      antibody response following 3 doses immunization of the 10 mcg experimental dose and 10, 5
      mcg control dose, Participants will include up to 1740 healthy neonates.

      The primary safety objective of this study is to assess the safety of 10 mcg recombinant
      hepatitis B vaccine in the Chinese health neonates. The primary immunogenicity objective is
      to assess the antibody response following 3 doses immunization of the 10 mcg experimental
      dose and 10 or 5 mcg control dose, Participants will include up to 1740 healthy neonates.
      This is a randomized, double-blinded, Phase III study. This study is designed to investigate
      the safety, reactogenicity, and immunogenicity of 10ug recombinant hepatitis B vaccine
      (yeast). Subjects will be stratified by the mother with positive for both HBsAg and HBeAg,
      positive for the surface antigen but negative for HBeAg, negative for the HBsAg and HBeAg and
      HBeAb and HBcAb.

        -  Stratified 1: There are 180 neonates born to the mother with positive for both HBsAg and
           HBeAg will be randomized into two groups according to the ratio of 2:1. 120 subjects
           will receive the 10 mcg experimental vaccine and 60 subjects will receive 10 mcg control
           vaccine respectively.

        -  Stratified 2: There are 360 neonates born to the mother with positive for HBsAg but
           negative for HBeAg will be randomized into two groups according to the ratio of 2:1. 240
           subjects will receive the 10 mcg experimental vaccine and 120 subjects will receive 10
           mcg control vaccine respectively.

        -  Stratified 3: There are 1200 neonates born to the mother with negative for the HBsAg and
           HBeAg and HBeAb and HBcAb will be randomized into 3 groups. 600 of them will receive the
           10mcg experimental vaccine. 300 subjects will receive 10mcg control vaccine. And the
           other 300 subjects will receive 5mcg control vaccine.

      All these neonates will have the vaccination within 24 hours after born. The recombinant
      hepatitis B vaccine will be administered at m0, 1 and 6. Following each immunization, safety
      will be measured by assessment of adverse events through 30 days following each vaccination,
      serious adverse events and new-onset chronic medical conditions through 6 months post the
      final vaccination (Day 180 after last vaccination). For the immunogenicity testing will apply
      the chemiluminescence immunoassay on serum obtained on the day 0, 210 and 360 after born.
    
  