
    
      The aims: 1. Identification in a population-based cohort of elderly women the occurrence of
      vertebral fractures, back pain and their impact on quality of life.

      2. To study the effect of treatment with a functional activating orthotic and physiotherapy
      in an equipment training group, both in comparison with a control group, on the perceived
      pain, back extensor muscle strength, quality of life, balance and incidence of falls, lung
      function and kyphosis.

      3. Qualitative study of how participants experienced treatment and exercise in an activating
      orthotic. The investigators hypothesis was that a functional orthotic could be a
      complementary treatment method that could reduce the use of analgesics and increase the
      quality of life.

      The purpose of the study was to evaluate the effect of treatment of back pain in elderly
      women with an activating spinal orthotic versus treatment with a physiotherapy equipment
      training group and a control group for a six-month treatment period and a follow-up six
      months after the end of treatment. The aim was also to identify the occurrence of vertebral
      fractures in a cohort of elderly women and to investigate their perceived quality of life.

      Background: Osteoporosis is a condition in the skeleton that is characterized by reduced bone
      density and an increased risk of fractures [1]. Back pain and osteoporosis with vertebral
      fractures are common conditions in elderly women that significantly affect their quality of
      life. Vertebral fractures are the most common type of osteoporotic fracture [2]. Vertebral
      fractures are underdiagnosed and are a major problem. It is estimated that only one third of
      vertebral fractures are clinically detected [3]. The lifetime risk for a Swedish
      postmenopausal woman to get a clinically detected vertebral fracture is approximately 15%
      [4].

      In the acute phase, a vertebral fracture is very painful and in the aftermath the vertebral
      fracture often leads to chronic back pain, increased kyphosis mainly located to the thoracic
      and lumbar spine, reduction in body height and impaired lung function. There exists a
      correlation between increased kyphosis and increased risk of falls [5]. Vertebral fractures
      can affect important daily activities and provide a lower health-related quality of life
      [6-8].

      Treatment with bone-specific drugs does not relieve the back pain caused by the vertebral
      fractures despite improvement in the state of the disease. The kyphosis also affects lung
      function, and the effects of the kyphosis itself have previously been considered as very
      severe.

      An important part in the treatment of patients with osteoporosis is physical therapy with an
      equipment training group. The goal is to maintain or increase mobility, strength and balance
      that can improve health-related quality of life and prevent fractures. Training of the back
      extensor muscles have shown to have a positive impact on health-related quality of life,
      reduce back pain, and training could also affect fear of falling positively [5, 9].

      A German randomized controlled study from 2004 and one from 2011 has shown a positive effect
      of treatment with an activating spinal orthotic on body posture, back extensor muscular
      strength and quality of life in elderly women with osteoporosis and vertebral fractures [10,
      11]. It was shown that wearing the spinal orthotic, back extensor muscle strength was
      increased through biofeedback. Training with the spinal orthotic also resulted in a
      significant decrease of the kyphosis, which also affected lung function and body height
      positively.

      The investigators now intend, in a randomized controlled study, to compare training in an
      activating spinal orthotic with training in an equipment training group, led by a
      physiotherapist, to see if positive results can be obtained in reduced back pain, increased
      muscle strength in back extensor muscle, increasing mobility, and decreased kyphosis in the
      thoracic and lumbar spine. It can also lead to improved lung capacity, and further increased
      health-related quality of life. If the training method in the activating spinal orthotic
      appears to work, it would improve the possibilities to train and treat patients with
      osteoporosis, vertebral fractures and back pain.

      Design A. A cross-sectional study of cohort elderly women regarding the occurrence of
      vertebral fractures and their impact on health related quality of life and back pain.

      B. A randomized controlled study where the effect of treatment with an activating spinal
      orthotic is compared with training in an equipment training group led by a physiotherapist
      and with an untreated control group for a six-month treatment period and a follow-up six
      months after the end of the treatment period.

      C. A qualitative study with interviews in focus groups were the participating women may
      describe their experiences of training in an activating spinal orthotic and how they
      experience health related quality of life during the treatment period.

      Methods Cross-sectional study All 186 women who participated in the follow-up study of the
      Primos project, a population-based cohort study in Stockholm were invited to participate in
      the current study [12-15]. All these women have been re-examined clinically in a longitudinal
      follow-up study with bone density measurements of the hip, lumbar spine, whole body and heel,
      clinical risk markers for osteoporosis and metabolic disease, nutritional status and a
      balance tests in 2007-2009.

      Women interested in participating in the study got an invitation to a study visit. During the
      study visit, written and oral information about the study was being given and then the women
      signed an informed consent.

      Examinations in the cross sectional study

        1. Clinical examination of the back, assessment of kyphosis, body weight and height,
           assessment of quality of life with SF-36 (Short Form-36) Health Survey) [16, 17],
           Qualeffo-41(Quality of life questionnaire of the European Foundation for Osteoporosis)
           [18, 19, 20] and EQ-5D (EuroQol-5Dimensions) Manual Balance Test, assessment of Back
           Extensor muscle strength. Evaluation of hand grip strength with a JAMAR hydraulic hand
           dynamometer.

           Assessment of physical performance and back pain using questionnaires, VAS (Visual
           Analogue Scale) scale and Borg CR-10 (Categoric Rate). Previous frequency of falls. Use
           of drugs and analgesics. Examination with spirometry and PEF (Peak Expiratory Flow).

        2. Referral to X-ray of the thoracic and lumbar spine for assessment of the occurrence of
           vertebral fractures.

      Randomized controlled trial: The investigators expect to recruit at least 108 women,
      randomized to three treatment arms with approximately 36 women in each arm.

        1. Treatment with the activating spinal orthotic Spinomed (Medi-Bayreuth, Bayreuth
           Germany), maximum of two hours per day with gradual escalation of the time initially.
           Adaptation of the spinal orthotic is to be performed by an orthopedic technician.

        2. Equipment training group led by a physiotherapist once a week with a special training
           program tailored to elderly women with osteoporosis and back pain.

        3. Control group. Power calculation Primary endpoints in the treatment study are a change
           in experienced back pain, measured with VAS scale and Borg CR-10.

      With a sample size of 99 subjects, I e 33 women in each arm analyzed by ANOVA, 88% power at
      the alpha 5% level is able to detect if there is a difference between the groups. With a
      possible anticipated drop-out of about 10% of the participants during the study, the
      investigators have decided to include 36 women in each group, I e a total of 108 women.

      Recruitment

        1. Participation is offered to women aged ≥ 60 years from the Primos project.

        2. Recruitment through an invitation of women aged ≥ 60 years who participated in
           osteoporosis school in the last five years at Rehab City Kungsholmen.

        3. Recruitment through advertisements in daily newspapers and ads in appropriate web forums
           (eg website for the National Association of Osteoporotic ROP) Flow chart Baseline

      1. Clinical examination of the back, assessment of spinal curvature and of muscle strength of
      the back extensors, measurement of weight and height, assessment of health related quality of
      life with SF-36 [16, 17], Qualeffo-41 [18, 19, 20] and EQ-5D [21]. Manual balance test.
      Evaluation of hand grip strength with JAMAR dynamometer.

      Assessment of physical performance and perceived pain using questionnaires, VAS scales and
      Borg CR-10. Examination with spirometry and PEF. Assessment of previous falls during the last
      year and other risk factors for osteoporotic fractures. Use of drugs and analgesics.

      2. Referral to X-ray of the thoracic and lumbar spine for assessment of the occurrence of
      vertebral fractures. 3. Blood sample of 20 ml venous blood for analysis of substance P and
      CGRP (Calcitonin Gene Related Peptide) and IL-6 (Interleukin-6). Storage of samples: frozen
      in -70gr freezer until analyzes at a special research laboratory where one of the co-worker
      in the study is responsible for the analyzes.

      Collaboration with the same radiological clinic at Karolinska University Hospital Solna for
      all X-ray examinations.

      Follow-up after 1 month Pain drawing, pain measured by VAS-scale and Borg CR-10. For the
      spinal orthotic group adjustment of the spinal orthotic. Report of falls during last month.
      Use of drugs and analgesics.

      Visit 2 after 3 months Clinical examination: functional assessment of the back, muscle
      strength of the back extensors, hand grip strength with JAMAR, pain drawing, manual balance
      test, back pain measured by VAS scale and Borg CR-10, EQ-5D, SF-36, Qualeffo-41. Adjustment
      of spinal orthotic. Spirometry. Weight and height. Report of falls since visit 1. Use of
      drugs and analgesics.

      Visit 3 after 6 months Clinical examination: Functional assessment of the back. Manual
      balance test, muscle strength of the back extensors, grip strength with JAMAR, pain drawing,
      back pain measured by VAS-scale and Borg CR-10, EQ-5D, SF-36, Qualeffo-41. Spirometry. Weight
      and height. Assessment of spinal curvature. Report of falls since 3 month visit. Use of drugs
      and analgesics. Blood sample for substance P, IL-6 and CGRP analysis (Calcitonin Gene Related
      Peptide).

      Qualitative group interviews in the Spinomed groups, using a semi-structured interview guide
      will be performed after the participants have completed their participation in the RCT.

      Follow-up 12 months after study start Women in the group treated with the spinal orthotic
      Spinomed may continue to use the orthotic on their own initiative between 2 hours to a
      maximum of 4 hours per day, but without follow-up until after six months. Follow-up with
      reporting falls in a logbook once a week.

      Women in the equipment training group receive a home exercise program they can continue at
      home, but without follow-up until after six months Visit 4 six months after end of treatment
      Clinical examination: Functional assessment of the back, manual balance test, muscle strength
      of the back extensors, hand grip strength with JAMAR, pain drawing, back pain measured with
      VAS scale and Borg CR-10. EQ-5D, Qualeffo-41, SF-36, Spirometry, Weight and height. Falls
      frequency. Assessment of spinal curvature. Use of drugs and analgesics.
    
  