
    
      Data will be submitted to the Registry via electronic case report forms (eCRFs). Relevant
      datasets, such as historical trial data, claims, medical records, or central lab data will be
      electronically integrated into the Registry or Registry reporting data sets.

      Participants of all ages with a confirmed diagnosis of PK deficiency via genetic testing will
      be eligible to participate in this Registry. Diagnosis may be made on the basis of clinical
      features consistent with PK deficiency together with the presence of PKLR gene mutations
      (either compound heterozygote or homozygous recessive).

      Pyruvate kinase deficiency-relevant data will be entered by Registry Physicians or their
      designee for any and all participant visits. Disease parameters (eg, hemoglobin, reticulocyte
      counts), treatment and management options (splenectomy, transfusions, iron chelation, bone
      marrow transplant or pharmacological therapies) and resource utilization (eg,
      hospitalizations) will be evaluated to describe the natural history, treatments and outcomes,
      variability in clinical care and disease burden in patients with PK deficiency.

      As a longitudinal observational study, the PK deficiency Registry may also serve as a data
      collection platform to address specific research objectives that may emerge over the duration
      of the study.

      All data collection efforts will abide by this protocol and be prospectively disclosed in the
      Registry informed consent. If new assessments become of interest, they may be addressed via
      specific substudies (eg, patient-reported outcomes, biobanking), each requiring their own
      specific protocol and consent approved by Institutional Review Broad/Independent Ethics
      Committee (IRB/IEC).

      This Registry, with the appropriate participant (and or parent/guardian) consent/assent, may
      incorporate retrospective data from other properly consented studies done for the purpose of
      examining the longitudinal natural history of PK deficiency. As necessary, data integration
      plan(s) will be developed to allow efficient and fit-for-purpose integration of data from
      other studies or data sets into this Registry.

      Separate detailed statistical analysis plans (SAPs), addressing specific objectives, will be
      developed before the analyses during and at the end of the study. Due to the nature of the
      observational study, most statistical analyses will focus on descriptive statistics,
      including estimates and confidence intervals (CI) as appropriate. Additional statistical
      modeling of the data may be conducted. However any p-values reported for hypothesis testing
      will be considered exploratory and therefore hypothesis-generating by nature. All data will
      be analyzed as collected in the database. Missing data, in general, will not be imputed; the
      modeling, eg, repeated measures mixed-effect models (MMRM) or generalized linear mixed effect
      model (GLIMMIX) will make use of all available data in the analyses. Any additional
      imputation techniques, if deemed necessary, will be discussed in the Statistical Analysis
      Plan(s).

      To ensure compliance with Good Clinical Practice and all applicable regulatory requirements,
      the Sponsor and its representatives will conduct and manage several plans that will insure
      quality control. These will include:

        -  A documented sourcing procedure for all representatives and technology managing,
           collecting, or reporting on Registry data

        -  Assurance of FDA 21 CFR Part 11, EU-US Privacy Shield, and equivalent regulations
           regarding data security, controls, and audit trail of study data

        -  Assurance of the European Union regulation 2016/679 describing the appropriate use of
           personal data in scientific research

        -  Practices and methods for the protection of all participant privacy in relation to study
           data collection

        -  A training plan for site initiation and documentation

        -  Data entry guidelines that will assist all study sites with the completion of eCRFs

        -  A data monitoring and management plan that will outline the processes and procedures for
           reviewing, querying, and resolving data quality issues with study sites

        -  A site monitoring plan for the Sponsor and its representatives that will outline the
           frequency, requirements, and nature of the site monitoring visits for purposes of
           insuring data quality.

      The Registry will be overseen by a Scientific Steering Committee, comprised of international
      experts involved in the research, diagnosis, and/or care of patients with PK deficiency. The
      Scientific Steering Committee's activities may include further defining the objectives and
      scientific direction of the Registry, advising on additional clinical data to be captured,
      and facilitating analysis and dissemination of Registry data via medical conferences and
      peer-reviewed publications.
    
  