
    
      Since the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the latest Coronavirus outbreak as a
      'pandemic', most countries had to take strict measures such as travel bans and lock-downs to
      prevent the spread of the virus. Unfortunately, this unexpected situation has caused many
      people around to globe to panic buy and stock up on food for an unpredictable period of time
      as it cannot be estimated when the outbreak will be controlled.

      Nutrition plays an important role in our everyday life; it makes up a large part of a healthy
      life, it brings individuals together to socialise around a table and sometimes it can be used
      in times of stress as a coping mechanism leading to emotional eating.

      In this study it is hypothesised that adults may tempt to change their everyday eating habits
      due to social isolation. Humans are generally sociable beings and this period of social
      isolation will psychologically pressurise humans and may cause some of them to eat more in
      quantity or frequency as a mechanism to cope with the growing fear and anxiety. On the other
      hand, it is also hypothesised that, some individuals may prefer healthier ways of eating,
      such as consuming more fruits and vegetables, drinking more water etc, believing that if they
      can improve their immunity they will be less likely to contract the virus. The study may also
      show that some individuals will be highly impacted economically and this will alter their
      dietary preferences.

      Within the scope of this study an online survey consisting of 20 questions will be asked to
      volunteers who are over the age of 18 and spend most of their time at home in social
      isolation because of the Coronavirus outbreak. The survey does not include any personal
      questions but only general demographic data including gender, age range, the country they are
      currently residing, quarantine duration and whether or not they have observed any changes in
      their eating patterns since the beginning of this period.

      In some questions, observed changes, if any, are further investigated to include details such
      as increase/decrease in portion size, frequency of meals etc.
    
  