
    
      Dating Matters: Strategies to Promote Healthy Teen Relationships Initiative is intended to
      promote respectful, nonviolent dating relationships among adolescents living in high-risk,
      urban communities. The objective of this project is to develop, implement, and evaluate a
      comprehensive approach to promoting respectful, nonviolent teen dating relationships by
      utilizing current evidence-based practice and experience. The focus on high-risk, urban
      communities is predicated on data that suggest that the prevalence of dating violence among
      middle school students is higher in urban communities (O'Leary & Slep, in press). Moreover,
      this project aims to fill a gap in our understanding of teen dating violence (TDV) prevention
      because existing effective TDV prevention programs have not been identified for these
      high-risk settings.

      CDC's comprehensive approach, the Dating Matters: Strategies to Promote Healthy Teen
      Relationships Initiative, includes components at multiple ecological domains, individual
      level, family-level and broader school/community level. Specifically, the initiative
      includes: (1) school-based implementation of a CDC-developed healthy relationship curriculum
      in the 6th and 7th grade and an adaptation of an evidence based TDV curriculum (Safe Dates)
      in the 8th grade; (2) implementation of a 6th (Parents Matter with added TDV content), 7th
      (CDC developed), and 8th (Families for Safe Dates) grade parent-curriculum; (3) an on-going
      communications campaign implemented throughout the initiative, which includes a Brand
      Ambassador adolescent program; (4) educator completion of an online training on the risk
      factors and warning signs of TDV; (5) policy assessment and information at a school or
      community level; and, (6) development and validation of school and community-level indicators
      of TDV. In addition to these components, the schools implementing Dating Matters will also
      receive additional training and technical assistance in adapting these programs with surface
      level adaptations to make them more culturally relevant to their specific populations.

      CDC is funding the local, city, or county public health departments in Chicago, Illinois,
      Alameda County (Oakland), California, Broward County (Ft. Lauderdale), Florida, and
      Baltimore, Maryland to implement the two models of TDV prevention that will be evaluated in
      the outcome and implementation evaluation: the comprehensive Dating Matters initiative and
      the standard of care model, which is Safe Dates implemented in 8th grade. These health
      departments collectively have identified 44 schools in high-risk urban communities; we have
      randomly assigned half the schools to implement the comprehensive model with intensive
      technical assistance and half to implement the standard of care model with basic technical
      assistance. These sites were awarded September 13, 2011.

      The purpose of the trial is to determine the effectiveness of the comprehensive approach
      (Dating Matters) compared with standard practice in TDV prevention (Safe Dates only
      implemented in 8th grade). Outcome measures for determining effectiveness will be derived
      primarily from surveys with students, parents, and school educators. However, in addition to
      surveys, we will also be conducting focus groups with students, curriculum implementers, and
      brand ambassasors, as well as surveys with brand ambassadors, as sources of process, rather
      than outcome, measures. These process measures may be used to improve program fidelity,
      improve program components, or as factors in outcome analyses.
    
  