
    
      Dementia is a disabling chronic condition affecting over 47 million people worldwide. Chinese
      population will be one of the main driver in the increasing trend in dementia prevalence.
      Accumulating evidence suggests effectiveness of certain non-drug interventions in maintaining
      cognition and quality of life in people with mild-to-moderate dementia, such as cognitive
      stimulation therapy (CST). These interventions are designed and tested in western populations
      with issues of cultural adaptation when applied in Chinese. Culturally appropriate and
      effective interventions for Chinese people with mild-to-moderate dementia are lacking.

      The Six Arts stem from ancient Confucian philosophy, which promotes behaviours that can
      impact on multiple mind-body functional domains. These domains correspond to social,
      physical, and cognitive activities with theoretical basis and empirical evidence of benefits
      in cognition, functioning, and quality of life. Using the Six Arts as a cultural framework, a
      group-based multimodal intervention has been developed in Hong Kong for Chinese people with
      mild-to-moderate dementia.

      The study will recruit 240 people with mild-to-moderate dementia in a randomized single-blind
      controlled trial consisting of three groups: (1) Six Arts intervention; (2) CST; and (3)
      usual care. Neuropsychological and clinical assessments will be conducted at randomization
      (T0/baseline) and upon completion of the 24-session, twice-weekly intervention (T1/3 months),
      by an assessor unaware of group membership. Focus groups will be conducted after completion
      of the intervention in 60 family caregivers who have observed at least one session of the Six
      Arts intervention or CST.

      This study will provide evidence on the effectiveness of two intervention protocols with
      potentials for large-scale implementation in the growing Chinese population with dementia.
    
  