
    
      Loneliness has a high prevalence in Western societies and poses a significant health problem.
      Among its many implications, loneliness has been associated with increased risk for coronary
      heart disease and stroke, depression, cognitive decline, dementia, and mortality. At the
      neural level, several networks may be involved in loneliness, including the reward circuitry,
      which mediates social reward, and the amygdala, which signals social threat. Intranasal OT
      has been reported to regulate activity in both the reward system and the amygdala. Therefore,
      it may serve as an adjunct to a cognitive-behavioral short-term intervention for high lonely
      participants.

      In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design study, effects of intranasal OT
      (24 international units (UI)) as a pharmacological augmentation given before the start of
      four sessions of a cognitive-behavioral short-term intervention in groups of six to eight
      participants (based on established interpersonal psychotherapy modules to reduce loneliness)
      will be investigated. Healthy, but high lonely participants will complete functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI) tasks in a separate testing session before the start of the
      intervention (testing session 1). In the first session of the intervention, the
      psychotherapist will inform the participants about the procedure of the intervention and
      participants will get to know the other participants in their intervention group (testing
      session 2). In the next four sessions (testing sessions 3-6), participants will receive 24 IU
      of intranasal OT 30 minutes before the start of the intervention. Sessions of the
      intervention will be conducted weekly. After completion of the intervention, participants
      will again undergo fMRI scanning (testing session 7). Three weeks and three months after
      completion of the intervention, follow-up measurements of the experienced loneliness and
      subjective well-being will be collected.

      All fMRI testing sessions (1 and 7) will include following tasks:

        1. Blood-oxygen-level dependent (BOLD) signal will be measured while participants play a
           single-round trust game in the role of an investor. Participants will have to decide the
           amount of money they want to invest in an unknown trustee without receiving feedback
           about the decisions of the trustees. If the participant chooses to invest, that amount
           will be tripled and added to the trustee's account. The trustee may keep all of the
           money for him/herself or share the money with the investor. Participants will be
           informed of the collection of the trustee's decisions in a previous study for all
           possible investments. Furthermore, participants will view an image of a randomly chosen
           trustee from the previous study during the MRI session. In a control condition,
           participants will play a risk game and invest money in a computer (which will randomly
           decide whether the money will be shared).

        2. BOLD signal will be assessed while participants undergo a social touch task. Trials will
           include slow (~ 5 cm/s) and fast touch (~ 20 cm/s) across 20 cm of the shins as well as
           a control condition (no touch). The touch will be administered by an experimenter that
           cannot be seen by the participants. After each trial, participants will be asked to rate
           the perceived comfort of the stimulation.
    
  