
    
      Phase 1: Recruitment Child and family organisations will invite the general public by
      advertising the study through the organisations' member lists, contacts with schools and
      other health institutions, social networks, and mass media. Parents who have at least a child
      between 2 to 12 years old, living in the general area of Attica and being available to attend
      three Seminars (once per month) will be eligible. The researcher will receive from the
      organisations the list of all parents who contacted them and were interested in taking part
      in the study; the list will then be shared with his assistant. The assistant will sign a
      subcontract. All parents will receive an envelope which includes: (1) a thank you letter; (2)
      participant information sheet and two informed consents; (3) the pre-assessment baseline
      booklet including background information, parenting and child measures; (4) a pre-paid
      envelope so they could easily return them.

      Written-informed consent: Eligible adult participants will provide informed consent. The
      adult informed consent process involves presenting a detailed written description of the
      study as it is described on the printed information and consent forms. Participants will be
      informed of the procedures for ensuring their protection, including:

        1. participation is voluntary and free of charge;

        2. participants will be informed that they will have an equal chance to get the Seminar
           Series through a fair process;

        3. participants will be informed that their personal contact details will be shared with
           the researcher and his assistant;

        4. the questionnaires which will be distributed are not anonymous. This is because all
           questionnaires will be distributed by mail;

        5. the confidentiality of participants' personal data will be guaranteed though specific
           procedures to protect their anonymity: (a) all information provided will remain strictly
           confidential; (b) participants' names and other identifiers will not be written on any
           transcriptions or other research data; (c) unique non-personally identifying ID numbers
           instead of names on research materials will be used. This code will be placed on the
           survey and other collected data. Through an identification key, the researcher's
           assistant will be able to link records to participants' identity; and (d) data will
           maintained in locked computer databases, and participants study files, video and audio
           tapes of the Seminars in locked filing cabinets in locked rooms; (e) only the
           researcher, his assistant and the researcher's supervisor will have access to the data;
           (f) at the end of the project all information, including the video and audio tapes of
           the first 3 Seminars will be in locked cabinets at the researcher's office and all
           databases, audio and video files will be stored to his computer for future academic
           research and/or training of other health professionals; a password will be required for
           access to the databases. After focus group transcription the video and audio tapes of
           focus groups will be destroyed by the researcher;

        6. participants will be informed that the Seminar Series will be audio and video recorded
           and the tapes will only be used for academic and training reasons. At Seminar 1, 2, 3
           the cameras will be set at the back of the room, behind the participants so that their
           face will not be recorded. For focus groups video will only be used if the sound of the
           audio recorder is unclear to distinguish what it is said, as parents may speak
           simultaneously or soft. After focus group transcription the video and audio tapes will
           be destroyed by the researcher.

        7. participants can refuse to participate in either the intervention or research and/or can
           discontinue participation without penalty at any time by advising the researchers of
           this decision. By withdrawing from the study, they also have the right to withdraw all
           their data collected until that point.

        8. in case of further questions participants can directly ask the researcher by phone or
           email who will do his best to answer their query. If they remain unhappy and wish to
           make a formal complaint, they can contact the Research Ethics Committee at the
           University of Oxford (ethics@socsci.ox.ac.uk; +44 (0)1865 614871; Social Sciences &
           Humanities Inter-Divisional Research Ethics Committee, Oxford University, Hayes House,
           75 George Street, Oxford, OX1 2BQ, UK).

      For parents who request additional professional help, a list with psychological health
      services will be provided. Participants may participate only after having read the
      information sheet and had signed it. All consenting and assenting participants will be
      offered a copy of the informed consent form. Parents who do not respond to their invitation
      for the Seminars will be asked to give phone-consent.

      Regarding the consent form, the information sheet and the rest of the questionnaires which
      were in English, first they were translated by the researcher into Greek. All translations
      were reviewed by two Greek parents and a Greek Lecturer in Linguistics at University of
      Cambridge for understanding and relevance of the translated terms. All translations were
      adjusted according to the reviewers' comments. At the end, a Greek-American Health
      Professional checked if the final Greek translations matched the original English ones. The
      Conners and the SQD have officially been translated in Greek.

      The parents who return the forms will move to the next part of the recruitment which is the
      'Eligibility Criteria Phase'. Parents who do not respond will be recontacted by the
      researcher and his assistant through emails and phone calls. They will be asked to give
      phone-consent and return the baseline measures. Further eligibility and exclusion criteria
      will be applied as specified in the following section.

      Phase 2: Randomisation The assistant will code the participants so that the researcher who
      will run all the statistical analyses cannot identify the participants. After the
      participants are coded, the researcher will randomise the coded participants into two
      allocation groups. A blocked randomisation process will stratify the participants according
      to three child factors (sex, age and child behaviour difficulties). A computerised random
      integer generator will be used to generate the random allocation sequence for the separate
      randomisation lists. A sample size calculator formula for statistical superiority design
      indicated that 130 participants would be required to achieve an effect size of 0.8 for the
      primary outcome measure at the 5% significance level with a ratio of 2:1 intervention to
      control. After we allowed for expected drop out of 40% based on similar studies (Sanders,
      Prior, & Ralph, 2009) the target population was 182 parents. After initial randomisation, the
      same process will be followed for every additional person who is interested in participating
      in the study. The assistant will include these participants in the appropriate group.

      Phase 3: Intervention Parents in the experimental group will be invited to attend the brief
      prevention Seminar Series on positive parenting which included three Seminars. As the Seminar
      Series is not a well-evidence intervention, it has never been delivered in Greece before, and
      there are no other studies that prove its effectiveness outside Australia, a wait-list
      controlled design could not be justified. Parents in the control group will only receive
      three leaflets on child health and development, Child Health Information Linked to
      Development Sheets (CHILDS).

      Phase 4: Post-assessment After the completion of the Seminar Series, in post-assessment
      period the assistant will send to all parents the post-assessment booklets via mail. Pre-paid
      envelopes will be provided for the participants' convenience. Those who do not respond will
      be chased by the researcher and his assistant through emails and phone calls. If the study
      will be run as a pre-post study with no control groups, post-assessment measures can be
      distributed and returned during the last seminar.

      Phase 5: Focus Groups Focus groups will be organised to investigate whether parents applied
      the strategies they learned during the Seminars as well as how easy or difficult it was for
      parents to apply them in their everyday life. Participants in the experimental group will be
      divided into small groups of 10. Each focus group will last 1 hour and 30 minutes. A
      questionnaire rating the acceptability, feasibility and cultural relevance of the strategies
      presented in the Seminar Series will also be distributed to get a general view on the
      programme characteristics. For parents who request additional professional help, a list with
      psychological health services provided in the general area of Attica will be offered. The
      Treatment Evaluation Inventory (Kazdin, 1981) and the Parent Satisfaction Form (Sanders et
      al., 2008) will also be distributed.

      Phase 6: 6-month Follow-up Three months after the completion of the intervention, a further
      evaluation will be conducted to examine the long-term effects of the brief prevention
      programme. The assistant will send to all parents the 6-month follow-up assessment booklets
      via mail. Pre-paid envelopes will be provided for the participants' convenience. Those who do
      not respond will be chased by the researcher and his assistant through emails and phone
      calls.

      Data Analysis: All families will be included in an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis
      irrespective of uptake of intervention using the group median score for those lost to
      follow-up to eliminate the effects of a severe outlier presented in the data (High, 2005).
      These results will be compared to those who adhered strictly to the protocol in a per
      protocol (PP) analysis. To check for demographic differences, we will run baseline and
      attrition analyses.

      Differences between groups on all outcomes will be assessed by ANCOVAs for uni-dimensional
      questionnaires, and MANCOVAs for multi-dimensional questionnaires. To control for baseline
      differences in the primary outcome, results will present the treatment effect as the
      estimated mean group difference in change scores from baseline to post-intervention
      controlling for baseline demographic differences on parental education and number of children
      in the family, at a conventional p value of .05, the effect sizes using Cohen's d, and the
      estimated effect at 95% confidence intervals (Altman, 2005). Change scores will be calculated
      by simple subtraction, such as that a positive change score represents greater improvement in
      the desired therapeutic direction. The estimated marginal means will be reported as means
      scores adjusted for the covariates used (Austin, Manca, Zwarrenstein, Juurlink, & Stanbrook,
      2010). Significant effects will be further explored using ANCOVAs, and pairwise comparisons
      determined any significant differences between conditions. Bonferroni adjustments will be
      made based on the number of pairwise comparisons conducted.

      Phase 7: End of Research At the end of the study and after parents have returned the 6-month
      follow-up assessment booklets the researcher will send them an envelope with the following
      material. Parents in the experimental group will receive: (i) a thank you letter; (ii) the
      CHILDS sent to parents at the control group and; (iii) a certificate of attendance. On the
      other hand, parents in the control group will receive: (i) a thank you letter and; (ii) the
      Seminar information material given to parents at the experimental group.
    
  