
    
      Lower limbs arteries are a frequent localization of atheroma in elderly people (15-20% after
      70 years). The most severe stage of the disease, critical limb ischemia (CLI), defined
      clinically by the presence of rest pain or ischemic ulcer, has a dramatic prognosis at 12
      months, with 30% of the patients alive with an amputation, 20% mortality and only 20% of
      patients with a resolved disease, independently from the treatment. The only validated
      treatment for this disease is revascularization by endovascular procedures or open surgery.
      Patients with no option or poor option (high risk) for revascularization have the worst
      prognosis.

      Current research is focusing on the development of cell-based therapies using different
      sources of stem cells which can provide revascularization and oxygenation of the tissues. A
      specific form of stem cells, called Adipose-derived Stem/Stroma Cells (ASC), has shown
      promise for recovering from ischemic disease like critical limb ischemia (CLI) in preclinical
      trial and trial in phase I. This study will confirm the efficacy autologous transplantation
      of adipose tissue derived mesenchymal cells in patients with critical limb ischemia with poor
      options or no option for revascularization.

      This study is a phase II, prospective, multicentric, open trial and no comparative. A maximum
      of 43 patients will be included in two-stage to receive 90*106 intramuscular injection of
      ASC. Patients will be followed-up for 6 months.

      The primary endpoint is the number of patients alive without major amputation and without
      critical limb ischemia (defined as the presence of rest pain or ischemic ulcer and ankle
      pressures less than 70 mmHg or toe systolic pressure less than 50 mmHg or TcPO2 of less than
      30 mmHg, at six month).

      The secondary endpoints are to evaluate:

        -  the number of new vessels in the treated limb by standardized angiographic magnetic
           resonance

        -  the blood flow by laser Doppler, transcutaneous pressure of oxygen (TcPO2), ankle
           pressure

        -  the percentage reduction of wound surface and percentage of complete ulcer healing

        -  the pain reduction by standardized evaluation (visual scale and drug consumption)

        -  the percentage of wound infection and irritative dermatitis (expected adverse events)

        -  interleukin-1, interleukin-2, interleukin-4, interleukin-6, interleukin-10,
           interleukin-12, Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha (TNFα)measurements in blood samples

        -  Mesenchymal stem cells MSC trophic factors and immune- modulators (Hepatocyte growth
           factor (HGF), Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF), indoleamine 2, 3-dioxygenase
           (IDO), Human Leucocyte Antigen G (HLA-G)) in vitro.
    
  