
    
      Cryptococcus is a fungus that causes infections most commonly in immunocompromised patients,
      such as those with AIDS and solid organ transplant recipients, particularly renal transplant
      recipients (1-3). However, approximately one-third of cases fall outside these groups and,
      overall, 12.9-17.9% have no readily identifiable immune defect (4, 5). The genetic factors,
      which may predispose to cryptococcosis and the immune response in these patients, have not
      been extensively studied.

      This protocol is designed to examine the immune deficits that predispose to cryptococcosis as
      well as the clinical and immune responses among previously healthy adults. The patients
      included will have an unknown predisposing condition and cryptococcosis. Patients will
      undergo blood, saliva, and tissue sampling. Throughout the study, patients will be provided
      with standard medical care and will be seen as often as necessary to manage their condition.
      Patients in whom microbiologic control of the infection has occurred but in whom inflammation
      is causing neurologic damage may be treated with corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive
      agents. Genetically related family members of patients will also be screened for clinical, in
      vitro, immune, and genetic correlates of immune abnormalities. Healthy adult volunteers, as a
      comparison group, will be enrolled as a source of blood samples for research testing.
      Moreover, with respect to cryptococcosis, patients with isolated non-CNS disease (e.g.,
      pulmonary) may serve as a subset comparator to those with central nervous system (CNS)
      involvement a major tissue tropism for Cryptococcus.

      Genetic and immunologic testing will be performed on all subjects (patients, relatives, and
      healthy volunteers) to evaluate for possible immunogenetic factors that lead to
      susceptibility to cryptococcosis. Among the aims of this protocol are to better understand
      the pathophysiology and genetic factors that lead to defects in host defense and to use
      modern and evolving methods in molecular and cellular biology to elucidate the pathogenesis
      of this particular susceptibility. A better understanding of the underlying pathophysiology
      of immune defects and genetic susceptibility to fungal infections could allow for the
      rational development of novel therapies for such diseases and to benefit future patients.
    
  