
    
      Study Purpose:

      The purpose of this study is to determine the risks and benefits of antibiotic treatment for
      Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) among patients whose stool samples are nucleic acid
      amplification test (NAAT) positive and enzyme immunoassay (EIA) negative for C. difficile.

      Background:

      Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) is the most common cause of healthcare-associated
      diarrhea. There is no gold standard diagnostic test for (CDI). Commercially available assays
      detect C. difficile or its toxins in stool. Nucleic acid amplification tests (NAAT) are much
      more sensitive than toxin enzyme immunoassays (EIA). However, clinical correlation is needed
      to determine who has CDI. Most US clinical microbiology laboratories have adopted NAATs for
      C. difficile under the presumption the enhanced analytical sensitivity was beneficial.
      Although some patients with NAAT-positive/toxin-negative stool have CDI and a false-negative
      toxin EIA, subsequent studies indicate most patients with NAAT-positive / toxin-negative
      stool do not have CDI. Rather, they are asymptomatic C. difficile carriers who have diarrhea
      for other reasons. Most of these studies also have limitations and considerable controversy
      remains for whether NAATs or toxin EIAs should be used when CDI is suspected.

      Treatment of asymptomatic C. difficile carriers is not beneficial, and may result in harm. At
      hospitals that utilize NAATs, most patients with NAAT-positive / toxin-negative stool receive
      treatment for CDI. The most common treatments for CDI, metronidazole and oral vancomycin, are
      highly disruptive of the intestinal microbiome. These antimicrobials create selective
      pressures that promote the acquisition and proliferation of antimicrobial resistance and
      multidrug resistant organisms (MDRO), including public health threats such as MDRO
      Enterobacteriaceae like carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) and extended-spectrum
      beta-lactamase (ESBL) producing organisms, vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE), and the
      latest emerging threat Candida auris. This leads to MDRO infections and MDRO spread to
      others. Paradoxically, unnecessary treatment for CDI may increase risk for CDI once treatment
      is stopped contributing to CDI-related adverse events and C. difficile spread to others.
      Unnecessary CDI treatment potentially harms both that patient and other people. Whether the
      benefit of treating patients with NAAT-positive/toxin-negative stool that are missed cases of
      CDI outweighs the risk of treating patients with NAAT-positive/toxin-negative stool that are
      asymptomatic C. difficile carriers remains unknown.

      This study is a double-blinded randomized controlled trial of CDI treatment for patients with
      NAAT-positive / toxin-negative stool. Such a trial is necessary to understand the
      risk-benefit of treating these patients for CDI. Patients with NAAT-positive / toxin-negative
      stool who consent to participate will be randomized to 10 days of oral vancomycin or placebo.
      Stool and environmental specimens will be obtained at regular time points and interrogated
      with culturomic and metagenomic methods. Patients will be followed until eight weeks after
      discontinuation of study drug. These data and specimens will be used to determine the impact
      of oral vancomycin versus placebo on the microbiome, C. difficile and MDRO colonization,
      environmental contamination, duration of diarrhea, CDI-related adverse events, and death.

      Specific aims and hypotheses:

      Specific Aim 1: Determine if there are differences in microbiome disruption and acquisition /
      persistence of C. difficile and other MDRO carriage in stool among patients with
      NAAT-positive / toxin-negative stool who are randomized to a 10-day course of oral vancomycin
      versus placebo.

      Hypotheses: Study participants who receive oral vancomycin will have greater disruption of
      the taxonomic and functional metabolic profiles of the fecal microbiome, increases in
      antimicrobial resistance genes, acquire more MDRO, and will have greater persistence and
      abundance of MDRO in stool compared to participants who receive placebo. Participants who
      receive oral vancomycin will not have detectable C. difficile in stool after completion of
      study drug, but will be more likely to have C. difficile in stool at week 8 after completion
      of study drug compared to participants who receive placebo.

      Specific Aim 2: Determine if there are differences in C. difficile and other MDRO
      environmental contamination between treatment groups.

      Hypothesis: Study participants who receive oral vancomycin will have less environmental C.
      difficile contamination but more MDRO contamination compared to participants who receive
      placebo while receiving study drug. After study drug is completed, those who receive oral
      vancomycin will have more environmental contamination due to both C. difficile and other
      MDROs.

      Specific Aim 3: Determine if there are differences in CDI-related outcomes between groups.

      Hypothesis: There will be no difference in time to resolution of diarrhea or CDI-related
      outcomes between treatment groups.
    
  