
    
      This is a prospective, open-label, observational trial to assess basic efficacy and safety in
      the Emergency Department treatment environment.

      Emergency Department patients at Einstein Medical Center Philadelphia, with migraine type
      headache (International Headache Classification), who continue to have severe (6/10 or
      greater) pain one hour after receiving adequate first-line treatment with a dopamine
      antagonist (prochlorperazine or metoclopramide) and an NSAID (ketorolac or ibuprofen) will be
      approached for possible inclusion. Patients who meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
      given informed consent, including consent for procedural sedation. Patients who decline to
      participate will continue to have their headache treated by the ED team as per usual
      practice.

      After enrollment, patients will be set up for procedural sedation per standard Emergency
      Department protocol. This includes a well-running peripheral IV; continuous monitoring with
      telemetry, pulse oximetry, capnography and automated blood pressure checks; continuous
      bedside monitoring by both an Emergency Department nurse and an Emergency Department
      attending or senior resident (with immediate attending availability); and airway management
      tools including suction, oxygen, and Bag valve mask ventilation at bedside, with advanced
      airway management tools (intubation equipment, etc) immediately available. After time-out,
      propofol administration will begin. The study drug will be administered only by those
      properly trained to do so and will be administered in compliance with healthcare licensure
      requirements. Propofol will be administered as a 0.5mg/kg (at a concentration of 10mg/mL,
      rounded to the nearest 0.5mL) initial bolus, followed by repeat 0.25mg/kg boluses (same
      rounding) every three to five minutes as needed to maintain Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale
      (RASS) target -2 ("light sedation - awakens to voice <10 seconds") to RASS target of -3
      ("moderate sedation - movement or eye opening without eye contact") for 15 minutes. No more
      than 1.5mg/kg of propofol will be administered over this time period. After the sedation
      session is complete, patients will be allowed to wake up and will be monitored in the ED for
      at least another hour prior to discharge.

      If a patient experiences any adverse safety event that in the determination of the treating
      provider make it unsafe to continue giving propofol, the protocol will be terminated
      immediately.

      Numeric pain score (0-10) will be obtained prior to medication administration, at 30 minutes
      and at 60 minutes after the final dose of medication. Patients will also be questioned about
      associated migraine symptoms (nausea/vomiting/photophobia/phonophobia) and their resolution.
      Patients will receive follow-up phone calls at 24 hours to assess pain score, need for
      additional medications and whether they would opt for the same treatment again in the event
      of another severe headache. Patient charts will subsequently be reviewed to determine if they
      had any further ED visits within 72 hours after propofol administration.
    
  