
    
      Indirect adhesive restorations are indicated in large Class II defects, replacement of large
      compromised existing restorations or endodontically treated teeth where cuspal protection is
      required. The need to perform adhesive restorations of posterior teeth is not only linked to
      esthetic purposes, but also have possibility of strengthening the remaining tooth structure.
      Indirect technique decreases polymerization shrinkage, reduces microleakage and also improves
      the marginal seal when comparing direct resin composites. Furthermore, it provides improved
      physical and mechanical properties, ideal occlusal morphology, more precise control of
      proximal contours and contacts. Indirect adhesive restorations are classically delivered with
      an adhesive procedure including dual-cure cement. Updated approaches now include the use of
      composite resins as luting agent.

      This study will be carried out as a prospective study, with assessment of the restorations
      after three years. PASS 11 Software was used to calculate the sample size. At least 77
      indirect adhesive restorations will be included for this study. Patients referred to Istanbul
      Okan University Faculty of Dentistry between 2016-2017 who had returned for the baseline
      recall and at least one year recall after the treatment will be invited for eligibility to
      participate in the study. 83 indirect adhesive restorations in at least 60 patients will be
      included. The patients who will not meet all the inclusion criteria will be excluded from the
      study. A signed informed consent form will be obtained from all patients before beginning the
      study.

      Restorations will be evaluated clinically and radiographically according to FDI World Dental
      Federation criteria over 3-year period. Three main groups- esthetic, functional, biological
      properties- and their sub-categorizes of FDI World Dental Federation criteria will be scored
      on a scale of 1 to 5. Statistical analysis will be performed using R (v.3.5.3) Software and
      the SIGN.test function in the BSDA package (p <0.05).
    
  