
    
      The study will pilot-test a 3-month supervised exercise program to improve plasma
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels and domains of cognition that are mostly
      affected in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), including memory, processing speed, and
      executive function, overall and according to genotypes of the BDNF Val66Met variant. T2DM
      impairs the brain, leading to cognitive dysfunction, which carries substantial lifetime
      consequences. This highlights an urgent need to find effective therapeutic strategies to
      improve cognitive function among those with T2DM. Aerobic exercise enhances cognitive
      function among healthy subjects through increased release of BDNF. BDNF supports survival of
      existing neurons and promotes growth of new neurons and synapses. Emerging evidence suggests
      that reduced BDNF levels may exacerbate cognitive dysfunction associated with T2DM. Compared
      to drug delivery of BDNF, aerobic exercise is a low- cost, safe, and easily accessible path
      to increasing endogenous BDNF levels. In persons with T2DM, integrity of the blood-brain
      barrier (BBB) is impaired. Although a growing body of evidence supports the protective role
      of regular exercise in BBB integrity, very little is known about how resting peripheral BDNF
      levels may change in response to regular aerobic exercise training after adjusting for BBB
      permeability among individuals with T2DM. One critical genetic variant that affects cognition
      in human is the BDNF Val66Met variant. The Met allele interferes with the activity-dependent
      secretion of mature BDNF among Met carriers. Despite the strong evidence suggesting aerobic
      exercise has a beneficial effect on cognitive function, significant variability in individual
      response to exercise training in cognitive outcomes has been reported among Val/Val vs. Met
      carriers. However, the evidence on how the BDNF Val66Met variant influences cognitive
      outcomes following an aerobic exercise intervention among individuals with T2DM is currently
      lacking. A total of 84 participants with T2DM will be randomized 2:1 to receive aerobic
      exercise intervention (n=56) or attention control (n=28) for 3 months. The study will
      evaluate the feasibility of the intervention. The study will also evaluate preliminary
      effectiveness of the supervised exercise program on cognitive function and plasma BDNF levels
      after controlling BBB permeability. An exploratory aim is to explore the influence of the
      BDNF Val66Met polymorphism on cognitive outcomes and plasma BDNF levels in response to
      aerobic exercise intervention. The purpose of this study is well aligned with the National
      Institute of Nursing Research (NINR) mission to develop personalized interventions that
      address mechanisms underlying symptoms of illness through symptom science research. Based on
      the findings of this proposed study, our long-term goal is to develop a personalized exercise
      program for high-risk individuals susceptible to cognitive dysfunction based on their genomic
      profiles.
    
  