
    
      Introduction Evolving critical illness in the patient and death can potentially be predicted
      and prevented. Observation studies indicate that deterioration of the clinical condition of
      hospitalised patients is often preceded by physiological changes up to 24 hours before death.
      Focus in adult patients has for a number of years been on development of risk scoring system,
      also called "Early Warning Score" (EWS) systematically measuring the patients vital status.
      International experience shows that systematic observation by EWS accompanied by action
      algorithms contributes to prevent cardiac arrest, death and transfer to intensive care.

      In many areas children are different from adults; there are e.g. physiological and anatomical
      differences and an EWS system developed for adult can thus not be used in children.
      Challenges in assessing if a child is critically ill are related to the child's symptoms of
      serious illness often being uncharacteristic. Children can seem relatively unaffected until a
      short time before circulatory insufficiency and cardiac arrest.

      Thus, there is a need for developing and investigating if an EWS model for ill children has a
      significant influence on children's development of acute conditions.

      Background In Denmark, more than 100,000 children below the age of 15 years are admitted
      annually. International studies show that 8.5 - 14.0% of cardiac arrest incidences in
      intensive care units involve paediatric patients. Survival is only between 15 - 33% with
      subsequent significant neurological outcome in 35% of the surviving children.

      The intention with an EWS system for admitted patients is to ensure that staff identifies a
      deterioration in the patient's condition in time. Each value releases a "score" and the total
      score determines if treatment should be initiated. International studies in adult patients
      have shown that up to 24 hours prior to development of cardiac arrest or life-threatening
      situations show signs of acute critical illness.

      There are national and international models for EWS in adults. Despite this several
      international reports show that lack of identification and proper actions in patients
      developing acute and critical illness remains a problem.

      A study of 126 deaths among English children showed that 89 deaths occurred in hospital;
      among those it was estimated that 63 (71%) could have been avoided. Lack of acknowledging the
      severity of the disease was emphasised as a decisive factor together with absence of
      measuring and interpreting physical signs correctly. It is paramount for timely care and
      treatment of children to work systematically with assessing the child's symptoms and the
      severity of these symptoms.

      The quality of the acute treatment has come into focus with a report from the Danish Health
      and Medicines Authority. Several paediatric departments have establish simulation training in
      care and treatment of the acute and critically ill child to optimise competences in and
      ensuring adequate response of healthcare staff. Structured initial assessment of acutely
      admitted children - the paediatric triage model - comprises systematic assessment of the
      severity of the child's symptoms within the first few minutes. The implemented triage model
      determines the order of interventions.

      More hospitals have established so-called Rapid Response Teams (RRT), a kind of acute team
      which can facilitate early intervention in a ward where the patient develops a
      life-threatening situation or cardiac arrest. The criteria for calling the RRT are a central
      factor in prevention of acute life-threatening situations and cardiac arrest and early
      notification of the RRT improves patient outcome. This project shifts focus from response to
      life-threatening situations and cardiac arrest to early warning of critical illness.

      Improvement of patient safety is a focus areas in Denmark; this is shown by initiatives such
      as the Danish Safer Hospital Programme aimed at reduced mortality and patient harms as well
      as the Danish Quality Model aimed at improving quality of health services, reduce harms and
      create better patient pathways. Development of standards for systematic observation of
      patients and a national clinical guideline for early warning of critical illness in adult
      patient are specific initiatives at national level

      Children are different from adults Care and treatment of critically ill children is a
      challenge as children's symptoms of critical illness can be uncharacteristic. A critically
      ill child with sepsis or severely dehydration can seem relatively unaffected and the acute
      condition is identified by the affected vital parameters. Children's mechanisms to compensate
      are better than in adults as a child is able to maintain an almost normal blood pressure
      despite considerable loss of fluid. On the other hand, the child can turn critically ill fast
      when the limit for the child's ability to compensate is exceeded. Thus, it is important to
      acknowledge and act on the often subtle signs of acute and critical illness in the child as
      the prognosis for survival is very poor if the child develops cardiac arrest.

      Experiences with EWS in adults show that the system cannot stand alone but should be seen in
      interaction with several factors. In this protocol Paediatric Early Warning Score (PEWS) is
      one of several interventions including:

        -  Education and training of staff

        -  Standardised monitoring

        -  Interprofessional guidelines

        -  Algorithms of action for intervention in the critically ill child.

      When health professionals do not systematically observe, interpret and act adequately to
      changes in the child's condition, it will have serious consequences for the hospitalised
      child.

      A Canadian developed PEWS model is one of the most studied model in larger studies. The model
      has been developed, tested and subsequently modified and it now consists of seven different
      parameters. The model includes measurement of blood pressure, which is a specific challenge
      in a paediatric population. Often children are upset when the blood pressure is measured,
      which causes the pressure to increase; this increase is not necessarily a sign of clinical
      exacerbation of disease. At the same time, blood pressure is a late finding in connection
      with evolving critical illness due to the child's ability to compensate; this could be an
      argument for not measuring the blood pressure of all hospitalised children. Moreover, the
      model does not include assessment of level of consciousness in children; the investigators
      believe this is an important factor for assessing if critical illness is evolving in
      children. The investigators wish to compare the Canadian model with the investigators "local"
      model, which includes assessment of level of consciousness but not measuring of blood
      pressure. Measuring of the blood pressure in the "local" model will be performed as an extra
      examination in children with a high score i.e. children at risk of evolving critical illness.
      Measurement of blood pressure will thus not be used as a screening in all hospitalised
      children as in the Canadian model. Apart from this, the two PEWS models are similar; the
      underlying action algorithms, age categories and cut off values for vital signs are similar.

      In a PEWS review, concluded that there is a considerable variation in purpose, content and
      threshold for actions as well as lack of evidence for validity, reliability and applicability
      of the published PEWS models. Reliability is only investigated in one study and no studies
      report on the experiences of health professionals concerning the applicability of PEWS. In a
      study of PEWS from Great Britain, there was a large variation in use of parameters; 46
      different parameters were used and more hospitals used PEWS models which were not validated
      or thoroughly investigated. This also applies to EWSs for adults in a Cochrane review, which
      also draws attention to the lack of randomised controlled studies (RCT) and studies
      investigating the applicability and clinical relevance according to the clinical staff. There
      is thus a need and demand for RCT designs to study PEWS but also to study reliability of the
      clinical staffs' perception of applicability.

      This study investigates these core issues using a RCT design, which has not yet been
      conducted in a paediatric population.

      Purpose The purpose of this study was to investigate if PEWS in hospitalised children
      optimises identification of acute and critically ill children and prevents life-threatening
      situations and thus reduce number of unplanned admissions to intensive care, cardiac arrest
      and death. Moreover, the study investigated validation of the clinical applicability of PEWS
      as well as the acceptability of the tool among healthcare professionals.

      Design Multi-center randomised controlled intervention study within a Complex Intervention
      framework; the study sheds light on the problem, validation of the data collection
      instrument, testing of the intervention and evaluation.

      Randomisation The departments will all have access to web-based randomisation programme,
      "Trialpartner". Each patient get his or her own number of randomisation. If a patient is
      readmitted during the inclusion period he or she will obtain the result of the initial
      randomisation.

      Sample size and statistical analysis Data will be analysed on the intention to treat
      principles. Number of acute critical conditions will lead to consultation by a neonatal
      specialist or an anaesthesiologist and unplanned transfer to intensive care will be
      registered. Focus will be on the children's condition in the last 24 hours before documented
      acute critical or life-threatening condition (as well as observation level and actions in
      relation to the acute critical condition or unplanned transfer to intensive care). As PEWS
      must be able to identify children at risk of acute life-threatening condition and at the same
      time be a "window" for intervention, the data analysis will stop one hour prior to the
      occurrence of the acute life-threatening condition to avoid overestimating the effect of
      PEWS.

      Background variables are: child's age, gender, discharge diagnosis, length of
      hospitalisation, triage level at admission, vital signs, respiratory status, temperature,
      level of consciousness, observation level, initiated interventions, time from observation of
      deteriorated condition to adequate intervention. This information will be collected from
      patient records.

      Currently, a power calculation has been made based on accessible data from 2011. With a power
      of 80% and an expected reduction in number of transfers to intensive care of 30%, 4,000
      children must be included in each group; the total study population is 26,800 children
      annually.

      An interim analysis is planned half-way through the study. The study will be interrupted if
      there are significant differences between the two models concerning selected effect
      parameters.

      Ethical considerations The intervention directly affecting hospitalised children will be
      measurement of pulse and saturation. Measurements are non-invasive and cause no pain or
      discomfort and are standard procedures in most acutely hospitalised children. It is thus not
      expected to cause discomfort or give rise to concerns in children and parents. It is
      important that patients' experience of anxiety, concern or irritation is addressed and dealt
      with. It is therefore of great importance that ward nursing staff is thought to communicate
      with and inform patients while they perform the measuring of vital parameters and that
      nursing staff in a professional and informative way can argue why the measuring is important.
      Several studies show that bedside observations of vital parameters and simple algorithms
      based on bedside observations can identify patients at risk of deteriorating. In an ethical
      perspective it is therefore unethical not to react to these findings and not to implement a
      new ward practice.
    
  