
    
      In this proof of concept study, the investigators will for the first time, determine whether
      dietary nitrate (commercially available beetroot juice) is safe and feasible to administer in
      ischemic stroke patients, and whether its use is associated with increased plasma nitrate and
      nitrite levels and trends toward improvement during the standard 30-day rehabilitation period
      after a stroke. The investigators will test the hypotheses using a double-blinded randomized
      placebo-controlled trial of Beet It® shots once daily for 30 days for patients enrolled
      within 5 days of stroke onset. This novel study will provide key safety and feasibility data
      on dietary nitrate supplementation and preliminary information on the magnitude of its effect
      on improving mobility and functional status, cognition and cerebral blood flow. These data
      are needed to accelerate the pace of development of this novel therapeutic strategy: using a
      non-pharmacological approach for improving stroke outcomes. The specific aims are to: Aim 1)
      Test the proof of concept that beetroot juice consumption is feasible and safe in ischemic
      stroke patients when given during the post-acute rehabilitation period. Primary outcomes are
      adherence to the intervention, measurement of outcomes and follow-up (feasibility), as well
      as adverse events (safety), reported as proportions in each group and across the entire study
      cohort. Hypothesis: Beetroot juice is safe and feasible in this population, and leads to
      increased plasma nitrate and nitrite levels at 30 days. Secondary outcomes of interest
      include change in gait speed (m/sec), Modified Rankin score (disability scale), NIHSS,
      EuroQOL-5D (quality of life),Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (depression), Stroke Impact
      Scale-16 (SIS-16), Barthel Index, Short Physical Performance Battery, grip strength and the
      Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA). Aim 2) Determine whether beetroot juice consumption
      increases cerebral blood flow vs. placebo juice. Cerebral blood flow will be determined from
      MRI collected 2 hours following ingestion of the beetroot juice on day 30. Anatomic and
      perfusion imaging (PASL) will be performed. A region of interest will be used to measure
      blood flow in a 20mm sphere placed adjacent to the ischemic stroke and in the contralateral
      hemisphere. Hypothesis: Ischemic stroke patients randomized to the beetroot juice
      intervention will show increased cerebral blood flow as measured by MRI perfusion scanning in
      the region of the stroke compared with the placebo group at 30 days.
    
  