
    
      In this proposed study, the study will examine treatment-related effects on functional brain
      circuitry in first episode schizophrenia. Converging lines of evidence suggest a key role for
      striatal disconnectivity in the pathophysiology of psychosis. The proposed study will utilize
      resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), as well as fMRI tasks derived
      from the Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) framework, to: 1) develop and validate a prognostic
      biomarker to predict antipsychotic treatment response; and 2) to model the underlying neural
      circuitry changes associated with state changes in psychotic symptomatology. As a prognostic
      biomarker, a neuroimaging assay of striatal connectivity can potentially provide a clinically
      useful tool to advance the goal of precision medicine. As a longitudinal index of symptom
      change, our model can serve as an objective index against which to measure potential efficacy
      of newly developed antipsychotic treatments.

      A large, well-characterized cohort of patients presenting with a first episode active
      psychosis (regardless of DSM diagnosis) will be recruited, along with matched controls. The
      study will utilize two well-validated fMRI tasks capturing two portions of the positive
      valence system: probabilistic category learning and reward responsiveness; these tasks are
      designed to interrogate dorsal and ventral corticostriatal circuits, respectively. The design
      will be longitudinal, with two scanning sessions performed for each patient: at baseline, and
      after 12 weeks of treatment. Treatment will be standardized across all patients to reduce
      potential confounds, and healthy controls will also be scanned at baseline and 12 weeks in
      order to control for effects of time and practice. Level of psychotic symptomatology
      (hallucinations, delusions, and thought disorder) will be measured at regular intervals using
      a comprehensive battery of rating scales. As secondary measures, electroencephalography (EEG)
      will be performed coinciding with neuroimaging on a subset of patients who provide consent.
      We will utilize Kaplan-Meier estimators and hierarchical linear modeling to examine the
      association of baseline striatal connectivity, and changes in connectivity over time, with
      clinical response of psychotic symptoms to antipsychotic treatment. Deliverables will include
      both baseline and longitudinal biomarkers that can subsequently be tested in broader, more
      heterogeneous populations of patients with psychosis.
    
  