
    
      This protocol is an open label, non-randomized study designed to test whether treatment with
      BG9588, a humanized monoclonal antibody specific for CD154, can induce a state of allograft
      tolerance following renal allotransplantation in humans. This study is designed to primarily
      assess the safety and efficacy of BG9588 when given alone or in combination with steroids and
      mycophenolate to prevent renal allograft rejection without the use of calcineurin inhibitors
      or other chronic anti-rejection therapies. Efficacy parameters will include the incidence of
      acute and chronic rejection episodes, and immunological graft loss. Additional evaluation
      will be performed to specifically assess the development of donor-specific immune
      hyporesponsiveness resulting from the use of BG9588.

      This study is based on extensive use of BG9588 in non-human primates and pilot evaluation in
      humans. Up to five patients in each group receiving primary renal allografts will be treated
      with a 12-month course of BG9588 with or without steroids and mycophenolate to prevent
      allograft rejection. The recruitment will be performed first in the group with steroids and
      mycophenolate. Subjects will receive BG9588 at a dose of 70 mg/kg (based on ideal body weight
      at baseline) via a continuous 60 minute IV infusion within 24 hours pre-operatively followed
      by a 30 mg/kg dose via a continuous 30 minute IV infusion on the following days: within 24
      hours post-transplantation, and on days 3, 10, 18, 28, then monthly through 12 months
      post-transplantation. The enrollment will be staggered such that early efficacy will be
      demonstrated in 5 patients prior to completing enrollment. Following 12 months of therapy,
      patients may be extended to receive additional monthly therapy.

      Long-term follow up will occur through 30 months after the last dose of BG9588. Mechanistic
      evaluations testing for allograft tolerance will be performed throughout the study including
      evaluations for allospecific T cell deletion, allospecific T cell anergy, and alloantibody
      production. The donor population for this study will include both living donors and cadaveric
      donors. This is being done to address the theoretical concern that ischemic reperfusion
      injury may negatively affect the efficacy of BG9588.
    
  