
    
      Physicians seeing patients in the outpatient clinics will write patient's statin and/or
      antiplatelet prescription and the patient's cell phone numbers on an Optical Mark Recognition
      (OMR) sheet. The sheet will also have dosage, route, frequency and durations options for
      respective medications. The physician will color the appropriate specification for a
      medication instead of writing the prescription by hand. Statin medications include
      lovastatin, fluvastatin, simvastatin, atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin or
      pitavastatin. Antiplatelet medications include aspirin, clopidogrel, aspirin plus
      dipyridamole, cilostazol and prasugrel.

      The unit receptionist would then scan the prescription sheet and upload the scanned copy to
      the database server.

      Software in the server will analyze the prescription and generate the following outputs for
      each medication:

      Output 1 (basic drug prescription information) (Option 1): Name of the medication, dosage,
      route, frequency, number of days, any special instruction, and Short Message Service (SMS)
      and Interactive Voice Response (IVR) code.

      Output 2 (detailed drug information):

      Indication (Option 2), Contraindications and side/adverse effects (Option 3), and Drug-drug
      interactions and drug-food interactions (Option 4).

      SMS software would then send a voice and text message to the patient's cell phone with Output
      1. The voice message will be in Urdu. The prescription would be read to the patient through
      voice message in Urdu. The text message with Output 1 would be sent in Roman Urdu.

      Output 1 will also generate a unique code for each patient. The patient will use this code,
      at any time of his/her convenience, to request for a repeated text or voice message for
      output 1 or to request for a repeated text or voice message for Output 2 (if the patient is
      interested in receiving detailed drug information). The patient would be able to receive both
      the outputs multiple times, on-demand.

      Patient will also receive a weekly text message reminding them to take their statin and/or
      antiplatelet medication.
    
  