
    
      Objective: Our recent pilot study found evidence suggesting that blocking endogenous opioid
      release increases the pleasantness associated with having the skin stroked. Deep pressure
      touch (observed in hugs and massage) also typically conveys a sense of pleasantness. This
      increased pleasantness contrasts with evidence that blocking endogenous opioid release
      increases pain. The current study will examine the role of endogenous opioids in the
      pleasantness of light skin stroking and deep pressure touch, and contrast it with their role
      in the unpleasantness of a painful heat stimulus. Further, it will examine the neural basis
      of observed perceptual changes, using fMRI. This study constitutes the first study of the K99
      phase of a K99/R00 grant application recently submitted to NCCIH by Dr. Laura Case.

      Study Population: 30 healthy participants will be enrolled in the study.

      Design: Participants will receive intravenous saline or intravenous naloxone on separate days
      to investigate the effect of mu-opioid antagonism on the intensity and pleasantness of
      superficial and deep affective touch and the intensity and unpleasantness of cutaneous heat
      pain. Using a double-blind cross-over design, functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI)
      will be conducted during sensory testing before and after the infusion of each drug to
      examine the neural mediation of opioid effects on touch perception. Ratings of mood, anxiety,
      pain intensity, pleasantness/unpleasantness, wanting and liking will also be collected
      throughout the study session.

      Outcome measures: We will compare subjective ratings (mood, calmness, anxiety, pleasantness,
      wanting, liking, pain intensity and unpleasantness) during naloxone and saline to: 1)
      Determine whether naloxone increases the pleasantness and/or intensity of affective touch
      (light brush and deep compression); 2) Determine whether naloxone increases the
      unpleasantness and/or intensity of cutaneous heat pain; 3) Determine the role of mood or
      anxiety changes in mediating the effect of endogenous opioids on these perceptual measures;
      3) Determine changes in the brain activation related to these effects.
    
  