
    
      Patients must have histologically proven unresectable melanoma, stage IIIB, IIIC, IIID, or
      stage IV (AJCC staging must be documented in patient's medical record, as determined by CT of
      the chest, abdomen and pelvis, and/or whole body PET scan, and MRI of the brain within 4
      weeks prior to administration of study drug). Patients must have failed PD-1 therapy as
      judged by the treating physician.

      Patients will initially receive one injection of PVSRIPO intra-lesionally. Based on a phase 1
      study of the agent in adult patients with recurrent GBM, the starting amount to be delivered
      will be 1x108 tissue culture infectious dose (TCID50) prior to initiation of nivolumab.
      Nivolumab will be administered according to the FDA-approved dosing schedule of 480 mg
      intravenously every 4 weeks, beginning ~10 days after the first PVSRIPO infusion and will
      continue for 4 cycles. PVSRIPO will then be given intralesionally to multiple lesions (if
      present) at days 38, 66, and 94.

      At Day 108 after 4 doses of nivolumab and 4 treatments of PVSRIPO, imaging and a full disease
      assessment will be done and iRECIST determined. A patient with complete response (CR) or a
      partial response (PR) (at least at 75% decrease in the sum of all diameters of all target
      lesions plus new lesions) will continue on nivolumab for up to 2 years. For patients with PR
      (< 75% decrease), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD), an additional 3
      treatments of PVSRIPO q4weeks can be given concurrently with 3 doses of monthly nivolumab.
      The lesions will be chosen at discretion of principal investigator (PI) and can be new
      lesions, previously injected lesions, or untreated lesions. At Day 234 (±7 days), (after 7
      total PVSRIPO injections and 8 doses of nivolumab), patients with PD will be off study, any
      patient with CR, PR, SD can receive up to 2 years total of nivolumab. If a patient has no
      remaining injectable lesions at any point during the study, PVSRIPO will not be given, but
      patients can continue on nivolumab.
    
  