
    
      This is a pilot study designed to provide preliminary data on the use of dexmedetomidine for
      outpatient FB procedures requiring sedation. Clinical parameters such as vital signs, level
      of sedation, dosing and supplemental sedation, and measures of comfort will be evaluated in a
      population of patients with known Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease undergoing elective FB.

      Patients with COPD scheduled for outpatient FB will be provided with an intravenous infusion
      of dexmedetomidine (1 mcg/kg/hr) (Precedex®: Hospira, Inc, Lake Forest, IL) over a 15-30 min
      period before the procedure and continued throughout the procedure. No loading dose will be
      used prior to start of infusion. The FB procedure will be conducted according to standard
      practice using routine monitoring technique.

      This dosing regimen of 1.0 mcg/kg/hr was chosen because the loading dose will be omitted and
      since a previous review have documented a lack of adverse events with maintenance doses
      exceeding 1 mcg/kg/hr.

      Drug infusion will be discontinued if any of the following adverse events are observed:
      recurrent apnea (Respiratory Rate <7) lasting more than 30 seconds over a 5 min observation
      period, sustained episodes (30 seconds) hemoglobin oxygen saturation lower than 90% over a 5
      min observation period, decrease of heart rate to below 50 beats/min, mean arterial pressure
      below 70% of its initial value.

      If needed, additional sedation will be provided with alternating doses of midazolam 1 mg, or
      Fentanyl 25 mcg for pain, agitation interfering with the completion of the procedure, or for
      persistent cough non-responsive to local lidocaine instillation. The amount of Fentanyl and
      versed used as an adjunct for conscious sedation will also be recorded as part of this study.

      The quality of sedation will be assessed using the Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale. The
      quality of analgesia will be assessed using the 11-point (0-10) Numerical Pain Rating scale
      (NRS). The level of recovery from anesthesia and the return of psychomotor fitness will be
      assessed using the Modified Post anesthesia Discharge Scoring System (MPADSS). The duration
      of FB and the time from the end of the procedure to the patient reaching a score of 9 and 10
      on the MPADSS (readiness for discharge) will also be measured.

      Except for the measurements described above (NRS), no additional procedures will be performed
      for the purposes of this study.
    
  