
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rare, neurodegenerative disorder that results in
      progressive wasting and paralysis of voluntary muscles.

      In this double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, researchers will
      evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the drug lithium given in combination with riluzole,
      a drug commonly used to treat ALS, compared to a placebo given in combination with riluzole.

      Approximately 250 participants will be recruited from multiple centers, in the US and Canada,
      that belong to the Northeast ALS Consortium (NEALS) and the Canadian ALS Clinical Trials and
      Research Network (CALS). Enrollment will occur in stages. Initially 84 participants will be
      enrolled in the trial. An interim analysis using available data will occur after the 84th
      participant is enrolled. During this time, the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)
      appointed by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) may decide to stop the trial for
      efficacy or futility reasons or to stop enrollment and request that follow-up continue with
      the 84 participants already enrolled in the trial, or the DSMB may decide to continue
      enrollment.

      Participants will be randomized to one of two arms of the study. Arm one will receive lithium
      and riluzole. Arm two will receive riluzole and placebo (an inactive substance). All
      participants will be receiving riluzole. After screening and randomization, participants will
      be followed every 4 weeks for the first 12 weeks. Subsequent in-person visits will occur
      every 8 weeks with a final visit at week 52. Between in-person visits, telephone interviews
      will take place every 4 weeks to administer the Amyotropic Lateral Sclerosis Functional
      Rating Scale-Revised (ALSFRS-R) questionnaire. A follow-up telephone interview will occur at
      week 56 (off study medication) to review adverse events. The primary outcome measure is
      disease progression as measured by the ALSFRS-R questionnaire. Participants randomized to
      placebo whose disease progresses will be crossed over to lithium for the remaining period of
      the study (up to 52 weeks total).

      Duration of the study for participants is 56 weeks which includes 52 weeks of treatment and a
      followup telephone interview at week 56.
    
  