
    
      Physician burnout has come to the forefront of discourse within the medical field due to its
      significant impact on the wellness and productivity of physicians as well as patient health
      outcomes. Burnout is defined as physical, mental and emotional exhaustion resulting from
      persistent exposure to an emotionally demanding trigger, and is comprised of three
      dimensions: emotional exhaustion (EE), depersonalization (DP) and lack of personal
      accomplishment (PA). Residency is a particularly stressful time; the junior physician is
      tasked with a tremendous responsibility of providing high quality care while learning and
      integrating new skills during training. Adapting to these job demands has a direct
      consequence on one's emotional reserve and ability to establish a healthy home-work
      interface. Recent data indicates 47% of residents around the world suffer from burnout, and
      that rates are highest in North America.

      During times of lethal pandemics, healthcare workers (HCWs) have a duty to serve on the
      frontlines. Within three months of the first report of COVID-19, a global pandemic was
      declared and social separation and economic shutdowns were enforced around the globe.
      Meanwhile, resident physicians were redeployed to the frontlines by their training
      institutions, inevitably jeopardizing their speciality training. In addition to the
      detrimental personal and substantial financial stressors generally incurred by persons during
      a pandemic, residents bear the burden of caring for others and witnessing tragic outcomes
      thus putting them at risk of "accelerated burnout". HCWs on the frontlines during times of
      crisis and natural disaster historically suffer from more severe emotional distress,
      depression, anxiety, and social isolation. This is consistent with findings from a recent
      study of frontline workers in Wuhan, China during the COVID-19 pandemic, and reports of
      suicide among frontline workers attributed to COVID-19 associated stressors.

      Many studies have aimed to delineate contributors of burnout and common themes that have
      emerged include excessive workloads, feeling unsupported, lack of autonomy, and lack of
      work-home integration. In addition to traditional causes of burnout, the heightened risk of
      occupational exposure to infection, process inefficiencies, limited resources, and financial
      instability have been established as additional stressors among HCWs during COVID-19. These
      factors, in addition to social stigmatization and ostracism by family and the fearful public
      have also been cited as major contributors to stress among HCWs during the SARS pandemic, the
      Ebola epidemic, and among HCWs caring for AIDS patients during the late 1980s.

      Addressing burnout among frontline workers is essential to supporting Canada's response to
      the COVID-19 pandemic, in order to 1) keep our frontline workers on the frontlines, and 2)
      reduce inefficiencies and medical errors frequently linked to burnout, ultimately improving
      our ability to detect, treat and manage COVID-19 cases. Therefore, this trial aims to test
      the effects of a 3 month, 8-session intervention to reduce burnout in physician residents in
      residency programs in Canada and the United States of America during the COVID-19 pandemic.
      This trial will provide evidence to inform health system management and public health
      response early and effectively so as to maintain the integrity of our workforce during and
      post-pandemic.
    
  