
    
      Study Aim:

      The purpose of this study is to create an extensively annotated bio-repository platform for
      hypothesis-driven research that will lead to advancements in the diagnosis, treatment and
      prevention of diseases common to the population of Indiana. The first phase of this research
      platform will be created by collecting blood samples from two groups of individuals in the
      Central Indiana community, one with documented evidence of coronary artery disease (CAD), and
      a second group of age, gender and ethnicity matched individuals without clinical evidence of
      CAD. Each individual's blood sample will be linked to their clinical, demographic and
      epidemiological information, gathered both retrospectively and prospectively. This will be
      repeated with individuals who have Cancer, Diabetes and potentially other illnesses.

      Recruitment:

      This initial study will include 750 individuals with CAD (the CAD Group) and 750 individuals
      who are age, gender, and ethnicity matched to the CAD Group, but without presentation of
      clinical evidence of CAD (the Control Group). To reflect the growing representation of
      Hispanics in Central Indiana, Hispanics will be overly recruited in both groups so that the
      study population accurately reflects the general population of Central Indiana.

      Follow-up:

      As this is a prospective, longitudinal study, follow-up of study subjects is intended to
      continue indefinitely, unless, of course, at any time, consent for further follow-up is
      withdrawn by the subject. Follow-up will include continuing access to the subject's medical
      record, as well as facilitating continued contact by telephone, to pursue data concerning
      changes in the subject's health. Subjects may be contacted by telephone, mail or email every
      twelve months to ask if they wish to continue participation in the study.

      The collected dataset (made up of the collected blood samples linked to clinical and
      epidemiological information collected retrospectively and prospectively), will be used in
      medical research to find genes, or gene products such as RNA or proteins that will help in
      understanding the causes of disease and will guide the development of new treatments.
    
  