
    
      Design:

      A non-randomised controlled trial.

      Participants For eligibility criteria - see elsewhere. Intervention group • Patients living
      in Odder, Skanderborg or Hedensted municipality

      Control group

      • Patients living in Horsens municipality

      Follow-Home Intervention

      The intervention group receives following intervention:

      If possible, all included participants are physically followed home by a hospital-based
      project worker on the day of discharge. During the visit, the focus is on: basic human needs,
      medication review reconciliation, and a comprehensive geriatric assessment. Problems,
      challenges and concerns are discussed. Finally, a conference for the following working day is
      arranged either as a physical visit or a video conference. The patient, relatives,
      community-based nurse and project worker are invited to participate and health status and
      challenges are discussed They are recommended to contact the project worker about health and
      practical issues up to 7 days after discharge where the intervention ends. Subsequently, the
      responsibility for treatment and care is assigned to the GP and home healthcare provider.

      Usual care

      Patients in the control group recieves the following usual discharge procedure:

      On the day of discharge, the hospital-based nurse digitally sends a summery of the hospital
      stay and a treatment and care plan to the community-based nurse. If needed, the
      hospital-based nurse contacts the community-based nurse by phone as a supplement to the plan.
      Finally, a discharge letter conducted by the hospital-based doctor is digitally sent to the
      GP.

      Method:

      Inclusion of participants is consecutive. Inclusion period was between 01/02/17 to 31/12/19.
      In total, approximately 1200 patients were included .

      Data collection Outcome data will be retrieved from TVÆRSPOR database at 30 days after
      discharge from index admission.

      Analysis

      Intervention and Control group will matching on 3 variables on individual level:

        -  CCI

        -  Index admission period: +/- 3-4 weeks

        -  Sex

      All readmissions are included in the analysis (not only first time readmissions). That means
      that one patient can be included several times.

      Logistic regression adjusted for possible confounders will be used when analysing the
      outcomes. Confounders are chosen through a study specific DAG.

      Sub-group analysis will be conducted according to:

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Housing

        -  Civil status

        -  Social status

        -  Length of hospital stay in index admission

        -  Comorbidity

        -  Diagnosis

        -  Ect.
    
  