
    
      Obesity has become an epidemic in the United States, affecting more than one-third of
      American adults and increasing the incidence of diabetes and other comorbidities. Weight loss
      elicits adaptive metabolic and hormonal changes, similar to those seen in starvation, which
      make maintenance of a reduced body weight more challenging. These changes include a decrease
      in energy expenditure that is larger than what would be expected on the basis of changes in
      body composition alone. In rodents, it has long been established that brown adipose tissue
      (BAT) is the primary site of adaptive thermogenesis or the modulation of energy expenditure
      and heat generation during cold exposure and overfeeding. Emerging data suggest that
      activated BAT may influence body weight, core body temperature, energy expenditure and blood
      sugar and fat metabolism in humans. Capsinoids are nunpungent analogs of capsaicin that
      activate BAT by stimulating sensory neurons in the gastrointestinal tract. Chronic ingestion
      of capsinoids may stimulate the development or recruitment of new BAT from precursor stem
      cells within white adipose tissue depots. The primary goal of the proposed study is to
      determine whether chronic ingestion of capsinoids can recruit BAT in obese individuals who
      lack it or merely activates BAT in those who already have it. Additional goals are to 1)
      ascertain whether common genetic variants influence the response to capsinoids, 2) determine
      the metabolic effects of chronic capsinoid ingestion and BAT activation in obesity without
      weight loss and 3) establish whether chronic capsinoid ingestion and BAT activation improve
      weight loss with a low calorie diet. 42 obese male volunteers, ages 18-50, will be recruited
      for a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of capsinoid supplementation. The
      study will consist of two phases: the first in which subjects maintain their usual diet and
      activity level for 8 weeks, and the second in which subjects consume a low-calorie diet for
      12 weeks. Subjects will be studied before and after each phase, including measurement of BAT,
      core body temperature, energy expenditure at rest, after cold exposure, and after a test
      meal, body composition, and blood sugar and insulin levels after a test meal. BAT will be
      characterized using Positron Emission Tomography/Magnetic Resonance (PET/MR) and Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI) techniques. If preliminary data are confirmed, BAT recruitment and
      activation through chronic capsinoid supplementation may emerge as a safe method to combat
      the adaptive changes in energy expenditure that are seen with weight loss in obesity.
    
  