
    
      A total of 160 relapsed and non-responding OCD-patients, treated with exposure and response
      prevention (ERP) in the specialist Health care in Norway, are planned to participate in the
      study: "Translation approach to the understanding and treatment of Obsessive-Compulsive
      Disorder (OCD). Can D-cycloserine (DCS) enhance and stabilize the treatment-response in
      relapsed and non-responding OCD-patients? A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      national study." Estimated start of inclusion is November 2015 and the inclusion period lasts
      for maximum 2 years. All participants are referred to the specialist health care and are
      pre-screen by the local OCD-team. Before inclusion, the patients will fill in a number of
      questionnaires on-line and all patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be invited to
      participate. Before the patient signs the informed consent form the patients will receive
      written and oral information about the study as well as watch a video describing the trial
      and what participation will imply. Before the 4-day concentrated exposure based treatment
      (cET) starts, the patients will undergo a clinical assessment interview by the local
      OCD-team, and will watch another video describing the trial in detail. They will also be
      assessed by SCID-I (Structured Clinical Interview) for DSM 5 as well as Y-BOCS (Yale-Brown
      Obsessive Compulsive Scale) interview by independent and specially trained psychologists. The
      cET is delivered in an "individual group format" which implies that the patient:
      therapist-ratio is 1:1, and that the treatment is delivered in groups of minimum 3 and
      maximum 6 patients. All groups are led by a specially trained cET therapist, and the local
      therapists are experienced OCD-therapists who are familiar with the cET format. Day 1 of the
      treatment (3 h) consists of psychoeducation and planning of exposure tasks. Day 2 and day 3
      (both 8 h + contact in the evening) consist of individually tailored and therapist assisted
      exposure with a number of relevant triggers in a diversity of settings. All exposures are
      based on the LEaning in Technique (LET), where the patients are trained to recognize when the
      urge to ritualize starts, and to actively approach the trigger by "leaning into the anxiety".
      The exposures are also designed to optimize learned inhibition. In addition to individual
      exposure training, the group meets three times throughout the day. Day 2 and Day 3 the
      patient will take study medication before the exposures start. The study medication is
      D-Cycloserine (DCS) 250 mg, DCS 100 mg or placebo. In the afternoon Day 3, the patients'
      relatives/ friends are invited to a 2 h lecture/ psychoeducation on OCD and the current
      treatment. Day 4 the focus is on "lessons learnt" as well as on planning / specifying
      exposure tasks for the coming three weeks. Before and during the cET the patient will record
      data electronically via CheckWare (an electronic case report form database). The patient will
      continue registration of obsessions and compulsions through 3 weeks post cET. One week after
      cET a post-assessment with Y-BOCS will be performed by the independent assessor. After 3
      months, the patient is invited to an individual visit at the clinic. 1 year and 5 years post
      treatment, the assessment team will perform follow-up telephone interviews.

      Measures of anxiety, depression, global functioning, severity of the disorder, self-reported
      OCD-symptoms, sleep, quality of life, changes in work and social status as well as changes in
      medication and use of health care will be included and employed as secondary outcomes.

      A total of 14 expert therapists have been trained to deliver cET to OCD-patients all over
      Norway. Patients, therapists and assessors are all blinded to the randomization.
      Interventions are recorded and rated for compliance and competence . All SCID-I and Y-BOCS
      assessments are recorded and standard procedures for rescoring are followed. All assessors
      are independent and specially trained.

      A Scientific Advisory Board is established, also including representatives from the Norwegian
      OCD-association. The formal project partners are Haukeland University Hospital; Oslo
      University Hospital; St Olavs Hospital; Soerlandet Hospital and Moere and Romsdal Hospital.
    
  