
    
      Cell savers are routinely used in our hospital during off-pump coronary artery bypass
      grafting (OPCABG) to retrieve and wash blood that is lost during the operation. This washed
      blood is retransfused to the patient in order to prevent allogeneic blood transfusion.

      For cell savers 3 different operating principles exist. The most common type uses
      discontinuous blood processing with a spinning bowl that is intermittently filled with blood,
      processed and emptied. A second type uses a continuous blood processing principle with a
      rotational disk. A third one is intermediate using features of both the discontinuous bowl
      technology and the continuous rotational disc technology. In all types of autotransfusion
      systems the wound blood is washed, concentrated and stored in a blood conservation bag.

      In several studies hemoglobin levels, leucocyte and platelet counts in the washed cell saver
      blood have been measured, indicating differences between types of cell saving. In other
      studies biochemical markers of inflammation in the washed cell saver blood have been
      measured, also indicating differences between types of cell saving. Recently, blood bank
      blood at the end of its shelf life was washed using similar devices as proposed in this
      study. The investigated devices removed substances from the blood differently. However, the
      rheologic properties of the red blood cells were not assessed.

      Despite widespread clinical use of cell savers, little is therefore known about the rheologic
      properties and oxygen transport capacity of the washed red blood cells. As the process of
      washing of the blood cells occurs with high centrifugal loads, there is concern about the
      elasticity and deformability of the processed red blood cells. Ultrastructural changes in
      cell saver washed red blood cells have been demonstrated using scanning electron microscopy
      suggesting poor performance of these cells in the microcirculation. Using the continuous type
      of cell saver, we previously could demonstrate a reduction in deformability and
      2,3-Diphosphoglycerate (DPG) levels of the processed blood cells. The implication is that
      microcirculatory blood flow may be obstructed by blockage of the small blood vessels and, as
      2,3-DPG regulates oxygen transfer, tissue oxygenation may also be hampered. However, at the
      moment the effects of retransfusion of the washed cell saver blood on microcirculatory blood
      flow and tissue oxygenation in patients are unknown.

      Thus, in this study the investigator want to determine in vitro the rheologic properties and
      oxygen transport capacity of the washed blood processed by one of 3 different types of cell
      saving (discontinuous, continuous and mixed) and to measure in vivo after retransfusion of
      this processed blood in the patient the effects on microcirculatory blood flow, tissue
      oxygenation and organ damage using organ specific biomarkers.
    
  