
    
      Ventilation and oxygenation of patients, even more in Intensive Care Units (ICUs), are in
      continuous development. The characteristics of patients, pathologies and diagnostic methods
      are constantly evolving. Among the main methods of ventilation and oxygenation that the
      investigators have are Non-invasive mechanical ventilation (NIMV) with face mask and
      high-flow cannula (HFC).

      NIMV has represented an alternative in patients with failure to extubate, as an option before
      proposing a new reintubation. The ventilation with high flow has supposed an advance in the
      oxygenation of patients in situation of respiratory insufficiency, avoiding the intubation,
      and also has been a resource that allows the disconnection of the mechanical ventilator,
      reducing with it the time of mechanical support of the ventilation, There is a great amount
      of bibliography and a broad consensus on this aspect. Among the side effects widely studied,
      include bronchoaspiration, gastric insufflation, aerophagia and sialorrhea, which are usually
      well controlled with medical treatment.

      The high flow ventilation consists of increasing the gas mixture, by releasing high oxygen
      and air flows, approximately up to 60 l/min, in modifiable proportions, so that positive
      pressures are achieved in the airway, facilitating the entry of this gas in the lung under
      spontaneous ventilation, with better oxygenation figures than conventional oxygen therapy
      methods. This positive pressure increase could be a facilitator of digestive intolerance
      either by air swallowing and gastric distension, or by promoting incontinence of the
      esophageal sphincters and thereby facilitating regurgitation and bronchoaspiration of the
      gastric contents.

      NIMV consists of a ventilatory support applied without placement of endotracheal or
      pharyngeal devices, achieving increased alveolar ventilation by applying positive pressures
      throughout the airway through an interface (acting on the pressure gradient of the airway, to
      maintain an adequate gas exchange, impossible to achieve with spontaneous physiological
      ventilation). This positive pressure increase, as in ventilation with HFC, could also be an
      element that promotes digestive intolerance.

      Patients in respiratory failure have a high level of metabolic stress that leads to a
      hypercatabolic situation and can not feed themselves for days, thus increasing the risk of
      malnutrition or worsening pre-existing malnutrition. This situation, as well as the
      development of negative energy balances in the critically ill patient, is associated with
      several complications, thus increasing morbidity and mortality, hospital stay and costs. The
      nutritional risk that this situation determines is high, which is why artificial nutrition
      therapy is justified. This nutritional therapy in spontaneous ventilation is usually
      attempted to be supplemented by oral feeding, but in patients who require artificial supports
      to aid in ventilation and oxygenation, it is not so easy to receive and tolerate adequate
      levels of caloric and protein intake. Enteral nutrition through the gastric route is
      frequently the method chosen for artificial nutritional therapy in patients with nutritional
      risk. This is due the advantages that the maintenance of the digestive tract in functional
      state will determine in the health of the patient, since the lack of nutrients in the lumen
      of the intestine can trigger a loss of the anatomical and functional integrity of the
      intestinal epithelium, with a rupture of the intestinal barrier that can favor, through a
      pro-inflammatory immune response, the evolution towards the multiple organ dysfunction
      syndrome.
    
  