
    
      The incidence of acute decompensated heart failure is increasing. Patients with severe heart
      failure are rehospitalised for decompensation several times each year, increasing the cost
      for health care. In these cases of recurrent decompensation, the medical intervention in
      hospital is often limited to increasing the dosage of diuretics or vasodilators until the
      patient reaches a compensated state. After discharge, a readmission can be expected within a
      few months. A multidisciplinary approach by primary physician, heart failure nurse,
      rehabilitation team and cardiologist has been shown to decrease rehospitalisation rate and
      increase quality of life.

      Very recently, our study group showed that an intense collaboration between first line
      practitioner and heart failure clinic, facilitated by the use of telemonitoring, can reduce
      mortality and hospitalisation rate. This study was a RIZIV sponsored trial of 6 months
      follow-up in patients with chronic heart failure. However, a large randomised multicentre
      trial investigating the use of telemonitoring in a population of heart failure (NYHA II-III)
      patients did not find any difference between telemonitoring and usual care (Chaudry et al
      NEJM 2010). In contradiction with this study, a Cochrane meta-analysis (Ingliss 2010) in more
      than 5000 patients confirmed our finding with a reduction in mortality and morbidity. The
      question therefore remains which factors are responsible for success or failure of the use of
      telemonitoring. Based on our previous experience, the approach of close monitoring by
      telemonitoring, with first line intervention by the patient's general practitioner (GP) and
      supervision by the heart failure clinic, might be the critical success factor.

      Therefore, the aim of this study is to evaluate this model of telemonitoring-assisted close
      supervision and interaction between first and second line health professionals versus a model
      of telemonitoring without this integrated approach.
    
  