
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      There is no universally accepted strategy to promote recovery of motor function after chronic
      stroke, the main cause of long-term disability among adults. It is desirable to develop
      strategies to enhance motor training in this patient group. A recent study in stroke patients
      and healthy volunteers demonstrated that somatosensory nerve stimulation prior to motor
      training leads to improvements in use-dependent plasticity (UDP), a process thought to
      underlie recovery of motor function after brain injury (Sawaki et al., unpublished
      information). Interestingly, the effects of sensory input on cortical plasticity can be
      enhanced by a single dose of amphetamine. The objective of this protocol is to further
      enhance the effect that somatosensory nerve stimulation has on motor training by means of
      pre-medication with amphetamine. This effect over motor training will be measured by the
      magnitude of training-induced UDP. Our hypothesis is that the amphetamine-enhanced effects of
      somatosensory nerve stimulation will increase the magnitude of training-induced UDP.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      We plan to study 24 patients with chronic strokes and 24 healthy age- and gender matched
      normal volunteers.

      DESIGN:

      All subjects will participate in 5 different randomized sessions on separate days. The first
      session will be a familiarization with the behavioral tasks. A second experiment will consist
      of training with no further interventions to obtain baseline UDP changes. In another two
      sessions, subjects will be premedicated in a blind manner with amphetamine or placebo before
      administration of somatosensory nerve stimulation followed by motor training to induce UDP.
      In the last experiment, the participants will be premedicated with amphetamine and will be
      exposed to sham somatosensory stimulation prior to the motor training to induce UDP.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      Primary outcome measure will be the magnitude of UDP (training-induced changes in
      transcranial magnetic stimulation-evoked kinematic responses). Secondary outcome measures are
      pinch force; and a functional measure of activities of daily life (ADL): Jebsen-Tailor-Test.
      To better understand the mechanisms underlying the proposed behavioral gains, we will use TMS
      to identify changes in corticomotor excitability.
    
  