
    
      The elderly patients have poor tolerance to anesthesia and total hip replacement because of
      severe surgical trauma and much blood loss. General anesthesia is a primary anesthesia method
      used previously for total hip replacement in the elderly and it has many limitations, for
      example, it can interfere with the physiological function in the elderly patients. The
      organic function and compensative ability of the elderly are often weakened to varying
      degrees because of cardiovascular disease, pulmonary disease or diabetes mellitus, thus
      nociceptive stimuli such as anesthesia and surgery greatly influence the stress.

      Stress refers to an organism's non-specific reactions to various nociceptive stimuli, i.e.,
      stressors, in which many factors are involved. It can stimulate sympathetic nerves,
      strengthen the function of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and cause changes in various
      metabolisms, thereby playing an important role in maintaining intraoperative vital signs and
      recovering postoperative immune function. Different anesthesia methods produce different
      effects on organism's immune function. Effects of anesthesia on immune function are closely
      related to the complications, such as postoperative infection. In addition, the immunity in
      the elderly is relatively poorer than that in the normal healthy population. Therefore, a
      rational anesthesia method is of important clinical significance for safe surgery and
      postoperative recovery in the elderly. A combined nerve block has been reportedly to be more
      suitable for total hip replacement in the elderly because of its safety and reliability.

      Previous related studies focused primarily on onset time of anesthesia and postoperative
      complications. To the best of our knowledge, no studies have been reported on the effect of a
      combined nerve block on intraoperative stress and postoperative immune function in the
      elderly patients subjected to total hip replacement. Therefore, this study is innovative in
      our mind.

      Adverse events

      If severe adverse events including any expected or unexpected symptoms occur, information
      including the data of occurrence, type of adverse events, measures taken related to the
      treatment of the adverse events will be reported to the project manager and the institutional
      review board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis and open access

      Data collection: according to trial design type and requirement, a table will be developed to
      record trial data. The recorded data will be input into an electronic database using a
      double-data entry strategy by trained professional staff.

      Data management: information accuracy will be checked when all recruited patients are
      followed up. The database will be locked by the researcher in charge and will not be altered.
      All information relating to this trial will be preserved by Qinghai University Affiliated
      Hospital, China.

      Data analysis: The electronic database will be made available to a professional statistician
      for statistical analysis. An outcome analysis report will be made by the statistician and
      submitted to the lead researchers. An independent data monitoring committee will supervise
      and manage the trial data with the goal of ensuring a scientific and stringent trial process,
      resulting in accurate and complete data.

      Data open access: Anonymized trial data will be published at http://www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis

      Statistical analysis will be performed by a statistician using SPSS 19.0 software and will
      follow the intention-to-treat principle. Normally distributed measurement data will be
      expressed as a mean, standard deviation, min, and max. Non-normally distributed measurement
      data will be expressed as a lower quartile (q1), median, and upper quartile (q3).

      The Mann-Whitney U test will be used to compare fasting blood glucose level, serum cortisol
      concentration, hemorrheological indexes and immune function-related indices between
      experimental and control groups. The Mcnemar χ2 test will be used to compare the incidence of
      adverse events between experimental and control groups, with an accepted significance level
      of α = 0.05.
    
  