
    
      The prevalence of overweight and obese children and adolescents dramatically increased during
      the last two decades. In Germany every 5th school child is overweight and 4 - 8% of all
      children are obese.

      Recent studies suggest that fatty acids in maternal nutrition may have an impact on the fat
      tissue development during the fetal period.

      Animal studies showed that a reduction in the arachidonic acid intake, a higher intake of n-3
      LC PUFAs (i.e. DHA and EPA) and a resulting lower n-6/n-3 fatty acid ratio in food will cause
      less expansive fat tissue development in the first year of life.

      In vitro studies and personal observations in animal studies also showed that n-6 fatty acids
      (i.e. arachidonic acid) stimulate the differentiation of preadipocytes to adipocytes whereas
      n-3 fatty acids (i.e. DHA and EPA) have the contrary effect.

      The impact of the maternal fatty acid pattern on the early fat tissue development can only be
      clarified in an intervention study.

      Therefore it is planned to recruit 204 pregnant women in the 14th week of gestation. They
      will be randomly assigned to the intervention or control group.

      The intervention group will receive n-3 LC-PUFAs (DHA and EPA) as fish oil capsules from the
      15th week of gestation until 4 months pp, the control group will get nutrition counselling
      according to the recommendations of the German Society for Nutrition during the same time
      period. Blood samples of the pregnant and lactating women, umbilical cord blood, placental
      tissue and blood of the newborns will be collected for fatty acid analysis.

      Body fat mass in newborns will be determined from delivery until 4 months pp via skinfold
      measurement, ultrasound, and MRI.

      The hypothesis is that newborns in the group of the "supplemented" mothers will have less
      expansive fat tissue development than children from mothers in the control group.

      This would be an innovative primary preventive approach in a period of increasing prevalence
      of overweight and obese children and adolescents.
    
  