
    
      Human eating behaviour is a very complex process. It has been well established that food
      intake and choice are influences by nutritional composition of the food and their reward
      values. However recent work suggests that cognitive processes such as memory, attention, and
      inhibition influence food choices. Thinking about food can lead to increased attention to
      food cues, which can result in a greater chance of actual food consumption. Additional
      manipulation of attention effects memory and snack intake. It has been suggested that memory
      inhibition plays a critical role in suppression of food-related information when satiated to
      prevent overeating. These results underpin the interaction between cognitive processes and
      internal state and its effect on appetite. Although it has been widely studied what the
      effect of satiation is on reward and even which brain regions are associated with food
      intake, for both homeostatic and hedonic eating, the direct effect of consumption on
      cognitive processes and the related brain processes are rather unknown.

      In this study participants will be asked to come to a research facility twice
      (within-design). Once the particpant will undergo all the tasks when hungry and receive a
      lunch at the end of the study-day (hungry session), and once the subject will first receive a
      lunch and then perform all the tasks (satiated session). Upon arrival subjects will fill in
      their appetite and mood ratings, followed by a break or a lunch (depending on the session).
      After the 25-min break/lunch the subject will be placed in the scanner. First the particpants
      neural responses will be measure while performing an inhibition task, here subjects will
      complete a go-no/go task; the particpant either has to go (press) when seeing a toiletry or
      stationary item, or not go (withhold pressing) when seeing a food or sports item. Second a
      resting state fMRI measurement will be performed. Third subjects will see food and non-food
      items, which the particpant has to rate on their appeal. Last an anatomical scan will be run.
      When out of the scanner subjects will undergo several cognitive computerized tasks, a word
      recall task, a working memory task (measuring the top-down guidance of attention to food
      stimuli via working memory) and a delay discount task. At last subjects will get lunch (when
      receiving a break at the start) or a break (when consuming food at arrival).
    
  