
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the consistency in bladder volumes in patients with prostate cancer
           undergoing conformal radiotherapy, when randomized to one of two sets of bladder-filling
           instructions.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the incidence of acute and late genitourinary and gastrointestinal toxicity
           in patients treated with these methods.

        -  To determine patient satisfaction with the bladder-filling instructions.

        -  To determine satisfaction of bladder-filling protocols amongst radiation therapists and
           doctors.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients empty their bladders and consume 6 cups of water 30 minutes before
           undergoing radiotherapy. Patients also undergo bladder volume measurements using a
           bladder volume instrument (BVI) periodically during treatment.

        -  Arm II: Patients empty their bladders and consume 3 cups of water 30 minutes before
           undergoing radiotherapy. Patients also undergo bladder volume measurements using a BVI
           periodically during treatment.

      In both arms, patients follow their bladder filling instructions and then undergo conformal
      radiation therapy daily for about 8 weeks.

      Patients' perception of symptoms, quality of life, and urinary symptoms are assessed
      periodically by the International Prostate Symptom Score (I-PSS). Patients' satisfaction with
      the bladder-filling instructions (i.e., ability to comply with the bladder-filling protocol,
      the number of incidents of wetting accidents, number of incidents of having to repeat the
      water drinking on the same day due to machine breakdown or the patient's inability to retain
      the full bladder for the required amount of time, and the level of frustration) is assessed
      periodically by the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS).

      Staff satisfaction with bladder-filling interventions (i.e., patient compliance with the
      protocols, acceptance of bladder dose-volume histograms [DVHs], need for re-scan with a
      fuller bladder, amount of disruption to the therapist's work schedule, number of incidents of
      wetting accidents, number of incidents of having to repeat the water drinking on the same day
      due to machine breakdown or the patient's inability to retain the full bladder for the
      required amount of time, and the level of satisfaction or frustration) is assessed
      periodically.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 4 years.
    
  