
    
      Depression and fatigue is common in breast cancer survivors and its presence is associated
      with personal suffering, increased inflammatory activity, and worse prognosis. While in the
      phase of acute treatment many women receive short-term psychological support to better cope
      with the situation, this is not standard of care in the years following. Web-based
      psychological interventions are easily accessible and preliminary evidence suggests that such
      interventions can be effective. However, no trial has yet examined whether a CBT-based
      internet intervention designed to meet the needs of breast cancer survivors can achieve
      effects on immune status, inflammation and psychometric outcomes, when offered as adjunct to
      care as usual.

      In this study, the investigators will study treatment effects of the novel web-based program
      Optimune when added to treatment as usual. Beyond established CBT techniques targeting
      depression, anxiety, and fatigue, this intervention specifically includes elements that have
      shown effects on markers of immune status and inflammation, including sleep and stress
      management (e.g., mindfulness-based techniques) and lifestyle optimization (dietary and
      physical activity advice). The delivery and training of content is continuously
      individualized to match users' preferences and needs, based on responses within the program.
      The intervention is delivered via the internet and protected by individually assigned
      passwords. The program can be accessed for 365 days after registration.

      This randomized controlled trial will include 150 women with breast cancer who are past the
      active eradication phase and free from disease recurrence. Participants will be recruited
      from various settings, including web-based advertisement and internet forums/groups.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to either (1) a control group, in which they receive
      care as usual (CAU) and are given access to the web-based intervention (Optimune) after a
      delay of 6 months (i.e., CAU/wait list control group), or (2) a treatment group that may also
      use CAU and in addition immediately receives 12-month access to the web-based intervention
      (Optimune). Measurements are collected at pre-treatment (T0) three months (T1), six months
      (T2), nine months (T3) and twelve months (T4).
    
  