
    
      Nearly 15.5 million Americans have survived cancer and virtually all have experienced
      symptoms from cancer treatment. Numerous symptom management interventions have been tested
      during active treatment, yet few have addressed the continuing fatigue, pain, depression,
      etc. that endure following the end of treatment.

      Existing post-treatment symptom management research has targeted survivors months after the
      end of active treatment, overlooking the immediate post-treatment period. During this period,
      some survivors have their symptoms resolve naturally (low need for intervention), while
      others suffer from high symptom burden (high need for intervention), with 30% experiencing
      depression. Sample: The sample will be 344 ethnically diverse (at least 30% Hispanic)
      survivors who have a new diagnosis or localized recurrence of solid tumor cancer and elevated
      depression and co-morbid illnesses.

      Design: The SMART design incorporates two interventions with proven efficacy and addresses
      heterogeneity of survivors' responses by following the clinical logic of starting with one
      intervention, assessing its success, and continuing it when effective. High need survivors
      will be initially randomized to receive 1) weekly symptom assessment with referral for
      elevated symptoms to a printed Symptom Management and Survivorship Handbook (SMSH) or 2) a
      more intensive intervention adding SMSH to Telephone Interpersonal Counselling (TIP-C). After
      4 weeks, non-responders to SMSH alone on depression will be re-randomized to continue SMSH
      for 8 more weeks to allow for symptom resolution, or TIP-C will be added for the remaining 8
      weeks. Specific Aims:

      1. Test the effects of interventions on summed index of severity of 15 post-chemotherapy
      symptoms (primary outcome) and symptom-specific responses and times to response (secondary
      outcomes). Hypothesis 1.Survivors that starts with TIP-C+SMSH versus those that start with
      SMSH alone created by the first randomization will have better primary and secondary outcomes
      at weeks 1-13. Hypothesis 2. Among nonresponders to the SMSH alone after 4 weeks, survivors
      in TIP-C+SMSH as compared to the SMSH alone group created by the second randomization will
      have better primary and secondary outcomes at weeks 5-13.

      Hypothesis 3. Self-efficacy and social support will mediate improvements in the primary
      outcome at week 13.

      Aim 2. Compare symptom outcomes of intervention sequences against the benchmark low need
      group.

      Exploratory Aim. Explore which survivor characteristics are associated with responses to the
      SMSH alone during weeks 1-4 and optimal symptom outcomes during weeks 1-13. This will allow
      us to determine tailoring variables to inform decision rules for choosing intervention
      sequences for individual survivors in the future.
    
  