
    
      The proposed project aims to improve the process of making evidence-informed treatment
      decisions by patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and ultimately, empower patient
      self-management. Current RA treatment emphasizes: 1) the need for early and aggressive
      treatment, and 2) the use of a Treat-to-Target approach. Patients often struggle with
      treatment decisions, however, especially when the options have both benefits and risks. To
      address this challenge, the investigators have developed a new online decision aid called
      ANSWER-2 (ANimated, Self-serve, WEb-based, Research Tool: Version 2) for RA patients who are
      considering a biologic or other new therapy. A unique feature of ANSWER-2 is its ability to
      individualize how treatment options are presented based on the patient's preferences.

      Objective: 1) To evaluate the effectiveness of ANSWER-2 in reducing patients' decisional
      conflict. 2) To assess the extent to which ANSWER-2 improves patients' knowledge about RA
      medications and confidence in managing their health. 3) To examine the experiences of
      patients and rheumatologists in using the ANSWER-2.

      The investigators will conduct a proof-of-concept randomized controlled trial with 148
      patients with RA. Eligible individuals are those: 1) with a diagnosis of RA from a
      rheumatologist, 2) whose rheumatologists have recommended initiating a biologic or other new
      therapy or switching to another agent, and 3) who have internet access. The Intervention
      Group will receive simple instructions to access ANSWER-2 and complete the program on their
      own within two days. At the end of the session, a one-page summary will be produced to help
      them discuss their questions, concerns, and preferred choices with their health care
      providers. The Control Group will receive The Arthritis Society's online education booklet
      "Arthritis Medications: A Consumer's Guide". Participants will complete the Decisional
      Conflict Scale (primary outcome) before and after the intervention (ANSWER-2 or booklet). The
      following secondary outcome measures will be collected at baseline, 1 month and 2 months: 1)
      Medication Education Impact Questionnaire (MeIQ), and 2) Partners in Health Scale (PHS). In
      addition, use of healthcare resources will be collected at 2 months. Participants will also
      be asked about their medication preferences at Month 1, as well as the shared decision making
      process in their last appointment, (using the 3-item CollaboRATE scale), at Month 1.
      Participants who received the ANSWER-2 decision aid and their rheumatologists will be invited
      to participate in an interview about their experience with the patient decision aid. The
      investigators will use analysis of variance (ANOVA) to compare between the Intervention Group
      and Control Group, using the baseline measure as a covariate. An iterative content analysis
      will be conducted for the qualitative interviews.
    
  