
    
      Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome-Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the novel pathogen
      responsible coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) first discovered in Wuhan, China. Since its
      emergence in late December 2019, many pathophysiological mechanisms have been proposed with
      multiple pathways that involve various organ systems . Although considered at its emergence
      as a respiratory infection with manifestations ranging from lower respiratory tract infection
      to pneumonia and advancing to acute respiratory disease syndrome (ARDS) in its final stages,
      recent evidence has highlighted how disseminated the virus can be affecting almost every
      organ be it the heart kidneys or blood vessels . Recent trends in research have focused on
      elucidating the cardiovascular dysfunction in COVID-19 patients Especially following studies
      showing that cardiovascular risk factors are among the most common presenting comorbidities
      and that cardiovascular complications of SARS-CoV-2 are among the most lethal . Initial
      research revealed that the virus makes use of the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2)
      receptor to infiltrate host cells. With the ACE-2 receptor being a widely expressed receptor
      found in multiple cells lining the lung, heart, gastrointestinal tract, kidneys and
      endothelial cells. Another prominent mechanism of infection is immune system dysregulation
      manifesting as a cytokine storm and inflammatory response over-activation.

      Attempts at laying out a comprehensive or unifying pathogenesis of a COVID-19 infection have
      singled out endothelial dysfunction as a core pathway. The endothelium in summary is
      monolayer lining the arteries, veins and microvasculature. The endothelium hence plays a
      major role in homeostasis with interactive roles in blood pressure regulation,
      anti-coagulation and immune protection Moreover, it is thus relevant to note that the most
      common comorbidities that present with COVID-19 such as hypertension, diabetes, obesity and
      old age are all underlined by pre-existing endothelial damage or dysfunction. As such,
      endothelial dysfunction and oxidative stress and their relation to the manifestation and
      progression of COVID-19 infections has gain significant traction in recent publications. This
      breakthrough exposes several causes of endothelial dysfunction which include direct lining
      attack, hypoxia, cytokine storm and suppressed endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) with
      concomitant nitric oxide deficiency. Several studies have emphasized the role of NO signaling
      as a major regulator of vascular tone and its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and
      antithrombotic activity. For example, augmenting the production of NO and its bioavailability
      by nicorandil has been proposed as a potential treatment in patients with COVID 19.
      Nicorandil (a vasodilatory agent composed of N-[2-hydroxyethyl]-nicotinamide nitrate) used
      among patients with acute heart failure emergencies However, it has never been tested in
      patients with cardiovascular complications resulting from COVID 19 . Statins are
      cardioprotective in nature with recent reports showing that they can be beneficial in
      COVID-19 . An important mechanism via which Statins may improve endothelial function include
      increasing the production of NO and subsequent vasodilation effect, along with its
      established major anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties . Nebivolol, a
      cardio-selective beta blocker has also shown non-adrenergic vasodilating properties via the
      release of NO along with antioxidative and anti-atherosclerotic activities. Furthermore, eNOS
      overexpression leads to an increase in NO formation only when the BH4 synthase
      GTP-cyclohydrolase 1 (GCH-1) is alsoup-regulated. So, Folic Acid and L-arginine will be given
      to supplement our patients with BH4 . We hypothesize that its administration along with the
      other previously mentioned agents would improve endothelial function in patients suffering
      from COVID 19 via a cumulative increase in the bioavailability of Nitric Oxide (NO), and thus
      improving patients' outcomes
    
  