
    
      Patients with psychiatric complaints frequently present for evaluation and treatment in
      emergency departments across the country. In particular, agitation in the emergency
      department can have life-threatening consequences for both patients and staff, and so
      patients are frequently given medications to reduce their level of agitation and permit
      medical examination.

      Primary and secondary objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the efficacy and effectiveness of inhaled
      loxapine (Adasuve) vs. traditional emergency department treatment with intramuscular
      haloperidol with and without lorazepam in patients who present to the emergency department in
      an acutely agitated state. The Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS-EC), Agitation and
      Calmness Evaluation Scale (ACES) will be used as measurements of agitation and Barnes
      akathisia scale will be used as measurements of side effects.

      There are five secondary objectives: (1) To assess the level of agitation of psychiatric
      patients presenting to the emergency department using the PANSS-EC, ACES and Barnes scale;
      (2) To determine the effect of the level of agitation related to medication treatment and
      physical restraint using the PANSS-EC; (3) To determine the complication rate of the various
      medications administered with and without physical restraint; (4) To compare the
      effectiveness of various pharmacologic agents used in the emergency department for agitation
      using the delta of agitation over time (5) To determine the effect of the treatment choice on
      emergency department throughout time using emergency department (ED) throughput time.

      Hypothesis:

      The hypothesis of this study is to demonstrate superiority of inhaled loxapine (Adasuve) to
      the traditional anti-psychotic agents (with or without benzodiazepine) in the effectiveness
      of the treatment of agitation at 15 minute treatment time.

      Research design:

      The study is an observational convenience (when a research assistant is available), analysis
      of patients who are given psychoactive medications in the emergency department for agitation
      during a twelve month period.

      The study will determine the level of patient agitation using the Positive and Negative
      Syndrome Scale (PANSS-EC), Agitation and Calmness Evaluation Scale (ACES) and Barnes
      akathisia scale. These scales were chosen because of their usage and applicability in studies
      of the treatment of agitation. The scales will be administered to the patients upon arrival,
      at fifteen minutes for the first hour and then every half hour for the next 2.5 hours or
      until the patient leaves the emergency department. The time medications are administered will
      be documented.

      All agitated patients presenting to Mount Sinai Hospital emergency departments who, in the
      judgment of an ED clinician require treatment. Patients will be treated within the standard
      of care with the additional of one additional FDA approved medication. All agitated patients
      presenting to the ED with a psychiatric related complaint, in the judgement of the ED
      clinician will be prescribed a treatment of choice. The choices will include inhaled loxapine
      (Adasuve) vs. traditional emergency department treatment with intramuscular haloperidol with
      and without lorazepam. Clinicians will be free to prescribe any medication that they feel
      benefits the patient.

      Research associates will approach patients who the emergency physician has deemed as agitated
      and in need of treatment. The research associate will obtain consent from the patient or
      their surrogate, if patient is not competent to consent to use the patient's information and
      ensure that the patient meets all study inclusion and no exclusion criteria. If the patient
      does not have the capacity to consent and no surrogate is available to consent, we will
      obtain patient data. When the patient gains capacity to consent, they will be approached to
      consent for use of their information that is being captured. Should these patients refuse
      consent; all information obtained will be destroyed.

      The research associate will obtain consent from the patient or their surrogate and ensure
      that the patient meets all study inclusion and no exclusion criteria. The researcher will
      observe the patient and record the level of agitation over a 2.5 hour time period. The
      research associate will complete all study documents.

      All patients will be evaluated by the emergency physician to provide medical clearance. The
      primary purpose of medical clearance is to determine whether a medical illness is causing or
      exacerbating the psychiatric condition. The secondary purpose is to identify medical or
      surgical conditions incidental to the psychiatric problem that may need treatment. The
      emergency service is responsible for the evaluation and treatment of a patients' agitation.
      They will determine the need for and choice of treatment option for the patient.

      Teva Pharmaceuticals will provide a supply of Loxapine (Adasuve) for the emergency department
      for the time period of the study. The Principle Investigator has been in communication with
      the Pharmacy department regarding the storage and distribution of the drug. Please see
      inclusion/exclusion criteria in "Eligibility". The emergency department staff will be
      educated about the appropriate use of this education.

      The research associate will obtain all necessary data elements either from the patient or the
      medical record. They will observe and record the PANSS-EC, ACES, and Barnes scores on each
      enrolled patient every fifteen minutes for the first hour then every half hour for a total of
      2.5 hours or until the patient leaves the emergency department. Information will be collected
      on a data collection sheet that will include basic demographic information on the patient,
      age, gender, diagnosis, current medication, level of agitation before and after treatment,
      number of restraints, vital signs, time restraints were applied, type and time medication is
      administered and complications of therapy. A research associate will complete the data
      collection sheet and input the data of enrolled patients. The patients' psychiatric diagnosis
      from the psychiatric service will be noted. The research fellow will complete all study
      documents. The statistician will perform an analysis of the data looking for statistical
      significance of the data to the posed questions. Once all data is collected, any identifying
      information on the patient will be destroyed to ensure patient confidentiality.

      Following data collection, the data will be analyzed using commercially-available software
      packages (such SPSS) to determine agitation reduction using 95% confidence intervals to
      exclude the margin.
    
  