
    
      Part 1a of the study will be a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, SAD, sequential
      group design study. Seven inhaled dose levels of AZD4604 nebulized suspension are planned to
      be investigated in cohorts of 8 healthy volunteers, with 6 healthy volunteers randomly
      assigned to inhaled AZD4604 and 2 healthy volunteers randomly assigned to inhaled placebo in
      each cohort.

      Part 1a will comprise of:

        -  A Screening Visit within 28 days before dosing.

        -  A Treatment Period (Day -1 to Day 7, in the Clinical Unit) with a single inhaled dose of
           AZD4604 or corresponding placebo on Day 1. Although the anticipated systemic exposure
           and risk for potential adverse systemic effects are considered to be low for AZD4604,
           healthy volunteers will remain resident at site for additional 6 days of monitoring.

        -  A Final Assessment on day of discharge.

      In Part 1b, AZD4604 will be administered as a single IV dose or a single PO dose to healthy
      volunteers in order to compare the PK between IV, PO and inhaled administration. Part 1b will
      be open-label and consist of 2 dose cohorts, IV and PO, with 6 healthy volunteers in each.

      Part 1b will comprise of:

        -  A washout period of at least 2 weeks for the healthy volunteers that received inhaled
           dosing in Part 1a will occur before IV or PO dosing in Part 1b. All healthy volunteers
           will have a Screening Visit within 28 days of dosing.

        -  A Treatment Period (Day -1 to Day 3, in the Clinical Unit) with a single IV or PO dose
           of AZD4604 on Day 1.

        -  A Follow-up Visit within 6 ± 1 day after dosing.

      Part 2 of the study will be a randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, MAD, sequential
      group design. This part of the study will be conducted in up to 56 patients with mild asthma.

      Part 2 will comprise of:

        -  A Screening Visit within 28 days before first dosing.

        -  A Treatment Period (Day -2 to Day 12 in the Clinical Unit) with twice daily (BID)
           inhaled doses of AZD4604 or placebo on Day 1 to Day 6 (12-hour intervals between doses),
           and a single inhaled dose on Day 7. The patients will remain resident at site for
           additional 6 days of monitoring, which is predicted to allow sufficient time for near
           complete washout (estimated time for > 97% of the dose to have been eliminated) of any
           target engagement from the lungs. Patients will remain in the Clinical Unit for the
           duration of the treatment period and will be discharged on Day 13, 6 days after
           administration of the last dose.

        -  A Final Assessment on day of discharge.
    
  