
    
      A new fenestrated (multiple side-ports) needle has recently been cleared by the FDA for
      performing peripheral nerve blocks. Experience with this needle suggests that it can make ACB
      technically easier and safer to perform.This is due in large part because it eliminates the
      need to position the needle in close proximity to large blood vessels in the thigh.

      The objectives for this study would be to prospectively compare nerve blocks performed for
      postoperative analgesia performed using conventional (single bevel) needles to those
      performed using the fenestrated needle. Specifically, the investigators would compare metrics
      such as; time to perform the block, number of attempts, unintentional blood vessel puncture,
      and successful injection rates. Successful injection rates would be quantified by comparing
      the distribution of sensory loss after each injection. Those injections resulting in a loss
      of sensation over the skin surfaces innervated by nerves of the adductor canal would be
      judged to be "successful". An absence of sensory change in these surfaces would be judged as
      "unsuccessful".

      Procedures:

      All patients will be randomized to receive treatment with one of two nerve block needles.
      Neither the investigators nor the patients will be blinded. Randomization will be based
      solely on the results of a computer generated random sequence.

      All patients participating in the study will receive the same anesthetic, surgery,
      postoperative care, and pain management that is provided currently for patients (including
      those not enrolled in this study protocol) having knee replacement at the University of Utah.
      This investigation is designed to compare only the efficacy of two needle designs that are
      currently used and FDA approved for peripheral nerve block.

      Patients consenting to participate in the study will be randomized to receive an ACB
      performed with either a single bevel (conventional) or a fenestrated needle. The ACB will be
      placed in the preoperative holding area approximately 30 minutes before being transported to
      the operating room. During performance of the nerve block, the time to complete the nerve
      block, the number of attempts used to complete the nerve block, the incidence of blood vessel
      puncture and/or blood aspiration will be recorded for each case. All patients will also be
      assessed for sensory changes in the lower extremity as a metric for block efficacy.

      In the operating room, patients will be anesthetized using a spinal block and will receive
      intravenous sedation at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist.

      During the postoperative period, the quality and duration of analgesia will be primary
      metrics used to compare the two study needles. Specifically, numerical pain scores reported
      by the patients and opioid consumption will be compared for both groups.

      All patients for whom the is a possible "failed nerve block" will be offered a repeat
      "rescue" nerve block after surgery. A failed block would be defined by an absence of sensory
      changes in the extremity associated with poor pain control reported by the patient.

      Additional metrics for comparison would be the time to ambulation after surgery and the time
      to hospital discharge.

      Statistical Methods, Data Analysis and Interpretation

      The study will be prospective and randomized for two groups of patients having nerve blocks
      as part of their pain management protocol for total knee replacement.
    
  