
    
      In response to the pandemic, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved several
      platforms under emergency use authorization (EUA). These platforms do not have full FDA
      approval and may be used for COVID-19 testing temporarily in a clinical laboratory until the
      manufacturer receives full FDA clearance for use in the U.S.

      Two point of care (POC) platforms with current EUA approval are the ID NOW COVID-19 (Abbott)
      and the Accula SARS-CoV-2 tests (Mesa Biotech). Both tests are designated as clinical
      laboratory improvement amendments (CLIA) waived complexity. POCs play a vital role in the
      diagnosis of COVID-19, especially in laboratories and clinics where testing including
      molecular assays and serology is not available.

      The purpose of this study is to compare SARS-CoV-2 results from clinical specimens on the ID
      NOW and the Accula systems. If the Accula system is comparable or demonstrates superior test
      parameters including sensitivity, then this assay may potentially assist in improving
      turnaround times for COVID-19 results and facilitate reinstating elective procedures.

      Patients with orders for rapid Covid-19 testing and who have consented to participate will be
      included. For these patients one additional clinical specimen, a nasal specimen will be
      collected from the patient at the same time as the initial specimen for the ID NOW. If there
      is a discrepancy between the ID NOW and Accula test results, an additional specimen (nasal)
      will be collected from the patient, if possible (i.e. if the patient remains in-house) to
      confirm the COVID-19 results. We will also include patients who did not have an initial swab
      but tested positive by PCR. They will be swabbed by both systems.

      This study will evaluate accuracy by comparing Accula results to the ID NOW, precision
      (reproducibility) by repeating select specimens with different users and on different
      analyzers, limit of detection by diluting commercial SARS-CoV-2 controls with a known
      concentration and cross-reactivity by testing known respiratory viruses (including influenza
      A, B and RSV) on the Accula.
    
  