
    
      This application proposes to evaluate the implementation of a theory-based HIV care
      enhancement and alcohol treatment intervention delivered by cell phone to patients in urban
      and rural areas. Engagement, retention, and adherence to care are necessary to achieve HIV
      suppression and antiretroviral therapy (ART) non-adherence can lead to treatment resistant
      genetic variants of HIV. People living with HIV often experience difficulty sustaining
      high-levels of treatment adherence and alcohol use is known to impede HIV care. Most factors
      that interfere with adherence to care are unanticipated and occur between clinical visits,
      including depression, ART side effects, and substance use. We will conduct a comparative
      effectiveness study to evaluate the implementation of a cell phone-delivered theory-based
      alcohol treatment and HIV care adherence counseling intervention. The intervention is
      grounded in the Behavioral Self-Regulation Model and utilizes brief cell phone counseling
      that includes monitoring adherence, provider support, and guided corrective feedback as well
      as interactive text message check-ins. This proactive approach with patients who drink is
      intended to increase engagement in care and facilitate reductions in drinking thereby
      improving retention to care and health outcomes. Brief counseling conducted via cell phones
      allows providers to detect and correct patient slippage from their care plan within a
      timeframe that can head-off missed appointments, ART non-adherence, and viral resistance. The
      intervention also includes interactive text (SMS) messaging that begins weekly and tappers
      off to further enhance engagement in care. Participants are 200 men and 200 women living in
      high-HIV prevalence remote communities who actively use alcohol and are receiving HIV
      treatment. Following screening, informed consent, and baseline assessments, participants will
      be allocated to either (a) the mobile alcohol behavioral self-regulation counseling
      enhancement to their usual care or (b) routine services provided in their usual care.
      Participants will be followed for 12-months post-intervention. The primary endpoints are
      retention to care, medication adherence assessed by unannounced pill counts and HIV RNA
      (viral load). The study will also evaluate the implementation processes including
      facilitators and barriers to engagement in care and a cost accounting of resources expended
      to achieve optimal outcomes. A team of internationally recognized experts in HIV treatment
      and behavioral research will form a working group to guide an in-depth implementation and
      cost evaluation. This study will inform the implementation of low-cost evidence-based care
      retention and adherence interventions in resource limited settings.
    
  