
    
      Coronary atherosclerotic disease often begins in the transition from childhood to
      adolescence, progressing slowly and quietly. Its clinical manifestation occurs in the
      majority of cases from the 4th decade of life. However, it is important to remember that
      necropsy studies conducted in the 1970s identified the presence of non-obstructive
      atherosclerotic plaques in the aorta of individuals from the second decade of life.

      From its first description to the present day, the subject has been deeply studied, providing
      reliable information on several mechanisms involved in atherogenesis, disease progression and
      plaque unstabilization, which may occur in a silent manner or lead to a clinical picture of
      unstable myocardial ischemic syndrome (UMIS). In this period, classic risk factors for
      coronary artery disease (age, sex, diabetes mellitus, systemic arterial hypertension,
      hypercholesterolemia and smoking, among others) were described, and risk scores were
      developed that aid in the individual prediction of the probability of disease manifestation
      coronary artery disease (CAD).

      The most widespread of these scores is that developed from the population of Framingham,
      which was started in the United States of the same name after 1948. Subjects with no evidence
      of cardiovascular disease were followed prospectively with biannual evaluations. The data
      obtained allowed the elaboration of an algorithm of prediction of individual risk that is
      included in the most recent recommendations of evaluation of cardiovascular risk.

      However, these traditional clinical assessment scores tend to underestimate cardiovascular
      risk in some populations, especially in women and young individuals. In the global
      population, the various clinical scores used have a predictive accuracy for ischemic events,
      as assessed by the ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristic) curve, ranging from 0.73 to 0.79.

      In this way, the concept of "detection interval" is proposed. Defined by the difference
      between cases of coronary disease or cardiovascular events detected and the actual total
      prevalence of atherosclerotic disease in the population, such detection interval opens a new
      field for the introduction of new non-invasive atherosclerosis investigation techniques.

      Taking into account that approximately 50% of coronary events occur in previously
      asymptomatic patients, the early detection of these individuals at greater risk has become an
      important research target within the current cardiology.

      More recently, the development of radiologic techniques, fundamentally coronary angiography
      of multiple detectors (CAMD) and electron beam computed tomography (EBCT), have demonstrated
      that the degree of coronary calcification correlates with endothelial lesion and individual
      prognosis in the long term, allowing to refine the clinical classification of a patient's
      risk for a greater or lesser chance of fatal and non-fatal events. Notably, the calcium score
      has a weak correlation with the severity of coronary stenosis per se, possibly due to
      variations in the arterial remodeling due to coronary calcification.

      On the other hand, calcification of the coronary arteries is known to be associated with
      lower myocardial blood flow even in the absence of significant stenosis. This means that
      calcification is not merely a marker of obstructive coronary disease and may predispose
      patients to myocardial ischemia by mechanisms other than those traditionally known and may
      therefore be a marker of endothelial dysfunction.

      On the other hand, the application of CAMD allowed the detection of a small magnitude
      atheromatosis , not diagnosed clinically by the tests provoking ischemia or even by
      contrast-enhanced coronary angiography. The clinical relevance of these alterations,
      evaluated by their correlation with the presence of plaque vulnerability markers, mainly
      platelet aggregation, vascular reactivity, and inflammation, is still very little studied,
      being the main objective of this study.
    
  