
    
      The new interferon-free antiviral regimens for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC)
      infections achieve impressive sustained virological response (SVR) rates beyond 90%, with
      shorter treatment duration and reduced side effects, irrespective of previous treatment
      history or presence of advanced liver diseases.

      In Europe, the majority of HCV infections have been acquired and transmitted through
      injecting drug use - therefore, people who inject drugs (PWID) represent the majority of
      individuals with CHC infections in the Western industrialized cultures. There are excellent
      therapeutic options for those PWID who are in OST, as the frequent treatment provider-patient
      contact allows regular diagnoses, a continuing monitoring, and a sustainable management of
      HCV-infection among these patients. However, despite the growing evidence that patients in
      OST can successfully be treated for HCV, the treatment uptake among this predominant risk
      group is still very low. The current evidence from non-drug using populations only have a
      limited impact on the willingness of physicians providing opioid substitution treatment
      (OST), hepatologists and infectiologists to provide antiviral HCV treatment with IFN-free
      DAAs and on the willingness of OST patients to enter such treatment. Accordingly, data on the
      effectiveness and safety of antiviral HCV treatment regimens with IFN-free DAAs among this
      relevant patient group are urgently needed. The aim of this prospective cohort study is to
      assess the effectiveness, safety and patient reported outcome measures of IFN-free DAAs for
      the treatment of CHC among OST patients.

      The primary objective of this open-label, observational, prospective cohort study will be to
      evaluate the effectiveness of IFN-free DAAs regimens for the treatment of chronic
      HCV-infection among OST patients in real life clinical settings.

      Patients will be treated for chronic HCV with any kind of registered IFN-free DAA protocol
      and in accordance with the respective SmPC. This ensures that that dosing and schedule are
      supported by Phase I or later research. The study physician will make any medical decisions
      with regard to type of medication and doses. The individual treatment duration depends on the
      respective treatment protocol. The study physician is responsible for any medical decision
      and will document treatment dosage, treatment schedule, treatment duration and outcome.

      Effectiveness is defined as sustained virological response at week 12 and week 24 after end
      of treatment (SVR12 and SVR24). SVR rates will be compared with the literature on
      non-substance using populations on the basis of two-sided 95% confidence intervals. The
      sample size calculation revealed, that 295 OST patients (HCV treatment
      naïve/Non-responder/Relapser) eligible for treatment with IFN-free DAAs (according to the
      summary of product (SmPC)) have to be included. To account for dropouts, we consider an
      over-recruitment of 10%, resulting in 325 patients to be recruited.

      Secondary objectives include the collection of safety data during the treatment phase until
      SVR12, patients' adherence, and patient reported outcome measures like functioning
      (disability), satisfaction with the treatment, health status, general health perceptions and
      health-related quality of life.

      All analyses - effectiveness and safety - will be conducted as intention-to-treat (ITT) as
      well as per protocol (PP) analyses. The ITT sample is defined as the number of patients
      starting treatment (first dose), whereas the PP sample includes only patients with complete
      data for SVR24.
    
  