
    
      This is a 24-week, phase III multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      parallel-group study.

      Eligible subjects will be randomized to GSK573719/GW642444 125/25mcg, GSK573719 125mcg,
      GW642444 25mcg, and placebo treatment groups in a 3:3:3:2 ratio such that of the planned 1463
      total number of randomized subjects approximately 399 subjects will be randomized to each
      active treatment group and 266 subjects will be randomized to placebo. All treatments will be
      administered once-daily in the morning by inhalation using a Novel Dry Powder Inhaler (Novel
      DPI).

      There will be a total of 9 study clinic visits conducted on an outpatient basis. Subjects who
      meet the eligibility criteria at Screening (Visit 1) will complete a 7 to 14 day run-in
      period followed by a 24-week treatment period. Clinic visits will be at Screening,
      Randomization (Day 1), Day 2, after 4, 8, 12, 16, and 24-weeks of treatment, and 1 day after
      the Week 24 Visit (also referred as Treatment Day 169). A follow-up contact for adverse
      assessment will be conducted by telephone approximately 7 days after Visit 9 or the Early
      Withdrawal Visit. The total duration of subject participation, including follow-up will be
      approximately 27 weeks. All subjects will be provided with albuterol/salbutamol for use on an
      "as-needed" basis throughout the run-in and study treatment periods.

      At screening, pre-bronchodilator spirometry testing will be followed by
      post-albuterol/salbutamol spirometry testing. Post-albuterol/salbutamol FEV1 and FEV1/FVC
      values will be used to determine subject eligibility. To further characterize bronchodilator
      responsiveness, post-ipratropium testing will be conducted following completion of
      post-albuterol/salbutamol spirometry.

      Spirometry will be conducted at each post-randomization clinic visit. Six hour post-dose
      serial spirometry will be conducted at Visits 2, 4, 6, and 8. Trough spirometry will be
      obtained 23 and 24 hours after the previous day's dose of blinded study medication at Visits
      3 to 9. All subjects will be provided with an electronic diary (eDiary) for completion daily
      in the evening throughout the run-in and treatment periods. Subjects will use the eDiary to
      record dyspnea scores using the Shortness of Breath with Daily Activities instrument (SOBDA),
      daily use of supplemental albuterol/salbutamol as either puffs/day from a metered-dose
      inhaler (MDI) and/or nebules used per day, and any healthcare contacts related to COPD.

      Additional assessments of dyspnea will be obtained using the Baseline and Transition Dyspnea
      Index (BDI/TDI) which is an interviewer based instrument. At Visit 2, the severity of dyspnea
      at baseline will be assessed using the BDI. At subsequent visits (Visits 4, 6, and 8) change
      from baseline will be assessed using the TDI. Disease specific health status will be
      evaluated using the subject-completed St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ). The SGRQ
      will be completed at Visits 2, 4, 6, and 8. Administration of the SGRQ and BDI/TDI should be
      done prior to spirometry testing.

      The occurrence of adverse events will be evaluated throughout the study beginning at Visit 2.
      SAEs will be collected over the same time period as for AEs. However, any SAEs assessed as
      related to study participation (e.g., study treatment, protocol-mandated procedures, invasive
      tests, or change in existing therapy) or related to a GSK concomitant medication, will be
      recorded from the time a subject consents to participate in the study up to and including any
      follow up contact.

      Additional safety assessments of vital signs (blood pressure and pulse rate), 12-lead ECGs
      and standard clinical laboratory tests (hematology and chemistry) will be obtained at
      selected clinic visits. Blood samples for population pharmacokinetic analyses will be
      obtained.

      At selected study sites, a subset of approximately 198 subjects will perform 24-hour serial
      spirometry during the study for evaluation of lung function over the dosing period. In
      conjunction with the serial spirometry, this subset of subjects will also perform 24 hour
      Holter monitoring and provide blood samples for PK analysis.
    
  