
    
      Background and rationale:

      Physical inactivity is an established risk factor for chronic disease and premature death. In
      addition to physical inactivity sedentary behaviour has been recognised as a distinct and
      independent risk factor for cardio metabolic morbidity and mortality in an increasing number
      of population-based observational studies. Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have an
      increased risk for cardio metabolic disease and pre-mature death. The increased risk is,
      partly caused by the chronic autoimmune rheumatic disease itself and partly to traditional
      risk factors e.g. hyperlipidemia and hypertension, but can also be attributed to physical
      inactivity. In Denmark 67 % of patients with RA do not comply with public health
      recommendations for daily moderate and vigorous physical activity (MVPA), and equivalent
      proportions are found in Germany (68 %) and the United Kingdom (67 %). Everyday life of
      patients suffering from RA is periodically influenced by high disease activity (flares) with
      symptoms such as swelling and stiffness of the joints accompanied by intense pain, leading to
      severe limitations in physical functioning and potential progressive joint destruction.
      Intervention studies in patients with RA have documented a positive effect of exercise on
      pain and physical functioning. However, studies have also demonstrated that exercise and
      increased activity levels are difficult to maintain over time. Pain has been identified as a
      main barrier against adaptation and maintenance of a physically activity lifestyle.

      Sedentary behaviour can be defined as low metabolic cost activities performed in sitting or
      reclining positions during waking hours. Sedentary behaviour has become increasingly
      prevalent in modern society, and recent population studies using self-reported questionnaires
      estimate daily sitting time of 8-9 hours per day, corresponding to 50-60 % of waking hours in
      adult general population samples. Likewise, an American population-based study among 4.757
      adults, found an objectively measured daily sitting time of 8.44 hours. A few studies have
      monitored objectively measured sitting time in patients with chronic disease and mobility
      disability, and these studies generally find that higher proportions of the day are spent
      sitting among people with various types of mobility disability, i.e. stroke (86-88 % of
      waking hours), multiple sclerosis (75-85 % of waking hours) and Parkinson's disease (76 % of
      waking hours). However, to our knowledge no studies have reported objectively measured
      sitting time in patients with RA. A review from 2011 suggests that aiming to increase PA
      levels among patients with mobility disability should not solely focus on increasing MVPA,
      but should also target reduction of sedentary time and increase of light intensity activity,
      as this approach may prove feasible for improving health and well-being among sedentary
      patients with chronic disease and mobility limitation.

      A few short term intervention studies in older people, and in overweight or obese adults have
      demonstrated that sedentary behaviour can be reduced through behavioural intervention and
      that physical activity energy expenditure may be increased by reduction of TV-viewing time.
      All studies applied objective measures of sitting time.

      Objectives:

      We hypothesize that sedentary behaviour can be reduced in patients with RA through
      behavioural lifestyle change. The primary objective of the present randomised trial is to
      investigate the effect of an individually tailored, theory-based motivational counselling
      intervention on daily sitting time in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and with sitting
      time more than 5 hours a day. The secondary objectives are to explore whether a reduction in
      daily sitting time is related to reduction in pain and fatigue, improved health-related
      quality of life (HRQOL), self-reported physical function and self-efficacy and improved
      cardiovascular biomarker levels, and to assess the cost-effectiveness of the intervention.

      Design:

      The 'Joint Resources' sedentary behaviour intervention study (JR-Sedentary Behaviour) is a
      randomised, controlled, observer-blinded trial with two parallel groups and a primary
      endpoint of changes in objectively measured daily sitting time.

      Study setting:

      Patients will be recruited from lists of patients with RA from the rheumatology outpatient
      clinic at Copenhagen University Hospital, Glostrup, the Capital Region of Denmark
      (approximately 2000 patients annually).

      Recruitment, screening and participants:

      The patients' medical records will be screened for diagnosis code and the latest HAQ-score.
      Potentially eligible patients will receive a letter with an invitation together with written
      information about the study and a folder with basic information about trials and personal
      rights in accordance with the guidelines of the Danish Scientific Ethical Committees. A few
      days later the daily project leader will call them and ask about their interest in
      participating in the study. If they are interested they must answer two "screening questions"
      on 1) self-reported daily sitting time during leisure and work, and 2) self-reported
      participation in vigorous physical activity (both questions are from The Physical Activity
      Scale (PAS 2.1)). If eligible the patients will be invited to an information session with the
      project leader. It will be possible for the patients to sign the consent form immediately
      following the session or alternatively during the following two days.

      Sample size:

      Calculation of sample size was based on data from a completed feasibility study (publication
      under preparation) in which the total daily time in patients with RA was objectively measured
      with ActivePAL. The daily average sitting time was 10.13±1.7 hours (mean±SD). In the present
      intervention study we expect a reduction in average daily sitting time of 50 minutes in the
      intervention group. This estimate is based on an American pilot study from 2012 on obese
      office workers who reduced their daily sitting time by 48 minutes as a result of the
      intervention. Based on results from that study, a significance level α = 5%, and a power of
      80% we need to include 62 patients in each of the groups. To compensate for attrition we aim
      to recruit 75 patients in each group.

      Randomization and blinding:

      Immediately following the baseline measurements randomization to either (A) intervention
      group (N = 75) or (B) control group (N = 75 ) will be performed via computer-generated
      "random numbers" for each of the two groups (blocks of 10 patients). Patients will be
      informed by the project leader about their group allocation one week after baseline
      measurements. All measurements are conducted by two occupational therapists who will be
      blinded to group allocation.

      Intervention:

      The intervention will include 1) Individual motivational counselling including handouts of
      four key messages regarding in reduction of daily sitting time in combination with 2)
      Individual Short Text Message (SMS) reminders.

        1. Individual motivational counselling The intervention consists of three individual
           motivational counselling (60-90 minutes) sessions, conducted by one of four nurses or
           occupational therapists, who are trained to conduct this specific intervention. The
           first counselling will take place immediately after randomization and allocation to the
           intervention group, the second counselling two weeks after, and the third counselling
           ten weeks after the first counselling.

           Contents of motivational counselling The intervention will focus on individual goal
           setting and self-efficacy, where participants describe their everyday life in terms of
           sitting time and decide how to reduce their daily sitting time, how to overcome barriers
           and what goal, in terms of reducing sitting time, they aim for. Motivational counselling
           techniques will be used.

           First, project staff will introduce the patients to the possible benefits of reducing
           their daily sitting time. Secondly, project staff will ask the patients to describe
           their typical day in order to identify resources and barriers for reduction of daily
           sitting time and discuss possible solutions to overcome barriers and use resources.
           Thirdly, the patients set their own goals for reduction of daily sitting time using a
           "catalogue of ideas", which contains proposals to reduce and create breaks in sitting
           time. Specific proposals to reduce daily sitting time are for example to stand up during
           phone conversations or TV-watching, get up frequently to go to the printer, get up at
           least once every half hour and walk around, get up to change the TV channel, make one
           cup of coffee each time. During the motivational counselling session number two and
           three patients own goals will be evaluated, new goals will be set and possible solution
           strategies will be addressed. The patients' motivation and confidence in their own
           ability to change will be in focus in the last two sessions.

           The intervention program focuses on 4 key messages or themes, including ideas and
           suggestions for reduction of sitting time, which are written in booklets that will be
           handed to the patients at each session. The four key messages are: 1) Reduce daily
           TV-viewing, 2) Substitute sitting with standing when possible - at work and/or at home,
           3) Break up prolonged sitting - by standing up frequently and 4) Maximum 30 minutes of
           sitting per episode.

        2. Individual SMS reminders

      Based on the patients' own individually goals the patients decide how many weekly SMS
      reminders they want to receive during the 16-week intervention period and at what time of the
      day. Examples of SMS text messages are shown below:

        -  Hello X. Raise from your table stand-up and allow gravity to assist your lunch to
           digest. Bonus: You burn more energy when you stand.

        -  Hi X. Regard vacuum cleaning as a free fitness hour. Put music in your ears and do not
           stop until both the list and the cleaning is done.

        -  Hi X. You have some truly privileged colleagues who in this afternoon will be able to
           see you stand by your table. Show them how to do it, and they might follow your good
           example.

        -  Hey X. Put the remote control next to the TV if you turn on the television today. Every
           time you change the channel your entire body gets some exercise.

      Control group:

      The control group will be encouraged to maintain their usual lifestyle during the 16-week
      intervention period.

      Participant timeline:

      The trial will last 22 months including a 16-week intervention and an 18 months follow-up.

      Data collection:

      Measurements will be done four times during the 22 months 1) at baseline; 2) by end of the
      intervention (16 weeks after intervention start); 3) six months after the intervention ends
      and finally (4) 18 months after the intervention ends. At each time patients fill in
      self-complete questionnaires regarding demographics, lifestyle, sitting time at work and in
      leisure time, physical activity, physical function, pain, fatigue, health-related quality of
      life (HRQoL) and self-efficacy. Subsequently, blood pressure, height, weight, waist
      circumference are measured by two occupational therapists. Blood sampling tests will be taken
      at Department of Diagnostics, Division of Clinical Biochemistry, Copenhagen University
      Hospital, Glostrup and store the tests. Baseline demographic characteristics of patients are
      collected via self-reported questionnaire (using iPad). The two occupational therapists also
      put on an ActivPAL monitor, which objectively measures the participants' physical activity
      level for a period of seven days. One week (7 days) after baseline measurements the
      participant will return to the hospital for removal of the ActivPAL. At the same time they
      will be informed by TT about the group allocation. One week after each of the follow up
      measurement the patients will return the ActivPAL in a closed envelope. During each 7
      day-period with ActivPal the patients fill in a diary about their non-wear-and sleep time in
      order to isolate their sitting time from non-wear and sleeping. The patients will be
      recruited from the DANBIO database, a nationwide registry that has included > 25,000 patients
      with inflammatory arthritis in a longitudinal observational cohort. At each medical visit in
      the outpatient clinic, the treating rheumatologist registers information in DANBIO including
      data regarding disease characteristics (e.g. patient-reported outcomes, disease activity,
      functional status, disease course) and medical treatment.

      Data management:

      Since all data will be supplied directly by the patients and the assessors through an online
      interface via an iPad, there is no risk of data loss or data distortion along the way. Data
      will be stored encrypted and in unidentifiable form (using participant-numbers) in the server
      at Glostrup Hospital. Standard missing data analysis will determine if unexpected missing
      data due to participant drop-out are random or not.

      Analysis:

      Descriptive statistics and regression analyzes will be conducted. Data analyses will be based
      on intention-to-treat principle . The scoring of the standardized questionnaires will be made
      according to the guidelines from instrument developers.

      A cost analysis will report the resource use and cost of the intervention. For both the
      intervention and control group survey and registry based data on resource use including
      services provided in the health care sector (primary and secondary care) and pharmaceuticals
      will be aggregated for each individual in intervals determined by the time of data
      collection. Cost data will be interpolated to total cost for the whole observation period (18
      months). The aggregated cost data will be analyzed as costs attributable to the intervention
      (i.e. difference in difference) and reported as mean values with 95% (bootstrap) confidence
      intervals. Due to the non-normal distribution of cost data generalized linear models will be
      employed with appropriate choice of link function.

      The analysis of cost-effectiveness will compare the observed gain in QALY (HRQOL over 18
      months) with the observed incremental cost (over 18 months) by estimating incremental
      cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER). To express statistical uncertainty in the ICER estimates
      acceptability curves will be developed to express the likelihood of the intervention being
      cost-effective at various QALY threshold values.

      The regression model will allow controlling for the baseline value of the study endpoints and
      other confounding variables that may impact changes in sedentary behavior (e.g. age, gender).
      In addition, a drop-out analysis will be conducted. Treatment outcomes will be examined using
      mixed effect models, Bonferroni-correcting for multiple comparisons. All analysis will be
      carried out with SAS statistical software 9.3.

      Ethics, confidentiality and dissemination:

      The trial will be performed in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration. The project has been
      reviewed by the Regional Committee on Biomedical Research Ethics September 2012 as registry
      based research. The study was approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency. All formal rules
      and safety rules in the process from data collected for publication are observed (Danish Data
      Protection Agency, Research Ethics Committee, Clinicaltrial.gov, IT issues, etc.). Anyone who
      has access to the full relevant data sets (Chief Executive, all supervisors, project staff)
      are familiar with the formal and safety rules. All information collected during the course of
      the study will be kept strictly confidential in accordance with Danish Data Protection Agency
      rules; operationally, this will include consent from the patients.

      It is planned to publish at least four scientific papers in peer reviewed journals based on
      the trial .

      In addition, following sources are included in the communication plan:

        -  Papers (scientific and popular science)

        -  Presentations at conferences or similar (International and National)

        -  Collaboration with The Danish Rheumatism Association both members and groups of
           employees

      Access to data:

      The project group will have access to data as well as DanBio . Data generated in the trial
      belong to Copenhagen University Hospital, Glostrup. The steering group to "Joint Resources"
      will be involved in the case of query about access to data.

      Trial status:

      Recruitment for the trial is planned to start in April 2013, and will end in December 2014.

      Funding:

      The study is supported by grants from the Danish Rheumatism Association, the Novo Nordic
      Foundation, the Lundbeck Foundation, the Research Foundation of the Capital Region of
      Denmark, the Bevica Foundation, Maersk McKinney Møller Foundation, the Tryg Foundation
      (external scientific review process), Glostrup Hospital, and Capital Region of Denmark. The
      funders had no role in the design or management of the study.
    
  