
    
      Background: Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) has been used successfully to promote
      extubation in the premature infant population (Davis & Henderson-Smart, 2002). The two
      methods of CPAP to be examined are used by many institutions, yet no study has compared these
      methods to determine which is better in the population of newborns < 1500 grams (birth
      weight) at supporting extubation. This study may have cost savings implications. If bubble
      CPAP is shown to be as effective in this application neonatal intensive care units (NICUs)
      will have a more affordable option of providing effective CPAP.

      Methods: This randomised controlled, single site, clinical study is to determine if Bubble
      CPAP or Infant Flow System (IFS) CPAP is more effective at supporting extubation in infants
      of birth weights < 1500 grams. Seventy-six infants will be randomised immediately prior to
      extubation to IFS or Bubble CPAP of 5 cmH2O. The primary outcome is successful extubation,
      defined as not reaching failure criteria for the 7 days post-extubation. Failure criteria are
      defined as pH < 7.25 and PCO2 > 65 mmHg or a sustained increase in FiO2 of 0.15.

      Participants: Parents/guardians of eligible infants will be approached and given information
      regarding the study, and any questions answered. They will then be allowed to consider study
      participation in private. The recruiter will return at an agreed time and informed consent
      will be obtained from those agreeing to participate. Parents will be approached in accordance
      with the guidelines of the NICU @ SWCHSC. Infants are eligible if birth weight < 1500 grams,
      are to be extubated to CPAP and have no known airway anomalies, or suspected genetic
      anomalies.

      Analysis: Multiple ANOVA analysis will be used for continuous variables, chi-square for
      categorical variables, including primary outcome.

      Conclusion: The results of this study will determine which method of CPAP is the best method
      of supporting extubation in the < 1500 g infant.
    
  