
    
      Primary study CCTA is currently the first choice to rule out coronary artery disease (CAD) in
      patients with typical or atypical chest pain. 4500 patients are annually examined with CCTA,
      in the Central Jutland Region of Denmark, and approximately 80% are discharged after ruling
      out CAD. CCTA is a diagnostic scan that exposes the patients to radiation, therefore a better
      risk stratification prior to the test is desirable. The CADscore is a newly developed danish
      technology that has been tested so far in 1000 patients. An area under the curve of the
      receiver operating characteristic (AUC of ROC) of 75-80 has been determined compared to
      conventional coronary angiography using quantitative coronary angiography (CCA-QCA). This
      indicates that the CADscore could potentially be used to diagnose CAD as a supplement or risk
      stratification prior to CCTA.

      We aim to evaluate the CADscore in a large clinical trial including 2000 patients that by
      clinical indication undergo cCTA. After cCTA approximately 20 % (400 patients) will need
      evaluation by CCA with FFR. CADscore results will be compared to CCTA and CCA-QCA. Secondary,
      the CADscore will be compared to the results of CCA-FFR and perfusion scans, Cardiac-MRI and
      SPECT.

      Substudies

        1. Perfusion scans

           CCTA demonstrates good diagnostic performance for detection and exclusion of anatomic
           coronary artery stenosis, but several studies have previously shown that CCTA has a low
           positive predictive value for identification of hemodynamically significant CAD. This
           emphasizes the need for additional tests to evaluate the severity (or exclusion) of
           hemodynamically significant CAD. Measurement of FFR during CCA represents the "gold
           standard" for assessment of the hemodynamic significance of coronary artery stenosis.
           The disadvantage of CCA with FFR is that it is an invasive procedure.

           After cCTA approximately 20 % (400 patients) will need further testing and that group of
           patients will be randomized to either Cardiac MRI or SPECT followed by CCA with FFR.

           The substudy aims to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of perfusion imaging (Cardiac MRI
           and SPECT) compared with CCA with FFR.

        2. Virtual FFR

      The accuracy and precision of virtual-FFR compared with conventional FFR will be determined.
      Virtual FFR is computed from the coronary angiogram using computational fluid dynamics.
      Subjects with diameter stenosis in the range of 30 to 90% by visual estimate in one or more
      vessel segments with reference diameter ≥2.0 mm will be included in the analysis. FFR is the
      reference standard to determine the presence or absence of hemodynamically significant
      obstruction with a cut-off value of 0.80. Computation of vFFR with and without hyperaemia
      will be compared.
    
  