
    
      Pediatric diabetes is a lifelong condition that affects an estimated 542,000 children under
      the age of 14 years worldwide, of whom the majority live in low- and middle-income countries.
      Epidemiological data from Haiti on the incidence and prevalence of diabetes in childhood are
      currently being collected. In Haiti, as in many other low-income countries, there is likely
      to be incomplete case ascertainment due to a lack of accurate and timely diagnosis. The
      investigators' group as well as others have observed remarkable differences in clinical
      presentation of childhood diabetes as compared to Caucasian patients. Presentations
      reminiscent of "atypical" diabetes, fibrocalculous pancreatitis, and malnutrition related
      diabetes seem to be more frequent. Many patients retain low exogenous insulin requirements
      past 5-10 years after initial diagnosis, suggesting much longer periods of residual
      endogenous insulin production as compared to Caucasian patients. Further, while complications
      of diabetes are considered a rarity in Caucasian patients, up to 20% of Haitian children and
      adolescents presenting with diabetes have eye complications (cataract and/or retinopathy) at
      the time of or within 2-3 years of diagnosis (unpublished data). Although genetic,
      environmental and immune factors have been hypothesized, the investigators do not currently
      understand the underlying etiology of these unusual phenotypes, and how those relate to
      glycemic control.

      Limited data from sites in low-income countries where pediatric diabetes care has been
      established (including from Haiti) concerningly show that even when patients are regularly
      followed and insulin and diabetes care supplies are provided free of charge, glycemic control
      remains suboptimal. While psychosocial, sociocultural, educational and economic factors
      (including diet habits and food insecurity) are known to be associated with glycemic control,
      detailed evaluations from low-income countries on these factors and how they related to
      diabetes management in children are lacking. Similarly, there is little data from low-income
      countries on setting and culture specific perception of childhood diabetes and disease
      specific stressors including stigma, and how these may affect disease related quality of
      life, coping strategies, self-efficacy and glycemic control.

      Child and parent health literacy, defined as "the degree to which individuals have the
      capacity to obtain, process, and understand basic health information and services needed to
      make appropriate health decisions" has been shown to impact diabetes self-efficacy, including
      improved diabetes management and glycemic control. However, little is known about health
      literacy in children with diabetes and their families in resource limited settings, and its
      effect on diabetes care has not been evaluated in Haiti. The degree to which these complex,
      interrelated and dynamic factors affect long-term outcomes is not known.

      Lastly, community, family and peer support is known to impact health outcomes in children
      with chronic disease. However, in many resource limited settings local support groups are not
      available, or are only offered at the diabetes clinic, which can be remote from the patient's
      home (many patients travel several hours to get to the diabetes clinic). It is unknown if the
      use of social networks for patients with diabetes in resource limited settings can improve
      perceived and objective health related outcomes.

      The specific aims of this research project are:

        1. To evaluate the socioeconomic status (SES) of children with diabetes and their families
           in Haiti, and of Haitian immigrant children with diabetes in Montreal.

        2. To conduct a detailed psychosocial evaluation of participating children.

        3. To analyze macro- and micronutrient intake, dietary patterns, food security and physical
           activity patterns in participating children.

        4. To investigate perceptions and explanations of illness and health, and to assess health
           literacy and diabetes self-efficacy in participating children and caregivers.

        5. To evaluate how SES, psychosocial well-being, illness perception, health literally,
           self-efficacy and lifestyle habits relate to glycemic control and quality of life and
           clinical phenotypes.

      The investigators will also assess how results compare between the two study sites.
    
  