
    
      Shoulder pain is a common complaint with a reported prevalence of 7-26% in the general
      population(1). The most common etiology of shoulder pain in the primary care setting is
      rotator cuff disease (2-4), a term which encompasses several separate diagnoses. In an
      orthopaedic practice, rotator cuff disease includes tendinosis or tendinitis of the
      supraspinatus, infraspinatus, subscapularis, or teres minor tendons, subacromial impingement
      with or without bursitis, bicipital tendinitis, or a partial or complete rotator cuff tear.
      This study will specifically include patients with tendinosis or tendinitis of the rotator
      cuff, for which we will use the term rotator cuff tendinopathy.

      There are myriad treatment options for rotator cuff tendinopathy; from conservative measures
      such as NSAIDs, corticosteroid injections, and physiotherapy to more invasive measures
      including arthroscopic decompression for subacromial impingement syndrome. While most
      orthopaedic surgeons will employ some combination of physiotherapy, NSAIDs, and
      corticosteroid injections for pain relief, the evidence supporting their efficacy in
      providing long-term pain relief and functional improvement is limited. Thus, there is
      clinical equipoise that exists when treating rotator cuff tendinopathy has led physicians to
      pursue other less traditional modalities. Some of these that have gained notoriety are
      hyperthermia, extracorporeal shock-wave treatment, electrotherapy modalities and more
      recently, non-elastic taping and elastic kinesiology taping.

      Dynamic elastic garments are relatively new products which are being used to improve posture
      and provide shoulder and lumbar support. Abnormal scapular motion, particularly scapular
      protraction, has been shown to reduce the subacromial width and place undue strain on the
      rotator cuff. These garments utilize elastic bands placed in specific locations to provide
      postural support and proprioceptive feedback to the patient. This may help to restore normal
      shoulder kinematics and subsequently provide relief of shoulder symptoms.

      Patients with MRI-confirmed tendinosis or tendinopathy of the rotator cuff will have improved
      shoulder pain relief and outcome scores when treated with scheduled use of a dynamic- elastic
      garment and a corticosteroid injection compared to those patients who receive a
      corticosteroid injection alone.
    
  