
    
      Sickle cell disease is caused by dysfunction of a mutant form of hemoglobin which polymerizes
      under hypoxic conditions, sickling the red blood cell. Sickling makes the cells rigid which
      contributes to vascular occlusion and much morbidity and mortality. Cycles of sickling and
      unsickling leads to calcium (Ca) influx which activates the gardos channel which pumps out
      potassium from the cells. Loss of potassium leads to dehydration, poor deformability, and
      increased mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) in red blood cells. Increased MCHC
      leads to increased polymerization. Thus, a significant therapeutic goal for sickle cell
      disease has been to decrease MCHC by blocking the Ca-influx induced dehydration.

      Rifkind and coworkers have shown that the NO+ donor sodium nitrosoprusside (SNP) can block
      Ca-induced loss of deformability when normal red blood cells are exposed to Ca and a Ca
      ionophore. The investigators have preliminary data showing that both NO activity donors SNP
      and nitrite can partially relieve loss of deformability due to cycles of sickling and
      unsickling in red cells from patients with sickle cell disease.

      Low nitric oxide (NO) bioavailabilty secondary to red cell hemolysis has been proposed to
      contribute to pathology in sickle cell disease. Low NO could lead to poor protection against
      Ca-induced potassium loss described above. Another consequence of low NO is likely to be
      increased platelet activation; sickle cell disease is pro-thrombotic disease. NO reduces
      platelet aggregation and activation. It has been shown that an acute dietary nitrate
      intervention can reduce platelet aggregation in healthy volunteers. Nitrate is converted to
      nitrite which is converted to NO in the body.6 Improved platelet function is likely due to
      increasing NO bioavailability through the nitrate intervention.

      In this pilot study, the safety of Beet Juice intake in patients with sickle cell disease
      will be evaluated using a self-administered health survey. Physiological effects of the Beet
      Juice will also be examined and the investigators hypothesize that increasing plasma nitrite
      using dietary nitrate will improve platelet function and red cell deformability and decrease
      MCHC in patients with sickle cell disease. The investigators will test this hypothesis
      through administration of daily intake of Beet Juice to patients with sickle cell disease for
      28 days. The investigators will measure MCHC, red cell deformability, and platelet function
      (activation and aggregation) in response to the intervention.
    
  