
    
      This study was approved by the Ondokuz Mayis University Clinical Research Ethics Committee
      (OMU KAEK 2018/352) All clinical treatments will be carried out by two researchers as
      pediatricians for patients aged 8-18 years and endodontics specialists for patients over 18
      years of age. All patients who have participated in the study will be informed by written and
      verbal information. In the study, two groups will be formed according to the two age groups.
      According to the results of power analysis, 95% confidence and 94.3% test power for each
      group 30 cases, in total 60 cases will be taken. Patients included in the study will be
      treated for lower molar and lower / upper premolar teeth. Five patients who underwent root
      canal treatment from each age group will be used as a control group to evaluate the
      dimensional changes of the root canal by the evaluation of their periapical radiograph.

      The patient's age, gender, type of tooth, location and complaint of the patient will be
      recorded prior to clinical procedures. After clinical examination including percussion test,
      palpation test, vitality control, and periodontal examination, the radiographic evaluation
      will be completed by taking the periapical radiograph of the relevant tooth in parallel
      technique.

      A local anesthetic solution containing 2% articaine hydrochloride (Ultraca from Sanofi
      Aventis, Istanbul, Turkey) will be applied to the tooth which will include, followed by
      isolation the tooth with rubber dam will be performed. Following the disinfection of the
      isolated tooth crown with 2% chlorhexidine gluconate, the current caries lesion will be
      removed under water cooling with the aid of sterile diamond drills and low-speed single-use
      steel rod drills, the teeth where the infected pulp has been completely removed but the pulp
      is not mechanically exposed. Indirect pulp treatment will be applied.

      In case that the pulp is exposed while infected dentin is removed, the working protocol will
      be applied to the teeth. Accordingly, first, remove the dentin around the exposure area and
      remove the roof of the pulp chamber, then by using thick diamond drills under water cooling
      the coronal pulp until the level of the canal orifices will remove. To ensure hemostasis,
      sterile cotton pellets impregnated with 2.5% NaOCl will be kept 5min at the orifices of the
      canal. The procedure shall be repeated for a maximum of 3 times with a bleeding control every
      5 minutes. At the end of 15 minutes, root canal treatment will be applied to the teeth where
      hemostasis is not provided. 2mm calcium silicate-based material (NeoMTA Plus) (Avalon Biomed
      Inc., Bradenton, FL, USA) will be placed on the expansive pulp tissue in the canal opening.
      In accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, NeoMTA Plus will be prepared by mixing a
      scale of powder with 1 drop of gel for 30 seconds and after being transported to the cavity,
      it will be lightly pressed with a damp cotton pellet and adapted to the base of the pulp
      chamber. The chemically curing glass ionomer will be applied as a cement base material. The
      enamel surfaces of the teeth will then be acidified for 30 seconds with 37% phosphoric acid
      for selective acidification. After the cavity is washed with plenty of water and dried at the
      humidity level, the binding agent (Single Bond Universal 3M / ESPE, USA) will be light-cured
      by applying to the enamel and dentin surface in 2 coats according to the company
      instructions. A nanoparticle composite (Filtek Ultimate, 3M / ESPE) will be applied to the
      cavity with 2 mm each layer technique and will be polymerized with the same LED device
      (Elipar FreeLight, 3M ESPE, Seefeld, Germany) for the 20s each layer. Following finishing and
      polishing operations, it will rebond the cavity limits. After the procedure, periapical
      radiograph will be taken again with parallel technique by using a film holder to ensure
      standardization from all teeth. All patients will be called up for follow-up every 3 months
      during the first year and then every 6 months. In the control, the relevant teeth shall be
      subjected to a cold test and an electrical pulp test (on the appropriate teeth). Also; the
      presence of postoperative pain, how long it will last, presence/absence of clinical symptoms,
      filling quality, presence of pulp obliteration will be evaluated. In addition, periapical
      radiograph will be taken with parallel technique. Assessments will be made by 2 researchers.
      Cohen kappa analysis will be conducted to evaluate the consistency between the researchers.

      In situations where both clinical and radiographic findings are within normal limits will be
      recorded successfully. Pain, swelling, presence of sinus tract and presence of radiolucency
      in the periapical region will be recorded as a failure.

      Radiographs taken from the patient by parallel technique will be recorded in digital
      environment and dimensional changes in root length, increase in dentin amount, the space of
      the root canal will be evaluated using Image J software program.

      Statistical evaluation:

      Statistical analysis of the data to be obtained:

      The McNemar test was used for the statistical evaluation of the success levels for the
      time-dependent group. In the purpose of evaluation McNemar test , Two-Rate Z test will be
      applied to determine the differences between the groups (p <0.05).
    
  