
    
      Posterior blepharitis is a common chronic eyelid condition that is described as generalized
      inflammation of the posterior lid margin and associated with inflammation of the ocular
      surface and with symptoms of burning, irritation, and discomfort. Posterior blepharitis is
      associated with various disorders of the meibomian glands, known collectively as meibomian
      gland dysfunction (MGD). It is associated either with obstruction and inflammation of the
      meibomian glands or, less commonly, atrophy of the meibomian glands.

      Clinically, MGD often presents with inspissated meibomian glands, oily tear film, as well as
      inflammation and vascularization of the meibomian gland orifices. Papillary hypertrophy of
      the tarsal conjunctiva and corneal punctate epitheliopathy are often present, and there are
      prominent associations with dermatoses, such as acne rosacea, seborrhoeic dermatitis, and
      atopic dermatitis. Evidence from several sources suggests that MGD of sufficient extent and
      degree is associated with a deficient tear lipid layer, an increase in tear evaporation, and
      the occurrence of an evaporative dry eye. In fact MGD is considered to be the most common
      cause of evaporative dry eye. Individuals with MGD often complain of significant discomfort,
      including burning, itching, irritation, and photophobia. They may also have other associated
      symptoms of dry eye and may be plagued by blurred vision, gradual contact lens intolerance.
      Furthermore, these patients may become functionally handicapped by the negative impact of dry
      eye on their crucial daily activities such as working, reading, using computer, and driving.

      Despite the high incidence of posterior blepharitis, there is currently no consistently
      effective treatment for this condition and it still remains a therapeutic challenge.
      Posterior blepharitis has traditionally been managed with eyelid hygiene, topical antibiotics
      (erythromycin or bacitracin ointments), oral tetracyclines (tetracycline, doxycycline, or
      minocycline) and corticosteroids which are often time consuming, frustrating, and frequently
      ineffective or variably effective.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of topical loteprednol
      (corticosteroid) vs. the combination of loteprednol and tobramycin (corticosteroid and
      antibiotic) against an artificial tear. It is critical to determine to what extent the
      addition of an antibiotic to a topical steroid can enhance the therapeutic efficacy of the
      treatment.
    
  