
    
      There is a growing body of evidence that interventricular dyssynchrony results in abnormal
      ventricular mechanics that may be detrimental to myocardial performance.(1; 2) Adult patients
      with LBBB, dilated cardiomyopathy and CHF are increasingly being treated with a novel pacing
      technique in order to restore electrical and mechanical synchrony.(3-5) This technique,
      biventricular or resynchronization pacing, involves the insertion of a specialized cardiac
      pacing system that not only maintains atrioventricular synchrony, but also restores
      interventricular synchrony by simultaneously activating the right and left ventricles. There
      have been a number of clinical trials (MIRACLE, MUSTT, INSYNC) that have revealed marked
      clinical improvement in adult patients with moderate-to-severe CHF.(6-8) There have been a
      few small reports of the acute effects of biventricular pacing in pediatric patients with
      acquired interventricular dysynchrony either from repair or palliation of congenital heart
      defects, or from chronic standard pacing from one ventricular chamber (single-site
      ventricular pacing).(9-11) One of the main hurdles encountered when evaluating these patients
      is the lack of reliable, reproducible non-invasive imaging modalities. Recent reports have
      shown promising results with a relatively new technique known as tissue Doppler imaging
      (TDI).(12-14) TDI echocardiography has recently been employed as a non-geometric measure of
      myocardial systolic and diastolic performance for both the left and the right ventricles.
      Utilizing low velocity signals from discrete points on the myocardial walls, motion can be
      assessed under a variety of conditions non-invasively. Additionally when two points along a
      ventricular wall are simultaneously assayed, the relative motion between the two points can
      estimate myocardial systolic strain in the direction of the Doppler sound beam. This
      technique eliminates any variation due to the translational motion of the heart.

      Tissue synchronization can be assessed by the timing of peak systolic motion of different
      points along the myocardium relative either to the QRS of the electrocardiogram or to the
      mechanical indicators of systole such as aortic valve opening. Recent advances in software
      design have now created technology that simultaneously depicts the peak velocities of the
      entire myocardium viewed in a 2-dimensional echo image. This promotes easy identification of
      any dysynchronous segments. By subsequently applying discrete cursors to these areas, graphic
      patterns of both velocity and direction of myocardial motion can be drawn for quantitative
      analysis. The application of these new sophisticated tools will allow better analysis of
      electromechanical dysynchrony and may enable definition of criteria, which can be used to
      identify those patients who will or will not benefit from cardiac resynchronization therapy.

      We have identified 4 groups of patients that will allow us to prospectively and
      systematically evaluate TSI in this young population. The first group is those patients with
      supraventricular tachycardia and the Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome. These patients
      have an accessory AV connection (AC) that allows electrical activity to bypass the normal AV
      node and excite the ventricles prematurely. In doing so, the result is a loss of the normal,
      midline ventricular activation pattern for a dysynchronous activation pattern. There have
      been small reports of this chronic ventricular dysynchrony potential playing a role in
      depressed myocardial performance.(15) Standard therapy for patients with WPW and clinical SVT
      includes invasive intracardiac electrophysiology study (EPS) with possible radiofrequency
      ablation (RFA) in order to eliminate the AC. These patients are then left with normal
      conduction over the AV node, presumably restoring the midline activation sequence.

      The second group of patients is those children with SVT and no evidence of ventricular
      preexcitation (i.e., no WPW). These patients have a normal, midline ventricular activation
      pattern in sinus rhythm. Standard treatment for children afflicted with these variants of SVT
      would also include EPS and RFA. As part of the standard EPS, these patients receive
      intermittent atrial and ventricular pacing. The result of the transient ventricular pacing is
      presumably a dysynchronous activation pattern that could be evaluated with TSI. With pacing
      off, the normal activation pattern should be restored. Therefore, these patients will also
      serve as their own controls.

      The third group is essentially normal (normal 4 chamber anatomy) pediatric patients who have
      been referred for an echocardiogram to evaluate a possible heart murmur, syncope or chest
      pain. Their data will be used to establish normal pediatric values for TSI.

      The fourth group is normal (normal 4 chamber anatomy) young adult subjects who will be
      recruited for participation in this study. Their data will be used to establish normal adult
      values for TSI. These values or results will not be compared to the other three pediatric
      groups.
    
  