
    
      An initial telephone screening indicated that the subject may be eligible to participate in
      the study. The first study visit ("Screening visit") will further determine if the subject is
      eligible to participate. Should the subject be eligible to participate in the study, the
      subject will be asked to participate in a daily resveratrol or placebo supplementation
      program for approximately 90 days. The subject will also be asked to return to the clinic for
      two additional assessment visits to monitor his/her safety and measure study results.

      Details regarding the tests to be conducted during this screening visit and other study
      visits are described below. Visits will take place at the University of Florida Institute on
      Aging (IOA).

      The Screening Visit is approximately 1.5 to 2 hours and will include:

        1. Blood Draw: The subject is asked to fast before the appointment because blood will be
           collected during this visit. The investigator will collect approximately 2 tablespoons
           of blood. The purpose of this blood draw is to determine levels of certain compounds in
           the subject's blood that will help determine eligibility.

        2. Questionnaires: The subject will be asked questions about medical history and
           medications as well as mood and will also be asked to complete a short test of memory
           and reasoning.

        3. Physical Measurements: measurements of the subject's height, body weight, waist
           circumference, pulse, and blood pressure.

        4. Physical Exam: A licensed health care provider will perform a brief physical exam to
           determine if it is safe to continue with the study. This exam will include a review of
           medical history, medications, and measurement of height, blood pressure, radial pulse,
           weight, and waist circumference.

        5. Tests of physical performance: The subject will be asked to complete tests of physical
           ability that include:

             1. Walking at the usual pace for a distance of 13 feet (4 meters) two (2) separate
                times

             2. The subject will be asked to go from a standing to a sitting position, without
                using their arms. If the subject is able to perform this task, then they will be
                asked to stand up from and sit down on chair five (5) times as fast as possible.

             3. Maintaining balance while standing in three (3) different positions

      Baseline Visit 1: Should the subject be eligible for the study, they will be asked to return
      to the clinic for the first baseline study visit. This visit is expected to take 2 to 3 hours
      and will include:

        1. Measurement of pulse and blood pressure

        2. Measurement of body weight and waist circumference

        3. Collection of fasting blood samples

        4. Questions about the subject's health

        5. Tests of physical performance, including:

             1. Walking as fast and far as the subject can for 6 minutes

             2. Walking at subject's usual pace for a distance of 13 feet (4 meters) two (2)
                separate times

             3. Standing from a sitting position, without using their arms. If the subject is able
                to perform this task, then they will be asked to stand up from and sit down on
                chair five (5) times as fast as possible.

             4. Maintaining balance while standing in three (3) different positions.

             5. Assessment of lower-body muscle strength and endurance

        6. Physical Activity Monitor: The subject will also be asked to wear an armband physical
           activity monitor during a typical seven day period to assess baseline physical activity
           habits. The monitor will be returned at Baseline Visit 2.

      Baseline Visit 2 will take approximately 2 hours and will include:

        1. Measurement of pulse and blood pressure before procedure

        2. Muscle Tissue Sample: The procedure to collect muscle samples will be performed by a
           licensed healthcare provider with experience conducting the procedure. The procedure
           includes numbing a small area on the thigh with a local anesthetic and then using a
           needle about the size of a pen to collect a small amount of muscle tissue approximately
           equal to the size of the head of a pencil eraser.

           After the tissue sample is taken, the subject will receive detailed instruction on how
           to care for the incision site. Several follow-up phone assessments will be made
           inquiring about any problems that the subject may be experiencing related to the
           procedure.

        3. Measurement of pulse and blood pressure after procedure

        4. Randomization: Subjects who are eligible and safe to continue with the study, will be
           randomly assigned to one of three conditions: (1) resveratrol (1000 mg/day) (2)
           resveratrol (1500 mg/day) or (3) placebo (vegetable cellulose).

        5. The subject will be provided with a supply of the study drug capsules of at least 30
           days and will be asked to return any remaining study drug capsules to the clinic at the
           next appointment. Subjects will be asked to orally consume one study drug capsule
           following each main meal (i.e. breakfast, lunch and dinner) with a glass of water.

      30-Day & 60-Day Visits last approximately 1 hour and include:

        1. Collection of fasting blood samples

        2. Measurement of pulse and blood pressure

        3. Measurement of weight and waist circumference

        4. Update medical history and ask questions about any adverse experiences the subject may
           have had since the last visit

        5. Counting of any remaining study drug capsules that were not taken since last visit

        6. Providing the subject with study drug capsules needed until the next study visit

      90-Day Visit 1 is similar to the Baseline 1 visit and will last approximately 2-3 hours. This
      visit includes:

        1. Measurement of pulse and blood pressure

        2. Measurement of body weight and waist circumference

        3. Collection of fasting blood samples

        4. Update medical history and ask questions about any adverse experiences the subject may
           have had since last visit

        5. Counting of any remaining study drug capsules that were not taken since last visit

        6. Tests of physical performance, including:

             1. Walking as fast and far as possible for 6 minutes

             2. Walking at usual pace for a distance of 13 feet (4 meters) two (2) separate times

             3. Standing from a sitting position, without using arms. If the subject is able to
                perform this task, he/she will be to stand up from and sit down on chair five (5)
                times as fast as possible.

             4. Maintaining balance while standing in three (3) different positions.

             5. Assessment of lower-body muscle strength and endurance

        7. The subject will receive an armband physical activity monitor to wear for seven days,
           and will be asked to return this monitor at the 90-Day Visit 2.

      90-Day Visit 2 will be similar to the Baseline 2 visit and will last approximately 1.5 to 2
      hours.

        1. Procedure to collect muscle tissue sample (as described in Baseline 2)

        2. Counting of any remaining study drug capsules that were not taken since last visit.

      Follow-Up 10-Day & 30-Day Visits are approximately 30 minutes to 1 hour

        1. Measurement of pulse and blood pressure

        2. Collection of fasting blood samples

        3. Update medical history and ask questions about any adverse experiences the subject may
           have had since last visit
    
  