
    
      The need for timely palliative care is crucial. Aging patient populations are becoming more
      complex, often needing care from multiple specialties. There has been a growing mismatch
      between clinical care and patient preferences particularly with regards to services near
      end-of-life. Research has shown that that most people prefer to die at home despite the
      majority dying outside of the home (nursing home or hospital). Given the current model of
      care and incentives palliative care is considered the care of last resort after all attempts
      at cure have been exhausted. This delay can lead to sub-optimal symptom management for pain
      and lower quality of life. As the demand for palliative care increases, policy initiatives
      and referral triage tools to that lead to quality palliative care services are needed.

      In 2018 the Mayo Clinic developed a fully integrated information technology (IT) solution
      focusing on the identification of patients who may benefit from early palliative care review.
      The tool, known as Control Tower, pulls disparate data sources centered on a machine learning
      algorithm which predicts the need for palliative care in hospital. This algorithm was put
      into production as of December 2018 into a silent mode. The algorithm along with other key
      patient indicators are integrated into a graphical user interface (GUI) which allows a human
      operator to review the algorithm predictions and subsequently record the operator's
      assessment. The tool is expected to enhance risk assessment and create a healthcare model in
      which palliative care can pro-actively and effectively screen for patient need. Anticipated
      benefits of the approach include improved symptom control and patient satisfaction as well as
      a measurable impact on inpatient hospital mortality.

      The overall objective of this study is to assess the effectiveness and implementation of the
      Control Tower palliative care algorithm into hospital practice by creating a stepped wedge
      cluster randomized trial in 16 inpatient units. By creating an algorithm that automatically
      screens and monitors patient health status during inpatient hospitalization, the
      investigators hypothesize that participants will receive needed palliative care earlier than
      under the usual course of care. In addition to testing clinical effectiveness study members
      will also collect data for process measures to assess the algorithm and healthcare
      performance after translation of the prediction algorithm from a research domain to a
      practice setting.
    
  