
    
      Study Design : Randomized Controlled Trial

      Settings: This part of research will be held at the IPM&R (Institute of Physical Medicine and
      Rehabilitation). This institute is a part of Dow University of Health Sciences
      (Karachi-Pakistan). All subjects will be selected after evaluation by Neurologist /
      Neurosurgeon, Orthopedic, Physiatrists and Rheumatologist to rule out any severe pathology
      and diagnosis with non specific chronic neck pain.

      Duration of study: 18 months after IRB approval

      Sample population: Non-specific chronic neck pain

      Sample size calculation Using carried out using PASS Version 11 two sample t test with 95%
      confidence of interval and 80% power of test, mean of NDI (experimental 16.83± 2.3 and 19.13
      ± 2.2) calculated sample size is 16 per group which we have increased up to 40 in each group
      (Experimental & Control) including 8 patients as a dropout rate per group (makes at least 32
      patients per group).

      Sampling technique: Non probability random technique

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Both genders

        -  18 years to 50 years

        -  Participants with history neck of more than 3 months with no related conditions

        -  Non radiating pain to arms

        -  Diagnosed as Nonspecific Chronic Neck pain by consultants

        -  NPRS-Numeric Pain Rating Scale score 3 to 8

        -  NDI- Neck Disability Index : score 5 to 34

        -  No TMJ pain or dysfunction

      Exclusion

        -  NPRS-Numeric Pain Rating Scale Score 1 & 2 and score 9 & 10 (Score 1 & 2 mild pain and
           Score 9 & 10 worst pain)

        -  NDI- Neck Disability Index : Score 0 to 4 (no disability) and score 35 to 50(Complete
           disability)

        -  Specific or nonspecific Acute Neck pain (Less than 7 days)

        -  Neck pain- Specific or nonspecific Sub acute (pain history more than seven days however
           less than three months)

        -  Neck pain- Specific Chronic (pain history more than 3 months)

        -  TMJ Dysfunction

        -  WAD (Whiplash Associated Disorders)

        -  Cervical spondylosis

        -  Rheumatoid arthritis

        -  Instability of spine

        -  Facial injury or dental infection

        -  Any type of infection of body

        -  Neck or spinal segment fracture

        -  Spinal tumor or any type of tumor/cancer

        -  Unexplained headache

        -  Post cervical spine surgical cases

        -  Signs and symptoms of Cervical spine stenosis

        -  Signs and symptoms of disc bulge or herniation of cervical spine

        -  Radiating neck pain or Radiculopathy of cervical spine

        -  Cognitive impairment

        -  Neurological conditions (MS/PD/CVA/MND)

        -  Application of injection therapy in cervical spine

        -  Red flags ( Episode of Double vision, Dysarthria, Dysphasia, Drop Attack Dizziness,
           Double vision, Gait disturbance)

      Assessments: After consent filling form, a physiotherapy assessment form will be completed.

      Outcome measures (Variables):

      i. NPRS ii. NDI iii. Neck Proprioception test iv. Neck Muscles Endurance Test

      Treatment assignment (allocation):

      In this study, the treatment assignment will be completed using randomization technique.

        -  In this study, based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, required numbers of sample
           size participants will recruit first as mentioned earlier using non probability sampling
           technique.

        -  Estimated total 80 patients (40 patients per group including dropout rate) (makes at
           least 32 patients per group) will be selected.

        -  Total 80 study population will be divided further out in two groups based on gender for
           giving equal opportunity to participate in this study. 40 male patients (20 for
           experimental and 20 for control group) and 40 female patients (20 for experimental and
           20 for control group) via simple randomization technique using computer generated
           Microsoft Excel sheet.

        -  The above mentioned process will be run for male and female parallel or separately
           depending on the frequency of the patients.

      Patients will not be selected in this study based on inclusion criteria, refer to the
      physiotherapy OPD for assessment and treatment.

      Blinding:

        -  Physiotherapist with minimum two years job experience will be selected and
           physiotherapist will receive training on how to perform the assessment.

        -  Treatment blinding will be achieved by asking physiotherapist to complete initial
           assessment forms with all outcome measures (pre- intervention) to all subjects (referred
           patients) with non specific chronic neck pain and dysfunction. The physiotherapists will
           remain unaware about who will be selected as research sample participants including
           unaware about experimental and control groups.

        -  At the time of getting consent, patients will be made aware of the relevant details
           about the research study, however they will remain unaware of their own group
           allocation.

        -  The principal investigator alone will administer the treatment.

        -  The outcome measurements will be taken at day 0 (pre-intervention) and then week 6
           outcome measurements (post intervention) will be recorded by physiotherapist.

      INTERVENTION:TREATMENT REGIMES FOR EXPERIMENTAL AND CONTROL Experimental group A: Jaw
      opening-closing movements Patient seated on a normal standard comfortable chair with proper
      back support and feet placed on the floor with no head support.

      Active jaw movements The patient will then perform maximal Jaw opening-closing movements at a
      pace convenient for his/her for one minute. Three sets with two minutes rest in between will
      be ensured.

      Active neck exercises While performing the above movements of jaws, the patient will actively
      perform active neck exercise (head-neck movements in sagittal plane- Extension- Flexion).

      Head-Neck extension on jaw opening (Mandible moves vertically downward); and then from
      Head-Neck extension to natural flexion movement on jaw closing (Mandible moves vertically
      upward).

      B: Isometric strengthening exercises (Same as control group) C: Postural Advice and Home
      Exercise Program with Dairy (Same as control group)

      Control group:

      A: Active neck exercises Patient seated on a normal standard comfortable chair with proper
      back support and feet placed on the floor with no head support.

      Note: For Active neck exercise (flexion and extension movements of neck), firstly the patient
      will perform maximal Jaw opening-closing movements at a pace convenient for his/her for 5
      times in order to observe (eyeball observation) the neck extension and flexion as reference
      point for each individual. Using this reference points, the patient will ask perform below
      mentioned active neck exercise.

      Active neck exercises: The patient will then perform active neck exercise (flexion and
      extension of neck) at a pace convenient for his/her for one minute. Three sets with two
      minutes rest in between will be ensured.

      Active jaw movements: While performing the above movements of neck, the patient will not
      perform any jaws movements.

      B: Isometric strengthening exercises

      The patients seated on a standard comfortable chair with proper back support and feet placed
      on the floor with no head support. The patient will then perform 15 repetitions of Isometrics
      strengthening exercise with manual resistance with 6 second hold in flexion, extension and
      rotation of neck; details of which are as follows:

      For flexion the starting position will be upright head and neck. The patient will be asked to
      hold this position. Manual resistance will then be applied by the investigator by placing the
      hand on the patient's forehead with 6 second hold. 15 repetitions of this exercise will be
      performed. Three sets with one minute rest in between will be ensured.

      For extension the starting position will be upright head and neck. The patient will be asked
      to hold this position. Manual resistance will then be applied by the investigator by placing
      the hand on the occiput with 6 second hold. 15 repetitions of this exercise will be
      performed. Three sets with one minute rest in between will be ensured.

      For rotation the starting position will be upright head and neck. The patient will be asked
      to hold this position. Manual resistance will then be applied by the investigator by placing
      the hand over the left side of the patient's face with 6 second hold. 15 repetitions of this
      exercise will be performed. Three sets with one minute rest in between will be ensured. The
      same procedure will be performed for the right side by placing hand on the right aspect of
      the patient's face.

      C: Postural Advice and Home Exercise Program with Dairy Postural advice and home exercise
      program

        1. Postural Advise.

             -  Maintain upright posture while sitting.

             -  Avoid prolonged neck bending.

             -  Avoid twisting movement of the neck.

             -  Use a suitable pillow to maintain cervical spine.

             -  Adjust computer screen at eye level.

             -  Avoid constant use of mobile or similar device to prevent excessive strain over
                neck joints and muscles.

             -  Carry light and even weight in both hands while shopping and other chores.

             -  Stay hydrated.

        2. Home Exercise Program (unsupervised) The following home exercise program will be
           instructed to all subjects with request to repeat the program 3 times a day.

             -  Forward flexion (Self Resisted), 6 sec hold, number of repetitions 15

             -  Right side flexion (Self Resisted ), 6 sec hold, number of repetitions 15

             -  Left side flexion (Self Resisted) x 6 sec hold,number of repetitions 15

             -  Backward flexion (Self Resisted) x 6 sec hold, number of repetitions 15

        3. Home Dairy A home dairy will be provided to maintain home exercise program record.

      Frequency and Duration of Treatment:

      Non-specific Chronic Neck Pain (more than 3 months history of pain) Initial Assessment (week
      1) 60 minutes, First treatment session (week1) 40 minutes, 3 treatment sessions per week
      (week- 2) 40 minutes, 3 treatment sessions per week (week- 3) 40 minutes, 3 treatment
      sessions per week (week- 4) 40 minutes, 3 treatment sessions per week (week- 5) 40 minutes,
      Last treatment session (week 6) 40 minutes, Final Assessment (week 6) 60 minutes.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS

        -  It will be gained from the Ethical Committee of the University before study

        -  Written informed consent will be taken from all the patients

        -  All information and collected data will be kept confidential.

        -  Participants will remain anonymous throughout the study.

        -  The Participants will be informed that there are no disadvantages or risks on the
           procedure of the study.

        -  Participants will also be informed that they will be free to withdraw at any time during
           the process of the study.

      DATA COLLECTION Data Collection Procedure

        -  After IRB approval, Data will be collected November 2018 (Subject to approval).

        -  Collection of data will be initiated once approval of synopsis will be taken.

        -  Patients will be recruited from IPM&R and consultants will assess and screen patients as
           indicated and will pass on to physiotherapy department with diagnosed of non specific
           chronic pain.

        -  Initial screening proforma will be completed by a physiotherapist based on inclusion and
           exclusion criteria.

        -  Non probability sampling technique will be used for recruitment of patients

        -  A written consent form will be taken from all participants

        -  Participants will be divided into two groups (Experimental and control groups) as
           mentioned above.

        -  Assessment form including outcome measures will be completed on first visit by a trained
           physiotherapist with experience in the area field of physiotherapy practice at least 2
           years.

        -  The selected outcome measures will be taken on day 0 (pre intervention), and week 6
           (post intervention) will be completed by physiotherapist.

        -  Treatment will be performed for 6 weeks with postural advice and home exercise program
           with dairy record by principal investigator.

      Data Analysis:

      Data will be analyzed using SPSS version 21. For NPRS (Numeric pain rating scale) and NDI
      (Neck disability index) mean ± S.D will be used. For categorical data like gender, etc
      frequency (%) will be calculated.

      To compare mean for quantitative data in both groups independent sample t-test will be
      applied, in cases assumption failure Mann Whitney U test will be applied. NPRS and NDI
      Friedman's test will be used for within group analysis (between sessions analysis) and
      Wilcoxon Signed Rank test (pair wise group analysis). Mann-Whitney test will be used for
      between groups analysis. Neck Proprioception test and Neck endurance test ; Mixed way ANOVA
      and Tukey test (pair wise group comparison) will be used for both between groups as well as
      within group analysis.

      P-value ≤ 0.05 will be considered as significant NOTE: Based on study findings, appropriate
      statistical tests will be considered or used as indicated and will be changed accordingly
    
  