
    
      This is a descriptive study that will attempt to validate the procedure for detecting
      SARS-CoV-2 on the Eppendorf Thermal Cycler PCR system using self-collected saliva as the
      specimen. Investigators will calculate the percent agreement and the 95% confidence intervals
      (ie, overall agreement, percent positive agreement, and percent negative agreement) between
      self-collected saliva samples (evaluated on the Eppendorf Thermal Cycler PCR system) and
      healthcare-worker collected nasopharyngeal samples (evaluated on either the BioFire®
      FilmArray® Torch® system or the Cepheid® GeneXpert® as the gold standard). Participants
      without usable results for both the saliva and nasopharyngeal methods will not be included in
      the analyses. Currently, DGMC uses both FDA Emergency Use Authorization systems
      interchangeably to test for SARS-CoV-2.

      Using human volunteers to obtain positive and negative nasopharyngeal and saliva specimens of
      SARS-COV-2, this is a test validation study. It uses the Eppendorf Thermal Cycler PCR system
      to compare the test performance of saliva as a specimen to the standard nasopharyngeal
      specimen.

      This protocol utilizes two different convenience samples of DGMC patients. Positive controls
      will be recruited from the willing COVID-19 positive inpatients admitted to the DGMC ICU,
      inpatient wards 3 Central and 4 West. On the occasion that a positive COVID-19 NP test is
      resulted in a pre-operative or pre-procedure patient, those patients will be used as a
      positive control in the study. Negative controls will be recruited from the willing DGMC
      pre-operative patients consenting to saliva-testing and release of pre-operative NP swab
      COVID-19 screening test result to investigators. Therefore, both study populations will be
      comprised of active duty, DoD dependents, and retirees who are DGMC patients. This study will
      enroll up to 65 individuals. Results from all participants will be processed. The study will
      stop recruiting positive controls after obtaining the paired saliva and NP results from 30
      participants who are COVID-19 positive by NP test. The study will stop recruiting negative
      controls after obtaining the paired saliva and NP results from 30 participants who are
      COVID-19 negative by NP test

      Recruitment efforts for positive controls will be conducted utilizing a HIPAA waiver to
      identify potential study participants. The HIPAA Waiver will be used to identify inpatients
      who have had a positive COVID19 NP test and these patients will be given a study flyer by
      DGMC inpatient staff. Patients will also be given a study flyer by DGMC staff when scheduled
      for an upcoming procedure or surgery, or when presenting to the designated clinic to check-in
      for COVID-19 NP testing between 0600-0800 (on the day of surgery) or 0800-1100 hours (72
      hours prior to procedure) per standard practice prior to surgery or procedure.

      Patients interested in participation will contact the study staff by phone. Patients eligible
      to participate will be given study documents (consent and HIPAA Authorization Form), and
      scheduled a phone appointment to discuss them after patients have had ample time to read
      them. Study documents may be sent to patients by email (if the patient is willing to provide
      an email address) from study staff, or provided to patients by DGMC inpatient, pre-operative
      or pre-procedure staff. During the phone appointment, both documents will be reviewed and
      questions answered to the patient's satisfaction. Study staff will coordinate a meeting to
      sign documents to complete consent and enrollment procedures, as well as, obtain additional
      information, and the self-collected saliva specimen. Meetings with inpatients with positive
      COVID-19 NP tests will occur when appropriately planned around the patient's care in
      coordination with DGMC staff..

      Meetings with pre-operative and pre-procedure patients will occur on the day the patient is
      scheduled to return to DGMC for the COVID-19 NP collection. For patients who are given a
      flyer on the day of COVID-19 NP testing, all study procedures will occur on that day. Study
      staff will review both documents with the patient, answer questions to the patients
      satisfaction, then schedule a time to sign original versions of both documents, obtain
      demographic (age, ethnicity, race and sex) and contact information (name, email address if
      future contact is desired), date of birth, and the saliva sample.

      To minimize contact with COVID-19 positive inpatients or potentially infected pre-operative
      and pre-procedure patients when signing documents and obtaining the self-collected saliva
      sample, staff will wear scrubs (or a lab coat), gloves, eye protection and N95 mask.
      Documents requiring signature will either be signed by the patient while wearing a mask and
      maintaining a distance of at least 6 feet from study staff; or given to DGMC inpatient staff
      to provide to COVID-19 positive patients, who will sign them from inside the patient's room
      while study staff are observing from outside of the room. DGMC inpatient staff will also be
      given supplies for self-collected saliva specimen to be obtained in this same manner.

      Consent and HIPAA Authorization Forms will be signed in duplicate by patients and study
      staff. One set of documents will remain with the participant, and the other will be
      maintained by the study team. After both documents have been signed, study staff will obtain
      demographic (age, ethnicity, race and sex) and contact information (name, email address if
      future contact is desired), date of birth, and the self-collected saliva sample.

      Prior to collecting the saliva sample, study staff will ensure the participant has not
      smoked, eaten or drank anything for the previous 10 minutes. Participants will be given a
      biohazard bag, label (with a 6-digit numerical code), 25 ml plastic specimen tube without
      transport medium inside. These items will be provided to COVID-19 positive participants by
      DGMC inpatient staff. Then participants will be asked to fill it with approximately 2 mL of
      saliva. There will be a marking on the tube to ensure a sufficient sample is collected. The
      participant will be instructed to close the lid, place the label on the outside of the tube,
      then put the labeled tube into the biohazard bag. Participants will then place the bagged
      specimen inside a second biohazard bag held by either the DGMC inpatient staff (COVID-19
      positive participants) or a member of the study team. If given to the DGMC inpatient staff,
      it will then be given to study staff. The double-bagged self-collected saliva sample will
      then be placed into the study cooler containing an ice pack. Saliva specimens will then be
      transported to the CIF in batch.

      This study will utilize the result of the standard of care COVID-19 NP test collected in the
      designated clinics, inpatient units or the emergency department for comparison to the saliva
      sample obtained for research. This study will seek to enroll 65 participants, in order to
      obtain valid results from 30 positive and 30 negative NP results from participants tested for
      COVID-19, since the FDA advises this number for validation of new COVID-19 testing
      methodologies. If it becomes clear that investigators do not need to seek an EUA, the study
      may end sooner using the College of American Pathologists recommendation to obtain at least
      20 each for positive and negative controls. The saliva testing results and NP testing results
      will then be compared. Saliva specimens from positive controls which were possibly collected
      after disease resolution will be excluded from the analysis. Once 30 positive results and 30
      negative results are processed, the study will be closed to recruitment.

      Testing will be performed on saliva samples using reverse-transcription polymerase chain
      reaction (RTPCR). Natural and/or synthetic RNA will be acquired for use as a positive
      control. RT-PCR will target the N-gene of SARS-CoV-2.

        1. Within 5 minutes of sample collection the sample will be kept cold for stabilization. A
           cooler with an ice pack inside will be taken to the location where the participant
           provides the sample. The sample will be put in a biohazard bag, then immediately be
           placed into the cooler for transport to the CIF Laboratory in batch.

        2. Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) Extraction - Within 12 hours, RNA will be extracted from the
           specimens using Invitrogen PureLink Viral RNA/DNA Mini Kit (Life Technologies). Sample
           RNA will be stored ® at -80 C until used.

        3. SuperScript III One-Step RT-PCR with Platinum Taq (Life Technologies) will be used for
           detection and amplification of viral RNA present in specimens using Eppendorf
           Mastercyler Pro S (Eppendorf). Up to seven primer pairs that are based from CDC and
           other publications will be used. Three from the envelope protein gene and four from the
           nucleocapsid protein gene. 18-19

        4. Frozen samples will be tested and run in batches.

        5. PCR products will be evaluated with gel electrophoresis using the Mini-Protein Tetra
           Cell (Bio- ® Rad).

        6. Sequencing - All PCR reactions that produce acceptable amplicons will be stored at -80 C
           for possible sequencing confirmation using the ABI 3130 (Life Technologies).

      Once testing is completed, specimens will be aliquoted and stored at -80 C.
    
  