
    
      Tumors can be inactive for years, until transformation of cells into an angiogenic phenotype
      occurs. This phenomenon is known as angiogenic switch. It is based on balance between
      inhibitors and activators of angiogenesis.

      Multiple genetic changes and processes leading to malignancies, such as activation of
      oncogenes, can trigger angiogenic switch.

      Simple diffusion of nutrients and oxygen normally occurs within not more than 1-2 mm of tumor
      tissue. For further growth, blood supply and development of the vasculature are necessary.

      Angiogenesis level in a tumor and it's metastasis activity has correlation with density of
      microvessels in a primary tumor and significantly affects disease prognosis.

      Angiogenesis in a body is regulated through Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its
      receptors.

      There is a unique binding pattern of corresponding receptors typical for all members of the
      VEGF family:

        -  VEGF-A binds with VEGFR1 and VEGFR2

        -  VEGF-B and PlGF bind and activate receptor VEGFR1 only

        -  VEGF-C and VEGF-D communicate with receptor VEGFR3 (Flt4), triggering lymphangiogenesis,
           and demonstrate activity correlated with VEGFR2.

      According to studies, VEGFR1 binds to the ligand with the highest affinity, binding VEGF and
      inhibiting VEGF-mediated signaling.

      The VEGF-VEGFR2 binder induces autophosphorylation (and partial dimerization) of the
      catalytic domain of the PI3K / v-akt signaling pathway receptor (Phosphoinositide 3-kinase /
      murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog - Akt or serine / threonine protein kinase B, PKB), as
      well as Raf and MAP2K, which further phosphorylate MAPK (Erk).

      Monoclonal antibody LYN00101 is not only a potent inhibitor of VEGF, also blocks autocrine
      growth factor loops by inhibiting VEGF and VEGFR 1/2/3 receptors and effectively blocking
      neoangiogenesis.

      The purpose of this study is evaluate the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, immunogenicity
      and anti-tumor effect of of fully human anti - VEGF monoclonal antibody LY00101 and explore
      the potential prognostic and predictive biomarkers.

      This study will not take into account the results of molecular-genetic tests of patients
      enrolled in the study.
    
  