
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine efficacy of administration of pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab with
      nab-paclitaxel (paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation) in subjects with
      stage IV human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)-2 overexpressing metastatic breast
      cancer (MBC) as measured by progression free survival (PFS).

      II. To determine the efficacy as neoadjuvant treatment of the regimen in HER2+ locally
      advanced breast cancer (LABC) as defined by pathologic complete response (pCR).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of pertuzumab when added to trastuzumab and nab-paclitaxel in HER-2
      overexpressing MBC and LABC cancer as assessed by the frequency and severity of adverse
      events (AEs), abnormal findings on physical examination, laboratory tests, and vital signs.

      II. To evaluate the objective response rate (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      [RECIST] 1.1) and duration of response in MBC.

      III. To evaluate the efficacy of the regimen by assessing tumor response including assessment
      of residual cancer burden (RCB) scores in LABC.

      IV. To assess the progression free survival (MBC), relapse-free survival (LABC) and overall
      survival in all patients.

      V. To perform exploratory circulatory gene, micro-ribonucleic acid (RNA), and exosome
      profiling as well as protein and glycomic profiling.

      VI. To assess the feasibility of molecular profiling in both primary and metastatic tumor
      samples.

      VII. To assess numerical and qualitative aspects of circulating tumor cells and circulating
      tumor-derived deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

      OUTLINE: Patients receive pertuzumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1,
      trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation
      IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (patients with MBC) or for 6 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (patients with LABC).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 4 years and
      then every 6 months for 1 year.
    
  