
    
      Initially patients will have a Baseline Musculoskeletal Exam (BME) at 24-28 weeks pregnancy
      at which point self reported tests/questionnaires will be administered as well as functional
      testing (see below "procedures for research") performed. At this point patients will be
      randomized into either Standard Obstetric Management or Musculoskeletal and Obstetric Care
      (MOMS) groups:

      Standard Obstetric Management : All patients (both groups) will be seen for standard
      obstetric care typically once every month. Complicated cases may need to be seen more
      frequently. There is no standard obstetric care approach to LBP/PP in pregnancy, thus,
      patients in the standard obstetric care group will receive limited, although realistic
      interventions for LBP/PP. In addition, patients will attend one-on-one educational sessions
      on pre-natal care. The women in this group will have a minimum of 4 pre-natal care sessions.
      These visits will be timed to match the additional time and care given to the MOM group. The
      timed sessions will be compared with the MOMS group at monthly intervals to maintain
      treatment attention equality. Patients will have a complete medical assessment including
      history and physical examination administered by their obstetrical provider. As part of their
      intervention for LBP/PP, evaluation of lifestyle and work activities may be taken into
      consideration. Modification of lifestyle may be recommended including, rest and general
      aerobic exercise. Short-lived heat treatment (i.e. heating pad for no more than 10 minutes)
      is another possibility. Use of analgesia may be prescribed, including acetaminophen and NSAID
      preparations, or narcotics if deemed necessary by the provider. Narcotic use and centrally
      acting muscle relaxants are typically not encouraged, but at times maybe necessary to help
      control pain. For pain that is debilitating and worsening, consultation with orthopedic or
      neurological services may be considered.

      Musculoskeletal and Obstetric Management (MOM): In addition to their standard obstetric
      visits, patients in this group will see the MOM team every one to two weeks depending on
      severity of symptoms. We have found through treating pregnancy-related pain that visits every
      one to two weeks is sufficient as the majority of the cases are mild to moderate
      presentations of non-inflammatory pain. A standard history will be taken and the patient will
      be assessed for musculoskeletal conditions to identify signs of serious illness, neurological
      deficit and/or orthopedic instability. If any of these conditions are evident, the patient
      will be immediately referred for specialist consultation. The patients in this MOM group will
      be treated with biobehavioral management, manual therapy and spinal stabilization exercise as
      described in detail below. The obstetric physician and chiropractic physician will have
      coordinated schedules at each clinic. For pain that is debilitating and worsening,
      consultation with orthopedic or neurological services will be considered.

      Patients will be assessed at 33 weeks gestation and 3 months post-partum and research
      end-points collected. Please see next cell for detailed description of these functional and
      endurance tests as well as self reported test.
    
  