
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of sunitinib (sunitinib
      malate) (Sutent), an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic activity that
      inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2), stem cell factor receptor
      (c-kit) and platelet derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR), in combination with
      hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), an inhibitor of autophagy, in patients with advanced solid tumors
      that are refractory to standard chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluating blocks of tissue from pre-treatment diagnostic biopsies and tissue from
      biopsies taken during therapy, when available from enrolled patients, for expression of
      markers beclin1, light chain 3 (LC3), sequestosome 1 (p62) and hypoxia up-regulated 1
      (GRp170) as indicators of autophagy potential.

      II. Evaluating pre- and post- treatment peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and tumor
      tissue, when available, for the presence of autophagosomes by electron microscopy (EM) as
      indication of flux through the autophagy pathway.

      III. Evaluating pre- and post- treatment PBMC for changes in the expression of LC3, p62 and
      GRp170 with the use of single agent sunitinib and the use of the combination of sunitinib
      with hydroxychloroquine.

      IV. Evaluating circulating tumor cells (CTCs) pre- and post- treatment with single agent
      sunitinib and sunitinib + HCQ, and characterize these for markers of autophagy. (exploratory)
      V. To determine whether the steady-state plasma concentration of HCQ correlates with
      inhibition of autophagy and whether a pharmacokinetic interaction exists between sunitinib
      and HCQ.

      VI. To examine, when available, post treatment tumor biopsies for vascular markers to detect
      decreased vascular proliferation by staining cluster of differentiation 31 (CD31), vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF), thrombospondin-1, and cluster of differentiation 105
      (CD105) staining to monitor micro vessel density.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of hydroxychloroquine.

      Patients receive sunitinib malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and
      hydroxychloroquine PO once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) on days 1-42 (beginning day 4 of
      course 1). Treatment repeats every 42 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 6 months.
    
  