
    
      Background:More than 6.5 million Canadians are > 65 years of age. Over half of older
      Canadians live with multiple comorbidities, leaving them at high risk of adverse outcomes of
      COVID-19. Social isolation and physical distancing orders are especially important to protect
      the health of this high-risk population. Vulnerable older Canadians are also at high risk of
      physical and mental health deterioration caused by the physical distancing meant to protect
      them from COVID-19. Effective management of the COVID-19 pandemic and its consequences will
      require evidence-based strategies to support isolated vulnerable older Canadians. Exercise
      interventions can reduce the adverse health effects of social isolation and demonstrate
      larger effect sizes in older people with comorbidities. However, no exercise interventions
      have been tested in an acute isolation scenario such as the COVID-19 pandemic, which also
      requires that exercise interventions be home-based and remotely supported, presenting unique
      challenges to participation and adherence.

      Our team is uniquely positioned re-orient proven and robust programming, supported by a
      national network of investigators and existing infrastructure. We can immediately launch a
      large-scale trial to test the effectiveness of a remotely supported home exercise program
      (designed in partnership with vulnerable older Canadians) to mitigate the negative
      consequences of physical distancing to keep older Canadians healthy and safe from COVID-19.
      We hypothesize that participation in the PREPARE program will decrease the individual, health
      system and population health impacts of COVID19 induced physical distancing and social
      isolation.

      Research aims:Estimate the effectiveness of a remotely supported, home-based multimodal
      exercise program for older people with multiple comorbidities to improve our primary outcome:
      patient-reported disability 90-days after enrollment; secondary outcomes: patient-centered
      (depression, anxiety, quality of life, frailty, survival, 1-year disability scores, COVID19
      severity) and system-relevant (admissions, emergency visits, institutionalization, costs,
      cost-effectiveness).

      Methods: Design, setting and participants: Parallel-arm multicenter randomized controlled
      trial at 3 Canadian hospitals. People >65 years old recently discharged home with >2
      comorbidities will be included. Intervention: Three month supported home-based exercise
      program with demonstrated efficacy, feasibility and acceptability for vulnerable older
      people.

      Outcomes and sample size: We will have 90% power to detect a clinically important difference
      of in our primary outcome (validated WHODAS tool, 90-days post-enrollment) with 372
      participants (186/arm)
    
  