
    
      A total of 82 patients with renal stone or ureteral stones measured on a CT scan performed no
      later than 1 month prior to randomization, will be recruited in the study. Full medical
      history as well as demographic data and relevant medical treatment will be recorded in all
      eligible patients, followed by a detailed physical examination.

      All eligible patients who have read and signed the study consent form will be randomized to
      either RENALOF® or placebo.

      The randomization sequence will be computer-generated by the study coordinating team.
      Randomization will be performed before enrolment of the first patient.

      Both the investigators and the study participants will be blinded to the treatment received
      (RENALOF® or placebo). Following randomization, the participants will be given prefilled
      non-labelled boxes containing either active drug (RENALOF®) or placebo. The pills in all
      boxes will be visually identical in size, weight and shape. Each box will have a tag with a
      unique code. A list of all dispersed coded boxes and the type of drug each box contains
      (RENALOF® or placebo) will be kept sealed by the study coordinator until the end of the
      study. Only at the end of the study period the research team will be unblinded to the
      treatment each patient had received.

      The study will be carried out in prespecified time-points, which are listed below:

      Point 0 (P0): Screening visit and randomization:

      Participants will provide a written informed consent before enrolment. A full medical history
      will be recorded including medications, interventions for upper tract stones (ESWL, URS,
      PCNL), medical treatment for stones, history of spontaneous stones passage. Findings on
      clinical examination and patient demographic characteristics (body weight, height, body mass
      index (BMI) will be recorded.

      The size, number and location of stones on CT scan will be recorded along with any other
      relevant finding (horseshoe kidney, UPJ obstruction, duplicate collecting system, ureteric
      stricture etc.). The location, size, surface area and volume of each stone will be calculated
      and recorded as well as the total stone surface area and stone volume for each patient. All
      CT studies will be evaluated and stone parameters will be estimated by the same independent
      dedicated certified radiologist using the Invesalius computer software.

      All patients will have a baseline Urea and electrolytes (U and E) blood test, free flow
      random sample urinalysis and culture. U and E will include serum creatinine, sodium,
      potassium, calcium and albumin. Parathyroid hormone will also be assessed to confirm or
      exclude hyperparathyroidism. Urinalysis includes pH, specific weight, sodium, calcium,
      oxalate, uric acid, citrate and magnesium. Urine culture tests for the possibility of a
      urinary tract infection (UTI) and if necessary, sensitivity will be carried out which will
      help treatment.

      Patients with indwelling DJ stents will have their stents changed under local anesthesia. In
      order to reduce patient discomfort and stent related symptoms (SRS) the stent length for each
      patient will be estimated on the basis of individual patient's height as follows: height <
      175 cm will receive a 22F stent, > 175 cm < 190 cm will receive a 24 F stent and patients
      taller than 190 cm will have a 26F stent. Care will be taken that the loop of the stents in
      the bladder does not cross the midline. The distal and proximal ends of the stent will be
      sent for culture. Patients with DJ stents will complete a m-USSQ and a PUF questionnaire 2
      weeks following stent insertion or stent change. This will be done in order to avoid bias as
      patients will have this procedure done under local anesthesia.

      Patients will then be randomized and 3 unlabeled boxes containing a total of 120 pills
      (3-month supply) of either active treatment (RENALOF®) or placebo will be dispersed. The
      patients will be asked to take 3 pills daily for 90 days.

      Point 1 (P1): End of the 90-day RENALOF® treatment All participants will have a follow up CT
      scan. The location, size, surface area and volume of each stone will be calculated and
      recorded as well as the total stone surface area and stone volume for each patient. The
      findings will be compared to those of the baseline CT scan. Estimation of all stone
      parameters (location, size, surface area, stone volume) will be done by the same radiologist
      as in the screening visit in order to avoid interobserver variability. Incidences of
      spontaneous stone passage will be recorded.

      All patients will have a repeat free flow urinalysis and culture and complete a VAS.

      Patients with DJ stents will have their stents changed and the stent ends will be sent for
      culture and sensitivity. Patients with stents will complete a m-USSQ and PUF questionnaire.
      Incidences of UTIs (with a positive urine culture) during the study period will be recorded.
      Treatment related adverse events and drop-out rates will be recorded.

      Once final assessment of all recruited patients has been completed, researchers will be
      unblinded to the type of treatment each patient has received (RENALOF® or placebo). The
      patients will then form 2 groups (group A, n = 41, those who received RENALOF®; and group B,
      n = 41, those who received placebo) and the groups will be compared for primary and secondary
      study endpoints.
    
  