
    
      Using a randomized controlled trial design, the purpose of this study will be to examine
      whether combining a Health Action Process Approach (HAPA)-based intervention, specifically
      action and coping planning, with a tailored text message intervention can reduce occupational
      (student) sitting time by increasing frequency and length of breaks from sitting and
      non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT) behaviours (i.e., standing, light-intensity
      physical activity) among university students. A secondary purpose will be to examine the
      effects of the intervention on participants' action planning, coping planning and action
      control regarding reducing their sitting time as a student, as well as self-rated work
      performance and health-related outcomes (i.e., role limitations due to physical health, role
      limitations due to personal or emotional problems, emotional well-being, and energy/fatigue).
      Another secondary objective will be to determine if action and coping planning and action
      control towards reducing occupational (student) sitting time are related to actual break
      behaviour, time spent standing, and time spent in light-intensity physical activity.

      If successful, participants in the intervention group (sedentary intervention group) will
      report greater break frequency and break duration, time spent standing, and time spent in
      light-intensity physical activity, compared to participants in the control group (no
      treatment). In addition, it is hypothesized that participants in the intervention group will
      report greater action and coping planning and action control towards reducing sitting time as
      a student, as well as improved work- and health-related outcomes.

      This study will employ a prospective, 2-group, repeated measure, randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) design. Participants will be full-time university and/or college students.

      Potential participants (estimated enrolment: 112) will be recruited by Andrew Scott Rollo,
      Co-Investigator, for this study. Participants will be recruited from (1) undergraduate and
      graduate classes at the University of Western Ontario. Professors across faculties at UWO
      will be contacted via email and asked to (a) distribute the recruitment poster and study
      invitation to students in their course(s), and/or (b) allow study investigator(s) to provide
      a short presentation during their lecture time. The opportunity for students to participate
      will be posted on their UWO OWL site, as well as presented in their class. Participants will
      be instructed to contact the researcher via email and/or phone if they wish to participate or
      receive additional details prior to making a decision as to whether to participate. A second
      recruitment approach will involve recruiting full-time university and/or college students
      through recruitment posters distributed through social media (i.e., Facebook, LinkedIn).
      Recruitment posters and brief study details will be posted on social media. For social media
      outlets, permission from group administrators will be sought prior to posting social media
      recruitment materials, as applicable. As stated previous, university students interested in
      the study will be instructed to contact the researcher via email and/or phone to sign up for
      study participation.

      At this point of contact, an email response will be sent to any interested individual.
      University students who choose to take part in this study will receive a link (with serial
      number authorization code) via email that directs them to the Letter of Information,
      electronic Informed Consent, and questionnaire for assessment of baseline measurements, which
      will be administered through a third party website called SoSci (online survey service).
      After viewing the Letter of Information and indicating that they consent to participate in
      the study (by clicking "I agree" on the survey), participants will be asked to complete a
      brief demographics questionnaire, followed by a questionnaire for baseline assessment of
      primary and secondary outcomes.

      Upon completion of the Baseline assessment and prior to intervention delivery, all
      participants will be randomized, using computer-generated randomized stratification, into
      either a 6-week HAPA-treatment (SB-related planning + text messages intervention) or
      waitlisted control (no treatment) condition.

      At this point, all participants will be sent a specific email (outlined below) depending on
      group assignment.

      In the post-baseline questionnaire EMAIL response sent to intervention participants,
      participants (randomly assigned to the intervention group only) will be asked to provide a
      day and time (within 3 days of completing the baseline assessment) that they would be
      available to schedule the behavioural counselling session they will receive. As a follow-up
      to electronic consent, written consent will be obtained during administration of the
      behavioural counselling session.

      In the post-baseline questionnaire EMAIL response sent to control participants, they will
      simply be reminded that they will receive a link to a questionnaire every two week for 8
      weeks in their email and will be asked to complete these upon receiving them. Participants in
      the control group will also be asked to SIGN and RETURN the LOI/written informed consent via
      email at their earliest convenience.

      For those in the treatment group, the study objective will be to reduce occupational
      (student) sitting time by increasing non- sedentary or NEAT behaviours (i.e., increasing
      break frequency to a break every 30-45 minutes, with each break having a duration of 2-4
      minutes, and increasing their time spent standing and engaged in light- intensity PA.
      Participants randomly assigned to the control group will receive no information or
      intervention of any kind and will only be asked to complete the outcome questionnaires.

      At the agreed upon and scheduled time, the researcher will deliver the intervention (i.e.,
      implement the appropriate HAPA-based behavioural counselling session involving action and
      coping planning) either in person OR electronically via phone and an online presentation
      website (www.zoho.com) (only for those randomized into the intervention group). The method of
      delivery will entirely depend on the participant's availability, preference, and whether they
      live within driving distance of the investigator. To ensure equal numbers of local and remote
      participants, two computer-generated random number lists will be created by the lead
      investigator using an online research randomization program. Participants will be asked to
      complete a second informed consent (i.e., written informed consent) at this time.

      The one-on-one counseling sessions will be delivered by the principal investigator to ensure
      standardization between participants. During the counseling session, the researcher will
      first ask if the participant has any strategies that he/she would like to try or think would
      be effective. As much as possible, strategies will be kept as original and specific to the
      participant's lifestyle as possible, while still fulfilling the study objectives. Upon
      creation of each strategy, the researcher will ask the participant if they think that the
      strategy they came up with is realistic. The number of strategies will also be personalized
      depending on how the participant's baseline measures compare to the objectives of their
      treatment group. This will be done in order to attenuate for any neglected/unused strategies
      by those with larger differences between baseline and objective values. Similarly, coping
      strategies will be created alongside each strategy in order to boost the adherence to the
      developed strategies. When an action plan strategy is developed, the researcher will ask the
      participant "what are some challenges you foresee with executing this strategy?", followed by
      "what do you think is something we can do in order to overcome this/these challenges?" This
      will be done in order to keep the coping strategies personalized to the participant's
      lifestyle. Overall, the behavioral counseling sessions will take approximately 20 minutes to
      complete. Participants will be given the form with their action plan and coping strategies
      and told to display it somewhere prominent so they will be reminded of the strategies. The
      principal investigator will conduct the planning interventions in a non-interfering manner by
      providing brief instructions and then remaining available to answer any questions.

      All participants in the HAPA-treatment condition will then be entered into a contact list on
      the text-messaging website called "Oh Don't Forget." "Oh Don't Forget," is a Web-based
      application (http://ohdontforget.com) that works through "Recess Mobile" to send messages
      from a computer to mobile phone numbers that are programmed into the application. All
      participants will begin receiving tailored text messages the day after receiving their
      one-on-one counseling session. Every participant will receive the same daily texts as each
      other participant in their group, with times varying slightly depending on their schedule. As
      planning is an ongoing process, participants will be reminded (via text message) to formulate
      another set of action and coping plans at the beginning of weeks 3 and 5. Upon completion of
      the intervention period at 6 weeks, participants will be notified that they will no longer be
      receiving text messages and that the study is completed.

      After the initial behavioural counseling session, ALL participants will be told they will
      receive a link to a questionnaire (assessment of primary and secondary outcomes) in their
      email every 2 weeks, for the next 6 weeks (i.e., weeks 2, 4, and 6), and to complete the
      questionnaire the day they receive it. Participants will also be told that 2 weeks following
      the end of the 6-week intervention, there will be a follow-up questionnaire (week 8), which
      they will receive and be asked to complete. Regardless of group assignment, all participants
      will complete the same outcome measures at Baseline, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks, and 2-week
      follow-up (8 weeks). All primary and secondary outcome questionnaires will be completed
      online and administered through a third party website called SoSci (online survey service).
      Participants in the HAPA-treatment condition will also be reminded via text to complete
      these.

      The primary outcomes including frequency of breaks, length of breaks, and NEAT behaviours
      (i.e., standing, light- intensity PA) in the occupational domain of study (i.e., as a
      student) will be assessed using subjective, self-report approaches. Secondary analyses will
      be performed to examine effects of the intervention on theoretical determinants of behaviour
      change (i.e., action planning, coping planning, action control), as well as participants'
      perceived work-related outcomes (i.e., self-rated work performance) and health-related
      outcomes (i.e., role limitations due to physical health, role limitations due to personal or
      emotional problems, emotional well-being, and energy/fatigue). All primary outcomes will be
      assessed at four time points (baseline, 2, 4, and 6 weeks), and again at a two-week follow-up
      (8 weeks). Action and coping planning and action control towards reducing occupational
      (student) sitting time will be assessed at the same time points. Secondary outcome variables
      (i.e., perceived work- and health-related outcomes) will be assessed pre- (baseline) and
      post-intervention (6 weeks).
    
  