
    
      Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a condition mostly known and characterized by motor symptoms,
      such as tremors, rigidity, bradykinesia, amongst others. Yet, recent bodies of research have
      identified a significant number of non-motor symptoms that also accompany the unfolding of
      this disease. These non-motor symptoms mainly focus on hallucinations that will develop with
      the course of the disease, and will affect approximately 50% of the patients suffering from
      Parkinson's. This number rises to 70% if minor hallucinations, mild phenomena and
      poorly-structured hallucinations, are included. Despite the potential impact in the patients'
      lives, and previous efforts to study these phenomena, the brain changes that underly
      hallucinations in PD are still poorly understood. With the current study the investigators
      aim to improve this understanding, by studying the most common minor hallucination in
      Parkinson's Disease, the Presence Hallucination (PH), which can be defined as the strange
      sensation of perceiving someone behind when no one is actually there. To study it in a
      controlled manner, the investigators will induce this hallucination with an extensively
      verified paradigm, which gives rise to this sensation through robotically-mediated
      sensorimotor stimulation, in both healthy individuals, and PD patients. The researchers
      intend to discern the sensitivity of different groups of PD patients to the induction of this
      hallucination, by targeting PD patients, with hallucinations including PH, with
      hallucinations but without PH, without any hallucinations, and an aged match control group
      with no neurological comorbidities. The investigators intended to extend previous work on the
      induction of the PH in PD patients, by identifying the neural correlates of this induction in
      these patients, in a similar fashion to previous work in healthy individuals. Moreover, the
      researchers also intend to extend the general understanding of the basis for hallucinations
      in PD by extending what was done in previous work, to more stratified cohorts of PD patients,
      that will not only be analysed in terms of static during rest, but also in terms of dynamic
      connectivity, and will also perform the PH-inducing task in the scanner, as mentioned before.
    
  