
    
      Breech presentation occurs in approximately 3-4% of all births and all women with breech
      presentation at term undergo cesarean delivery. The only way to avoid a cesarean is to
      manually turn the baby prior to the date of delivery, a procedure known as elective external
      cephalic version (ECV). ECV has been shown to reduce the frequency of breech presentation at
      term and thus lessen the risks associated with breech delivery and those of cesarean section,
      with little risk to the mother or baby. Tocolysis, administered immediately prior to the ECV
      and commonly used at The Mount Sinai Hospital, has been shown to improve the success rate of
      ECV. Several different agents are known to cause tocolysis. These include beta-mimetics
      (ritodrine, terbutaline), nitroglycerine (NTGL) and nifedipine.Terbutaline has been shown to
      improve success rate of ECV. Another study published in 2004 by El-Sayed et al showed that
      subcutaneous terbutaline was associated with higher rates of successful ECV than IV NTGL in
      term patients. There is inconsistent data in regard to the success rate of ECV with NTGL. In
      a study published in 2003 by Bujold et al, NTGL was associated with a higher rate of side
      effects and a lower rate of successful ECV when compared to ritodrine. Another study
      published in 2009 by Hilton et al showed that NTGL was more efficacious for ECV in
      nulliparous versus multiparous women. Yet another study published in 2009 by Yanny et al
      showed no differences between sublingual NTGL versus placebo in efficacy, and reported no
      significant side effects. A study published in 2003 by Bujold et al showed that sublingual
      NTGL was associated with a higher incidence of headache and did not improve the success rate
      of ECV. It may be beneficial to use NTGL instead of terbutaline because NTGL is a shorter
      acting agent and the procedure itself only lasts 10-15 minutes. Additionally, both
      medications have side effects. Terbutaline is associated with maternal tachycardia,
      hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, pulmonary edema, cardiac arrhythmias, hypertension and myocardial
      ischemia, and NTGL is associated with maternal nausea, vomiting, headache, and hypotension.
      For both medications the side effects are self- limiting but depending on the patient's
      co-morbidities one drug may be beneficial for that individual patient.

      To date no study has compared the efficacy of intravenous terbutaline versus intravenous NTGL
      in women presenting for ECV. The purpose of this study is to determine if the success rate of
      ECV can be improved with the use of IV NTGL.
    
  