
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of neoadjuvant selpercatinib in medullary thyroid cancer by
      objective response rate (ORR) per RECIST (standard Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors [RECIST] and modified neck RECIST).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of neoadjuvant selpercatinib in medullary thyroid cancer per
      surgical margin status, which is categorized as R0, R1, and R2 surgical resection.

      II. To evaluate the safety profile of neoadjuvant selpercatinib. III. To evaluate the
      efficacy of neoadjuvant selpercatinib on progression-free survival (PFS), including overall
      PFS and locoregional PFS.

      IV. To measure changes in expected and actual surgical morbidity/complexity as well as
      evaluate changes of R0/R1 resection rates in pre-specified extrathyroidal anatomic target
      interfaces before and after selpercatinib treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of neoadjuvant selpercatinib by ORR per RECIST (standard RECIST
      and modified neck RECIST), surgical margin status (R0/R1 versus [vs.] R2), safety profile,
      surgical morbidity/complexity, PFS and overall survival (overall survival [OS], ATC only) in
      patients with differentiated thyroid cancer [DTC] and anaplastic thyroid cancer [ATC] only.

      II. To define and measure changes of patient-reported outcomes and quality of life as
      measured by MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI) and European Quality of Life Five Dimension
      (EQ-5D) in patients with RET-altered thyroid cancer who receive selpercatinib treatment.

      III. To explore translational endpoints in selpercatinib neoadjuvant therapy with
      biopsies/tissue collection before selpercatinib treatment and during surgery.

      IV. To explore peripheral and tissue measures associated with selpercatinib mechanisms of
      resistance in patients who experience disease progression after selpercatinib treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive selpercatinb orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to 7 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of care surgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for disease progression status
      every 3-4 months for the first 2 years. ATC patients continue follow-up every 6 months for
      year 3 and 4, and once in year 5.
    
  