
    
      Physical activity has numerous health and functional benefits for older adults, including
      increased lifespan, performing daily activities better, and improving quality of life.
      However, engaging older adults with multiple chronic diseases in traditional exercise
      programs is challenging. Community exercise programs may not meet the needs of frail older
      adults or be accessible because of physical limitations or travel required. Although
      structured, supervised exercise can be effective, it may not be realistic to implement on a
      population-wide basis. Although there is substantial evidence demonstrating that exercise can
      improve multiple health outcomes, there is limited research defining how exercise should be
      implemented in practice to engage older adults with chronic diseases.

      Declines in person-centered outcomes (e.g., function, quality of life) and an increased risk
      of falls, cardiovascular events, and fractures occur with aging and may be amenable to
      interventions. Primary care is an ideal setting for identifying elderly patients in need of
      exercise intervention. However, a cost-effective, generalizable model of chronic disease
      management for older adults using exercise in this setting remains elusive. Further, the
      delivery of individualized exercise prescription for all older adults may not be feasible.

      A recent study demonstrated that teaching older adults to integrate exercise into daily life
      activities was effective for reducing falls and improving function in older adult fallers. In
      addition, there is evidence that integrating balance and strength exercises into activities
      of daily living may promote long-term exercise participation, by "instituting new habitual
      behaviors within selected situational contexts that serve as prompts for action" . Therefore,
      the proposed physiotherapist-led group-based lifestyle-integrated functional exercise
      intervention delivered in primary care is timely. Recently announced changes to funding will
      allow physiotherapists to work within family health teams. However, there are no guidelines
      for how physiotherapy resources should be allocated.

      This pilot feasibility study will evaluate how we can use these resources efficiently for
      chronic disease management in older adults via a novel intervention that teaches them
      lifestyle-integrated therapeutic exercise. The long-term aim is to improve the capacity for
      care providers in an interdisciplinary setting to offer patient-centered care that includes
      exercise to older adults 75 years or older. Thus, we propose to evaluate the pragmatic
      implementation of a group-based intervention in primary care that teaches older adults to
      integrate functional balance and strength exercises into daily activities as a relevant
      strategy, also known as the Lifestyle-integrated Functional Exercise (LiFE) program. The LiFE
      program is proposed as a strategy to engage older adults in sustainable exercise
      participation to improve chronic disease management and quality of life.

      Our research objectives are related to feasibility, retention, and adherence and include: (1)
      to evaluate the number of participants we can recruit over 6 months: The intervention will be
      considered feasible if we recruit 32 participants over 6 months. Data collected from a
      screening program at the Centre for Family Medicine over 6 months shows that we have
      recruited 198 individuals who were not regularly exercising and 59 of those individuals
      agreed to receive information about exercise. Recruitment of 32 participants at one site over
      6 months translates to 576 participants with 3 sites in three years; (2) to determine
      intervention retention rates: The intervention will be considered feasible if 75% of the
      sample complete the 6 month follow-up assessments; 3) to determine adherence to the exercise
      intervention: The intervention will be considered feasible if 50% of the participants
      complete balance and strength activities ≥3 days per week over the 6 month study period. Our
      criteria are based on randomized controlled trial data in exercise and falls prevention
      research showing that the completion of balance and strength exercise ≥ 3 times per week was
      positively associated with fall outcomes. In another study, the mean number of days in which
      the balance and strength activities were completed per week in the final month of the LiFE
      program was 3.89 of a maximum 7 days. Notably, a 47% adherence to the LiFE program over the
      first 6 months was associated with clinically relevant reduction in the rate of falls
      (31%).The secondary research questions will address other process outcomes to inform a larger
      trial and evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention on physical activity levels,
      physical performance, and quality of life.
    
  