
    
      1. PRIMARY OBJECTIVE The primary objectives of the study are to assess the safety (serious
           adverse events [SAEs] and severe adverse events [AEs] grade 3 according to CTCAE 4.03
           and immunogenicity (seroprotection rate) of a single dose of SABIN mOPV2 in healthy
           children aged 1 to 5 years old, and in infants at approximately 18 weeks of age after
           having been vaccinated with 3 doses of bOPV and 1 dose of IPV .

        2. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

           Secondary objectives are to assess:

             -  The safety (mild and moderate solicited and unsolicited AEs, Important Medical
                Events [IMEs], and laboratory deviation assessments) of one or two doses of SABIN
                mOPV2 in healthy children aged 1 to 5 years, and of 2 doses of SABIN mOPV2 in
                infants at approximately 18 and 22 weeks of age after having been vaccinated with 3
                doses of bOPV and 1 dose of IPV.

             -  The immunogenicity (seroconversion rate, median and geometric mean antibody titers)
                of one or two doses of SABIN mOPV2 in healthy children aged 1 to 5 years old, and
                of two doses of SABIN mOPV2 in infants at approximately 18 22 weeks of age after
                having been vaccinated with 3 doses of bOPV and 1 dose of IPV.

        3. EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES

      Exploratory objectives are:

        -  To investigate viral shedding following the SABIN mOPV2 administration.

        -  Exploratory objectives may also include assessment of the genetic sequence heterogeneity
           and potential for neurovirulence (as measured in animal model(s)) of shed virus.

        -  To investigate viral shedding and neurovirulence of shed virus;

        -  To evaluate genetic reversion at position nt481 (primarily) and other secondary sites
           (e.g., nt2908).

        -  To investigate the priming responses of bOPV for mOPV2. (group 2 only) and the duration
           of induction of anti-polio type 2 neutralizing antibodies .
    
  