
    
      Binding of TLRs to epitopes on microorganisms stimulates intracellular signaling, increasing
      transcription of proinflammatory molecules such as tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and
      interleukin-1β, as well as antiinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-10. Macrophage
      dysfunction, as a component of immune suppression seen during trauma and sepsis, appears to
      be one of the contributing factors to morbidity and mortality. Critically ill patients
      demonstrating prolonged, severe reductions in monocyte HLA-DR expression or ex vivo tumor
      necrosis factor alpha production are at high risk for nosocomial infection and death. Most
      septic patients have decreasing cytokine levels at the time of treatment, suggesting a
      transition from a hyperinflammatory to a hypo-inflammatory state. Immunoparalysis is a
      potentially reversible risk factor for development of nosocomial infection in multiple organ
      dysfunction syndrome. Whole-blood ex vivo TNF alpha response is a promising marker for
      monitoring this condition. Investigators call it as "stimulated immune response". Toll-like
      receptors (TLRs) are a recently described family of immune receptors involved in the
      recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs). Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is
      present in the outer membranes of Gram-negative bacteria and has been demonstrated to be
      responsible for the development of GNB-associated sepsis. Recognition of bacterial LPS by
      macrophages is a key component of host defense against infection by Gram-negative bacteria. A
      monocyte which encounters LPS should vigorously produce proinflammatory cytokines regardless
      of whether or not it has been exposed to LPS in the past. Sepsis induces suppression of
      macrophage function as determined by a reduction of pro-inflammatory cytokine production upon
      re-exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in vitro. Whether further ground can be gained by
      manipulating innate immunity is an important question waiting to be answered. Several
      strategies to enhance innate immunity have been tried in normal subjects, including using
      granulocyte colony-stimulating factor to increase the number and activation state of
      circulating neutrophils, and IFN-γ to enhance macrophage dependent immunity. Investigators
      will use this characteristic to assess patient's stimulated immune response. In addition,
      differences in the nature of the initiating agent causing sepsis and the lack of
      co-morbidities in the animal models probably contribute to some of the differences in animal
      studies and clinical trials in sepsis. Investigators need to address these important issues
      and work toward promoting immunologic homeostasis in the ICU. Here investigators performed a
      systematic study aimed at evaluating

        1. The diagnostic accuracy of stimulated immune response for predicting mortality;

        2. Whether trend change in stimulated immune response more useful for above prediction;

        3. Whether stimulated immune response can predict patients at risk of evolving with severe
           organ dysfunctions (the presence or development of severe sepsis or progression of organ
           dysfunctions within a 72-hr time period from biomarker checked along with treatment)
    
  