
    
      The objectives of the project are: 1) To identify, within a group of 3 potential new
      biomarkers of insulin resistance, those that are significantly associated with the presence
      of this phenomenon in our population, 2) Establish, analyze and apply reference values for
      each one of these three biomarkers in Colombian population. 3) To evaluate the sensitivity,
      specificity, statistical C (operational performance), predictive values and likelihood ratios
      of each of the biomarkers studied for the diagnosis of insulin resistance versus a standard
      gold technique and 4) Different biomarkers evaluated, in order to select the best one (s) for
      clinical use, as well as to propose a cutoff point for detection of insulin resistance for
      each of them.

      Methodology: A cross-sectional, diagnostic test evaluation study will be conducted, including
      apparently healthy Adults of both sexes, with ages between 35 and 65 years, coming from
      Bogotá, without any significant comorbidity.

      As initial evaluation will be carried out measurement of height, weight, percentage of body
      fat, blood pressure, diet questionnaire, physical activity and sociocultural characteristics.
      For patients with prediabetes and T2DM, the time elapsed since the diagnosis will be
      obtained, as well as information about pharmacological or non-pharmacological treatment that
      they are receiving.

      For the serological evaluation, a sample of venous blood should be taken in the fasted state,
      with the aim of measuring the following markers: Fibroblast Growth Factor 21 (FGF21) ,
      Myonectin, and Myostatin. In addition to routine tests such as fasting glycemia, glycosylated
      hemoglobin, fasting insulinemia, lipid profile (total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol,
      triglycerides, LDL-C) and C-reactive protein. Additionally, all subjects will participate in
      an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT).

      In addition to the gold standard of measurement of insulin resistance
      (hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp), six of the tools currently available for the search of
      insulin resistance, all derived from calculations from the measurements of The HOMA beta-cell
      function (HOMA beta-cell%), insulin sensitivity index (ISI), index 1 / fasting insulin,
      corrected insulin response, insulin / glucose ratio and insulinemia Of fasting.

      For each biomarker, an operator / receiver characteristics curve (ROC curve) will be
      calculated, calculating diagnostic performance and cutoff points with the best combination of
      sensitivity and specificity. A first approximation will be made to baseline values for these
      tests, based on the distribution of the tests in healthy, and one or more insulin resistance
      biomarkers with their recommended cutoff points will be proposed.
    
  