
    
      Background:

      COPD-related mortality differs markedly from that of other chronic diseases. While the
      mortality rates for heart disease and stroke have fallen significantly, death rates caused by
      COPD have more than doubled. Therefore there is a major need to address questions of
      palliative end-of-life care. Patients with end-stage pulmonary lung diseases suffer from
      dyspnea, severe pain, fatigue and - the "deadlock" in end-of-life communication. Many people
      with severe COPD are socially isolated, have low quality of life and psychosocial challenges
      such as sadness, panic or hopelessness. In fact, 70 up to 90% suffer from a clinically
      relevant depression and/or anxiety disorder. Despite this, the majority of COPD patients with
      co-morbid disorders don't receive any treatment for their psychological symptoms.
      Furthermore, there is substantial evidence that only a minority of people with end-stage COPD
      have the opportunity to discuss their fears and wishes for end-of-life care. The few existing
      studies on this issue demonstrated that the majority of people with severe COPD wants to
      discuss topics such as prognosis, fear of death and dying or preferences and needs at the
      end-of-life. Understanding the nature and implications of treatment options is an important
      component of advanced care planning for people with end-stage lung disease.

      Therefore the aim of this study is to bring up the end-of-life communication to patients with
      end-stage COPD. We hypothesize that end-stage COPD patients have greater fear of death and
      dying as patients with mild to moderate COPD or with hip prothesis (control group). The
      lowest anxiety rate with regard to death should be found in the healthy control group.
      Furthermore, a brief psychological intervention should decrease the co-morbid psychological
      symptoms and patients' fears. Higher quality of life should be achieved.

      Objectives:

      Subjects are recruited from the Pulmonary Rehabilitation Units of the Berchtesgadener
      Klinikum Schönau, Germany, through direct recruitment and use of administrative databases.
      All patients providing informed consent are invited to participate, if they have a chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease with stage II, III or IV by GOLD-criteria. An open three group
      comparison is made of one-hundred patients with severe COPD (stage III and IV), thirty-three
      patients with moderate COPD (stage II), thirty-three patients with hip prosthesis and
      thirty-three mental healthy persons matched for age and sex. As we want to start a first
      feasibility intervention study, this is a clinical controlled design without randomization.

      Methods:

      Initially a systematic literature review was performed to determine what methods are being
      used in COPD studies and how the patients' views can be best assessed. Then a qualitative
      multi-method design will be used involving semi-structured interviews, standardized
      questionnaires and lung function parameters.

      The face-to-face interview includes ten categories with more than 70 questions on

        1. social demography

        2. actual health status

        3. knowledge and wishes of further information about the disease

        4. thoughts and attitudes about the illness

        5. fears about the illness, treatment and prognosis

        6. general experiences of death and dying

        7. own experiences with death and dying

        8. fear of death

        9. fear of dying

       10. end-of-life decisions such as wishes and needs

      Patients will be interviewed by a single interviewer. Each question will be read by using
      everyday language. Interviews will be audiotaped to control for integrity. Each interview
      will last approximately 60 minutes. The interview will be validated by the
      COPD-Anxiety-Questionnaire (CAF). To assess the patients cognitions about death, a
      self-report questionnaire, FIMEST, will be also used.

      Standardized questionnaires will be used to detect depression or panic disorders by the
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. Functional health status will be measured by the
      Patients Health Questionnaire (PHQ) and the COPD-Disability- Index (CDI). The condition
      specific questionnaire, the Short Form-36 Health Survey (SF-36) and Euroqol (EQ) will be
      compared for their discriminative and evaluative properties. Spirometric tests and a walking
      test will be also performed.

      After the interview those patients who have increased death anxiety take part in a brief
      psychological intervention to discuss their end-of-life issues, worries and fears. For this
      psychological intervention, a manualized 2-3-session approach will be used.
    
  