
    
      Dyslipidemia is a well-established risk factor for cardiovascular (CV) diseases. Lipid
      abnormalities, including high levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), elevated
      triglycerides and low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), are independent
      predictors of CV disease. The National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel
      III (ATP III) guideline and the American College of Cardiology (ACC) and American Heart
      Association (AHA) guideline recommend the use of statins for primary prevention based on a
      patient's cardiovascular risk profile and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level.
      However, statin therapy may be insufficient for patients with mixed dyslipidemia, especially
      those with metabolic syndromes. While the addition of niacin, fibrate or ezetimibe may be
      useful in this setting, the combination therapy may lead to more adverse drug reactions.

      Virgin Coconut Oil (VCO), a nutraceutical, is an oil obtained from the fresh, mature kernel
      of the coconut by mechanical or natural means, with or without the use of heat and without
      undergoing chemical refining and it contains a considerable amount of medium-chain fatty
      acids similar to those in mother's milk. The beneficial effects of VCO in the reduction of
      cardiovascular risk have been proved from previous animal and clinical studies. The previous
      study demonstrated the potential beneficiary effect of VCO in lowering lipid levels in serum
      and LDL oxidation by physiological oxidants and this property of VCO was attributed to the
      biologically active polyphenol components present in the oil. It has been also demonstrated
      the hypolipidemic effect of VCO through activation of lipoprotein lipase, lecithin
      cholesterol acyltransferase and enhanced formation of bile acids. It was found that isolated
      polyphenols from VCO can prevent cadmium-induced lipid abnormalities and cardiovascular risk
      ratios by improving antioxidant defence systems. VCO may improve cardiovascular and hepatic
      complications in obesity. The findings from another study suggest a beneficial eﬀect of VCO
      on lipid profile, renal status, hepatic antioxidant defence system, and cardiovascular risk
      indices in rats. It has been observed that VCO increased HDL-C level in patients with
      coronary artery disease (CAD). In a randomized crossover trial, it was found that daily
      consumption of VCO in young healthy adults significantly increased high-density lipoprotein
      cholesterol without any safety issues.

      Our literature search revealed that to date, no clinical trial evaluated the potential of VCO
      as an add-on hypolipidemic agent in patients suffering from dyslipidemia. So, the present
      clinical trial has been designed to evaluate the effect of VCO on cardiometabolic parameters
      as an add-on with statins in patients with dyslipidemia.
    
  