
    
      All patients under 18, with acute burns (<10 days of development), surface area <10%, second
      degree, hospitalized from 22/01/18 in the plastic surgery department and burns Trousseau
      Hospital in Paris, subject to the non-opposition of parental authority. 500000 pediatric
      burns are counted each year in France. In 2005, they resulted in 5109 hospital stays 2.
      Improving the accuracy of the diagnosis before 10 days of evolution would make it possible to
      graft the children who needed it more quickly and thus shorten the length of hospital stay.
      It is therefore a public health issue, with a significant medical and economic impact.

      Description of the item (s) being researched

      It involves collecting, through a thermal camera, a temperature difference between a
      second-degree burn zone and an adjacent healthy zone, in order to prove that this difference,
      can make it possible to retain the burn as deep, and can therefore guide a surgical decision.

      Justification of the duration of the research.

      According to the same study in adults1, the number of patients to be included was 41 to
      obtain sufficient power for a statistical analysis of the same data collected in this study,
      and according to the same methodology. A duration of 4 months seems compatible with such
      recruitment in the specialized center for treating pediatric burns at the Trousseau Hospital
      in Paris.

      Goal of the study: Objectively determine the depth of pediatric acute burns using a thermal
      imaging camera.

      METHOD AND POPULATION

      Main evaluation criterion Measurement of Δ T = temperature difference between the burned area
      and an adjacent healthy area of 3cm, or contralateral if extremity burns, with the thermal
      camera, by a blind surgeon the final evaluation of the depth (between D10 and D14 ).

      The thermograms will be read at three different times, from the moment of admission to
      hospital or after the patient has been cured by:

        -  T1: D1 to D4 of the burn

        -  T2: D4 to D7 of the burn

        -  T3: D7 to D10 of the burn.

      Secondary evaluation criteria Interest of the repeated measurements to determine if the
      evolution of ΔT is also an index reflecting the depth of the burn.

      Recruitment of the population Hospitalized patients from 22/01/18 in the Pediatric Burn
      Surgery Department of Trousseau Hospital in Paris.

      Eligibility criteria (inclusion and non-inclusion criteria) Inclusion criteria: All patients
      <18 years of age, with acute burns (<10 days of progression) of the second degree of body
      surface area burned <10%, hospitalized from 22/01/18 in the plastic surgery department and
      burns at the Trousseau Hospital in Paris, subject to the non-opposition of parental
      authority.

      Criteria for non-inclusion: First-degree burns, third-degree burns, fever episode not caused
      by burns, burn surgery before measurement, inability to communicate with the persons having
      parental authority.

      Population monitoring Patients will be followed as usual as part of the nurse consultation
      consultation treatment every 2 days initially at the Trousseau Hospital Pediatric Burn
      Treatment Center, with surgical advice on how to proceed with care. local, as was already the
      case, then the pace will adapt to the pathology, with iterative appointments specialized
      consultation with the surgeon from 15 days after discharge and every 2 months until complete
      healing and definitive in the event of satisfactory evolution. In the case of surgery
      necessary for healing during hospitalization, the follow-up may last for a period of 2 years.

      Risks AND VIGILANCE

      Non-interventional research involving the human person presents no risk to patients.

      The adverse effects observed in the patients participating in the research are notified by
      the investigators according to the local vigilance plans put in place as part of the care
      activities.

      Terms of data collection

      The collection of thermograms on thermal camera is performed by a blind surgeon of the
      operative decision of the burn. The thermograms will be read at three different times, from
      the moment of admission to hospital or after the patient has been cured by:

        -  T1: D1 to D4 of the burn

        -  T2: D4 to D7 of the burn

        -  T3: D7 to D10 of the burn

      An operative decision or a continuation of the surgical care is recorded in the database at
      D10-14 in blind of the registered thermograms, by the only expertise of a surgeon different
      from that having measured the ΔT thus without modification of the care usually dispensed for
      each patient included.

      The research does not foresee the use of data extracted from existing information systems or
      study bases already carried out.

      Data circuit The collection of thermograms on a thermal camera is done by a surgeon who uses
      himself to transfer them by connectivity on the centralized computer database, protected,
      anonymized with a number given to each patient which only the surgeon having collected the
      thermograms knows the correspondence with the real identity. This surgeon does not
      participate in the operative decision of the patient and records it if necessary in the
      patient database after it is taken by the rest of the surgical team who remains blind
      thermograms and Δ T measured.
    
  