
    
      The participants will be split into two balanced groups (randomly assigned), and one of the
      groups will start with AUTO intervention followed by FUNCTION, and the other group will start
      with FUNCTION intervention followed by AUTO intervention. The total duration of the study
      will be 6 months.

      Each participant will receive 28 therapy sessions (5 sessions per week approx.) in total,
      that are divided into four blocks of 7 sessions. During the first 7 sessions the participant
      will receive standard care treatment (S). This block will be followed by standard care
      treatment (S) and first FES intervention block with 7 sessions of protocol A (AUTO or
      FUNCTION). Third block will consider additional 7 sessions of standard care (S). Fourth block
      will include standard care (S) and 7 sessions of FES intervention with other type of
      treatment B (FUNCTION or AUTO).

      Each of the sessions of FES will have a total duration of 45 minutes. This 45-minute session
      contains system donning/doffing, adjusting stimulation amplitude (AUTO and FUNCTION),
      defining VEs for 8 movement primitives (FUNCTION) and exercises.

      During assessment sessions the investigator will evaluate the condition of the hand of the
      participant in different aspects. Clinical scales and data collected from a inertial sensor
      system will be used.

      Clinicians will first of all apply the Modified Ashworth scale to different extensors and
      flexors of the wrist and fingers in order to determine the spasticity level.

      After this they will perform the Fugl Meyer assesment for the upper-limbs to estimate the
      sensorimotor function of the whole upper-limb (from shoulder to hand).

      Then, participants will perform the ARAT test to evaluate the arm and hand function reaching
      and grasping different types of objects.

      Finally, the BEAGLE system will be used for measuring the active and passive ranges of motion
      of the wrist and fingers.

      Anthropometric measures and questionnaire data will be collected. The Visual Analog Scale
      (VAS) will be filled by the participants, where they will indicate their level of pain before
      starting the therapy.

      The electrode will be attached on the participants forearm always taking the head of ulna as
      the reference.

      The Fesia Walk stimulator will be used in this study. It is a wireless stimulator with a
      single current source capable of emitting pulses and controlling up to 32 cathode and 8 anode
      pads independently. It is designed to be controlled remotely via Bluetooth communication. It
      is connected to the multi-pad electrode by means of a pressure connector, and the connection
      is secured by means of a rigid plastic socket attached to the electrode. As for battery
      charging, it is carried out using any generic charger with microUSB connection. The software
      used at the start of the study will be the NeuroResearch software. This is a multi-platform
      software developed in html5. It provides means to control the stimulation parameters of the
      Fesia Walk stimulator as well as creating and saving virtual electrodes (VEs), patterns and
      functions. It is a versatile software that can be used with different types of multi-field
      electrodes and it brings the possibility of combining and testing different VEs and patterns
      to perform several functions. In parallel, an adaptation of this software for its use in
      clinics is being developed. This new software, called NeuroClinics Grasp, will be designed
      for its specific use with forearm garments for hand and wrist applications. It will have a
      simplified user interface and a limited set of configurable parameters to increase its ease
      of use. This software will be introduced during the study and feedback from therapists will
      be taken into account to make possible further modifications on it. If the NeuroClinics Grasp
      software gets ready at any time during the study and therapists think that it might ease the
      calibration procedures of the study, then, this software will replace the NeuroResearch
      software. Two different multi-pad electrodes (A and B) will be used during this study. Both
      were specifically designed for covering the extrinsic muscles of the hand, located on the
      forearm, and are comprised of 8 anodes and 32 cathodes. Electrode A or B will be used,
      alternating them over sessions with each participant.

      Then the calibration procedure will take place, which will imply defining the virtual
      electrodes (VE) for each of the 8 movement primitives: wrist extension, wrist flexion, index
      flexion, index extension, mass finger extension, mass finger flexion, thumb extension and
      thumb flexion.

      A VE is a group of electrode pads which, when stimulated together produce a movement
      primitive, and in this case it will be configured with two parameters: the selection of pads
      (cathodes) that should compound the VE and the amplitude (mA) of the VE.

      All the anodes will be active for all the VEs except those located closer than 2 cm from the
      selected pads (cathodes). This anode configuration will be automatic.

      In the AUTO case, the pads will be preset for each VE, based on results of previous studies
      for achieving different movement primitives. So, only the amplitude should be tuned for each
      VE. This will be done increasing the amplitude in 1mA steps until patient's tolerance or
      until a full function is achieved, whichever happens first.

      Only if there is no movement at all and the therapist considers that it is due to a bad VE
      pad configuration, then the therapist will be allowed to adapt the best pads for that
      specific participant during the first therapy session only, but relying only on the knowledge
      of anatomy and not by trial and error tests of different configurations. Then this VE
      configuration will be set for the rest of AUTO therapy sessions for that participant.

      Once all the amplitudes are defined for each of the VEs or movement primitives, then the FES
      response questionnaire (attached in the annex) will be filled by the therapist and at the
      same movements will be recorded with BEAGLE. Testing each of the movement primitives with the
      configured parameters and classifying the motor response as none, partial or full function.

      Then, the therapist will run the AUTO mode, which will consist of cyclic stimulation of the
      pre-configured VEs. The VEs will be activated in a pseudorandom order in series of 5
      repetitions of each movement with 50% duty cycle. Number of series will be calculated based
      on the remaining time after amplitude calibration and questionnaire filling. The amplitude
      will start being 10% less than configured and it will end being 10% more than configured to
      compensate any fatigue that could happen during the sessions. Once the stimulation is
      finished, the therapist will test each of the movement primitives again (as configured
      before), fill the FES response questionnaire (attached in the annex) and record movements
      with BEAGLE, and the participant will fill the VAS scale again. Like this we will be able to
      check the short-term effect of the therapy in terms of pain and motor response.

      During the FUNCTION therapy sessions the therapist will always be able to configure or adapt
      the VE pads to the participant. Moreover, instead of a pseudo-random stimulation, FES will
      target those movement primitives that are most impaired in the participant for generating
      different grasps.

      In the FUNCTION case, both the pads and the amplitude should be tuned for each movement
      primitive and each participant. The first session there will be a pad configuration preset
      that will serve as a guidance for the therapists, and from then on the configuration for that
      specific participant will be saved. The amplitude will be set for each VE increasing the
      amplitude in 1mA steps until participant's tolerance or until a full function is achieved,
      whichever happens first.

      The therapist will be allowed at the beginning of each session to adapt the best pads for
      that specific participant and movement primitive. This will be done by modifying the number
      and location of the selected pads until the target movement primitive is achieved. Then this
      VE configuration will be set for the rest of the session.

      Once all the amplitudes and pad configurations are defined for each of the VEs or movement
      primitives, then the FES response questionnaire (attached in the annex) will be filled by the
      therapist and at the same time movement will be recorded with BEAGLE. Testing each of the
      movement primitives with the configured parameters and classifying the motor response as
      none, partial or full function.

      Then, the therapist will run the FUNCTION mode, and she/he will reduce the amplitudes (below
      motor threshold) of the movement primitives that are part of the participant's residual
      voluntary movements. Like this we will focus on the movement primitives that are most
      impaired and we will take advantage of the residual function of the participant. Once these
      amplitudes are adapted, the FUNCTION mode will be turned on. In a FUNCTION, VEs will be
      temporally arranged to form demanding hand function (palmar and lateral grasp) or simple task
      (wrist extension, wrist extension...). Functions will be chosen based on the capabilities and
      needs of the patient. A therapist will choose individual FUNCTION and number of repetitions.

      Duration of the FUNCTION will be calculated based on the remaining time after VEs calibration
      and questionnaire filling. The amplitude will start being 10% less than configured and it
      will end being 10% more than configured to compensate any fatigue that could happen during
      the sessions.

      During the FUNCTION mode the participant will be instructed to follow the stimulation
      patterns to make the grasps and thus, assist the FES with movement intention and residual
      voluntary contractions. Targeted movement will be shown on the monitor and synchronized with
      stimulation.

      Once the stimulation is finished, the therapist will test each of the movement primitives
      again (as configured before) and fill the FES response questionnaire, and the participant
      will fill the VAS scale again. Like this we will be able to check the short-term effect of
      the therapy in terms of pain and motor response.
    
  