
    
      The apelins are a family of peptides whose most abundant isoform is [Pyr1]apelin-13. This
      binds to a single G protein coupled receptor known as 'APJ', which is widely expressed
      particularly in endothelium and cardiomyocytes. Apelin is the most powerful inotropic agent
      discovered to date, and apelin infusion into healthy humans leads to endothelium-dependent
      vasodilatation and BP lowering. Given its vasodilatory and inotropic effects, apelin is being
      investigated as a novel therapy for heart failure and pulmonary arterial hypertension, both
      of which are features of CKD. The apelin/APJ system is widely expressed in the human kidney
      (endothelium, smooth muscle cells, glomeruli) with a predominance in the renal medulla. It is
      recognised to have a role in fluid homeostasis, and apelin infusion in rodents leads to a
      dose-dependent diuresis but it is difficult to discriminate how much of this is due to renal
      vasodilatation as opposed to a direct tubular effect. However, it has been shown that apelin
      counteracts the antidiuretic effect of vasopressin at the tubular level. Evidence therefore
      suggests that apelin could have additional cardioprotective effects in CKD and could promote
      natriuresis and diuresis. To date there are no clinical studies of the actions of apelin in
      the kidney in health or CKD, or its effect on systemic haemodynamics in CKD.

      Twenty-five patients with CKD and 25 matched healthy volunteers will undergo forearm blood
      flow studies with acetylcholine, sodium nitroprusside and apelin to determine the local
      haemodynamic effects of apelin in CKD, specifically the effects on endothelial function. The
      same subjects will then complete two renal clearance studies during systemic apelin / placebo
      infusion (randomised and double-blinded), by standard renal para-aminohippurate and inulin
      clearance techniques. Blood and urine samples will be collected every 30 minutes. This will
      allow the effects of apelin on renal function, renal blood flow, proteinuria, natriuresis and
      diuresis to be demonstrated. Cardiovascular effects will be determined by systemic
      bioimpedance measures and pulse wave velocity. This study aims to open a new area of clinical
      research with apelin.
    
  