
    
      MATERIAL This research will be conducted in the Homa Bay county in western Kenya in
      previously selected locations around the county in rural area. An estimated 800 children and
      youth under the age of 18 will be selected for this study. This study will take place between
      October and November 2015. The investigators hypothesis, based on prior survey studies done
      in Sub-Saharan Africa, is that roughly 6% of the people under 18 are suffering from a
      surgical condition. In a sample size of 800 people the margin of error is 1,65%.

      People who are currently being treated in a hospital will be excluded from the study. Also
      the people who decline from the study will be excluded. The number of declinations will be
      recorded.

      METHODS The people will receive a written and a verbal information regarding the study and
      its purposes from the primary research assistant. If they decide to participate in the study
      they or their parent/guardian will be asked to sign an informed consent. Local interpreter
      will be available to help with possible questions.

      The primary research assistant will conduct a short interview. Prior medical history will be
      taken. The participants will be asked their age. If age is not known the primary research
      assistant will estimate it. The height, weight and sex will be registered. A full physical
      examination will then be conducted. In this examination the participants will be assessed for
      visible deformations i.e. masses, scars, limb deformities. It will be determined whether the
      deformation is congenital or acquired. If the deformity is acquired the cause will be asked
      from the subject. The range of major joints will be registered. In case of palpable masses
      the possible diagnosis will be figured out using basic clinical skills. A structured survey
      sheet will be used collect the information. No other forms of diagnostic measures will be
      used. No blood or microbial culture samples will be collected and no x-ray imaging will be
      done.

      If a surgical condition is diagnosed the participant will be informed about the nature and
      possible cause of this condition. No treatment procedures will be done on site.
    
  