
    
      Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) is an evidence-based treatment, commonly used for treating
      anxiety disorders. Patients with anxiety disorders are characterized by having cognitive
      distortions regarding evaluations of threat, which results in safety behaviors to avoid them
      thereby causing impairment in the patient's quality of life. CBT focuses on changing those
      "false beliefs" and "maladaptive behaviors" by exposing the patients to their anxiety source
      in a gradual way, supervised by the therapist.

      Anxiety disorders are relatively common, and many people have difficulty accessing treatment
      due to a variety of obstacles. Researchers have therefore explored the possibility of using
      different methods to administer CBT, resulting in the making of internet-delivered CBT
      (iCBT). iCBT programs can involve therapist guidance through emails or can be entirely
      unguided. These programs are typically comprised of 6-15 modules, which are text chapters
      corresponding to sessions in face-to-face therapy. These programs require little therapist
      involvement other than guidance and feedback on homework assignments. Current meta-analyses
      suggest that iCBT does not differ from regular CBT in its efficacy, conducted through a
      guided program.

      In this study, the investigators plan to examine whether iCBT and regular CBT can cause
      biological changes as well as cognitive ones. Few previous studies have shown epigenetic
      changes in different directions for CBT responders and non-responders. Those studies used
      methylation patterns as biomarkers, showing that Panic Disorder (PD) patients had lower
      methylation in specific genes than the control group at the baseline point. After going
      through CBT the responders showed higher methylation and the non-responders showed even lower
      methylation than at the baseline point. In addition, a more recent study showed that in
      comparison to healthy controls, PD patients showed changes in immune system activities.
      Microglial acid sensing G-protein coupled receptor and T cell death-associated gene-8
      (TDAG8), which was found was found higher in PD patients.

      The investigators wish to take these findings one step forward by using micro-RNAs (miRs)
      content of circulation exosomes as our biomarker. Exosomes are a type of extracellular
      vesicles of endocytic origin, used in signaling and cell to cell communication, by
      transferring proteins, lipids, and variety of RNAs between cells. miRs are short
      single-stranded RNA molecules that bind to complementary sequences of target mRNAs, causing
      inhibition of their translation and/or inducing target degradation and affecting brain
      functioning and mental processes.

      The investigators will base their work on the hypothesis that the brain's state is reflected,
      to a certain extent in the miR contents of circulating exosomes. Therefore, the aim of the
      study will be to test the difference between patients and controls as well as between
      responders and non-responders by profiling miRs content of circulation exosomes from their
      plasma samples and seeking association with their clinical data. Whole blood samples will
      also be collected, in order to serve as secondary outcome measurement, checking for changes
      in expression of other small non-coding circulating RNAs as well.

      The investigators will use a cohort of 40 panic disorder patients, comparing them with
      matching 40 mentally healthy controls. This approach has never been used before in the field
      of anxiety biomarkers, although miR changes show a much faster biological response than
      methylation patterns. Therefore, the investigators believe it will provide many new insights
      on the biological changes following PD and its treatment using CBT/iCBT, especially regarding
      the biological difference between respondents and non-respondents.

      The investigators anticipate big benefits for psychologists and psychiatrists who could in
      the future use simple blood samples to determine which kind of therapy will be most suitable
      for their patients, or rather to check if the therapy has given the desirable outcomes.
      Biotech firms may be interested in developing this method as a commercial diagnostic tool
      that could easily be used by health maintenance organizations just as a simple blood test. PD
      is a big public health burden, leading the market potential both for therapeutics as well as
      diagnostics to be large in dollar terms.

      This study received two ethics approvals that act together. The mentioned ethics approval
      given by the Hebrew university ethics committee was given for the psychological part of the
      experiment and include the CBT, using a psychologist or computer program. A second approval,
      Helsinki approval by the Hadassah hospital committee, covers the biological part of the
      experiment - including the blood drawing and further analysis.
    
  