
    
      To improve access to evaluation and treatment, the investigators will be offering remote
      cortical visual impairment clinics to assess children for cortical visual impairment. The
      cortical visual impairment clinics will be organized in public spaces such as school
      buildings, libraries, and/or hospital clinics. Study staff will contact potential clinics,
      buildings, etc., about interest in hosting these remote clinics. The cortical visual
      impairment clinics will be staffed by at least one of the following individuals: an
      ophthalmologist and/or an optometrist, a technician, and an occupational therapist. All
      participants will attend 4 remote cortical visual impairment clinics during the study. Prior
      to the initial clinic visit, the participants will be randomized into either the waitlist
      control group or the intervention group using the list of patients scheduled for the clinic.
      During the initial clinic visit, each child who has been given parental consent will complete
      both an eye exam (either an ophthalmologist or an optometrist) and functional vision
      evaluation with an occupational therapist. Both the eye exam and the functional vision
      evaluation occurring during the clinic visit are the same as would be provided during routine
      clinical care. None of the examinations provided during this research study will be billed
      through insurance. Those who are diagnosed with cortical visual impairment will continue on
      with the study. The intervention group will complete the telehealth intervention sessions and
      the waitlist control group will continue with standard care. All participants will attend
      three additional cortical visual impairment Clinics: one 4 months after the initial
      evaluation (+/- 2 weeks), one 8 months after initial evaluation (+/- 2 weeks) and another 12
      months after the initial evaluation (+/- 2 weeks). During the final three cortical visual
      impairment clinics, the participants will complete and updated Cortical Visual Impairment
      Range and Canadian Occupational Performance Measure with the occupational therapist.
    
  