
    
      Obstetric haemorrhage remains one of the major causes of maternal death in both developed and
      developing countries. Postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) is defined as a blood loss >500 ml more of
      blood from the genital tract within 24 hours of the birth of a baby. PPH can be minor
      (500-1000 ml) or major (more than 1000 ml) . The most frequent cause of PPH is uterine atony,
      contributing up to 80 % of the PPH cases.

      Risk factors of atonic PPH include multiple pregnancy, placenta previa, previous PPH, body
      mass index (BMI) >30, prolonged labour, fetal macrosomia>4kg and primipara> 40 years.

      Placenta praevia exists when the placenta is inserted wholly or in part into the lower
      segment of the uterus. It is classified by ultrasound imaging according to what is relevant
      clinically: if the placenta lies over the internal cervical os, it is considered a major
      praevia; if the leading edge of the placenta is in the lower uterine segment but not covering
      the cervical os, minor or partial praevia exists.

      Oxytocin is currently the uterotonic of first choice. It has proven to decrease the incidence
      of PPH by 40 % and has a rapid onset of action and a good safety profile. A disadvantage of
      oxytocin is its short half-life of 4-10 min, regularly requiring a continuous intravenous
      infusion or repeated intramuscular injections.

      Carbetocin is a long-acting oxytocin analogue indicated for the prevention of uterine atony
      after child birth by cesarean section (CS) under epidural or spinal anaesthesia. Carbetocin
      has a rapid onset of action (within 1-2 min) and a prolonged duration of action
      (approximately 1 h) because of sustained uterine response with contractions of higher
      amplitude and frequency. Its safety profile is comparable to that of oxytocin.

      The study will be conducted in Cairo university hospitals and BeniSuef university hospitals.
      All patients with placenta previa covering, or less than 2cm from the internal cervical os
      will be approached in the antenatal clinic. Women will be invited to participate in the
      study, the invitation will include a clear full explanation of the study. Only patients
      signing informed written consents will participate in the study.

      The exclusion criteria will be gestational age <37 weeks, hypertension, preeclampsia,
      cardiac, renal or liver diseases, epilepsy, need for general anaesthesia, known
      hypersensitivity to carbetocin and suspected placenta accreta.

      200 women will be randomly divided into 2 equal groups using computer generated random
      numbers, Group 1 will receive Carbetocin 100 µgm (Pabal® Ferring, UK) and group 2 will
      receive oxytocin 5IU (Syntocinon®, Novartis, Switzerland). Both drugs will be diluted in 10ml
      saline and will be given by the anaesthetist slowly intravenously after delivery of the baby.
      The investigators will not include a control group for ethical reasons.

      The CS will be done in the presence of a consultant Obstetrician and a consultant
      anaesthetist, cross-matched blood will be ready and a level 2 critical care bed will be
      available. CS will be done through the lower uterine segment, if the placenta is encountered,
      it will be pushed aside and the baby will be delivered.

      The allocated drug will be diluted in 10ml saline and will be given by the anesthesist slowly
      intravenously after delivery of the baby. The uterine tone and amount of bleeding will be
      noted and the need for further uterotonic agents will be determined 2 minutes after giving
      the drug.

      Blood loss will be estimated through weighing the swabs, using pictorial charts and
      estimating the amount of blood in the suction containers. Blood haemoglobin will be assessed
      24 hours after the CS.
    
  