
    
      A total of 60 subjects will be recruited from The University of California Los Angeles (UCLA)
      Hirshberg Pancreatic Cancer Center, print and/or radio advertisements, UCLA campus wide
      e-mail, and flyers posted on campus and in the community. Participants will be pre-screened
      over the telephone to determine eligibility. Eligible subjects will be asked to come to the
      Center for Human Nutrition for a Screening Visit.

      At screening, informed consent and authorization will be reviewed and signed a medical
      history will be obtained. The subjects will be screened by medical history/physical exam, a
      fasting blood sample will be collected for a comprehensive metabolic panel, a complete blood
      count, chemistry and liver function tests.

      Day 1 will be the first study day. Subjects will come to the UCLA Center for Human Nutrition
      in the fasting state and remain for approximately ~1 hour. The food intake record will be
      collected and entered into the Automated Self- Administered Food Recall (NIH ASA24). The
      vital signs, anthropometric assessments will be measured and quality of life questionnaire
      will be completed.

      A fasting blood sample (20 ml) will be collected for metabolic panel and inflammatory
      markers. A 6-minute walk will be done at the research center.

      Subjects will be evaluated by a registered dietitian and randomized to diet prescription (55%
      carbohydrate, 30% fat and 15% protein) vs. the same diet prescription including three
      servings of supplement powder and fish oil. The research dietitian will develop meal plans
      based on basal metabolic rate and physical activity. Subjects will be provided a pedometer to
      wear daily. Any subject in either group who develops symptoms of pancreatic insufficiency
      will be provided with pancreatic enzyme supplementation.

      Day 28, 56, 84 and 112 will be follow-up visits. The same procedures will be performed as on
      day 1. Subjects will come to the UCLA Center for Human Nutrition in the fasting state and
      remain for approximately ~1 hour.
    
  