
    
      Our ability to better control the pain and disability of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) now
      focuses attention on reducing the impact of RA-associated comorbidities. The most common
      cause of death in RA is cardiovascular (CV) disease, and the risk of myocardial infarction
      and stroke are approximately doubled in RA. The determinants of CV risk in RA include
      traditional CV risk factors as well as aspects of the inflammatory process defining RA. It is
      likely that RA-associated inflammation accelerates atherosclerosis through direct effects on
      the endothelium as well as indirect effects on insulin metabolism. Several studies report an
      increased prevalence of insulin resistance among persons with RA. However, it is not clear
      whether the inflammation of RA causes insulin resistance. Corticosteroids and abnormalities
      in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis may also contribute to abnormal glucose metabolism. Little
      information is available to guide management of a pre-diabetic insulin resistance state in
      RA.

      Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a commonly used medicine early in RA, may play a role in improving
      insulin resistance. Several previous trials demonstrated the ability of HCQ to reduce blood
      glucose levels in diabetics, and a large epidemiologic study found that subjects with RA
      using HCQ were less likely to develop diabetes. In animal models, anti-malarials lower blood
      glucose through slowing insulin metabolism.

      With CV disease a major comorbidity in RA and insulin resistance possibly a major determinant
      of CV risk, intervention studies need to begin to translate prior work into clinical
      therapeutics.

      Relevance: If this study demonstrates a beneficial effect of HCQ on insulin resistance among
      the randomized subjects, this would provide strong evidence that HCQ has benefits beyond RA
      and SLE disease activity. Currently, HCQ is stopped in many patients as they "step-up" to
      more aggressive DMARD treatments, or HCQ may never be tried in some patients who present with
      RA carrying with poor prognosis. If HCQ improves insulin sensitivity, there may be rationale
      for continuing HCQ chronically in patients with RA. As well, a larger clinical endpoint study
      would be strongly considered.
    
  