
    
      This research project is a study designed to address both motor and cognitive changes after
      stroke, two common stroke disabilities. For example: two third of patients reported loss of
      upper limb function as a major problem after stroke and spatial neglect occurs in more than
      350,000 US right hemisphere stroke survivors annually. These two impairments if not treated,
      lead to immediate impairment in basic life activities, long term functional disability,
      increased risk for falls and increased healthcare costs. The literature displays many strong
      research studies that trialed the use of multiple treatment approaches to remediate spatial
      neglect, including prism adaptation treatment (PAT), resulting in positive results. Similar
      findings result for treatment studies that attempt to remediate the upper extremity (UE).
      However, in all group of patients that were tested in these studies (both for spatial neglect
      and UE dysfunction) only had one stroke and past medical histories that were unremarkable.
      Rehabilitation professionals help clients that have had all types of strokes achieve improved
      quality of life by helping to increase independence by remediating impairment. In addition,
      these professionals need to know more about the effects of PAT in stroke survivors with
      multiple lesions because these are patients commonly being treated in the clinical setting.
      Also, it has not been investigated whether using PAT, a very promising and easy to administer
      treatment, to remediate spatial neglect will also increase spontaneous UE movement of the
      limb affected by the stroke because of an influence on motor-intentional aiming errors. Thus,
      in this pilot research proposal, the researcher intends to first investigate the feasibility
      of this two week treatment on stroke survivors that have had multiple lesions and second
      verify if PAT will improve spatial neglect and jointly increase spontaneous movement of the
      UE.
    
  