
    
      -Study design Subjects for this study were prospectively enrolled between January 2013 and
      January 2016 in the participating centers.

      All patients signed written informed consent including the possibility of future publication
      according to the Italian bioethics laws. Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval has been
      obtained from the local Ethical Committee of each center in compliance with the Principals of
      Helsinki Declaration.

      -Preoperative assessment and preparation All cases were discussed individually on colorectal
      multidisciplinary meeting with standard preoperative staging for rectal cancer including;
      colonoscopy with biopsy, CT chest, and abdomen, MRI pelvis and/or endo-rectal ultrasound. All
      patients were evaluated preoperative by expert anesthesiologists for individual co-morbidity
      with classification according to the ASA score.

      The day before surgery mechanical bowel preparation with 4 liters of PEG (PolyEthilene
      Glycol) was administered together with liquid diet. An adequate thromboembolic prophylaxis
      with low molecular weight heparin was given the evening before the surgery. Antibiotic
      prophylaxis with second generation cephalosporin was administered at induction of anesthesia.

      -Surgical technique The low or ultra-low anterior resection with total mesorectal excision
      (TME) were performed, either open, laparoscopic, robotic. Just before rectal division, the
      circular anal dilator (CAD) device was introduced into the anal canal and fixed by four
      0-silk suture to the perianal skin apply at the 4 cardinal's points. The rectal inspection
      was carried out by the Purse Suture Anoscope (PSA) to correctly identify the proximal and
      distal extension of the tumor. After that the rectum was divided by linear or curved stapler
      under CAD direct inspection.

      Four 2-0 prolene sutures were trans-anally placed on the rectal stump; 2 of them at the
      extremities of the suture line (left and right) and the other two 1 cm medially to each of
      the previous two sutures. Circular stapler was introduced through the CAD (29 or 33 mm KOL
      stapler, Touchstone International Medical Science Co., Ltd.), the 4 tails of the prolene
      stitches were introduced through the stapler channels (2 in the left and 2 in the right side
      of the instrument) and gently pulled in order to obtain a gradual and homogeneous traction of
      the tissue. After elimination of both previous suture lines and dog ears, then the stapler
      was fired.

      The rectal anastomosis was carefully inspected trans-anally then tested intraoperatively by
      air leak test through trans-anal air insufflation with the pelvis immersed with physiological
      saline to detect bubbles, and competence of donuts. If the anastomosis was considered safe
      the need for protective stoma was left to discretion of operating surgeon.

      CAD may be removed at the end of the surgery, or left in place for 3-4 days postoperative to
      provide a safe and fast access for anastomosis inspection as well to reduce the endo-luminal
      pressure.

        -  Postoperative care The postoperative care concise with the standard care for patients
           who underwent low or ultra-low rectal resection, thromboembolic prophylaxis continued
           inform of single low molecular weight heparin 5000 IU 8 hours postoperative or according
           to the risk status of patients. Antibiotics for 3 days postoperative inform of 1 gm 2nd
           generation cephalosporin. We encourage fast tract surgery inform early feeding and
           mobilization as described below;

             -  1st POD: removal of the urinary catheter, start mobilization,

             -  2nd POD: start oral fluid,

             -  3rd-4th POD: start semi-solid then solid feeling,

             -  5-6th POD: discharge home (after performing contrast enema or colonoscopy).

        -  Definition of anastomotic leak There is no constant definition for anastomotic leak, but
           we adapted the criteria recently published by Adams and Papagrigoriadis [8]; feculent
           material from the drain or the wound, extravasation of dye on contrast enema,
           anastomotic defect visualized by colonoscopy, or the presence of peri-anastomotic air or
           fluid visualized by CT scan.

        -  Patient's fellow-up Patients were followed-up at the outpatient's clinics at one week,
           two weeks, and at one month postoperative. A further follow-up occurred at time of stoma
           reversal in patients with diversion in form of colonoscopy to access anastomotic
           integrity and preoperative anesthetic fitness as usual. Follow-up was continued at
           twelve months' postoperative by aid of complete colonoscopy.

        -  Variables studied and statistical analysis Basic demographic data were recorded
           including age and sex of patients as well as detailed information on BMI, ASA, stage and
           distance of the tumor from anal verge, neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, type of surgical
           approach (open, laparoscopic and robotic procedure), duration of the operation,
           postoperative hospital stay, postoperative morbidity and mortality. Data were analyzed
           using excel and SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Science) version 21 programs under
           Microsoft Windows. Quantitative data were expressed as mean ± SD when possible.
    
  