
    
      This project seeks to understand how individuals already in a high-risk state will interpret
      genetic information informing risk of 'conversion' to a full disorder. How individuals
      interpret this possibility carries important consequences for how they choose to respond,
      which may range from fatalistic acceptance of the disorder to proactive preventative
      behavior. With the aim to encourage an active pro-health response, the investigators propose
      developing two tools for communicating genetic risk and evaluate them regarding their
      effectiveness in inducing a positive response to the risk of illness. The two tools will
      consist of: 1) a clinician manual, designed to be used by trained clinicians to communicate
      risk to CHR youth; 2) a high-impact, computerized tutorial ('AutoTutor') that has been used
      to convey genetic risk for breast cancer (i.e. BRCA gene). To create these two tools, experts
      in psychiatric genetics and stigma will work to develop the two tools to convey genetic risk
      information to youth and young adults identified as in a 'clinical high-risk state' (CHR) for
      psychosis. The investigators assess primary outcomes of increased intent to engage in
      treatment and healthy behaviors, and a secondary outcome of reduction in stigma. While
      specific genes for risk of psychosis are not yet used in diagnosis or treatment, a genetic
      malleability (GM) framing conforms to the known genetic risk for psychosis, and has a strong
      likelihood of being used in the not too distant future. Because of the relatively large
      innovation involved, the investigators seek to establish initial acceptability, safety, and
      efficacy of each tool. The investigators then use a nonrandomized, within- subject, pre- vs.
      post design to examine whether providing the genetic malleability framing via each tool (n=27
      CHR youth per tool, N=54 total) leads to improved outcomes. For each tool, participants will
      be conveyed hypothetical information proposing being identified as having a substantially
      elevated, genetically-malleable risk for developing psychosis.
    
  