
    
      Salvage regional and local radiation is frequently utilized across multiple disease sites in
      oncology for patients who have failed initial radiotherapy. However, in prostate cancer, due
      to the concern that nodal involvement is a manifestation of widespread distant disease, this
      type of approach has not typically been pursued. However, with newer imaging modalities such
      as fluciclovine PET, PSMA pet, and C11 PET, physicians are identifying nodal disease and
      excluding distant disease better than they ever have before. Thus, in the modern era regional
      control may translate to improved long-term biochemical control, and prevent the morbidity
      and mortality associated with clinical progression of recurrent prostate cancer

      Thus, in patients who recur both in the prostate and in the pelvic lymph nodes, treating both
      with radiation could result in meaningful clinical efficacy for patients-similar to other
      disease sites. However, there are limited data exploring the feasibility and safety of this
      combination. Therefore, the investigators are conducting this trial, which combines salvage
      HDR brachytherapy to the local recurrence of the prostate cancer with EBRT to the pelvic
      lymph nodes, and short-term hormonal therapy, in this group of patients. The investigators
      hypothesize that this approach can safely be performed without excess toxicity.

      Once a patient is deemed eligible for the study and has signed the informed consent form, the
      patient will start hormone therapy with a LHRH Agonist medication which is an intramuscular
      injection which patients will receive every 3-6 months for 6 months. Within 10 days of the
      LHRH injection the patient must start an anti-androgen pill and will take the pill once a day
      until the last day of radiation. Radiation Therapy will start approximate 2 months after the
      start of the hormone therapy. Patients will undergo 2 implants with 1 fraction of 12 Gy
      delivered with each implant, scheduled 1-2 weeks apart when possible, although longer or
      shorter intervals are acceptable with PI approval. The implant procedure will be done under
      general anesthesia. Patients will also receive the external beam radiotherapy (for 5 weeks),
      starting before or after the brachytherapy treatment. Patients will also be asked to complete
      2 short quality of life questionnaires before they receive treatment and at follow up visits.
      Patient will follow up with the radiation oncologist for an exam at 1 month, 3 months, 6
      months and 12 months after treatment and then every 6 months for 4 more years then annually
      thereafter.
    
  