
    
      Airway epithelium is composed of 4 major cell types, including ciliated cells, secretory
      cells, undifferentiated columnar cells, and basal cells (BC). The earliest changes associated
      with the development of smoking-induced lung diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD) and lung cancer, occur in the airway epithelium, including BC hyperplasia,
      squamous metaplasia, mucous cell hyperplasia and metaplasia, impaired ciliated cell structure
      and function, loss of Clara cells, and increased epithelial permeability due to impaired
      junctional barrier. We hypothesize that fundamental to these changes are smoking-induced
      derangements of BC, the stem/progenitor cell population that can self-renew and differentiate
      into ciliated and secretory cells. Using technologies established in our laboratory to
      culture pure population of BC from the human airway epithelium, to induce differentiation of
      these BC in air-liquid interface, and to assess the transcriptome of purified BC compared to
      that of the complete differentiated airway epithelium, our preliminary data indicates that:
      (1) airway BC exhibit a distinct gene expression signature relevant to stem/progenitor cell
      function, including high expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR); (2)
      airway BC from healthy smokers have a different gene expression pattern compared to
      nonsmokers, with enrichment of functional categories related to cell cycle and proliferation
      and down-regulation of differentiation-associated genes; and (3) constitutive EGF expression
      in BC and differentiated cells is barely detectable, but smoking selectively up-regulates EGF
      expression in differentiated cells of the airway epithelium in vivo. Based on these data and
      on the knowledge that EGFR signaling plays a central role in the regulation of cell
      proliferation and differentiation in the airway epithelium, the central concept of this
      proposal is that smoking-induced expression by differentiated cells activates BC via EGFR
      altering the molecular phenotype of airway BC and impairing their ability to generate normal
      differentiated airway epithelium. To assess this concept, the following aims will be
      addressed:

      Aim 1. To determine whether stimulation of airway BC from healthy nonsmokers with EGF induces
      genes and pathways related to smoking-associated phenotypes, e.g. BC hyperplasia, squamous
      metaplasia, mucous metaplasia, abnormal cilia, decreased Clara cell number and compromised
      junctional integrity.

      Aim 2. To test the hypothesis that stimulation of airway BC from healthy nonsmokers with EGF
      alters BC differentiation in air-liquid interface culture, with generation of
      smoking-associated phenotypes (see Aim 1).

      Aim 3. To test the hypothesis that upon apical exposure to cigarette smoke extract,
      differentiated airway epithelial cells derived from BC of healthy nonsmokers release
      increased amounts of EGF into the apical supernatant, which will alter the ability of BC of
      healthy nonsmokers to generate normal differentiated airway epithelium, and that blocking EGF
      in this supernatant will abolish this effect.
    
  