
    
      The present study will be a 24 months multi-center, double-blind, prospective, cohort study
      which will be carried out between April 2016 and March 2018. Subjects diagnosed of rotator
      cuff (RC) tendinopathy, adhesive capsulitis (AC), glenohumeral instability, superior labrum
      anterior to posterior (SLAP) lesion, and/or acromioclavicular pathology and fulfill the
      inclusion criteria will be asked for participating in the investigators study. Several
      questionnaires that will test the influence of different biopsychosocial factors and the
      presence of Central Sensitization will be administrated to these subjects. The outcomes will
      be assessed at baseline and 5 follow-ups (after 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months, t1-t6).

      Subjects will attend for their routine clinical appointment. The examiners will carry out the
      clinical consultation according to usual practice. Subjects who fulfill the selection
      criteria will be asked whether they wish to be considered for trial participation. Examiners
      will inform subjects who are interested in participation. Ineligible subjects and those who
      do not wish to participate in the trial will receive normal clinical care delivered by
      clinicians according to the best clinical practice.

      Anonymized age, gender and visual analogue scale (VAS)- verbal numeric rating scale (VNRS)
      for pain will be collected for those subjects who decline to take part in the project, in
      order to assess the external validity of the recruited sample of subjects.

      Eligible patients who are interested in the trial will be asked to provide written informed
      consent to participate. The examiners will allocate the participants in an unique study
      group. Participants will then complete several questionnaires at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 18 and
      24 months after the beginning of the study. A blinded examiner will deliver these
      questionnaires. Subsequent sessions will occur at the follow-up visits. Participants will be
      asked about any problems they had had during the previous months before following-up. There
      will be brief discussion about whether participants have subjected for any treatment
      (physical, pharmacological, injection and/or no treatment).
    
  