
    
      This is a phase II, double-blind, randomised, controlled, multicentre trial of topical
      HDIT101 versus placebo.

      Approximately 138 eligible patients will be randomised at a ratio of 2:1 to topical HDIT or
      corresponding placebo.

      The trial consists of 3 parts: An observation phase (up to 9 months), a treatment phase of 12
      months, and a post-trial follow-up phase of additional 12 months: The observation phase
      ensures that the patient develops a minimum number of lesions during the trial. In the 12
      months treatment phase, blinded study treatment consisting of topical HDIT101 or placebo is
      applied to the patients at the first and second lesion episode. After completion of the
      treatment phase, patients are followed for additional 12 months for assessment of the
      development of further lesions (post-trial follow-up phase).

      Observation phase (max. 9 months):

      Eligible patients suffering from chronic recurrent herpes orolabialis for at least 12 months
      and reporting ≥ 6 lesions in the last 12 months can enter the observation phase. This part of
      the study serves for confirmation that patients develop a minimum number of 3 lesions within
      the 9 months observation period. No study treatment is applied in the observation phase, but
      standard-of-care treatment (SoC) can optionally be applied. Single swabs should additionally
      be taken from the lesion for confirmation of HSV-1 positivity.

      Patients not developing 3 lesions with an HSV lesion score 3-7 during the 9 months
      observation phase are considered screening failures and will not be randomised into the
      treatment part of the trial.

      Randomised, double-blind treatment phase (12 months):

      This phase consists of four scheduled visits (day 30/120/240/365) and unscheduled visits for
      treatment of lesion 3 and 4, respectively.

      Patients who have developed 3 outbreaks within the observational phase will enter the
      treatment phase. The third of these lesions will already be treated. Notably, patients do not
      have to complete the 9 months observation phase if they develop the 3rd lesion earlier -
      treatment starts with occurrence of a 3rd lesion.

      With the occurrence of lesion 3 within the 9 months observation phase, patients need to
      schedule a visit at the study site when a vesicle is present. If the patient meets all
      inclusion criteria, randomisation takes place. An electronic patient reported outcome (ePRO)
      tool will be installed on the patients' devices and questionnaires will be answered. The
      lesion will be documented in the ePRO app with a photo. A swab of the lesion will be taken
      which preferably should contain fluid from the vesicular lesion. Subsequently, blinded IMP
      will be applied to the lesion. The investigator will determine the lesion start and end date
      based on information provided by the patient. 3 additional vials of study IMP for further
      treatment of this lesion will be handed over to the patient for self-application.

      Upon occurrence of a fourth lesion in the treatment phase, the same procedure will be
      repeated at another unscheduled visit at the site when a vesicle is present. Again, IMP will
      be handed over to the patient for further treatment of this lesion.

      All subsequent lesions occurring during the 12 months treatment phase need to be documented
      by the patient by photos and questionnaires. At each lesion episode, single swabs will be
      taken, but no further IMP will be applied and no unscheduled visit is necessary, but phone
      calls. The investigator will assess and medically confirm the lesion to be herpes-related and
      will determine the lesion start and end date based on information and photos provided by the
      patient and patient entries in the ePRO. Standard-of-care treatment (SoC) can optionally be
      applied.

      Treatments and Examinations during the Study:

      During all phases of the trial, patients need to report disease-specific symptoms and
      outbreak impact upon recognition of first symptoms during the study.

      Orolabial viral shedding of patients is assessed by quantitative real time polymerase chain
      reaction (qRT-PCR) derived from swabs. These will be taken daily for 28 days in the orolabial
      region during the 9 months observation period starting after lesion 2, at occurrence of
      lesion 3 at visit 3 and 4 months after randomisation (starting at visit 5), respectively.

      Each lesion recurrence has to be documented by the patient in the patient eDiary. In case of
      development of new lesions after lesion 3 or 4, patients will be instructed to take a swab of
      the lesion and provide this to the site for HSV-1 PCR outbreak confirmation. The patients
      must take photos (preferably daily) of the lesion until healing. These photos will be
      transferred to the sites' source data. The investigator will assess and medically confirm the
      lesion to be herpes-related and will determine the lesion start and end date based on
      information and photos provided by the patient and patient entries in the electronic diary.

      Lesions will be rated according to a lesion score. For every lesion episode (outbreak),
      patients will be asked to report disease specific symptoms and outbreak impact in electronic
      questionnaires on a daily basis, from recognition of first symptoms until complete resolution
      of the symptoms.

      Post-trial follow-up phase (12 months):

      After the treatment phase, patients are further followed-up by phone every 3 months for a
      total duration of additional 12 months.
    
  