
    
      -  Patients are being asked to participate if they have chosen to undergo a "debulking
           nephrectomy" (surgery to remove a tumor of the kidney, but not all of the cancer cells
           in their body) as a standard treatment for kidney cancer or they have tumor lesions that
           are accessible and are being removed to treat or diagnose their cancer.

        -  Participants enrolled in this study will be assigned to receive a particular dose of the
           dendritic cell/tumor fusion vaccine cells. The dose will be determined by when they are
           enrolled in the study. There are two cohorts to this study. The first cohort will be
           given the vaccine alone. If the vaccine is well tolerated then we will proceed to the
           second cohort. The second cohort will receive GM-CSF in addition to the vaccine.

        -  Tumor cells will be collected to make the study vaccine. Based on the location of the
           cancer, a decision will be made as to the best approach to obtain these cells.

        -  Participants will undergo a procedure known as leukapheresis in order to obtain their
           dendritic cells. Prior to this procedure they will receive 1 to 2 injection of GM-CSF to
           help increase their white blood cell count.

        -  If sufficient numbers of cells are obtained, tumor cells and dendritic cells will be
           fused (mixed) together in the laboratory and divided into the appropriate doses for
           administration.

        -  The treatment will consist of 3 vaccinations of fused cells given by an injection under
           your skin at 3-week intervals. The first six participants will receive only the study
           vaccine. The remaining participants will receive the study vaccine combined with GM-CSF.

        -  If enough vaccine cannot be made for the participant to receive 3 doses, the participant
           may receive only 2 doses of the study vaccine.

        -  Approximately 3 to 4 tablespoons of blood will be collected at certain times for testing
           the immune system and to determine if the study vaccine has increased the immune
           response against the tumor cells. Weekly visits for physical exam, assessment of adverse
           events and safety labs will be conducted.

        -  Regular blood draws will be done for at least 6 months following the completion of the
           study to follow safety labs and to monitor the immune response. Monthly physical exams
           will be performed following the last injection of the study vaccine. At one month, three
           months, and six months following the date the participant received the last study
           vaccine, they will have a CT scan to see if the study vaccine has affected their
           disease.
    
  