
    
      The study aim is to demonstrate that fall-recovery training is feasible in stroke survivors
      with low falls self-efficacy. We will gather evidence of the adaptation, implementation, and
      limited efficacy of our intervention. This aim will be addressed with a single-group,
      observational study. At baseline, fall-recovery ability will be determined from stepping
      thresholds in response to treadmill-delivered perturbations. Falls self-efficacy will be
      determined from questionnaires. Walking activity will be recorded using step counters
      (StepWatchTM). After three weeks of a non-active control period, we will repeat assessments.
      Then, participants will attend six training sessions consisting of anterior, posterior, and
      lateral perturbations. After training, we will repeat all assessments of balance,
      self-efficacy, and walking activity. We will recruit five participants with chronic stroke
      (i.e. >6 months after stroke). Falls self-efficacy is recorded upon registry enrollment,
      allowing us to recruit to our study needs. All participants must have an Activies-Specific
      Balance Confidence (ABC) score less than 68. Upon enrollment, the Fugl-Meyer Lower Extremity
      assessment and Stroke Impact Scale will be administered. Fall-recovery ability will be
      quantified from anterior, posterior, and lateral single-stepping thresholds. Participants
      will be outfitted with a harness attached to an overhead rail. As they stand on a
      computer-controlled treadmill (ActiveStep®, Simbex), participants will be instructed to not
      step in response to rapid belt translations. For each opposing pair of thresholds, a
      progressively challenging series of perturbations will be delivered. Thresholds are defined
      as the perturbation magnitudes that consistently elicit one step. Falls self-efficacy will be
      quantified from the ABC scale and the Falls Efficacy Scale (FES). Walking activity will be
      quantified as average daily steps, recorded in five-second intervals for one week by a
      StepWatchTM monitor on the non-paretic ankle.

      Our fall-recovery training consists of 6 sessions over 3-4 weeks, each consisting of the
      following 5-minute series:

        -  Standing perturbations that induce a forward fall, necessitating multiple steps to
           regain stability. Separate series will focus on paretic and non-paretic steps.
           Participants will be instructed to "try not to fall".

        -  Standing perturbations that induce a backwards fall. Instructions will be to recover in
           a single step. This constraint is added because, unlike the multiple-step response of
           trip recoveries, slip recovery is dictated by first-step features. Separate series will
           focus on initial steps with the paretic or non-paretic limb.

        -  Standing perturbations that induce a lateral fall, delivered as participants stand
           facing the side of the treadmill. Participants will be instructed to "try not to fall".
           We will apply left and right perturbations large enough to elicit a step.

        -  Also, we will apply anterior and posterior perturbations as the participants walk. Our
           treadmill is equipped to deliver perturbations timed relative to foot strikes during
           gait.

      The training intensity, as determined by the perturbation size and, if applicable, gait
      speed, will be small at first, progressing to more challenging levels dependent upon
      participant performance, safety, and comfort.

      As per feasibility-study guidelines, we will gather evidence of adaptation, implementation,
      and limited efficacy.
    
  