
    
      STUDY RATIONALE:

      The current guidelines for HIV treatment in antiretroviral naive patients recommend the use
      of two drugs in the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) class in addition to
      one drug in the protease inhibitor (PI) or in the non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase
      inhibitor (NNRTI) class.

      NRTI use is associated with significant toxicity, including mitochondrial dysfunction (mostly
      attributed to thymidine-analogue NRTIs): lipoatrophy, peripheral neuropathy, pancreatitis,
      lactic acidosis. There's also a significant risk of hypersensitivity reaction from Abacavir,
      and caution is needed when using Tenofovir in patients with renal failure.

      Finding effective NRTI-free regimens would have a number of potential benefits including: 1)
      a significant expansion of therapeutic options; despite the growing number of
      antiretrovirals, treatment options might still be significantly limited in a patient with a
      number of baseline NRTI mutations or poor NRTI tolerance; 2) potential avoidance of
      toxicities.

      Raltegravir is a leading candidate in a new class of antiretroviral medications called
      integrase inhibitors. It is currently approved for use in antiretroviral treatment
      experienced patients, but has been shown to have excellent virologic efficacy in naïve as
      well as heavily treatment experienced patients. It also has been shown to have unusually
      rapid virologic response. This profile might be excellent in delaying emergence of viral
      resistance in naïve patients.

      Three phase III trials of Raltegravir in treatment experienced patients have been conducted
      (BENCHMRK trials). In both of these studies, more than 75 percent of patients receiving
      Raltegravir plus optimized background therapy (OBT) achieved viral load (HIV RNA) reductions
      to less than 400 copies/mL compared to more than 40 percent of patients receiving placebo
      plus OBT. Both studies also showed that Raltegravir plus OBT was generally well tolerated.

      Darunavir is currently approved for use in HAART-experienced patients at the dose of 600 mg
      bid with ritonavir boosting. In subgroup analysis of the BENCHMRK trials, use of Raltegravir
      and Darunavir was associated with 90% virologic responses (HIV RNA < 400 copies/mL) at 24
      weeks in treatment experienced subjects. Also, the recently presented ARTEMIS study found
      once-daily Darunavir to be non-inferior to either once- or twice-daily lopinavir/ritonavir in
      antiretroviral naïve patients. After 48 weeks a time-to-loss-of-virologic response analysis
      determined that 84% assigned to darunavir and 78% assigned to lopinavir had a viral load
      below 50 copies. In subgroup analysis, DRV/r QD was superior to LPV/r (overall) in patients
      with baseline viral load ≥100,000 copies/mL Furthermore, the DRV/r QD group experienced a
      lower incidence of lipid abnormalities than the lopinavir/ritonavir group.

      HYPOTHESES

      We hypothesize that the virologic efficacy (time to loss of virologic response) at 48 weeks
      will be at least as high following a regimen of Raltegravir + boosted Darunavir as with a
      regimen of Tenofovir + Emtricitabine + boosted Darunavir.

      We further hypothesize that a regimen of Raltegravir + boosted Darunavir will not result in
      higher rates of adverse events at 48 weeks than a regimen of Tenofovir + Emtricitabine +
      boosted Darunavir.

      STUDY DESIGN AND DURATION

      This is a randomized, active Control, safety/efficacy study. All eligible patients
      (antiretroviral naïve,) will be randomized (1:1) into two treatment groups:

        1. Group A: will receive Raltegravir + Ritonavir-boosted Darunavir

        2. Group B: will receive Tenofovir + Emtricitabine + Ritonavir-boosted Darunavir
    
  