
    
      Based on animal studies in mice, nano-particulated whey protein and high molecular weight
      whey protein-alginate coacervates are expected to have appetite reducing (and potentially
      also other) effects, which potentially may be beneficial for body weight management. In order
      to investigate these effects in humans, this study is divided into two parts (Part 1 and Part
      2), of which the specific objectives are specified below:

      Part 1: The objective of this part of the study is to examine if nano-particulated whey
      protein can reduce appetite compared with non-particulated whey protein.

      Part 2: The objective of this part of the study is to examine if high molecular weight whey
      protein-alginate coacervates can reduce appetite compared to calcium alginate.

      A double-blind, randomised crossover design with four arms divided into the two parts will be
      applied. After having successfully completed screening procedures, eligible participants will
      be invited to two separate appetite probe days with particulated whey protein followed by at
      least 14 days break followed by another two separate appetite probe days with the whey
      protein-alginate coacervates. The appetite probe days must be separated by at least 7 days,
      but there is no upper limit for days in between, as long as the participants remain weight
      stable and do not change diet or physical activity level significantly. The study includes a
      total of five visits to the study site.

      For standardisation, 48 hours before the appetite probe days, the participants will be asked
      to consume a regular diet compliant to what they usually eat and no excessive alcohol
      consumption (not above 5 units and no alcohol at all from 8 pm the night before the appetite
      probe days) or intense physical activity is allowed. Within each part of the study, the
      participants will be instructed to consume similar meals the evening before the appetite
      probe days and the meal must be consumed at approximately the same time. The participants
      will also be instructed to go to bed at the same time in the evening prior to the appetite
      probe days. Additionally, the participants must arrive at the study facilities in the morning
      after an overnight fast (from 10 pm) using non strenuous means of transportation.
      Furthermore, over the course of the study (from screening (visit 1) to completion of the last
      appetite probe day (visit 5)), the participants are not allowed to change body weight (±3
      kg), diet or physical activity level (as judged by the sub-investigator). The participants
      will be weighed and asked about compliance with additional standardisation criteria in a room
      away from the other participants before initiating each appetite probe day. Possible
      non-compliance with the standardisation will be judged whether to result in re-scheduling of
      the visit or to be recorded as a protocol deviation.

      Participants arrive at the study facility in the morning. Compliance with standardisation is
      controlled along with registration of possible adverse events and use of concomitant
      medications. During the appetite probe days, participants are settled together in an open
      office, where they are separated at individual tables. During the ad libitum lunch,
      participants are settled into individual feeding cubicles, where they cannot see each other
      and are instructed not to talk to each other.

      VAS' will be completed for measurement of fasting levels of self-reported appetite.

      The test products will be provided as a standardised fixed breakfast and as a standardised
      fixed mid-morning meal provided 3 hour and 1 hour prior to the ad libitum lunch,
      respectively.

      Immediately before and after the test products and the ad libitum lunch and at 30 minutes
      intervals, VAS' will be completed assessing self-reported appetite.

      After the ad libitum lunch, the participants will be free to leave the laboratory. They will
      be provided with a snack box including a variety of foods to including a ready-to-heat dish
      for dinner etc. providing approximately 10000 kJ. The participants will be instructed only to
      consume foods and drinks (water excepted) from the snack box for the remaining of the days,
      and to be focussed while eating and only eat until feeling comfortably full. The participants
      will be instructed to complete a diary registering the time point of consumption of which
      items from the snack box (and potential additional items). If consuming any foods or energy
      containing drinks besides those provided in the snack box, the participants will be
      instructed to register the type and amount consumed. Within the diary, the participants will
      also be instructed to register the time of going to bed on the day of the appetite probe day.
      At the second appetite probe day within each part of the study, the participants will be
      instructed to go to bed at approximately the same time as registered at the first appetite
      probe day within each part of the study. On the following day after each appetite probe day,
      the participants will be instructed to hand in the leftovers from the snack box and the diary
      at the research facility.
    
  