
    
      The present study describes a six months period of specialist activity of an Emergency
      Department physician. The aim is to display the performance in the subsets of difficult or
      unexpected thoracic ultrasound imaging performed by TUS, in a context with the prompt
      availability of all radiological facilities. The interaction of TUS telementoring, using
      WhatsApp® or Skype®, provided by another colleague, in another city and hospital, with a
      greater specific expertise in TUS, was devised to assure a concurrent mentorship by the
      School. This training has included a subsequent revaluation of clinical cases by the
      Ultrasound Course Lecturer in TUS and by the Director of the School of Clinical Ultrasound,
      with a reappraisal overview of all the available information. The approach was clinical and
      instrumental, and included:

      A. clinical history; B. clinical examination of chest, neck, joints and abdomen; C.
      sequential ultrasound examination of the abdomen, thorax, pericardium; D. focus on pain
      symptoms: of chest, abdomen (with or without distention), lumbar region, neck; E. focus on
      dyspnea and/or cough and/or fever with detection of humid or dry lung sounds, chest dullness,
      of heart and/or pleura-pericardial sounds, and/or jugular congestion, checking also the
      mobility of the diaphragm and evaluating the collapsibility of the cava vein.

      TUS was generally conducted with the patient in a sitting position, although the few patients
      (predominantly children), likely to experience severe discomfort during the procedure, were
      scanned in a semi-supine position. A systematic examination of all intercostal spaces was
      performed and TUS images, if present, were assessed for the number, location, shape, size,
      and breath-dependent changes in consolidation areas. Two main types of pattern of lung
      consolidation attributable to pneumonia were defined: hypoechoic consolidation and mixed
      consolidation. The presence of air bronchogram, fluid bronchogram, and basal pleural effusion
      was also reported. The size of the consolidation area was measured longitudinally and
      transversally, using the longest measurement, i.e., the maximal length of the consolidation
      area visible by TUS, for data analysis. For the purpose of this report, details on the
      measurements are not detailed.

      The second opinion was provided outside the Hospital facility by a mentor (FMT), expert in
      Clinical Ultrasound, answering to the questions related to the images of videoclips of the
      actual patient in emergency. Images and movies were sent by WhatsApp. Reappraisal was
      performed subsequently, using all the available imaging - photos and videoclips, the clinical
      records and the outcome information, as obtainable by a short-term follow-up.
    
  