
    
      3.4.1 Pharmaceutical and Therapeutic Background The importance of intact immune surveillance
      in controlling outgrowth of neoplastic transformation has been known for decades.
      Accumulating evidence shows a correlation between tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in
      cancer tissue and favorable prognosis in various malignancies. In particular, the presence of
      CD8+ T-cells and the ratio of CD8+ effector T-cells / FoxP3+ regulatory T-cells seems to
      correlate with improved prognosis and long-term survival in many solid tumors.

      The PD-1 receptor-ligand interaction is a major pathway hijacked by tumors to suppress immune
      control. The normal function of PD-1, expressed on the cell surface of activated T-cells
      under healthy conditions, is to down-modulate unwanted or excessive immune responses,
      including autoimmune reactions. PD-1 (encoded by the gene Pdcd1) is an Ig superfamily member
      related to CD28 and CTLA-4 which has been shown to negatively regulate antigen receptor
      signaling upon engagement of its ligands (PD-L1 and/or PD L2). The structure of murine PD-1
      has been resolved. PD-1 and family members are type I transmembrane glycoproteins containing
      an Ig Variable-type (V-type) domain responsible for ligand binding and a cytoplasmic tail
      which is responsible for the binding of signaling molecules. The cytoplasmic tail of PD-1
      contains 2 tyrosine-based signaling motifs, an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motif
      (ITIM) and an immunoreceptor tyrosine-based switch motif (ITSM). Following T-cell
      stimulation, PD 1 recruits the tyrosine phosphatases SHP-1 and SHP-2 to the ITSM motif within
      its cytoplasmic tail, leading to the dephosphorylation of effector molecules such as CD3ζ,
      PKCθ and ZAP70 which are involved in the CD3 T-cell signaling cascade. The mechanism by which
      PD-1 down modulates T-cell responses is similar to, but distinct from that of CTLA-4 as both
      molecules regulate an overlapping set of signaling proteins. PD-1 was shown to be expressed
      on activated lymphocytes including peripheral CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells, B-cells, T regs and
      Natural Killer cells. Expression has also been shown during thymic development on CD4-CD8-
      (double negative) T-cells as well as subsets of macrophages and dendritic cells. The ligands
      for PD-1 (PD-L1 and PD-L2) are constitutively expressed or can be induced in a variety of
      cell types, including non-hematopoietic tissues as well as in various tumors. Both ligands
      are type I transmembrane receptors containing both IgV- and IgC-like domains in the
      extracellular region and contain short cytoplasmic regions with no known signaling motifs.
      Binding of either PD-1 ligand to PD-1 inhibits T-cell activation triggered through the T-cell
      receptor. PD-L1 is expressed at low levels on various non-hematopoietic tissues, most notably
      on vascular endothelium, whereas PD-L2 protein is only detectably expressed on
      antigen-presenting cells found in lymphoid tissue or chronic inflammatory environments. PD-L2
      is thought to control immune T-cell activation in lymphoid organs, whereas PD-L1 serves to
      dampen unwarranted T-cell function in peripheral tissues. Although healthy organs express
      little (if any) PD-L1, a variety of cancers were demonstrated to express abundant levels of
      this T-cell inhibitor. PD-1 has been suggested to regulate tumor-specific T-cell expansion in
      subjects with melanoma (MEL). This suggests that the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway plays a critical role
      in tumor immune evasion and should be considered as an attractive target for therapeutic
      intervention.

      Pembrolizumab is a potent and highly selective humanized monoclonal antibody (mAb) of the
      IgG4/kappa isotype designed to directly block the interaction between PD-1 and its ligands,
      PD-L1 and PD-L2. KeytrudaTM (pembrolizumab) has been approved in the United States for the
      treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and disease progression
      following ipilimumab and, if BRAF V600 mutation positive, a BRAF inhibitor. KeytrudaTM
      (pembrolizumab) is also a U.A.E. Ministry of Health registered medication.
    
  