
    
      Prophylactic subcutaneous drains in surgery have generally been used for detection and
      drainage of hematomas or excessive secretions. In the past three decades, multiple surgical
      disciplines have conducted studies to determine the necessity of vacuum drains or even the
      need of drains altogether and a meta-analysis found that many operations can be carried out
      safely without prophylactic drainage.

      In addition to that, drains have been associated with complications. A few of them include
      wound infections, injury to tissues, source of discomfort and pain during removal, limiting
      mobility and additional scarring.

      Of all the cranial surgeries, the most commonly performed surgery is decompressive
      craniectomy. This surgery has been an increasingly common surgical procedure for the
      neurosurgical community as there is clear evidence from numerous studies that support
      decompressive craniectomy as a life-saving surgical procedure in traumatic brain injury,
      malignant middle cerebral artery infarction and spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage.

      Decompressive craniectomies have been associated with many complications including subdural
      effusions (49%), post-craniectomy hydrocephalus (14%), subgaleal hematomas and new remote
      hematomas (10.2%). These complications may just be due to the surgery itself. But it may
      still be possible that these complications are worsened or arise solely due to the routine
      use of the vacuum drain.

      As the utility of decompressive craniectomy increases, efforts should be made to reduce the
      complications related to it. Studies have been done to optimize and standardize the technique
      of decompressive craniectomy but the necessity to use the vacuum drains and the possible
      contribution that these drains may have to the complications of decompressive craniectomies
      have been overlooked so far. There have been no randomized studies to compare usage of
      subgaleal vacuum drains, subgaleal passive drains and the omission of subgaleal drains in
      neurosurgical practice to date.

      Usage of subgaleal vacuum drains for decompressive craniectomies have been the usual practice
      so far to prevent subgaleal hematoma collection. However, this practice is not backed by any
      strong evidence that these vacuum drains actually deter subgaleal hematoma collection. On top
      of that, these vacuum drains may itself be causing complications that have not been
      discovered before. The usual complications associated with prophylactic vacuum drains are
      surgical site infections and wound breakdown. There are other complications that could be
      attributed to the routine usage of prophylactic vacuum drains. These include new remote
      intracranial hematomas, post craniectomy hydrocephalus and bradycardia or hypotension during
      the skin closure stage of craniectomy.

      The investigators plan to compare the complication rates of vacuum drains, passive drains and
      no drains in decompressive craniectomy. These 3 groups include a group with active vacuum
      drains, another group with passive non-vacuum drains and a group without any drains. The
      current practice is to use active or passive vacuum drains as prophylactic drains in patients
      undergoing decompressive craniectomy.

      The complication rates to be studied are:

        1. subgaleal hematoma thickness

        2. new remote hematomas,

        3. post craniectomy hydrocephalus,

        4. surgical site infection,

        5. wound breakdown,

        6. bradycardia/hypotension during closing stage of craniectomy

        7. and functional outcomes of patients at 6 months

      If the rates of complications in the groups without a drain or a passive drain are lower or
      equal to that of the group with active drains, this study may change the paradigm of
      prophylactic drain usage in decompressive craniectomies
    
  