
    
      Included patients will undergo a resection of the low grade glioma as standard-of-care.
      Before, during and after the resection, HSI data ('datacubes') will be acquired by the
      SnapScan HSI camera on the microscope of all relevant areas of the exposed cortical surface
      and subcortical cavity walls. The exact points of which the datacubes will be acquired are
      defined by unequivocal single points on the neuronavigational system (Brainlab). From the
      points from which the datacubes have been obtained a corresponding tissue sample will be
      obtained (labeled biopsy) if tumor tissue is to be expected in that particular point, based
      on the current standard of care assessments intraoperatively using white light illumination
      on the microscope, intraoperative navigation and intraoperative ultrasound. As such, normally
      looking brain in the resection cavity wall, will only be biopsied if tumor free margins
      should be proven as part of the standard-of-care operative procedure (non-critically eloquent
      brain regions). The objective of this all is to get an initial high quality in vivo dataset
      to start exploring the potential of the technology.

      The project will follow a 'stop and go' design: during the first 9 months, the initially
      collected spectrally corrected datacubes will be analyzed using machine learning on coded
      data sets. After this initial phase, an interim analysis will be made from the full list of
      analyzed datacubes. If a reliable and robust discriminative signal can be detected in low
      grade glioma tissue, segregating these signals from those in normal tissue (as defined
      pathologically and/or radiologically), efficacy is demonstrated (proof of concept) and the
      trial will go on for further collecting of samples in the following 26 months. Within the
      expanded dataset, the different spectral data patterns will be translated into user's
      friendly pattern codes for rapid real-time, on-site detection and interpretation through
      development of dedicated software. If no reliable signal can be retrieved from low grade
      glioma tissue in vivo during the surgery, further recruitment of patients will be stopped. At
      that time, the investigators and partners will decide on whether or not relevant amendments
      to the study will be proposed or not.
    
  