
    
      First: The investigators use excel generate a 5 digits random number table. After subjects
      sign the informed consent, investigators will chose one for themm. Subject who get an odd
      number will receive 2cycles' chemotheapy concurrent radiotherapy and even number receive
      4cycles'. Investigators should record the congruent relationship of subjects with group code.

      Second: The investigators are required to record subjects' base measurements. The base
      measurements items:1.Tumor confirmed date,TNM staging,History of esophageal cancer
      treatment;2.Demographic data,past medical history;3.physical examination(a detailed system
      check including general neurological examination);4.vital signs,Height,Weight;5.PS
      score,Quality of life;6.serum biochemistry(ALT,AST,AKP,TBIL,blood
      glucose,BUN,Ccr,electrolyte,et al.);7. Blood RT(RBC,HGB,WBC,ANC,PLT,et al.);8.Urine
      routines;9.Endoscopic biopsy(More than 3 pieces of biopsy specimens),chest CT,abdomen
      ultrasound/CT/MRI,PET-CT,et al.;10.Blood/urine pregnancy tests;11.Collect blood samples(5
      ml);12.Preserve CorpseSample. note:Check the time limit-2 weeks before get into groups.

      Third:Observation items during treatment include 3-8 items of the base
      measurements;Radiotherapy 20 times, should review of esophageal barium meal or chest CT. The
      investigators need to observe adverse event during treatment and eveluate the relationship of
      adverse event with researched therapeutic regimen according to the Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events,CTCAE) (V4.0, 2009-05-28) and accurately fill in Case Report
      Form(CRF).

      Fourth: Follow-up items include 3-9 items of the base measurements;bood and tissue sample
      should also be preserved when subject receives 16th weeks' review.

      The patient who withdrew from the study during researched treatment must accept the end
      evaluation research. The investigators must record the reason and the date of termination in
      patient' progress note and CRF.

      Cases of complete report should transfer to data administrators after investigates by
      clinical research associate. Data administrators input and management data.
    
  