
    
      Background:

      MicroRNAs are small RNA molecules that control gene expression in the cell. micro RNAs are
      also found in the body fluids in vesicles known as exosomes that interact with cellular
      membranes, release their contents, thus responsible for cell-to-cell contact.

      The ovarian follicle fluid contains various substances, including micro RNAs, which are
      secreted by the various follicle cells and plays an important role in the development and
      maturation of the oocyte. Recent studies have found that micro RNAs found in the follicle
      fluid play an important role in the maturation of the oocyte, fertilization, embryo quality,
      and implantation.

      Transgenderism is an umbrella term describing people whose gender identity and/or expression
      does not align with their sex assigned at birth. A transgender man is a man who was assigned
      female at birth. The medical interventions for transgender men include hormonal
      (testosterone) treatment that can negatively affect fertility, and fertility preservation is
      an option to overcome this potential damage. The fertility preservation options for transmen
      include oocyte and embryo cryopreservation. The American Society for Reproductive Medicine
      (ASRM) recommends that: 1. All transgender patients will be counseled regarding the fertility
      options prior to initiating the medical transition. 2. Transgenders have to preserve gametes
      (cryopreservation) before starting hormonal therapy. 3. Transgenders that are already using
      cross-sex hormone treatment have to stop hormone treatment for at least 3 months before
      fertility preservation. The aim of the current study is to compare the micro RNA profile of
      the follicle fluid of IVF patients exposed to high testosterone levels with IVF patients with
      normal testosterone levels and examine the possible association between testosterone exposure
      and fertility potential.

      Specific aims:

        1. To characterize the profile of extracellular RNAs in the follicle fluid of transgender
           patients treated with testosterone.

        2. To determine the association of the follicle fluid RNA profile in these patients with
           the number and quality of oocyte, fertilization potential and the quality of the
           embryos.

      Research plan

      Research Location:

      IVF Unit, Lis Maternity Hospital, The Tal Aviv Sourasky Medical Center (TASMC) Department of
      Reproductive Medicine, Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine, University of California, San
      Diego (UCSD)

      Estimated duration: 5 years

      Study size: 40 IVF patients: 10 transgender men after testosterone therapy, 10 transgender
      men before testosterone therapy, 10 patients with the polycystic ovarian syndrome and high
      endogenic testosterone levels, 10 egg donors

      Research design and methods

        1. Patients who are intended to participate in the study will receive a detailed
           explanation of the study and will sign a consent form.

        2. IVF patients included in the study will be referred to all tests routinely required
           prior to IVF procedure, including blood tests for hormonal profile and testosterone
           levels, and ultrasound for antral follicle count (AFC). Testosterone levels in
           transgender patients will be tested before and after testosterone therapy is stopped.

        3. Patients will get an IVF protocol including hormonal therapy which will be followed by
           the oocyte retrieval.

        4. During oocyte retrieval, follicular fluids will be collected from IVF cycles of 10
           transgender patients exposed to testosterone and 30 control patients not exposed to
           external testosterone (10 transgender men before testosterone therapy, 10 patients with
           the polycystic ovarian syndrome and high endogenic testosterone levels, 10 egg donors).
           These biofluids will be discarded materials obtained during the course of clinical IVF
           cycles.

           The samples of the follicular fluid will be subjected to unrecognized samples with a
           running number, encoded, thus eliminating any possibility of establishing contact with
           the particular patient.

        5. The follicular fluid will undergo centrifugation and the supernatant will be maintained
           at -80 degrees in the IVF unit, TASMC.

        6. Follicular fluid from clinical IVF cycles from enrolled transgender subjects and
           controls, along with non-identifiable patient information associated with each
           follicular fluid and embryo culture fluid sample, including patient age, BMI, use of
           testosterone, cause of IVF treatment, number of oocytes, number of fertilized oocytes
           and the quality of embryos, will be transferred from the Amir group at TASMC to the
           Laurent group at UCSD.

        7. At UCSD, extracellular RNA will be isolated from the follicle fluid samples using The
           Norgen and The ExoRNeasy methods (followed by qRT-PCR validation) and subjected to RNA
           sequencing analysis using NEBNext multiple small RNAseq library preparation kits.

        8. The resulting RNAseq data will be analyzed to identify changes in micro RNA expression
           associated with clinical variables, including the cause of IVF, testosterone treatment,
           and embryo quality.

      Steps 1-6, 8 will be performed in TASMC. Steps 7-8 will be performed in UCSD.

      Inclusion criteria:

      * Patients aged 18 and older

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients under 18 years old

        -  Patients who did not respond to hormone therapy and the IVF cycle was discontinued.
    
  