
    
      Dependence on heroin and prescription pain relievers has almost tripled since 2000, resulting
      in dramatic increases in opioid dependence treatment admissions. However, among
      agonist-maintained patients continued drug use is common and associated with high rates of
      relapse and treatment drop-out. Although counseling has been shown to be effective, it is
      costly and some patients dislike counseling, others have responsibilities that make
      attendance difficult, and patients in rural settings often have limited access to
      psychotherapy. Thus, there is a clear need to develop additional acceptable and
      cost-effective treatments. Interactive Voice Response (IVR) systems, which have been shown to
      effectively augment brief interventions for substance abuse, are automated, computer-based
      systems delivered via phone and use voice or keys to access different menus. IVR systems can
      be accessed from any phone rather than only specified technology (e.g., smartphones), and
      offer advantages of low cost, consistent delivery, expanded access, and 24-hour availability
      of immediate therapeutic intervention. The Recovery Line is a Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
      (CBT)-based IVR system to reduce substance use in patients receiving opioid agonist
      maintenance. We recently completed a pilot randomized 4-week trial which showed significant
      reduction in cocaine use and increased coping skill efficacy, but patients called less time
      than expected, suggesting methods to improve patient use may further improve efficacy. This
      Stage Ib application proposes three phases to develop system functions to increase patient
      system use and to test those functions. The initial two phases will develop customized
      recommendations and reminders to be used in Phase 3 pilot clinical trial. The Phase 3 trial
      is a 12-week pilot randomized (N=60), clinical trial with a 3 month post-treatment follow-up
      to obtain data regarding the feasibility, acceptability and efficacy of the developed
      Recovery Line (compared to TAU). Efficacy will be evaluated for the two primary outcome
      domains of the proportion of urine screens negative for illicit drugs and monthly days of
      illicit drug abstinence. Secondary outcome measures will be retention in treatment and coping
      skills efficacy.
    
  