
    
      Background. Elderly people often suffer from chronic pathologies and they are given
      polypharmacy. In nursing homes, the residents take an average number of 6 to 8 active
      principles / day (Reference Geriatrics ward, Nice University Hospital, France), the
      equivalent of 10 to 20 medicines / day. But 40 % of the residents have swallowing disorders
      or cognitive impairment: the nursing staff is obliged to crush tablets and capsules and to
      give them mixed in a compote, a dairy or a jelly, for instance. Some experts groups (OMEDIT)
      have published a list of drugs authorized to be crushed, because this practice can modify the
      pharmacokinetics of certain active principles, and render them inactive or even toxic.
      However, the gustative aspect of crushed drugs has never been investigated.

      Main objective. To identify from the advice of healthy volunteers, on the gustative aspect,
      which medicine it is acceptable or not recommended to add once crushed or opened in food.

      Secondary objective. To search for alternative solutions. Type of study. Phase I study on
      healthy volunteers. It is a cohort study, with a hedonic, descriptive test in a single group
      and a single one session, to test the taste of 10 drugs crushed in some jelly and apple
      compote.

      Volunteers participating in the study will be 16 healthy volunteers: 8 professionals of the
      restaurant, the catering, the food aromas, the nutrition and the dietetics, and 8 doctors,
      pharmacists, dental surgeons, nurses and/or nurse's aides.

      Inclusion criteria: healthy volunteers over 18 years, without allergy known about 10 drugs to
      be tested. Pregnant women will not be included.

      Criteria of evaluation:

        1. Quantitative: mark from 0 (bad taste) to 10 (no taste or no unpleasant taste) for the
           jelly and compote specimens mixed with crushed drugs.

        2. Qualitative: description of the perceived aroma (acid, bitter, sweet, salty, astringent,
           pricking, aromatic).

      Brief description of the methodology:

      The investigator shall test 10 drugs the most prescribed in the Korian group nursing homes,
      identified as being able to be crushed or opened. The assay will take place during a single
      one-morning session in a room specifically dedicated to clinical assays and with the help of
      a nursing staff trained for clinical assays (Nice University Hospital). Medicine will be
      crushed in parallel in some jelly and apple compote: 10 single drugs, 1 mixture of 6 drugs
      and 1 comparator (unmodified plain jelly and compote). Every volunteer will make these 24
      tests blind and will fill a scoring sheet. He or she will spit out and have an oral rinse
      with some water between two tests; the dose susceptible to be ingested will be about 1/500th
      of a unit dosage. Excepted a risk of allergy, the medical risk is thus unimportant for the
      tasters. Unblinding will take place immediately after the end of the test. Every volunteer
      will propose alternative solutions.

      Individual duration of the study. One morning. Total duration of the study. One year and
      half, for the organization of the test and the publication of the results.

      Expected fallout

        -  The fight against senile anorexia and malnutrition, in elderly people who are given
           polypharmacy, by improving care protocols.

        -  Proposal of alternative solutions such as pediatric or galenic forms if they exist,
           other food substrates or new additives which would allow to mask the taste of certain
           drugs crushed in food.

        -  Incitement in a policy of reduction of drugs for the elderly.
    
  