
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignancies in the world, and the
      prevalence is increasing in the United States. Hepatectomy is still considered as the
      potentially curative treatment for HCC. Unfortunately, long-term survival after hepatectomy
      is still unsatisfactory because of the high incidence of tumor recurrence, especially
      intrahepatic recurrence.

      Stage IIIA hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) include multiple tumors more than 5 cm or tumor
      involving a major branch of the portal or hepatic vein(s) in the International Union Against
      Cancer (UICC) TNM staging for liver tumors, sixth edition 2002. Until now there are
      controversies in the management of Stage IIIA HCC. According to the Barcelona
      -Clinic-Liver-Cancer (BCLC) proposal, Stage IIIA HCC represented as intermediate or advanced
      disease. The European Association for Study of the Liver (EASL) and the American Association
      for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) recommended randomized controlled trials of
      chemoembolization or new agents for such stage of disease. Whereas in Asian areas, such as
      China or Japan, partial hepatectomy or reductive surgery (with or without adjuvant therapy)
      was performed for multiple advanced HCC or tumor with a major branch of the portal or hepatic
      vein(s) invasion, although no prospective study to assess the therapeutic efficacy and
      safety. On the other hand, transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the most widely
      used primary treatment for unresectable HCC. It was also used as the optional treatment of
      relapsed disease. However, the efficacy of TACE used as adjuvant therapy following
      hepatectomy remains controversial. Neither are there large randomized controlled trials to
      address this field. Therefore, a randomized controlled trial was performed in our cancer
      center to compare hepatectomy with adjuvant TACE and hepatectomy alone for the Stage IIIA
      HCC.
    
  