
    
      This study is a 2-arm randomized controlled trial comparing intramedullary nailing of
      proximal fracture of the femur (AO classified as 31 A1.3 , 31 A2.1, 31 A2.2 31 A2.3, 31 A3.1,
      31 A3.2, 31 A3.3) performed with the ADAPT system (arm-A) and those performed without
      (arm-B).

      The ADAPT system has been developed with the aim to reduce the rate of complications in
      intramedullary nailing and its usefulness has been previously explored only in two
      underpowered randomized controlled trials. Thanks to the possibility to track screw placement
      in real-time, allowing improved screw placement, the ADAPT system could be a valid tool, in
      order to minimize radiation exposure, surgical time, and rate of complications.

      All the patients undergoing intramedullary nailing at the Ospedale Regionale di Lugano
      satisfying the eligibility criteria reported at section 7.1 will be enrolled in the study and
      randomly allocated (allocation ratio 1:1) to receive preoperatively:

        -  Intramedullary nailing with ADAPT system (arm-A)

        -  Intramedullary nailing without ADAPT system (arm-B) Patients and physicians evaluating
           the results will be blinded to the assigned group.

      The total number of patients enrolled will be 96 (48 arm-A, 48 arm-B). After surgery, data
      about duration of the procedure, intraoperative blood loss, satisfaction of the surgeon and
      radiation exposure time will be collected.

      Fracture healing, and rate of complications (cut-through and cut out) will be evaluated
      during all the follow-up visits, alongside VAS and a functional evaluation of the injured hip
      through the Oxford Hip score.

      All treatment related adverse events will be reported up to follow-up visit 4, i.e. up to 12
      ± 1 months.

      Every patient will be involved in the trial for 1 year. The expected time to complete the
      trial is 4 years: 3 years for patient enrolment and 1 year to complete the last follow-up
    
  