
    
      Patients who are eligible (newly diagnosed hormone positive clinical stage 1 or 2 breast
      cancer) will be approached about the study. If they sign informed consent a prescription for
      21 doses of Tamoxifen will be provided. The patient's surgery will be scheduled at a time
      convenient for the patient and the surgeon. Once the surgery has been scheduled, a medication
      calendar will be completed that allows the patient to take tamoxifen for 7 days
      preoperatively with the 7th dose of tamoxifen to coincide with the day before surgery. The
      patient will continue to take tamoxifen for 2 weeks (14 days) after surgery. Patients will
      then proceed along normal treatment guidelines. For those needing chemotherapy or radiation
      therapy, we recommend the long term endocrine therapy start at the conclusion of chemo and/or
      radiation treatments. For those not going on to any additional therapy, the prescription for
      endocrine therapy will be written at the initial post-operative visit.

      Unstained slides from the formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue blocks from the patient's
      breast tissue from which the original diagnosis of breast cancer was made by H&E will be
      stained for Ki67. After endocrine therapy and subsequent resection, carcinoma will be
      confirmed by the participating pathologist on H&E, and Ki67 will be performed on unstained
      slides from a representative tissue block containing invasive carcinoma. The pathologist will
      circle a designated area of tumor on the H&E slide and both the H&E and immunostained (Ki67)
      slides will be scanned in a digital imaging device (Aperio XT Scanscope), which
      quantitatively analyzes the tumor designated by the pathologist with image analysis
      algorithms. The algorithm accurately detects regions of interest and distinguishes cells and
      sub-cellular objects within these target regions. It determines morphology and expression
      profiles per individual cell or cell compartment. For Ki67 analysis, a nuclear
      Immunohistochemistry (IHC) algorithm will be used.
    
  