
    
      NAME OF THE RESEARCH: The Effectiveness of Inspiratory Muscle Training and Nintendo Wii Fit
      Applications in Elderly Patients with Heart Failure

      JUSTIFICATION AND BASIS OF THE RESEARCH: Heart failure is a multisystem syndrome
      characterized by the body's inability to pump or increase the filling pressures required for
      pumping the blood needed by the body above normal. Typically it shows objective evidence of
      dyspnea and fatigue during rest or exercise, or swelling of the ankles and cardiac
      dysfunction. This leads to great losses in the functional status and quality of life of the
      patients. These patients seem to be more difficult to participate in cardiac rehabilitation
      programs because they are more comorbid, brittle, and have low functional capacity. It has
      been shown that inspiratory muscle training which is a part of cardiac rehabilitation, not
      only improves lung problems but also increases functional capacity and balance, strength of
      respiratory and peripheral muscles, and decreases perception of depression and dyspnea in
      patients. Video games are increasingly being used as an alternative to traditional
      rehabilitation-based exercises to improve daily activity levels and increase physical fitness
      in the elderly. Although Nintendo wii fit gives similar results with traditional
      rehabilitation practices, it causes less energy costs. This suggests that Nintendo wii fit
      can be a suitable rehabilitation tool for the elderly with low energy levels. A review showed
      that video games are safe and feasible in the elderly with heart failure. Participants'
      balance, cognitive functions, quality of life improved and participants depressive mood
      decreased. In addition, video games enabled older people to communicate better with other
      family members. In the literature review, cardiac rehabilitation was found in patients with
      heart failure in various studies, but these applications were performed with treadmill and
      bicycle ergometer. There are no studies comparing the effectiveness of nintendo wii fit plus
      with inspiratory muscle training.

      PURPOSE OF THE RESEARCH: The aim of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of
      inspiratory muscle training and nintendo wii fit plus exercise training in elderly patients
      with heart failure and to compare these practices with each other.

      EXPECTED RESULTS: The first expected result of this study is that elderly patients with heart
      failure accept inspiratory muscle training and Nintendo wii fit plus video game as a
      rehabilitation tool. If patients adopt these two rehabilitation modalities as an alternative
      to standardized cardiac rehabilitation instruments such as bicycle ergometers and treadmills,
      the content and availability of home-based cardiac rehabilitation will be increased. The
      video game group participants will be performed in the hospital environment and under the
      supervision of a physiotherapist but exergame could be a home based rehabilitation
      application when necessary safety precautions are taken and appropriate patient selection is
      made. When the practices in this study are adopted by the patients, their participation in
      rehabilitation and physical activity will be higher and hospital visits and thus medical
      costs will be reduced as the content of home-based rehabilitation increases. Video games have
      been shown to make family members closer to each other. Thus, this study will provide not
      only medical and physical capacity, but also psychological and social benefits. Investigators
      believe that statistically significant results from this study will inspire physical,
      functional, emotional, emotional and social improvement studies among other elderly people
      who have different medical problems.

      DESIGN OF THE RESEARCH: This is a prospective, experimental, before and after research. In
      this study, randomization will be performed first. 45 patients will be randomized into 3
      columns in the microsoft excel program.

      DESCRIPTION OF THE WORKING GROUP: The population of this study consisted of patients aged 60
      years and older who were followed up and treated with the diagnosis of heart failure in
      Istanbul University-Cerrahpaşa Cardiology Institute. "Timed Up and Go Test", which is one of
      the tests to be performed for these patients, the number of samples was found to be 45 with
      95% confidence level and 80% power.

      Inclusion criteria for volunteers:

        -  60 years and older

        -  individuals who can walk (even with the help of any device)

        -  individuals without visual and auditory impairment

        -  individuals who are cognitive to understand commands

        -  individuals with stable medical condition

        -  individuals who signed the informed consent form

      Exclusion criteria for volunteers:

        -  Below 60 years

        -  individuals who cannot walk (even with the help of any device)

        -  individuals with visual or auditory impairment

        -  Myocardial infarction in the last 2 months

        -  previous ischemic attack

        -  severe cognitive impairment

        -  serious musculoskeletal disorders

        -  symptomatic medical conditions that prevent exercise (pulmonary, cardiovascular, cancer,
           psychiatric, etc.)

      VOLUNTEER SAFETY: The study will be conducted with 3 groups of patients. The respiratory
      group shall perform a deep breathing exercise at home through a small breathing
      apparatus,Threshold IMT. Threshold IMT has no unexpected side effects. The nintendo group
      participants will perform a number of balance exercises with the nintendo wii fit plus game
      console, providing visual feedback on the TV screen. The nintendo group participants will
      perform these exercises in a room allocated to the thesis supervisor within Istanbul
      University-Cerrahpaşa Institute of Cardiology and together with the supervisor
      physiotherapist. Blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen saturation of the patients will be
      monitored at the beginning of the exercises and at other times when necessary. Participants'
      body weight,exergame scores,expected total kilocalorie values will be also noted. The
      relevant hospital staff will be informed of any negative risks that may occur during or after
      the exercises. The place where patients will perform assessment and balance training is a
      hospital environment and the necessary equipment is available. All groups will be advised of
      physical activity such as walking.

      RESEARCH PROTOCOL: Istanbul University-Cerrahpasa, Cardiology Institute in a period of 1 year
      ; 45 patients, 15 of the respiratory group, 15 of the nintendo group, 15 of the control group
      will be randomized. All patients will initially done comprehensive geriatric evaluation. The
      same evaluation will be repeated at the end of the 8th week. Respiratory training group
      programme were described after measuring intraoral pressure with the intraoral pressure
      measuring device. Respiratory training group participants' will do deep breathing exercise
      against resistance of 30% of intraoral pressure. This exercise will be applied for 8 weeks,
      each day of the week, twice in a day for 15 minutes and 4-5 normal breaths after 4-5 deep
      breaths. Each week, intraoral pressure will be measured and new training intensity values
      will be determined. 13 exercises in 5 groups including 3 yoga exercises, 3 balance exercises,
      2 aerobic, 2 training plus exercises and 3 muscle-workout will be done respectively.

      Patients in this group will exercise for 8 weeks, 3 days in a week and 40-50 minutes of
      exercise within resting interval.

      DATA COLLECTING: Collection of data will be done by recording under observation, answering
      via interviewer, questionnaire and

        1. Body composition measurement with BIA (Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis) weighing
           device,

        2. Hand grip strength measurement with Hand Dynamometer,

        3. Measurement of respiratory muscle strength with electronic Intraoral Pressure
           Measurement Device.

        4. Respiratory Function Test Device .

      STATISTICAL METHODS TO BE USED: Statistical analysis of the data will be performed with the
      Statistical Package of Social Sciences (SPSS 21) program. Min-max control will be performed
      after transferring the data obtained from the research to the computer. Quantitative
      variables will be expressed as mean and standard deviation (± ss) and qualitative variables
      as percentages (%). All analyzes are within the 95% confidence interval and a value of α =
      0.05 will be chosen as the level of error. Shapiro-Wilk test will be used to determine
      whether the data are suitable for normal distribution. Paired-t test will be used for
      intra-group comparisons and Student-T test will be used for comparisons between groups. For
      non-normal distribution values, Wilcoxon test will be used for intra-group comparisons and
      "Mann-Whitney U test arası will be used for intergroup comparisons. For categorical data,
      chi-square test (χ²) will be used for the significance test of the difference between two
      groups in independent groups. In the comparison according to time within the group, the
      normally distributed data in the 3-measure data will be vary analysis of variance in repeated
      measures "and the" Friedman test için for non-normally distributed data will be applied. The
      effect size of the intra-group changes will be calculated using the formula (difference
      between measurements / standard deviation of the first measurement). The effect size will be
      interpreted 0.20-0.50 as "small,, 0.51-0.80 as" medium, and 0.81 and above as "large".

      RESEARCH TESTS:

        1. Socio-demographic information

        2. Anthropometric measurements

        3. SPPB (Short Physical Performance Battery)

        4. ADL (Activities of Daily Living)

        5. IADL (Instrumental Activities of Daily Living)

        6. MNA-SF (Mini Nutritional Assessment Questionnaire - Short Form)

        7. FRAIL (Frailty Scale)

        8. SARC-F (Sarcopenia Screening Questionnaire)

        9. SNAQ (Simplified Nutrition Appetite Questionnaire)

       10. GDS-SF (Geriatric Depression Scale Short Form)

       11. EQ-5D Quality of Life Scale

       12. GAD-7 (Generalized Anxiety Disorder Test)

       13. Fagerstrom Nicotine Dependence Test

       14. Mini-COG (Cognitive Status Test)

       15. Clock Driving Test

       16. Minnesota Heart Failure and Life Survey

       17. IPAQ-E ( International Physical Activity Questionnaire- Elderly )

       18. Modified Medical Research Council (mMRC) Dyspnea Scale

       19. Functional Ambulation Scale (FAS)

       20. 6 Minutes Walk Test
    
  