
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival and progression-free of patients with locally advanced,
           unresectable pancreatic cancer treated with gemcitabine with or without radiotherapy.

        -  Compare the objective response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life (QOL) of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the effect of gemcitabine and radiotherapy on the QOL of patients with
           improved objective response rate and progression-free and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      performance status (0 vs. 1) and weight loss within the past 6 months (less than 10% vs. 10%
      or more). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I (Gemcitabine alone):

        -  Induction: Patients receive gemcitabine intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes once
           weekly for 6 weeks followed by 1 week of rest.

        -  Consolidation: After the 1 week of rest, patients receive gemcitabine IV once weekly for
           3 weeks. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 5 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm II (Gemcitabine with radiotherapy):

        -  Induction: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30-60 minutes once weekly for 6 weeks
           beginning on day 1. Patients also undergo concurrent radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5.5
           weeks beginning on day 1.

        -  Consolidation: Approximately 4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, patients receive
           gemcitabine IV over 30-60 minutes once weekly for 3 weeks. Treatment repeats every 4
           weeks for 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, week 6, week 15 (for arm II), week 16 (for arm I),
      and 9 months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year. Patients
      who receive treatment beyond 3 years are followed for survival.

      ACCRUAL: 74 patients were accrued for this study.
    
  