
    
      Study design: 400-patient single-center Quality Improvement Initiative in the form of a
      randomized controlled trial. The allocation ratio will be 1:1 for an EPIC Best Practice
      Advisory (BPA) on-screen alert versus no notification. Investigators will be assessing the
      impact of the EPIC BPA on echocardiographic screening for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary
      hypertension (CTEPH) and the diagnosis of CTEPH in the patients enrolled in this Quality
      Improvement Initiative. While investigators will randomize patients by Attending Physician of
      Record to minimize cluster-effect, the observational unit will be the patient.

      Type of control : The control group will have no electronic alert notification issued to the
      responsible provider.

      Number of subjects: 400 subjects will be enrolled with 200 subjects to be randomized to the
      alert group and 200 subjects to the control group in a 1:1 allocation ratio.

      Primary Efficacy Outcome: Frequency of echocardiographic screening for CTEPH in patients with
      prior pulmonary embolism (PE) and symptoms/signs suggestive of pulmonary hypertension or
      recent pulmonary testing suggesting unexplained respiratory symptoms at 3 months.
      Investigators will review the order entry and cardiology test results sections of the
      Electronic Health Record (EPIC) to make this determination.

      Secondary Efficacy Outcome: Frequency of CTEPH diagnosis at 3 months. The diagnosis of CTEPH
      will be confirmed by clinical notation in the EHR or a mean pulmonary-artery pressure greater
      than 25 mmHg that persists 6 months after PE diagnosis.

      Safety Outcomes: Because there is no reasonable expectation for adverse events or patient
      safety concerns with this Quality Improvement Initiative focused on increasing provider
      awareness about the risk of CTEPH and the indication for screening with echocardiography,
      investigators will not collect any safety outcomes or variables.

      Plan for statistical analysis: The primary statistical analysis will be the comparison of the
      frequency of echocardiographic screening for CTEPH in the alert group compared with the
      control (no alert) group. A secondary statistical analysis will be the comparison of the
      frequency of CTEPH diagnosis in the alert group compared with the control (no alert) group.
    
  