
    
      The Anaesthesilogist is Senior staff trained on such procedure.

        -  Pre-operative settings

        -  The study subjects will randomly assigned to 3 equal groups (TAP group, infiltration
           group and narcotics only group ) using a computer-generated table of random numbers. A
           single investigator will assess the patients for eligibility, obtained written informed
           consent, and record the baseline data for each participant before delivery. Sequentially
           numbered, sealed opaque envelopes containing group allocation will be opened by the
           primary investigator after administration of general anesthesia . Neither the study
           subjects nor the outcome assessors knew the study group

        -  Routine preoperative investigations will be done to all patients including laboratory
           investigations as (complete blood picture, liver function tests, prothrombin time and
           partial thromboplastin time).

        -  Demographic data as age, weight, will be recorded.

      All mothers who scheduled for elective cesarean delivery who fulfilled inclusion criteria and
      volunteer are assessed by:

      Postoperative pain by Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) pain score (range, 0-10; 0, no pain; 10,
      worst pain) on arrival in the post-labor ward (time 0) and at 2,4,6, 8, 12,18 and 24 hours
      postoperatively.

      The duration of block (defined as the interval between performing the block and the time of
      the first request for analgesia) and total pethidine consumption were recorded in the 24
      hours after surgery The level of patient satisfaction was measured numerically by a Likert
      scale ranging from one to five, 1: "not satisfied at all," 2: "slightly satisfied," 3:
      "moderately satisfied," 4: "very satisfied," and 5: "highly satisfied". Any adverse effects
      or complications will be recorded.

        -  Wide bore venous access will be secured by 18 G intravenous canula

        -  The procedure is done in the operating rooms (OR) under complete aseptic technique with
           prophylactic antibiotics (e.g. 2 gm ceftriaxone).

      Intra-operative Setting

        -  The patient will be monitored during the procedure using pulse oximetry, non-invasive
           blood pressure & ECG and capnography

        -  Patients receive General anesthesia induction by propofol (2mg/kg),Rocuronium(0.5mg /kg)
           for rapid sequence intubation& Fentanyl (1 mcg /kg)

        -  Maintenance with rocuronium & isoflurane 1.2%

        -  Equipment's that will be used for each patient are:

        -  Sterile towels, sponges, 4-inch gauze packs and povidone iodine 10% for sterilization

        -  Sterile gloves, marking pen, 18-gauge cannula and 10-ml syringes containing drugs for
           administration of the procedure.Ultrasound device with Linear probe with high frequency
           (6 -13 MHz) will be used in imaging of patient

        -  drugs that will be used In our study are: A 20 ml vial of 0.5% Bupivacaine HCl ,
           pethidine IV (50-150 mg)

        -  Lower segment cesarean section will be performed using the Pfannenstiel incision

        -  An anesthesiology resident will administer the general anesthesia, will record the
           intraoperative data (the duration of surgery), and prepared, as instructed by the
           primary investigator , the local anesthetic solution for the TAP block and wound
           infiltration. The outcome data (pethidine consumption, time to the first pethidine dose,
           pain scores level , side effects, and patient satisfaction) will be recorded by a blind
           investigator who will visite the patient in the ward at 2, 4, 6, 12, and 24 hours
           postoperatively.

      Group A: TAB group formed of 65 patients

        -  After completion of LSCS and skin closure and while the patient is still on the
           operating table U/S guided TAP block will be done using the following procedure:

        -  After preparing the skin with antiseptic solution, a linear high frequency ultrasound
           probe (Superficial probe of mindray DP-20) will be placed transversely on the
           anterolateral abdominal wall between the iliac crest and the costal margin. Under US
           guidance, the three layers of muscles -external oblique, the internal oblique, and the
           transversus abdominis will be identified. A Spinal needle 22g attached with flexible
           tubing to a syringe filled with saline will be used to perform the block. The needle
           will be then introduced through the skin anteriorly in the plane of the ultrasound beam
           and advanced into the fascial plane between the internal oblique and transversus
           abdominis muscles with its tip lying in the mid axillary line. To assist with
           identifying these structures, the probe will be moved anteriorly to the rectus sheath
           and the fascial planes followed laterally. The final position of the probe will to be no
           further anterior than the anterior axillary line. If satisfactory views are not
           obtained, the TAP block will not be performed. Hydro dissection with saline (2-5 ml)
           will be used to separate the fascial layers. After aspiration to exclude inadvertent
           vascular puncture, a test dose of 1-2 ml of the drug will be injected to confirm needle
           placement. After a negative test dose, 20 ml of the 0.25% bupivacaine will be injected
           while closely observing for signs of toxicity e.g CVS toxicity which may be in form of
           early features e.g hypertension, tachycardia and ventricular arrhythmia or may be in
           form of late features e.g hypotension, bradycardia, heart block and decreased
           contractility and other toxic signs e.g tinnitus, perioral numbness, metallic taste in
           mouth, slurring of speech and mental status changes). TAP block will be performed in a
           similar fashion on the opposite side.

      Group B : The Infiltration Group formed of 65 patients.

      • This group will B wills provided with single-shot local anesthetic wound infiltration with
      20 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine injected subcutaneously above and below skin incision before
      closure of skin.

      Group C : Narcotics only group formed of 20 patients • routine analgesic was taken only
      without any intervention

      Post operative settings:

        -  At the end of the surgery and complete recovery from anesthesia, the patient will be
           kept under observation postoperatively for 4 hours to monitor vital signs (conscious
           level, blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate and pattern & any possible limb
           weakness or abnormal sensation) then discharged to ward & observed to be followed for
           returning of pain.

        -  Duration of surgery (time from the start of skin incision to the end of skin closure)
           will be recorded. All the study subjects will receive postoperative standard analgesia
           (30 mg of IV ketorolac every 8 hours starting immediately after surgery and 1 gm of oral
           paracetamol every 6 hours starting 4 hours after surgery with caution to toxic dose) .

        -  The patients will be observed for the occurrence of any adverse effect and/or
           complication related to the procedure (e.g. hematoma), or to the study drugs (e.g.
           hypotension/hypertension (i.e. 20% decrease or increase from the baseline value),
           bradycardia (HR <50 beats/min) or tachycardia (HR > 120 beats/min), nausea, vomiting,
           and hypoxemia (SpO2 <90%)).

        -  Assessment of pain involves asking a patient to rate her pain from 0 to 10 (11 point
           scale) with the understanding that 0 is equal to no pain and 10 equal to the worst
           possible pain after first hour, 2nd hour,4th hour, 6th hour, 12th hour and 24th hour at
           wards after end of surgery.

      Pain is usually managed by pethidine IV based on patient complain. the analgesic dose of
      pethidine will be 50 mg to be repeated on demand (NRS >4) provided that the total 24 hour
      dosage will not exceed 150 mg . At recovery room mothers asked to report their pain based on
      11 point NRS score during first 24 hour. Patient satisfaction from postoperative analgesia
      will be assessed at 24 hours postoperatively using a 5-point scale (1 = very unsatisfied, 2 =
      unsatisfied, 3 = fair, 4 = satisfied,and 5 = very satisfied) after first hour, 2nd hour,4th
      hour, 6th hour, 12th hour and 24th hour at wards after end of surgery.

      • A time in minutes from end of surgery to first analgesia request were documented together
      with total analgesia consumed in the first 24 h. In addition, incidence of postoperative
      nausea and vomiting will be documented within 24 h.
    
  