
    
      Over 900,000 abortion procedures are performed annually in the United States [1]. For many
      women, pain relief during abortion is inadequate despite the use of non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs, local anesthetics, opioids, and/or moderate sedation. Research on
      pain control during abortion has focused on methods for relief during first-trimester suction
      curettage with little research dedicated to pain during dilation and evacuation (D&E).
      Gabapentin (Neurontin) has emerged as an effective adjunct to pain management for a variety
      of surgical procedures. Gabapentin is inexpensive and is also effective in reducing anxiety,
      nausea, and vomiting. The addition of pre-operative gabapentin to moderate sedation during
      D&E may lead to increased patient satisfaction and pain relief without significantly
      increasing risk or cost.

      Proposed Research. The investigators propose a randomized controlled double-blinded trial
      evaluating the use of adjunct gabapentin versus placebo in addition to moderate sedation
      during D&E. The investigators hypothesize that 600 mg oral gabapentin administered
      pre-operatively at the time of cervical preparation initiation will improve intra-operative
      pain control. The investigators also hypothesize that it will improve pre- and post-operative
      pain, anxiety, nausea, vomiting, and overall satisfaction with pain management during D&E.
      The investigators hypothesize that the doses of moderate sedation agents required to obtain
      adequate sedation will be decreased if participants receive gabapentin, versus placebo. The
      investigators also plan to compare the risk of adverse events with adjunct gabapentin versus
      placebo with moderate sedation.

      To test the hypotheses the investigators plan to enroll 130 participants who will be
      randomized 1 to 1 to receive either 600 mg gabapentin or placebo at the initiation of
      cervical preparation. Baseline characteristics will be recorded. Pain will be assessed
      pre-operatively, at 3 intraoperative time points, and postoperatively by 100 mm visual analog
      scale (VAS). The investigators plan to assess satisfaction with pain control, nausea,
      vomiting, and anxiety preoperatively and post-operatively, using 5-point Likert scales and
      the State Trait Anxiety Inventory, respectively. A final assessment will be made by phone on
      post-operative day one to evaluate overall satisfaction and perform a final screen for
      adverse events.

      New features. No publications have evaluated the use of gabapentin during abortion care,
      although multiple studies are currently underway investigating gabapentin's effects during
      first trimester abortion and during overnight cervical osmotic dilators. To the investigators
      knowledge, this will be the first evaluation of gabapentin in conjunction with moderate
      sedation for pain relief during same-day second trimester abortion.
    
  