
    
      More than 90 % of paediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), treated on
      the Nordic Society of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology (NOPHO) ALL-2008 protocol, are alive
      five years after diagnosis. The main reason for treatment failure being relapse.

      The risk of relapse after treatment for ALL is highest within the first two years after
      cessation of maintenance therapy. Therefore, it has been routine in most countries to
      follow-up patients in the outpatient clinic every one or two months during the first years
      after end of therapy for ALL in order to detect recurrence and possible late sequelae at an
      early stage.

      In children with ALL there are only a few studies on the value of routine follow-up,
      including haematological status after cessation of maintenance therapy. These studies showed
      that approximately 90% of the relapses were diagnosed in children with symptoms of leukaemia
      progression and that routine blood tests and clinical follow-ups were of little value. It is
      well known that there are other issues besides the risk of relapse, which are relevant for
      families after cessation of ALL therapy i.e. risk of late effects of treatment, psychosocial
      problems related to the child's return to "normal" life etc. These issues will also have an
      impact upon how the follow-up programs are planned. The investigators will study the family
      perspectives on follow-up during the first 5-years after cessation of maintenance therapy in
      a Danish cohort of children treated according to the NOPHO ALL-2008 protocol.

      The investigators will conduct a cross-sectional study. Outcomes are patient-reported as the
      measurement instrument used is questionnaires. Eligible families are families with children
      diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in Denmark and being in the period 0-5 years
      after cessation of maintenance therapy.
    
  