
    
      Computed Tomography (CT) is a non-invasive imaging tool, used for a great variety of
      indications. Contrast media (CM) is used to enhance vascular structures and organ parenchyma.
      The visibility of liver lesions depends mainly on the ratio between the size and the
      difference of the lesion to the background. A large lesion might be visible without
      administration of CM, whilst a smaller lesion needs the addition of CM to become visible.
      Additionally, CM can be useful in the characterization of liver lesions. Heiken et al. (1995)
      found that an attenuation of the parenchyma after CM administration of at least ∆ 50
      Hounsfield units (HU) compared to an unenhanced scan (in the same patient) is necessary to
      recognize liver lesions. This study proposed a dosing factor of 0.521 g I/kg to be necessary
      to reach such attenuation at a tube voltage of 120 kV [1].

      The parenchymal enhancement depends on patient, CT scanner and CM factors. Weight, height,
      cardiac output, age, gender, venous access, breath-holding, renal function and comorbidity
      all fall under patient factors [8]. Recently much research showed preferable outcomes for
      individualized CM injection protocols, in which the contrast bolus is adapted to patient TBW,
      LBW or body surface area (BSA) [6, 7, 9, 13-15]. In a recent feasibility study in the
      department of the investigators, the attenuation of the liver parenchyma was evaluated.
      Results showed that a body weight adapted CM injection protocol resulted in more homogeneous
      liver enhancement compared to a fixed CM dose (not published yet).

      With recent technological developments in X-ray tube technology it became possible to use
      lower tube voltages. As a result making it possible to perform scans with a sufficient image
      quality (IQ) and a low tube voltage and therefore a lower radiation dose [10]. Another
      advantage lies in the fact that reducing the tube voltage, approaching 33 keV k-edge of
      iodine, results in an increase in attenuation of the iodine. The new technological
      developments make it possible to reduce the radiation dose and CM volume at the same time. So
      reducing the tube voltage, makes it also possible to reduce the CM volume.

      As recommended by the supplier, it is possible to calculate the total iodine load (TIL) that
      can be spared with the use of lower kV settings [16]. A reduction of 10 kV should result in a
      10% reduction in CM volume. Reducing the tube voltage from 120 to 90 kV should therefore lead
      to a 30% reduction in CM volume. As mentioned before it is preferred to use an individualized
      CM injection protocol based on TBW or LBW. For this study, this theory is adapted to the
      concept of TBW. The following indicates which dosing factors should be used for each kV
      setting, based on the recommendations mentioned in the above.

      120 kV -> 0.521 g I/kg 110 kV -> 0.469 g I/kg 100 kV -> 0.417 g I/kg 90 kV -> 0.365 g I/kg 80
      kV -> 0.313 g I/kg 70 kV -> 0.261 g I/kg

      The aim of present study is to investigate if adapting the dosing factor based on TBW and
      therefore the CM volume to the tube voltage used, results in a more homogeneous liver
      enhancement. The hypothesis is to find a more homogeneous enhancement between patients and in
      the same patient, regardless of body composition and tube voltage used.
    
  