
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) is a disorder resulting from a non-progressive lesion in the brain during
      pregnancy or early childhood. Children with CP show impaired movement patterns compared to
      typically developing (TD) children. One of the main factors limiting movement in children
      with CP is a reduced range of motion (ROM), which can be caused by a combination of neural
      and mechanical factors. Mechanical factors contributing to a reduced ROM are increased
      muscle/fascicle stiffness, reduced muscle length and changes in intramuscular tissue
      properties, all of which contribute to contractures.

      Contractures are conservatively treated with stretching therapies, e.g., casting, night
      splints and physical therapy. However, they are very demanding for both children and parents,
      especially physical therapy which is painful and time-consuming. Therefore, when recommending
      stretching therapies, we need to assure they are efficacious. However, recent reviews show
      that the outcomes of stretching therapies in children with CP are highly variable.

      Stretching interventions aim to improve ROM motion by increasing the overall length and/or
      lengthening properties of the muscle. To successfully achieve these adaptations, the muscle
      must experience adequate tensile stimulus during the intervention. However, it has been shown
      by previous studies examining muscle behaviour during stretch, that the muscle and fascicles
      in children with CP lengthen less than in TD children. Our own studies have confirmed this
      observations at the muscle, but also shown that the tendon in children with CP lengthens more
      during a stretch, than in TD children. These observations indicate that the higher stiffness
      of the target muscle relative to the in series tendon prevents the muscle fibres to
      experience a sufficiently large stretching stimulus, and the adaptations are small.
      Accordingly, in a recent study on long term stretching interventions it has been shown that
      muscle and fascicle strain increase, but no changes in the muscle's resting length or
      functional improvements have been found.

      If you were to increase the stiffness of the tendon relative to the muscle prior to the
      stretching intervention, a greater stretching stimulus could be provided to the muscle. This
      would mean that for any given joint stretch the muscle will experience a greater portion of
      the stretch. It is well established in healthy adults and children that the stiffness of the
      tendon increases following resistance training. Given that well-designed resistance training
      is effective and safe for children with CP, the same increased tendon stiffness should follow
      gains in muscle strength in this group too. It is therefore hypothesise that a combined
      strengthening-stretching intervention would stiffen the tendon, increase the amount of
      stretch seen by the muscle, and thereby improve the effectiveness of stretching
      interventions.
    
  