
    
      The specific study aims are described below:

        1. Organize the Design, Evaluation, and Implementation Teams: The development of ARemind
           will be guided by design, evaluation and implementation teams. The design team will
           build the software architecture and execute the software development with inputs from
           the user studies. The evaluation team will prepare the institutional review board (IRB)
           submissions, develop the qualitative instruments, and analyze the qualitative and
           quantitative data. The implementation team will guide clinical and commercial design
           aspects including input on the remote adherence assessments, the intervention and clinic
           appointment modules, and the commercialization plan.

        2. Run first user study as a qualitative assessment of patient and provider preferences of
           ARemind: A web-based adherence report for providers will be developed. Software modules
           to assess adherence over the phone through 4-day SMS or IVR recalls will be created
           along with a protocol for performing phone-based unannounced pill counts. The interfaces
           will be tested as a part of in-depth qualitative semi-structured interviews with 15
           providers and 15 patients to guide the system design.

        3. Study the content preferences through a second user study: A new version of ARemind
           (version 2.0) will be built based on the feedback from the first user study. It will
           include the three remote adherence assessment modules. It will be tested longitudinally
           for 3 weeks on 15 patients with HIV/AIDS. The patients will use Medication Event
           Monitoring System (MEMS) software, in the form of MEMS caps, and have weekly clinic
           visits with adherence counselors who will generate a composite adherence score at each
           visit. MEMS caps are electronic devices attached to a pill bottle which detect and
           record the time at which the bottles are opened and closed, using this as an estimate
           for the number of pills taken. These will be compared to the adherence scores from the
           remote adherence assessment modules. The patients will give qualitative feedback at each
           visit on the reminder messages to guide the design of content resistant to user fatigue.

        4. Explore the feasibility of ARemind through a third user study: An intervention module
           with an analytics engine will be built. It will personalize reminder messages based on
           adherence levels and facilitate patient phone calls with social workers/adherence
           counselors when appropriate. A clinic appointment reminder module will be created and
           interfaced with the health information exchange of Boston Medical Center (BMC). A new
           version of ARemind (version 3.0) will contain these new modules and content improved
           based upon the second study. ARemind 3.0 will be tested through a 24-week longitudinal
           study of 70 patients. Thirty five patients will be randomized to use cell phones with
           ARemind 3.0 (intervention) while 35 patients will use beepers (control). Patients will
           use MEMS caps for composite adherence scores that will be done at each of their 9
           adherence visits during the study. Analysis of feasibility, efficacy, user-fatigue and
           cost-savings from improved adherence to medications and clinic appointments will be
           performed in this aim.

      NOTE: OF THESE THREE USER STUDIES, THE FIRST TWO ARE CONSIDERED FEASIBILITY STUDIES WHILE THE
      LAST IS A MORE LONGITUDINAL CLINICAL STUDY. THIS REGISTRATION IN CLINICALTRIALS.GOV DEALS
      WITH THE THIRD USER STUDY, WHICH IS THE LONGEST, INVOLVES THE MOST PARTICIPANTS, AND
      DEMONSTRATES THE HIGHEST NUMBER OF INTERVENTIONS.
    
  