
    
      1. Objective of the project: To evaluate the efficacy of prazosin on the reduction of
           craving in alcohol and cocaine dependent individuals. The investigators hypothesize that
           prazosin will be more effective than placebo in the reduction of craving that is
           stimulated by exposure to visual cues or to intolerance to stress in individuals
           dependent on cocaine and in individuals dependent on alcohol.

           Specifically, the investigators hypothesize that in this laboratory study:

             -  Subjects in the prazosin condition will report a reduction in craving induced in
                the laboratory by exposure to visual cues compared to subjects in the placebo
                condition.

             -  Subjects in the prazosin condition will show less reaction of the noradrenergic
                system when craving is induced in the laboratory by exposure to visual cues
                compared to subjects in the placebo condition.

             -  Subjects will be less likely to relapse to their drug of choice while they are in
                the prazosin condition compared to when they are in the placebo condition. Most
                individuals who are able to achieve sobriety in chemical dependency treatment
                eventually relapse. Until the investigators can prevent the cravings for drugs,
                which usually precedes relapse, it is unlikely that the investigators will have
                more effective treatment for drug addiction. Our final hypothesis is that the
                alpha-1, adrenergic antagonist, prazosin, will prove to be an effective
                pharmacological agent for treatment of drug dependency.

        2. Research plan study design: The proposed study will be a double-blind,
           placebo-controlled, crossover study of prazosin in subjects who are either dependent on
           alcohol or on cocaine, and who have been able to achieve one month of sobriety while in
           intensive outpatient treatment. The double-blind, crossover protocol will last 8 weeks
           and will include 32 subjects; 16 of whom are alcohol-dependent, and 16 of whom are
           cocaine-dependent. The focus of this first study will be on subjective and physiological
           measures of craving that will be induced in a controlled setting by exposure to visual
           cues.

        3. Methodology Setting: This study will occur in room 6A-107 in Building 1 at the Veterans
           Administration Puget Sound Health Care System in Seattle. This is a soundproof room
           specifically designed and constructed for studies of this type. Participants: 16
           alcohol-dependent adults and 16 cocaine-dependent adults presenting for chemical
           dependency treatment at the VA Puget Sound Health Care System (VAPSHCS) Addiction
           Treatment Center. Study Procedures: Once potential subjects have provided their consent
           to participate in the study, they will undergo a 2 hour baseline assessment that
           consists of some pencil and paper questionnaires, providing a medical and psychiatric
           history, and a physical exam. They will provide blood for some basic screening labs to
           insure they are healthy enough to proceed with the study, and have their baseline vital
           signs measured. Veterans who are screened for the study will then be enrolled once their
           lab results and the screening process have determined that they do not meet any medical
           exclusion criteria. At that point, participants will be randomized to either the study
           medication or placebo. During the course of the study, participants continue with their
           outpatient chemical dependency treatment through the Addiction Treatment Center at the
           VA Puget Sound. During the eight weeks of the study, participants will have weekly
           orthostatic vital sign and adverse events monitoring by the study nurse or physician.
           All serious or unexpected adverse events will be reported to the FDA and UW Human
           Subjects Committee in accordance with requirements. Participants will also provide
           self-reports of drug or alcohol use and urine drug analysis specimens at these weekly
           visits. At the end of week 4, each participant will be tested in a 1 hour craving
           session in room 6A-107 at VA Puget Sound. Subjects will have their heart rate and skin
           conductance response continuously measured, and have their blood pressure measured every
           5 minutes. They will be shown 5 1-minute films, 3 of which are designed to be neutral
           and 2 of which are designed to provoke craving for their drug of choice. They will be
           asked to complete a subjective scale of craving prior to each video and after the last
           video. Participants will not be permitted to leave the craving lab after the last film,
           until they feel that they have subjectively returned to a level of normal physiological
           arousal and are no longer experiencing any craving.

        4. Findings: No findings to date.
    
  