
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In Cambodia, progress in combatting malnutrition has stalled. In 2010, 40% of all children
      under five (and 49% of 4-5 year-olds) were stunted, 11% were wasted, and 28% were
      underweight, indicating, respectively, chronic and acute malnutrition, and a combination of
      the two. Stunting is partially attributed to poor complementary feeding, which remains
      inadequate for achieving growth outcomes and micronutrient status.

      Malnutrition can be prevented with supplementary foods. These foods usually contain a source
      of protein and lipids such as powered milk, soy or peanuts, and multiple micronutrients. They
      can be prepared as a fortified blended product, such as Corn-Soy Blend++ (CSB++), that is
      mixed with water to make a porridge, or ready-to-use supplementary foods (RUSFs). The latter
      are usually lipid-based nutrient supplements (LNSs) which are often pastes such as the
      peanut-based Plumpy'Nut™. These energy-dense supplementary foods contain both macro and
      micronutrients and are used to prevent and treat moderate acute malnutrition by promoting
      improved linear growth, weight gain and micronutrient status among children. Until recently,
      treatment of moderate acute malnutrition has relied on fortified blended products. The new
      RUSFs are also proving effective, as they are higher energy and have a longer shelf life, and
      since they require no preparation, are convenient. Another common nutrition intervention is
      multiple micronutrient supplements such as Sprinkles. These are individually-packed powders
      that can be added to food. However, micronutrients are more likely to achieve growth outcomes
      when they are combined with energy, for example, in lipid-based nutrient supplements and
      there is no evidence that micronutrient powders alone contribute to growth.

      Until June 2014, the United Nations World Food Program (WFP) used CSB++ (now called
      Supercereal Plus) to treat and prevent moderate acute malnutrition in Cambodia. Sprinkles are
      also being distributed, though not widely, to prevent micronutrient deficiencies. These
      products that have been recently or are currently used are relatively expensive to procure
      and ship to Cambodia and in the case of Sprinkles, are not as effective as foods that contain
      macronutrients. Moreover, CSB++ was not very well accepted in practice, and WFP has phased it
      out. Therefore, UNICEF and the Cambodian Ministry of Health are looking for a
      locally-produced product containing macro and micronutrients to prevent growth faltering and
      improve micronutrient status in Cambodian children.

      TRIAL DESIGN AND METHODOLOGY:

      Therefore, this trial will evaluate the efficacy of the LNS on children aged 6-17 months in
      preventing growth faltering and improving micronutrient statu. The impact of product will be
      compared to CSB++, Sprinkles, and to a control group.

      The trial is a prospective, cluster randomised, non-blinded controlled trial among infants
      6-17 months of age. The trial aims to establish the superiority of the novel LNS, using CSB++
      and Sprinkles as active comparators and the unimproved diet as a control. The allocation
      ratio is 1:1. The study will take place over 8 months.

      The study will be conducted in 28 sites in peri-urban Phnom Penh. Infants aged 6-12 months
      will be recruited. Upon consent and enrolment, baseline data will be collected from the
      participants. This will include demographics, morbidity, anthropometry (weight, height,
      mid-upper arm circumference, skinfolds), haematological and stool samples, dietary data
      (breastfeeding, food frequency and dietary diversity). Data will be collected monthly, and
      haematological samples will be collected again at endline.

      Participants will then be provided with a one month supply of the food to which their site
      has been allocated. Staff will explain how to prepare the food, how often it should be
      consumed, and who should consume it (i.e. subjects). Participants will be provided with food
      on a monthly basis. They will continue to consume the food over a six-month period, at which
      time endline data, including haematological samples, will be collected.
    
  