
    
      In contrast to allo-transplantation in type 1 diabetes patients, where immunological
      mechanisms involving allo- and auto-antibodies affect long-term graft function, outcome in
      IAT (Islet Auto-Transplantation) is independent from immunological processes and does not
      require immunosuppression management. On the other hand, early inflammatory events intrinsic
      to the intra-portal islet infusion have been demonstrated to impact islet engraftment. Among
      possible mechanisms, PMNs have been found to be the predominant cell types infiltrating the
      liver in a syngeneic model of islet transplantation in mice.

      Data obtained in experimental models of islet transplantation in mice demonstrate a clear
      effect of reparixin in improving graft survival and function. Protection from the loss and/or
      deterioration of transplanted islets was evident regardless of the immunological mechanisms
      involved in islet damage, suggesting that the ability of reparixin to modulate early
      inflammatory responses readily impact graft outcome.

      Thus, the use of reparixin may emerge as a potential useful medication in the control of non
      specific inflammatory events surrounding the early phases of IAT.

      The goal of this study is to reach a total of 100 adult patients who are randomized and
      receive IAT after total or completion pancreatectomy. Patients will be randomly (1:1)
      assigned to receive either reparixin [continuous i.v. infusion for 7 days (168hrs)], or
      matched placebo (control group),starting approximately 12hrs before islet infusion. The two
      groups will be balanced within each centre. All patients who are randomized and receive the
      Investigational Product (either reparixin or placebo) will be included in the ITT analysis.
      Patients will be in the ITT analysis whether or not they receive IAT, because exclusions
      cannot be made for events occurring after randomization that could be influenced by the
      randomized assignment.

      Recruitment will be competitive among the study sites, until the planned number of patients
      is enrolled. Competitive recruitment has been chosen to increase the speed of recruitment and
      to account for any difference in transplant rate among study sites. Each centre will enroll
      patients as rapidly as possible, up to a maximum of 40 patients (as per the randomization
      list). A maximum of 48 patients is allowed for the site of the Primary Investigator.

      Each patient will be involved in the study for 7 day hospital stay during pancreatectomy
      followed by islet transplantation, for all required measurements up to hospital discharge and
      for 2 post-transplant visits scheduled @ day 75+14 and 365+14 after the transplant.
    
  