
    
      Joint mobilizations are reported to increase range of motion (ROM), postural control and
      proprioception, and decrease pain in individuals with CAI. However, there is no research
      comparing the effects of mobilization with movement (MWM) versus thrust mobilization (TM)
      directed at the talocrural joint on functional performance in this population.

      Inclusion and exclusion criterion have been established utilizing the International Ankle
      Consortium guidelines. Using a convenience sampling, participants will be randomized into the
      MWM or TM group.

      The MWM group will receive manual therapy with the following protocol: the participant will
      be relaxed and standing in a staggered stance with the involved foot on an eight inch step
      and both feet facing forward . The clinician will be positioned in front of the participant's
      leg and a non-elastic belt will be placed around the distal leg of the participant and the
      clinician's pelvis. The clinician will then apply a sustained posteroanterior glide to the
      tibia through the belt by leaning backwards, while stabilizing the fixed talus and forefoot
      with both hands. The participant will perform a slow lunge until the end range of motion
      without their heel lifting off the ground. The belt will be kept perpendicular to the tibia
      throughout the movement and 2 sets of 10 repetitions will be applied.

      The talocrural joint TM will be a high velocity low amplitude manual therapy technique. This
      technique will be applied with the participant in the supine position on a plinth. The
      clinician grasps the foot with one hand with the fifth finger contacting the anterior surface
      of the ankle at the talus. The other hand reinforces the contact points and both thumbs are
      placed on the sole of the participant's foot. The clinician gives slight caudal traction
      focused on the talocrural joint with the ankle dorsiflexed and everted. The therapist then
      applies a high-velocity thrust distraction technique to the talocrural joint. Only one thrust
      will be applied and no audible cavitation is required. Each manual therapy technique will be
      performed once.

      An examiner, who is blinded to involved limb and group allocation, will perform a baseline,
      immediate follow-up, and one-week follow-up examination of range of motion and functional
      performance. The participants will complete subjective outcome measures at baseline,
      immediately post intervention, and at 1 week post intervention including the Foot and Ankle
      Ability Measurement (FAAM), FAAM-Sport, and the Cumberland Ankle Instability Tool (CAIT).
      Participants will also complete baseline, immediate follow-up, and one-week follow up
      assessments of the Multiple Hop Test (MHT), three directions of the Star Excursion Balance
      test (SEBT), and weight bearing lunge test (WBLT).

      Data analysis will be performed using International Business Machines Statistical Package for
      the Social Sciences (SPSS). Alpha level will be set p<0.05. Expecting to utilize separate 2 x
      2 repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) to assess changes in the FAAM, FAAM-Sport,
      CAIT, MHT, WBLT, and three directions of the SEBT.
    
  