
    
      This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining the
      Personalized Neoantigen Vaccine (NeoVax) in patients diagnosed with follicular lymphoma. The
      FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the Personalized Neoantigen
      Vaccine as a treatment for any disease.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if it is possible to make and safely administer a
      vaccine against FL by using information gained from specific genetic characteristics of the
      participant own FL. The investigators plan to analyze the specific genetic characteristics of
      the participant own FL (mutations) and use that information to produce proteins that may help
      the participant's immune system recognize and fight FL cells.

      This vaccine is also being tested in clinical trials in patients with advanced melanoma (a
      type of skin cancer) or glioblastoma (a type of brain cancer). The current study will examine
      the ability of the vaccine to stimulate the participant's immune system when given at several
      different timepoints, and will examine the participant's blood cells for signs that the FL
      has changed or decreased.

      FL cells will be obtained from lymph node biopsy, blood draws or effusion. The genetic
      material contained in the FL cells will be examined for the presence of tumor-specific
      mutations. This information will be used to prepare small protein fragments, which are called
      "peptides." The vaccine will consist of up to 20 of these peptides as well as a drug called
      Poly-ICLC. A peptide from the tetanus vaccine will also be included to boost the immune
      response.

      Poly-ICLC (also called Hiltonol) is an experimental "viral mimic" and an activator of
      immunity. Poly-ICLC binds proteins on the surface of certain immune cells to make it appear
      as if a virus is present. When the cells detect the vaccine, they think it is a virus and
      turn on the immune system. Poly-ICLC will be mixed with NeoAntigen peptides and administered
      as an injection given underneath the skin. Poly-ICLC is an investigational drug, meaning the
      FDA has not approved it as a treatment for any disease.
    
  