
    
      In frail elderly people with existing sarcopenia, muscle mass, muscle strength and muscle
      function during immobility after lower limb fractures are impaired and affect their
      functional abilities to achieve activities of daily living. To reverse these consequences,
      limited intervention studies show that resistance exercise training and protein supplement at
      least partly reverses sarcopenia. However, guidelines do not currently advise specific
      protein supplementation as a treatment to prevent or reverse sarcopenia. Additionally, these
      exercises are difficult to perform in adequate intensity when patients are ill, tired, or in
      pain and these same factors may reduce appetite. In this study, the investigators aim to
      evaluate the effect of neuromuscular electrical stimulation with and without a high protein
      oral nutritional supplement.

      Methods:

      In this study, the investigators will use feasibility RCT design to determine whether it is
      justifiable to conduct a large-scale clinical trial of neuromuscular electrical stimulation
      with or without additional protein supplementation in hospitalised patients who are
      temporarily immobilised following a fragility fracture. Muscle thickness, muscle strength,
      patients' mobility and self-care will be assessed at baseline and after 6-wk trial duration
      or until patients discharged from hospital. Outcomes will include participants' recruitment
      rate, tolerability and accessibility and their characteristics.

      Discussion This study addresses the effects of neuromuscular electrical stimulation with or
      without high protein supplements on mobility, self-care, muscle mass and strength in immobile
      older people with frailty after lower limb fracture. The information from this study may
      justify a large-scale clinical trial of using electrical stimulation with or without high
      protein supplement.
    
  