
    
      The study will be conducted in 2 Primary Care Centers (PCC) from Tarragona and Reus of the
      Catalunya Sexual and Reproductive Healthcare Service [Atención a la Salud Sexual y
      Reproductiva (ASSIR)] of the Catalan Institute of Health [Instituto Catalán de la Salud
      (ICS)]. The specialist health-care workers include gynecologists and midwives. The
      participating reproductive health-care services (RHS) provide cover for urban, suburban, and
      rural PCCs.

      The clinical follow-up of the pregnancy in the PCC will be according to the program set by
      RHS. This includes a clinical visit at recruitment into the present study, a visit every
      trimester, and one at 40 days post-partum.

      In the recruitment visit before week 12 of the pregnancy, the inclusion criteria will be
      assessed (except the Hb levels and the number of fetuses) as well as the exclusion criteria.
      Informed consent will be solicited. A clinical history will be recorded, which include date
      of birth, socioeconomic status, parity, date of last menstruation, corrected date of last
      menstruation, estimated date of partum, risk factors during pregnancy, pregnancy planning,
      previous use of contraceptives, clinical antecedents, surgery and personal obstetric data,
      toxic habits, blood pressure, height, weight of the mother (self-reported at the recruitment
      visit and measured objectively at each clinical follow-up visit). Similar data from the
      father will be solicited.

      Moreover, a questionnaire regarding the ingestion of iron supplements, multi-vitamins, or
      other treatments and, if a smoker, the Fagerstrom test for tobacco dependency. A blood sample
      for standard biochemical analyses (including hemoglobin) will be sent for processing in the
      centralized laboratory.

      At visit 1, around the 12th week of gestation, Hb levels will be evaluated as will be the
      number of fetuses (using echography) to confirm that the inclusion criteria are fulfilled. If
      fulfilled, the individuals will be retained in the study and, if not, will be transferred out
      of the study, and considered a screening failure. The remaining women will be assigned to
      Stratum 1 or Stratum 2 of the study and will be randomized with respect to iron supplement
      prescription. Clinical history will be taken, including the use of multi-vitamins and iron
      supplements and the questionnaires filled-in about food consumption, physical activity,
      anxiety status and tobacco dependency. ). A physical examination will be performed to measure
      weight and blood pressure. The ultrasound data on the fetus will be recorded to assess Crown
      Rump Length (CRL). A physical examination will be performed to measure weight and blood
      pressure. Venous blood will be taken for analyses, the results of which will be reviewed in
      the next clinical visit. The iron supplementation that will be needed at the next visit will
      be prepared for distribution. Adverse events occurring since the previous visit will be
      recorded.

      At visit 2, around week 24 of gestation, clinical history will be taken, and will include
      questionnaire about use of multi-vitamins and iron supplements which, from this visit
      onwards, includes the adherence to the iron supplementation prescribed. The questionnaires
      about food consumption, physical activity, anxiety status and tobacco dependency are
      filled-in. A physical examination will be performed to measure weight and blood pressure. The
      fetal ultrasound data will be registered to assess status of fetus and estimated fetal
      weight. The biochemical analyses/results will be reviewed and a further blood sample taken
      for analysis, the results of which will be reviewed at the next clinical visit. The iron
      supplementation that will be needed at the next visit will be prepared for distribution.
      Adverse events occurring since the previous visit will be recorded.

      At visit 3, around week 36 of gestation, the clinical history will be taken, the
      questionnaire about use of multi-vitamins and iron supplements as well as the questionnaires
      about food consumption, physical activity, anxiety status and tobacco dependency will be
      filled-in. A physical examination will be performed to measure weight and blood pressure. The
      fetal ultrasound data will be recorded to assess status of fetus and estimated fetal weight
      and the biochemical results will be evaluated. A further blood sample will be taken for
      analyses, the results of which will be discussed at the next clinical visit. The iron
      supplementation that will be needed at the next visit will be prepared for distribution.
      Adverse events occurring since the previous visit will be recorded.

      At visit 4 (40 days post-partum), the clinical history will be taken, the questionnaire about
      use of multi-vitamins and iron supplements as well as the questionnaires about food
      consumption, physical activity, anxiety status and tobacco dependency will be filled-in. A
      questionnaire on post-partum depression and the Parenting Stress Index will be applied. The
      standard laboratory analyses results will be discussed. A further blood sample will be taken
      for analyses. Data on birth (type of delivery) and the newborn will be recorded (weight and
      height). Clinical history of the baby will be recorded, including: gender, status of newborn,
      Apgar score, anthropometric data (weight, height, head circumference), breastfeeding and
      levels of vitamin D. Cognitive development will be assessed, as well as behavioral and
      temperament. Adverse events occurring since the previous visit will be recorded.

      Sample size:

      To achieve the study's main objective, sample size is calculated in accordance with the
      following parameters: an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk of 0.20 in a two tailed test of
      comparison. A drop-out rate or lack of data of 35% is factored-in.

      To calculate the sample size, previous data from the research group of investigators were
      consulted (Aranda, 2011, Hernández-Martínez, 2011, Ribot, 2012). A prevalence of 23.5% of
      iron deficiency anemia was observed in the 3rd trimester in pregnant women with Hb levels of
      110-130 g/L in the first trimester and a prevalence of risk of hemoconcentration of 14.7% in
      the 3rd trimester of pregnant women who started pregnancy with Hb levels of 130-150 g/L.

        -  In Stratum 1, to reduce the frequency of anemia ferropenic from 23.5% to 11.5% in the
           intervention group supplemented with 80mg/day of iron with respect to the group
           supplemented with 40mg/day, will be necessary to include 236 women in each group

        -  In Stratum 2, to reduce the frequency of hemocontration from 14.7% to 2.7% in the
           intervention group supplemented with 20mg/day of iron with respect to the group
           supplemented with 40mg/day, will be necessary to include 116 women in each group

      Intervention assignment: Allocation

      The pregnant women are assigned to Stratum 1 or Stratum 2 as a function of the hemoglobin
      values in the baseline analysis of the study. They are, then, randomly assigned to 2
      treatment groups to receive different iron supplements.

      Stratum 1: If Hb from 110 to 130 g/L, randomly assigned at week 12 to receive iron supplement
      of 40 or 80 mg/d.

      Stratum 2: If Hb >130 g/L, randomly assigned at week 12 to receive iron supplement of 40 or
      20 mg/d.

      The randomization is performed using centralized computer software, which is automatic and
      masked and applies to the electronic data collection forms, as well. The procedure for
      randomization is independent for each Stratum.

      Blinding The study will be triple blind: the participant, the health-care professional, and
      the statistician. The treatment drug will be administered "blind" i.e. the doses are not
      identifiable since the packaging has the same format, presentation, and visual
      characteristics. The laboratory of MEIJI TEDEC FARMA, SA will be responsible for
      manufacturing, packaging and labeling the study medications.

      Only MEIJI TEDEC FARMA, SA and the Clinical Pharmacology Service of the Vall d'Hebron
      Hospital in Barcelona will know the distribution codes and the composition of each of the
      treatments.

      There would be no need for un-blinding except if an unexpected serious adverse event occurs.
      In which case, the pharmaco-vigilance staff of TEDEC-MEIJI FARMA S.A. will take
      responsibility for un-blinding and communicating the adverse event to the appropriate health
      authorities. TEDEC-Meiji Farma SA will not reveal the treatment codes until the end of the
      trial, when these data and the documents generated will be made available to the Principal
      Investigator (VA) and the Promoter (Institut d'investigació en Atenció Primària, IDIAP, Jordi
      Gol i Gurina ).

      Statistical methods The description of the variables studied will be performed using
      conventional techniques. Variables with non-normal distribution will be transformed as
      necessary for normalization of distribution of values. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov and the
      Shapiro-Wilks test will be used to verify normality of distributions.

      Analysis of the primary outcome The effects of iron dose supplement in each RCT on the
      biochemical iron status and mother-child health will be compared using regression models
      adjusted for those variables that can influence the relationship. Logistic regression or Cox
      models will be applied for qualitative variables such as, for example, the percentage of
      anemia or hemoconcentration at the end of pregnancy. Linear multiple regression models will
      be applied for dependent quantitative variables. The models will be adjusted for those
      variables that biologically affect the relationships studied, such as the serum ferritin
      levels, presence of alterations in the HFE gene, age of the mother, gestational age, parity,
      anthropometric indices, diet, and lifestyle, and the interactions between these variables.
      Initially included in the model will be all those variables that form part of the theoretical
      model and, in a second phase, the variables for entry into the model will be selected step by
      step (forward and backward) to achieve the most reduced stable models.

      Conditions for the application of models will be verified using standard techniques that are
      based, essentially, on residuals analysis. The bilateral null hypothesis of normality, no
      difference, and non-significance of the regression coefficients, will be rejected when their

      Monitoring To ensure correct conduct and security of the RCT according to the requirements of
      good clinical practice, external services will be contracted to perform the tasks of
      monitoring of the participating centers according to the requirements of the Spanish Agency
      of Medicines and Health Products [Agencia Española de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios;
      AEMPS].
    
  