
    
      Background: Risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) is significantly elevated in patients with
      chronic kidney disease (CKD). Arterial dysfunction is an important nontraditional CV risk
      factor gaining increased recognition in the field of nephrology. While many changes likely
      contribute to the development of arterial dysfunction in patients with CKD, among those of
      greatest concern is the development of stiffening of the large elastic arteries. Caloric
      restriction (CR) is a promising strategy for prevention of CKD-associated arterial
      dysfunction and CVD; however, adherence to CR is poor and may be detrimental in CKD patients
      due to reduced skeletal muscle and bone mass. Therefore, identification of more practical
      interventions that mimic the beneficial effects of CR, with stronger adherence and less risk
      of adverse consequences, is of significant biomedical importance.

      Nicotinamide riboside is a naturally occurring precursor of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
      (NAD+), a critical mediator of the beneficial effects of CR, and therefore, a novel CR
      mimetic compound. We recently completed a study of nicotinamide riboside supplementation in
      healthy middle-age and older adults and demonstrated that 6 weeks of supplementation with
      nicotinamide riboside lowered carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (CFPWV), the gold-standard
      clinical measure of aortic stiffness and a strong independent predictor of CVD and related
      morbidity and mortality in patients with and without kidney disease. In addition, treatment
      with nicotinamide riboside decreased systolic blood pressure (SBP) by 8 mmHg compared with
      placebo.

      As a next translational step, we propose to conduct a randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blind, single site phase IIa clinical trial to further assess the safety and efficacy
      of oral nicotinamide riboside (3 months vs. placebo) for decreasing aortic stiffness and SBP
      in patients with stage III and IV CKD. We hypothesize that nicotinamide riboside will lower
      aortic stiffness and SBP and that these improvements will be related to increases in systemic
      NAD+ bioavailability, selective influences on vascular smooth muscle tone, and reductions in
      markers of systemic oxidative stress and/or inflammation.

      Primary Outcome Measure (Aim 1): Aortic stiffness will be evaluated as CFPWV, the
      gold-standard measurement technique and clinically relevant marker of vascular function.
      CFPWV will be measured before and after 3 months of treatment with nicotinamide riboside or
      placebo.

      Secondary Outcome Measures (Aim 2): Casual and ambulatory SBP will be the main secondary
      outcomes measures: (a) Casual (resting) SBP will be measured according to American Heart
      Association/American College of Cardiology guidelines, with an automated oscillometric
      sphygmomanometer. Casual SBP will be measured before and after 3 months of treatment with
      nicotinamide riboside or placebo; (b) Ambulatory SBP is an independent risk factor for CVD
      and a predictor of target organ damage. Ambulatory SBP (24-hour, daytime, nighttime mean
      pressures) will be measured before and after 3 months of treatment with nicotinamide riboside
      or placebo.

      Other Outcome Measures (Aims 3 and 4): To evaluate the safety of nicotinamide riboside, we
      will monitor treatment-emergent adverse events at each visit (once every 2 weeks). The most
      common adverse events associated with nicotinamide riboside include mild-to-moderate
      headache, feelings of warmth, hot flushing sensations, gastrointestinal discomfort, and
      fatigue. We will also evaluate safety before and after 3 months of treatment with
      nicotinamide riboside or placebo by measuring the following clinical markers: standard blood
      hematology, standard clinical chemistry profiles, and standard urinalysis.

      Tolerability will be assessed as subject dropout due to treatment-emergent adverse events.

      Adherence to the intervention will be assessed by pill count performed once every 2 weeks.

      Concentrations of NAD+ and associated metabolites will be evaluated to determine whether oral
      supplementation with nicotinamide riboside increases systemic NAD+ bioavailability.
      Peripheral blood mononuclear cells will be isolated and quantitative targeted metabolomics
      will be employed to evaluate concentrations of associated metabolites.

      CKD and aortic stiffness and increased blood pressure are associated with increased systemic
      oxidative stress, inflammation, and pro-vasoconstriction factors. Nicotinamide riboside may
      reduce vascular stiffness by acting on one or more of these pathways. Circulating biomarkers
      of potential mechanisms of action (norepinephrine, endothelin-1, C-reactive protein, oxidized
      low density lipoprotein, total antioxidant status, tumor necrosis factor-alpha,
      interleukin-6, interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-10) will be evaluated to provide
      mechanistic insight. All of the discussed other outcome measures will be evaluated before and
      after 3 months of supplementation with nicotinamide riboside or placebo.
    
  