
    
      The Neofect Smart Glove is a commercially available, non-invasive biofeedback based system
      for distal upper extremity rehabilitation. The Smart Glove is very lightweight and allows for
      easy movement of all distal upper extremity joints. It consists of a glove-shaped sensor
      device and a software application which can be used with either a large screen or a portable
      tablet. The system includes multiple ADL-based training games, and the system tracks the
      motion and posture of the wearer's distal limb as they participate. Games can be selected to
      focus on certain movements (such as forearm pronation/supination, wrist flexion/extension,
      finger flexion/extension, etc.) based on the needs of the wearer. The software includes a
      smart learning algorithm, in which the computer automatically adjusts to the optimal level of
      difficulty to balance challenge and motivation. After initial set-up, the device requires no
      therapist supervision to use.

      Patients will be eligible for the study if they are (1) within 30 days from an ischemic or
      hemorrhagic stroke (with aim for enrollment within 1 week post stroke), and (2) have impaired
      arm/hand function secondary to the stroke (see below for specific inclusion and exclusion
      criteria). We will recruit eligible patients from acute care hospitals, acute rehabilitation
      units, and outpatient facilities. Enrolled patients will be randomized (1:1 ratio) to
      standard rehabilitation therapy versus standard rehabilitation therapy plus Smart Glove use.
      All patients will be allowed to participate in any scheduled outpatient rehabilitation during
      the study.

      The study consists of a 12-week intervention period and a 12-week follow-up period. During
      the 12-week intervention period all patients will receive their usual rehabilitation therapy,
      with their therapists documenting rehabilitation dose in a journal provided at the start of
      the study. In addition, subjects randomized to the Smart Glove therapy arm will be provided
      with a Smart Glove system, which includes the glove and tablet. Subjects will be instructed
      to use the system for at least one session per day for 5 days per week during the 12-week
      intervention period. Participants will present for in-person visits on weeks 6, 12, and 24
      for blinded assessments by study coordinators. At the completion of the intervention period,
      subjects will return the Smart Glove and subjects in both arms of the study will only receive
      usual care during the 12-week follow-up period. Subjects will have a final assessment at week
      24 (12 weeks after completing the intervention) to assess for persistence of effect.

      All efficacy analyses are analyzed under the intention to treat principle. The primary
      efficacy outcome is the change in score on the Jebsen Taylor Hand Test between baseline and
      week 12. Secondary efficacy endpoints are changes in scores on the upper extremity Fugl-Meyer
      Scale, Stroke Impact Scale, and total dose of rehabilitation received during the 24-week
      intervention period. Persistence of the treatment effect will be tested by comparing changes
      in scores on the Jebsen Taylor Hand Test and Fugl-Meyer upper extremity score at 24 weeks
      between treatment groups
    
  