
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) are chronic Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)
      and may affect all segments of the digestive tract. These are diseases of multifactorial
      origin in which environmental and genetic factors are predominant.The EPIMAD registry, the
      world's largest epidemiological register for IBD, identifying all incident cases in the four
      departments of the North West of France showed between 1988 and 2007, an increase in the
      annual incidence of MC 71 % (6.5 / 105 (1988-1990) 11.1 / 105 (2006-2007) p <0.0001) in the
      age group 10-19 years. At the same time, the annual incidence of UC decreased 4.3 / 3.5 105
      inhabitants / 105 inhabitants (20%), with phenotypic presentation remained stable. The
      increase in the incidence of CD will contribute to increase its weight in the health system,
      particularly in the pediatric CD frequently associated with an aggressive phenotype causing
      specific complications such as malnutrition, pubertal delay or thrive. These complications
      have a important impact on the quality of life with a long-term risk of functional
      disability. They may be associated with increased mortality. Immunosuppressants
      (azathioprine, methotrexate) have been used in pediatric forms only from the 90s and anti-TNF
      antibodies (infliximab and adalimumab), until the 2000s. These new therapeutic classes have
      profoundly changed the management of pediatric IBD. Although there is little data on the
      impact of these new treatments, early introduction of immunosuppressive and anti-TNFs seems
      to influence the natural history of IBD diagnosed in pediatric age. Anti-TNFs appear to be
      associated with more frequent and deeper remission. With the advent of these new treatment,
      new therapeutic targets such as endoscopic mucosal healing and more recently the deep
      remission combining clinical remission, biological and endoscopic, appears. However there is
      no data in the general population assessing the impact of new treatments and new therapeutic
      strategies in the pediatric population. Potential risks associated with the increasing use
      and early use of biological treatments in this particular population remain to be determined
      in the general population.

      The main hypothesis of this study is that changes in therapeutic strategies in IBD diagnosed
      before 17 yeras old could influence the cumulative incidence of surgical resection and
      complications specific to this population as failure to thrive and delayed puberty, insertion
      socio-professional, the extension of the disease, hospitalization rates, and the rate of
      cancer.
    
  