
    
      Prior to the start of this study, the howRU and howRwe questionnaires have been translated
      into Dutch by the MAPI-institute.

      All possible eligible patients who are visiting the general practice between February 2013
      and April 2013 are asked to complete the howRU questionnaire prior to consultation and the
      howRwe questionnaire directly after consultation. The scores are not shown to the health care
      provider who will also complete both questionnaires after consultation as he/she thought the
      patient should have completed the questionnaires.

      An investigator will then select patients based on the scores on the howRU and howRwe
      questionnaires and their diseases. We will aim to include at least 90 patients: a minimum of
      30 patients with diabetes, 30 COPD patients and 30 persons without these diseases. For each
      patient category, a maximum of 15 patients with a maximum score (defined as 10-12) will be
      included. All other patients need to have lower scores. As this study aims to assess the
      reliability of the questionnaires, it is not necessary to select the study participants at
      random.

      The selected patients will be asked to participate in our study. Participating patients will
      be asked to fill in other questionnaires (EQ-5D and Europep) and the investigator will hold
      semi-structured interviews, preferably on the day of consultation. Patients are asked to
      comment on each separate concept of the questionnaires. They are asked what thoughts they had
      during the completion of the individual questions, and are asked to give examples of these.

      The participants' opinions about the questionnaires will also be asked. All interviews will
      be recorded and fully transcribed. All references to scores on individual items of the
      questionnaire (in number or words) will be covered with black bars to blind these results.
      These elaboration will be sent to a reviewing panel consisting of 45 clinicians and 45
      patients. They will be instructed to complete the howRU and howRwe questionnaires of a
      patient, the way they thought the patient should have rated the questionnaires based on the
      interview, gender and age. Each interview has to be reviewed and scored by five separate
      clinicians and five patients for both howRU and howRwe.

      Each set of interviews, that will be sent out for review, will contain 10 randomly assigned
      interviews, including information on the patients' gender and age. The order in which
      interviews will be in the package will be randomised to prevent fatigue of the reviewers and
      learning effects in the interviews performed later in sequence. Additionally, all interviews
      will be sent to a panel of patients. These patients will be selected by an investigator.

      For statistical analysis SPSS will be used. The data will be manually entered twice to check
      for errors. The agreement between patient score, treating physician/nurse practitioner and
      reviewing panel will be presented in Bland & Altman plots for both the howRU and howRwe
      questionnaires. To assess normality Q-Q plot will be used.

      The concordance between patient scores, treating physician/practice nurse scores, and the
      mean of the scores of the reviewing clinicians and patients will be studied by Lin's
      concordance correlation (CCC), an extended intraclass correlation (ICC). Additionally, the
      scores of the five reviewing clinicians will be compared to the scores of the patient panel,
      also using the ICC.
    
  