
    
      Vitamin D is essential for bone mineralization. The prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency
      [serum 25-hydroxy-vitamin D concentration (25OHD) ≤ 20 ng/mL] is high among adults with
      inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and even higher in pediatric patients with IBD.
      Protein-losing enteropathy could represent both an etiologic factor for hypovitaminosis D,
      and an obstacle in treating it in IBD patients. There are currently no guidelines for the
      treatment of hypovitaminosis D in adults or children with IBD. Moreover we have obtained
      evidence that optimal vitamin D stores (25OHD ≥32 ng/mL) may not be maintained throughout the
      year in patients with IBD following current RDA recommendations. On the other hand, the
      prevalence of low bone mineral density is high among young patients with IBD, during a period
      in their lives when they should experience the most rapid acquisition of bone mass.
      Optimization of vitamin D status and its impact on the bone health of children with IBD has
      not been studied. In addition, vitamin D may play an important role in the regulation of the
      immune system as supported by animal models of colitis and in vitro human studies.

      Prospective studies of the effect of vitamin D supplementation on disease outcomes have not
      been undertaken in children with IBD to date. We aim to perform a) a randomized controlled
      trial to compare the efficacy of 3 regimens in treating vitamin D insufficiency in pediatric
      patients with IBD over a period of 6 weeks. We will also evaluate the effects of each regimen
      on markers of bone resorption, bone formation and parathyroid hormone levels, and the
      relationship between the magnitude of gastrointestinal protein loss, as reflected by
      clearance of fecal alpha -1-antitrypsin, and the efficacy of the treatment. b) We also aim to
      perform a randomized controlled trial to compare the efficacy of 2 regimens of different
      doses of oral vitamin D2 in maintaining optimal vitamin D stores in pediatric patients with
      IBD over a period of 2 years. We intend to study the effect of each regimen on a) bone mass
      acquisition (measured via DXA and pQCT) and bone strength (measured via pQCT), b) bone
      formation and resorption markers and parathyroid hormone, and c) disease outcomes and disease
      severity over the same period of time.
    
  