
    
      This study seeks to investigate alternative strategies to hand hygiene (HH) and glove use in
      situations where glove use is required to perform health care activities in an effort to
      increase compliance with infection prevention efforts.

      HH is the cornerstone of infection prevention. Despite the importance of and increased focus
      on HH, compliance remains low in healthcare settings (40% on average in a large
      meta-analysis). Insufficient time, high workload and under staffing are important barriers.
      Glove use, which is common and increasing, is another major barrier. New strategies are
      needed that improve time and efficiency particularly in settings where glove use is required
      (e.g. Contact Precautions). One area for further study is the requirement for HH prior to
      non-sterile glove use. This is a recommended practice with poor compliance that may be
      unnecessary. Furthermore, it may lead to reduced compliance with other recommended infection
      prevention practices, such as glove use. In this proposal the investigators identify a novel
      strategy of directly gloving without performing HH prior to non-sterile glove use as a
      potential solution.

      In this study the investigators aim to perform a multicenter, cluster-randomized trial to
      evaluate the efficacy of direct gloving to improve compliance with infection prevention
      practices (i.e. HH and glove use). Herein, the investigators will evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of directly gloving (compared to performing HH prior to glove use) and assess
      whether this strategy will lead to increased compliance with both HH and glove use. The
      investigators previously demonstrated the safety of this strategy in a single-center
      randomized controlled pilot trial where the investigators found no difference in bacterial
      contamination of gloves of healthcare providers who either performed or did not perform HH
      prior to donning non-sterile gloves. Thus, with potentially no added benefit and in a setting
      where the investigators know that HH compliance is the lowest (i.e. prior to glove use),
      mandating HH prior to donning gloves as recommended in current guidelines could actually
      reduce both HH and glove compliance, placing patients at increased risk for developing
      infection.
    
  