
    
      Despite the use of high permeable dialyzers, which combine diffusive with convective
      clearance, the clinical outcome of hemodialysis (HD) patients remains poor. In post-dilution
      online hemodiafiltration (denoted further on as HDF) diffusive clearance is similar to HD,
      while the amount of convective transport is considerable increased. Recently, 4 randomized
      controlled trails have been published which compared HD with HDF. Although the results of the
      individual studies were inconclusive, a recent meta-analysis, using individual patient data
      of these studies, showed a superior outcome for patients treated with HDF. The largest
      mortality reduction was obtained in patients receiving the highest convection volume
      (high-volume HDF [HV-HDF] >23 L/1.73 m2/session): all-cause mortality [22% (95 % confidence
      interval [CI] 2-38)], cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality [31% (95 % CI 0-53)].

      It is far from clear, however, why (HV)HDF is associated with an improved survival. Both long
      term and short term effects may be involved. With respect to the latter, the intra-dialytic
      removal of middle molecular weight (MMW) uremic retention products and a superior
      bio-incompatibility (BI) profile may play a role. In addition, treatment with HDF may induce
      less intra-dialytic hypotension (IDH) and less tissue injury. Enhanced removal of the MMW
      substance FGF23 may reduce the intra-dialytic acute phase reaction (APR), which is regarded a
      chief element of HD-induced BI. Other key components which may contribute to IDH and are
      supposed to be alleviated by HDF, include dialysis-induced hypoxia and intra-dialytic
      extracellular vesicle release. Patho-physiologically, IDH depends both on a decline in the
      circulating blood volume and an impaired response to hypovolaemia. As a result, venous
      return, cardiac output and peripheral vascular resistance are impaired. Since IDH is reduced
      by HD with cool dialysate (C-HD), thermal factors may play an important role.

      Microcirculatory dysfunction is a prominent feature of HD patients. Since IDH occurs in
      20-30% of the sessions, any interference with an already abnormal perfusion may further
      deteriorate the structure and function of vital organs, such as the brain, gut and heart.
      HD-associated cardiomyopathy, which is considered a model of repetitive organ
      ischemia-reperfusion injury, is superimposed on the cardiac changes resulting from the
      various inflammatory and metabolic derangements of pre-dialysis kidney disease. As measured
      by imaging techniques and biomarkers, HD induces a fall in cardiac perfusion and elicits
      tissue injury. While cardiac MRI is considered the reference method for LV quantification,
      intra-dialytic measurements can only be obtained in stable patients who can be safely
      transferred to the radiology department. Echocardiography, though, can be performed in all
      individuals at the bed-side, including hypotension-prone patients. Because of its superiority
      over standard echocardiography, especially with respect to diastolic (dys)function, speckle
      tracking echocardiography will be used in the present study.

      As mentioned, the effect on long term survival is especially prominent when HV-HDF is
      applied. Theoretically, HV-HDF is also the preferred treatment to circumvent dialysis-induced
      IDH, and hence, to alleviate the repetitive intra-dialytic tissue damage. Therefore, the
      following hypotheses will be tested:

        1. intra-dialytic hemodynamic stability is better preserved during HV-HDF as compared to
           standard (S)-HD, C-HD and low volume (LV)-HDF;

        2. mainly as a result of a better intra-dialytic hemodynamic stability, the severity of
           organ injury, especially the heart, is least evident during HV-HDF;

        3. the mechanism of a better preserved intra-dialytic hemodynamic stability during HV-HDF
           depends on its superior thermal balance and/or bio-incompatibility, clearance of MMW
           substances, or a combination of these items.

      Worldwide, however, (HV)HDF is only limited available. Since intradialytic hemodynamic
      instability may contribute substantially to the poor clinical prospects of
      end-stage-kidney-disease (ESKD) patients, these individuals may benefit from each maneuver
      that minimizes the number and severity of intradialytic hypotensive episodes. Therefore, the
      question which of the comparator treatments [(S)-HD, C-HD and LV-HDF] has the best
      intradialytic hemodynamic stability, appears relevant as well.
    
  