
    
      Olfactory impairment increases with age, affecting more than 50% of the population aged
      between 65 and 80 years old. Recently, many studies have demonstrated a strong association
      between olfactory impairment and overall mortality risk. At the moment, the underlying
      physiopathology linking olfactory impairment to mortality remains unknown and only putative
      mechanisms are suggested.

      Among them, accelerated physiological brain aging seems to be involved, making olfactory
      decline a possible marker of frailty. To date, only a few studies (mostly using subjective
      olfactory assessment) investigated the potential relationship between olfactory impairment
      and frailty. Moreover, neurodegenerative diseases, through cognitive dysfunction, seem likely
      to represent a second mechanism potentially underlying the link between olfactory impairment
      and mortality.

      Surgery, and more broadly the perioperative period, remains a major source of morbidity and
      mortality. Meanwhile, the average age of the surgical population continues to rise, making
      preoperative risk assessment an essential step in order to detect the most vulnerable
      patients. Yet, it is well-known that frailty is predictive of complications and mortality and
      that preoperative cognitive impairment is associated with postoperative neurocognitive
      disorders.

      The first objective of this research project is thus to evaluate global olfactory function of
      preoperative older surgical patients in light of an assessment of their frailty and cognitive
      status. Frailty will be tested with the Edmonton Frail Scale, the Clinical Frailty Scale and
      handgrip strength. Cognitive function will be tested through a neuropsychological test
      battery preoperatively and postoperatively. The second and third objectives are to correlate
      preoperative olfactory function with, on the one hand, postoperative neurocognitive
      disorders, and on the other hand, postoperative morbidity and mortality.
    
  