
    
      Project RESPECT-Plus (Recovery, Empowerment, Social Services, Prenatal care, Education, and
      Community Treatment-Plus) is a randomized controlled trial of promising and evidence-based
      practices designed to strengthen family protective factors and improve health permanency and
      well-being outcomes for children born to mothers in treatment for opioid use disorder. The
      target population for project RESPECT-Plus is pregnant women in treatment for opiate use
      disorder receiving prenatal care at BMC's RESPECT Clinic. A total of 200 subjects - 100
      mothers - will be enrolled into the study and randomized post-partum to receive the
      intervention or standard of care, and will be followed for 1 year.

      In order to provide continuity of care from the prenatal to pediatric primary care setting,
      participants receiving prenatal care at the RESPECT Clinic are recruited during their third
      trimester of pregnancy. After consent, the initial baseline data collection is scheduled and
      once the infants are born and pass the eligibility screening (term birth and no major
      congenital abnormalities or developmental disabilities), mothers and their infants are
      randomized into the intervention (RESPECT-Plus) or control (standard of care) group.

      The intervention is delivered by a family specialist who, with the permission of the mother,
      will attend routine well-child visits so as to collaborate with providers in the child's
      medical home and parent through the medical visit. As desired by the mother, home visits,
      other face-to-face contacts, telephone calls, and text messages will assist in addressing
      social determinants of health, improve the mother's knowledge of child development and
      parenting, and link families to community resources to address existing concrete support
      needs. The family specialist will receive support and training by a licensed clinical social
      worker and the Medical-Legal Partnership, Boston (MLP Boston) to identify legal and social
      needs that may affect a child's health and development and to take action either by helping
      family members advocate for themselves, or by referring them to an appropriate public health,
      legal, or social service agency or resources.

      Both the intervention and standard of care groups will be evaluated by research evaluators
      not associated with the intervention at baseline, and when the child is 6 and 12 months old.

      The two goals and associated objectives for RESPECT-Plus are:

        1. To evaluate the RESPECT-Plus intervention, on improving child well-being, safety, and
           permanency outcomes.

        2. To evaluate family functioning aligned with the five protective factors in the
           Strengthening Families model (parental resilience, knowledge of parenting and child
           development, concrete supports, social connections, and child factors).

      Anticipated outcomes of the intervention include fewer reports of supported child abuse or
      neglect filings in the child's first year of life, fewer days in out-of-home placement and
      terminations of parental rights in the child's first year of life, and improvements in family
      functions overall (e.g. improved access to basic needs/social determinants of health,
      improved parental resilience, and decreased maternal depression).
    
  