
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine if selumetinib can result in shrinkage of cutaneous neurofibromas.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Assess the effect of selumetinib on target inhibition in cutaneous neurofibroma(s) excised
      prior treatment and on treatment with selumetinib for analysis of percent inhibition of
      phosphorylated ERK (pERK), and changes in phosphorylated AKT (pAKT).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the effect of selumetinib on the development on new cutaneous neurofibromas while
      on treatment with selumetinib.

      II. Assess the effect of selumetinib on target inhibition in cutaneous neurofibroma(s)
      excised prior treatment and on treatment with selumetinib for analysis of the tumor kinome.

      III. Assess the effect of selumetinib skin related morbidity and pain using the Skindex, the
      Global Impression of Change Scale and Numeric Rating Scale, all of which are patient reported
      outcome measures.

      IV. Quantify the development of new cutaneous neurofibromas on treatment with selumetinib.

      V. Detailed pathologic analysis of cutaneous neurofibromas pretreatment and on treatment with
      selumetinib for changes in cell composition (including macrophage and mast cell
      infiltration).

      VI. Investigate alterations that correlate with cutaneous neurofibroma (cNF) response to
      selumetinib treatment with pilot genomic, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation, and
      transcriptomic studies.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients who experience a volume decrease in the target cutaneous neurofibromas may
      continue treatment for 12 additional cycles.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 1 year.
    
  