
    
      Uveitis is a condition in which certain parts of your eye become inflamed. The inflammation
      is usually recurrent. If the inflammation is not treated adequately, permanent damage to the
      eye and to the vision may occur. The inflammation can be caused by infectious or non
      infectious causes. The current research is being done to determine the safety and the
      usefulness of treatment of non-infectious uveitis using different doses of intravitreal
      injections of a drug called sirolimus.

      Current treatment options for uveitis include oral corticosteroids and drugs that weaken the
      immune system of the body (i.e., immunosuppressant drugs). Treatment using oral
      corticosteroids, especially for long periods, may cause many undesirable side effects and
      complications such as high blood sugar, high blood pressure, bone weakness, obesity, stomach
      ulcers, abnormal hair growth, and increased risks of infection. In addition to that, in some
      cases, the disease cannot be controlled even with the highest dose of steroids.

      Injection of steroids around and inside the eye can be used to control uveitis. However, the
      inflammation does not always respond to such kind of treatment. The eyes may develop high
      pressure and cataract with injections of steroids into the eyes or around the eyes.

      On the other hand, despite their potential effectiveness, treatment with drugs that weaken
      the immune system may cause severe side effects. Increased risk of infection is a common side
      effect of all the immunosuppressant drugs. The immune system protects the body from
      infections. When the immune system is suppressed, infections are more likely to happen. Some
      of these infections are potentially dangerous. Because the immune system protects the body
      against some forms of cancer, immunosuppressant drugs are also associated with a slightly
      increased risk of cancer. For example, long-term use of immunosuppressant drugs may carry an
      increased risk of developing skin cancer as a result of the combination of the drugs and
      exposure to sunlight. The immunosuppressive drugs are very powerful and can cause serious
      side effects such as high blood pressure, kidney problems, and liver problems. Some side
      effects may not show up until years after the medicine is used.
    
  