
    
      Myoelectric prostheses provide upper limb movement control using electromyography (EMG)
      electrodes on the residual muscles to control arm and hand movements. Within the current
      generation of advanced prostheses, research has shown that most amputees rely on assistive
      devices rather than prostheses (27 - 54% use prostheses), and many users do not use all
      available features or stop using the device altogether. Part of the difficulty in learning to
      control upper limb myoelectric prostheses stems from the sequences of muscle inputs required
      to choose grips and modes, and move the limb.

      Myoelectric prosthetic limbs can aide in regaining lost capabilities, but require intensive
      training to effectively operate. Learning to use a myoelectric prosthesis involves
      significant motor cortex plasticity and learning how to consciously control muscle
      contraction, level of activation, and isolation through repetitive exercises. The need to
      concentrate and continuously react during training is expected to decrease with use, but
      often takes amputees many months, with the result being that many users abandon the
      prosthesis before mastery is achieved.

      Difficult training has been identified as a primary reason for low user acceptance.

      Current training methods and tools can be expensive, are limited in their activation sites,
      transferability, and personalized training capabilities. Current one-size-fits-all training
      cannot be personalized for the patient, thereby ignoring or being unresponsive to their
      learning ability. This limitation factor reduces the level of acute positive patient outcomes
      that can be achieved. A need therefore exists for myoelectric training tools that are
      affordable, reliable, support conventional and state-of-the-art control schemes, adaptable to
      various patient needs, can improve patient clinical outcomes, motivate patients to train, and
      be used in the clinic and remotely by the patient.

      To fill the identified gaps in myoelectric training tools, Design Interactive, Inc. (DI)
      developed a prototype of the Auto Diagnostic Adaptive Precision Trainer for Myoelectric
      Prosthesis users (ADAPT-MP), an adaptive, game-based modular software solution paired with an
      innovative, mobile hardware solution to support the upper limb prosthesis training continuum,
      including basic pre-prosthetic training through advanced skill training using the prosthesis.

      Rationale Current prosthetic training is monotonous, expensive, specific to certain devices,
      and often cannot be brought home. The eADAPT-MP system has multiple engaging games of varying
      levels of difficulty, is inexpensive, is designed to be manufacturer and device agnostic, and
      is a tool users can bring with them almost anywhere. The upper limb amputee patient
      population would benefit from having a powerful telerehabilitation tool that is engaging and
      encourages prosthetic training to reduce abandonment of myoelectric prostheses and promote
      usability of myoelectric arms. However, there is a lack of randomized, controlled clinical
      data supporting myoprosthetic training on functional outcomes. Previously published clinical
      research on the effect of pre-prosthetic training on amputee health outcomes is represented
      by small, uncontrolled case studies, or the reliance on non-amputee participants.
    
  