
    
      Iron- or Neuromelanin-sensitive MR-imaging has not been consistently applied to the study of
      syndromes presenting with predominant dystonia/parkinsonism yet. We are planning to study the
      following groups, as they can often be very difficult to be distinguished from PD and in
      particular young-onset PD, on clinical grounds only:

        -  Dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD) can present similar to young-onset PD, but carries a
           completely different prognosis, necessitating different treatment requirements due to
           fundamentally different underlying physiology.

        -  Sporadic and Inherited dystonias (i.e. due to TorsinA (DYT1) and other gene mutations)
           often present with dystonia, particularly affecting the leg, which is clinically
           indistinguishable from young-onset PD.

        -  Young-onset PD, i.e. PD presenting with motor symptoms before 45 years of age, caused by
           a familiar gene mutation (PARKIN, Pink, DJ-1, PLA2G6, FBX07, ATP13A2, VPS13C, RAB39B,
           Lubag), often presents with predominant dystonia, particularly with leg-onset.

        -  NBIAs present with dystonia/parkinsonism: while basal ganglia iron accumulation is a
           known hallmark feature of the condition [3], the characteristics of neuromelanin
           regulation are unknown.

        -  Mitochondrial disease presenting with dystonia / parkinsonism (such as for example Leigh
           syndrome due to mutations in the Surf-1 gene or mutations m.3243A>G or POLG) [4]

        -  Respective age- and sex-matched healthy controls This study is designed to produce pilot
           data on these disease entities. By potentially accelerating the diagnostic process and
           identification of disease entities, neurologists might be able to deliver more selective
           and dedicated treatment.

      Furthermore, combining Neuromelanin- and iron-specific imaging will offer the possibility to
      study the condition- specific dynamics of iron homeostasis in these rare conditions.
    
  