
    
      The use of performance-enhancing drugs is a major area of concern for high-performance
      athletes because it may lead to serious health problems. It is also quite concerning that
      these substances are also widely used without guidance among non-athletes for faster results
      and aesthetic reasons. Several substances used for doping in sports have well-established
      ergogenic and side effects. Studies have shown that insulin is used for its anabolic effects
      mostly among recreational and professional weightlifters and bodybuilders. Currently, insulin
      and its analogs are on the WADA list of prohibited substances for their anabolic effects
      mostly in muscle tissues and side effects. However, a class of drugs known as insulin
      secretagogues are used by some athletes to enhance performance. Few studies have examined the
      potential effects of insulin secretagogues, especially sulfonylureas, on exercise performance
      and post-exercise recovery among athletes as well as their potential side effects. Despite
      insufficient data supporting the use of insulin secretagogues as ergogenic supplement well as
      well its associated risks, these substances have been empirically used for both, acute and
      chronic effects among professional athletes and non-athletes. Thus, the present study have
      like aim to examine whether insulin secretagogues have a potential ergogenic effect leading
      to a better exercise performance and post-exercise recovery in healthy individuals after a
      resistance training session. METHODS: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      clinical trial. The sample will consist of 44 men, young adults, healthy and experienced in
      strength training and who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria specified. The sample
      calculation was determined by a pilot study conducted with 10 subjects, with strength
      performance as the primary outcome, using drug (Gliclazide) or placebo, taking into account a
      statistical power of 95% and a significance level of 5%. For this purpose, the GPower 3.1was
      used. Subjects will be randomly allocated (block randomization, www.randomizer.org) to the
      following groups: placebo (PFG, n=22) and sulphonylurea (GFS, n=22). The study will consist
      of 3 visits 7 days apart. On visit 1 the participants will ask to sign an informed consent
      form and will carry out medical evaluation with anthropometric assessment. At that visit they
      will perform a one-repetition maximum test of the upper limbs by using the horizontal bench
      press and of the lower limbs by using the 45º leg press. On visit 2, they will perform a
      second round of similar 1-RM tests to determine workloads for the study sessions
      [sulphonylurea (gliclazide) vs. placebo]. The experimental exercise session will be held on
      visit 3. The participants will ask to follow a personalized food intake plan prescribed by a
      skilled provider in the 24 hours proceeding both sessions. Gliclazide modified release (MR)
      or placebo will be orally administered as matched capsules (same color, flavor, smell and
      size) 8 hours before the beginning of exercise session. Gliclazide 60 mg (Diamicron® MR) or
      placebo (starch, sodium lauryl sulfate and Aerosil) will administered double-blind. Upon
      arrival at the study site, the participants will consum a pre-workout snack. The experimental
      protocol will start 30 minutes later. First, warm-up on the bench press and leg press, both
      with workload at 50% of 1-RM wil be carried out. After a 2-minute rest, the resistance
      training session will be started. It will consist of 4 sets of bench press and leg press
      exercises at 65% of 1-RM with maximum repetitions until concentric failure, with the
      execution speed of 2x2. The bench press exercises will be followed by the leg press exercises
      with no interval between them. A 2-minute interval will allowed after each series of
      exercises. Measurements for heart rate (HR) and Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for Pain will be
      taken before, between each series of exercises and 24 and 48 hours after session. Venous
      blood samples will be obtained before, immediately after, 24 and 48 hours after session for
      determining serum levels of creatine kinase isoenzyme MM and lactate dehydrogenase using a
      colorimetric enzymatic assay. Capillary blood for glucose determination will be collected
      from the digital pulp using a glucometer before and immediately after session. At the end of
      exercise session, a custom will be offered to prevent potential hypoglycemic events.
      Resistance training volume will be calculated for each type of exercise as well as total
      training volume for each session as a product of exercise workload and number of series and
      repetitions. The data will be present as means ± standard deviation (SD). Repeated measures
      ANOVA Two Way using Bonferroni post-hoc tests will be used for comparisons between the study
      drug and placebo over time. All data analyses will be carried out using SPSS 23.0 at a
      significance level of p<0.05.
    
  