
    
      Secondary, exploratory objectives include:

        -  To describe clinical improvement category sub-groups (e.g. non-responders versus strong
           responders) in terms of: target concomitant medication usage, symptomology, quality of
           life (questionnaires), exacerbation rates (and other adverse events) and lung function
           parameters, differential blood counts, serum club cell secretory protein (CCSP) levels,
           other quantitative thoracic computed tomography (QTCT) variables, sinus mucosal
           thickness.

        -  To perform exploratory, prognostic-value studies (including but not limited to
           prognostic variables derived from changes occurring over 24 weeks and from clustering or
           factor mining at baseline and 24 weeks). These exploratory studies will include (but are
           not necessarily limited to) estimating the sensitivity/specificity of baseline/early
           imaging variables (or combination thereof) for predicting clinical response variables.

        -  To describe the prognostic categories (e.g. predicted non-responder versus predicted
           responder) found in terms of: clinical improvement, target concomitant medication usage,
           symptomology, quality of life (questionnaires), exacerbation rates (and other adverse
           events) and lung function parameters, differential blood counts, serum CCSP levels,
           other QTCT variables, sinus mucosal thickness.

        -  To create a centralised image library associated with the study.

        -  To verify the reproducibility of the relationships found between mean lung density
           (upper and lower lung, inspiratory and expiratory), the fractal dimension of -850 HU
           segmentations, and clinical variables found during the SCANN'AIR study (NCT03102749).

        -  To explore the association between bronchial homothety curves (the homothety of two
           consecutive bronchial measurements as a function of bronchial generation) and disease
           severity/progression.

        -  To monitor patient safety throughout the study.
    
  