
    
      Overview of the study - To achieve sustained healthy behavior changes, a supportive context
      is needed. For example, adolescents who are trying to consume more fruits and vegetables,
      fewer sugary beverages, and more water may be challenged in these pursuits as they may be
      inundated with low-cost, easily available, highly processed foods and beverages. The
      intervention will take into account the multiple sectors of influence on behavior among
      adolescents recently recommended. This project moves beyond understanding the interaction
      between the individual with their environment and seeks to develop and examine the
      effectiveness of an intervention aiming to improve how adolescents make healthy choices in a
      variety of food environments and in a variety of social settings.

      Overview - This project includes collection of primary data in Year 1 to inform the
      curriculum development of the "Smart Shopping" intervention in Years 2 and 3. The
      intervention will take place among 4 schools (2 in KY and 2 in NC) with 4 delayed - control
      schools (2 in KY and 2 NC). This individual-level intervention will be tailored based on the
      food environment factors of each site. The key food environmental variables that will be
      addressed will be school policy adoption and implementation of School Wellness Policies,
      availability of food within the home, as well as the availability and access to various food
      venues in each county. After baseline data are collected, the curriculum will be developed
      reflecting the shopping behaviors of adolescents in these counties. The curriculum will
      utilize current Cooperative Extension resources from "Cooking Matters," but will be tailored
      and significantly revised for adolescents using the formative data collected in year 1. The
      curriculum will be developed with Cooperative Extension agents in each county while
      connecting with dietetics and nutrition students. The intervention will take place over 12
      weeks, once a week, after school but before athletic or school sponsored activities begin.
      The intervention session will be led by nutrition and dietetics students, with oversight by
      Cooperative Extension agents and project team. Process evaluation will take place in year 2
      and 3 of the study, while main intervention outcome evaluation will take place in year 4 led
      by project team.
    
  