
    
      Little is known about the long term health impacts of being exposed to a career in
      professional football. The primary objective of this study is to assess the relationship
      between affliction definitions, as subjectively described by participants in the first phase
      of the study (Q1), and objective pathology as defined by standard of care clinical and
      investigational testing. An exploratory secondary objective of this study is to examine the
      relationships between exposure to football, defined within the parameters of how old was the
      participant when their career started, how long did they play professional football, what was
      the participants field position and objective pathology defined as standard of clinical care.

      The questions the study hopes to answer are as follows: 1) Are subjective complaints among
      former professional football players associated with objective evidence of pathology as
      measured by clinically accepted diagnostic testing (Primary objective), and 2) Is exposure to
      professional football, as defined by variables including career duration and player field
      position, associated with cardiac dysfunction, neurocognitive disease, chronic pain, and
      sleep apnea (Secondary objective).

      This protocol has been constructed with an emphasis on reducing risk and maximizing yield.
      The Investigators who will be performing the assessments across the Harvard Medical School
      Institutions have worked together to minimize potential risk exposure by carefully selecting
      imaging protocols that limit radiation exposure, keeping phlebotomy limited, and by
      conducting these assessments under the supervision of investigators with established track
      records for conducting safe and effective human subject research.

      The study visit will occur over 2&1/2 days. All costs of transportation, lodging, and meals
      will be covered by the study. All participants will have the assistance of a Study Navigator,
      a member of the FPHS staff who will accompany the participant. This navigator will assure
      that the participant gets to each assessment, helps to make decisions regarding scheduling
      issues or conflicts, assesses the need for additional breaks, and acts as a resource and
      guide for the participant throughout the study. The navigator will be in communication with
      key members of the research team for real time decision making (aborting or skipping an
      assessment).

      Participants will be advised that results from these assessments are research results and are
      not meant for any diagnosis of disease. However, assessment results will be given to the
      participant if they wish to receive them. Any incidental finding that may have clinical
      relevance will be explained by a Study Physician and the Medical Navigation Nurse, and the
      participant will be assisted in obtaining follow up care.
    
  