
    
      Legionellosis is an environment-related, acute gram negative bacterial respiratory infection
      and is caused primarily by the species Legionella pneumophila, an atypical pulmonary
      pathogen, in the likes of mycoplasma and chlamydia species. Potentially all Legionella spp.
      may cause human disease, however, the majority (92%) of clinical cases are caused by L.
      pneumophila and the predominant serogroup is serogroup 1.

      Globally, 1-5% of community acquired pneumonia patients is caused by Legionella spp. and is a
      challenge to public health authorities. The incidence of Legionella Pneumonia in the US has
      exceeded expectations and is increasing, with at least 13,000 cases occurring annually. In
      Singapore, Legionella spp. is responsible for 2-7% of cases of hospitalized
      community-acquired pneumonia.

      Legionella pneumophila is being increasingly recognized as a common pathogen causing both
      community-acquired and nosocomial pneumonia that is responsible for significant morbidity and
      mortality. It is also one of the most common aetiology discovered when pneumonia is
      sufficiently severe to require admission to an intensive care unit. It's likely to cause a
      severe form of pneumonia with high likelihood of adverse medical outcomes which includes
      rapid deterioration, respiratory failure and the need for intensive care unit (ICU)
      admission.

      It will be impossible to distinguish patients with Legionnaires' disease from patients with
      other types of pneumonia clinically. The key to diagnosis is to perform microbiologic testing
      when a patient is stratified into a high-risk category. Rapid diagnosis of these pneumonias
      is desired as delayed diagnosis and institution of appropriate antibiotics is associated with
      poor outcomes.

      In routine clinical practice, legionellosis is rarely proven by culture whereas detection of
      urinary antigen is now common. In US and Europe, case detection rates were revolutionized
      with the usage of urine antigen test at 97% and 79% respectively. Urine antigen testing has a
      reported sensitivity that ranges between 76% and 86% for cases of Legionella pneumonia
      serogroup 1 and a specificity that approaches 100%.

      In this region, urine antigen test is rarely done due to lack of clinical awareness, a
      perception that Legionella infection is uncommon and due to the lack of availability of this
      test regionally. The introduction of the immunochromatographic (ICT) membrane assay to detect
      antigenuria has revolutionized the usage of UAT to diagnose Legionella infections. The ICT
      assay is similar to a home pregnancy test and is commercially available. The test is simple
      to perform and does not require special laboratory equipment, and results can be obtained
      within 15 minutes. The investigators wish to utilize this innovation to test patients whom
      are hospitalized with pneumonia and determine the incidence of Legionella infection in the
      local setting.
    
  