
    
      Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the two study treatment arms;
      pamrevlumab with either G/NP or FOLFIRINOX, placebo with G/NP or FOLFIRINOX.

      Each subject may receive up to six cycles of treatment (each treatment cycle is 28 days).
      Tumor tissue will be collected during resection to determine surgical outcome and for
      biomarker analysis. Tumor response will be evaluated by changes in CT scan, FDG-PET, CA 19-9,
      and NCCN® guidelines.

      All subjects randomized will have a safety follow-up visit approximately 28 days after the
      last dose of study treatment and a final safety follow-up phone call at approximately 60 days
      after the last dose.

      Subjects who complete 6 cycles of treatment will be evaluated for surgical exploration for
      possible R0 or R1 resection. Surgery will occur at least 4 weeks after the last dose
      (allowing for a wash-out period from treatment) and only after receipt of the recommendation
      from the central review board with regards to surgical eligibility. Surgery will occur no
      longer than 8 weeks after the last dose. Subjects who undergo surgery will be evaluated for
      surgical complications for at least an additional 90 days following discharge from surgery.

      Subjects who are ineligible for surgical exploration (i.e. subjects who did not complete 6
      cycles of treatment or do not meet any of the protocol defined criteria or had a
      contraindication to surgery) will continue in the Follow-up period and receive treatment as
      per standard of care (SOC) for each institution.

      All subjects will be followed for disease progression (if not previously detected) or
      recurrence following resection (local progression or metastatic disease). Subjects will also
      be followed for any additional anti-cancer therapy received for their pancreatic cancer. All
      subjects will be followed for survival (until death) or until the last subject to complete
      treatment reaches 18 months post-treatment.
    
  