
    
      The number of patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) is growing worldwide and nowadays
      hemodialysis (HD) treatment is the prevalent modality of renal replacement therapy.
      Paradoxically an increase of BP during or immediately after the HD sessions has been observed
      in some patients. This phenomenon is referred to as Intradialytic Hypertension (IDH). The
      focus will be on systolic BP increase ≥ 10 mmHg during or immediately after hemodialysis
      which results in post-dialysis hypertension BP above ≥130/80 mmHg. IDH affects up to 10-15%
      of hemodialysis patients. Patients with IDH have unfavorable outcomes; previous
      epidemiological data showed that IDH is associated with higher cardiovascular morbidity and
      mortality rates.

      From the view of hemodynamic profile, peripheral resistance and cardiac output are the most
      important factors contributing to arterial blood pressure. The pathogenesis of IDH is likely
      to be multifactorial. Several mechanisms were proposed to be involved in the pathogenesis of
      this phenomenon.

      Endothelial dysfunction, increased activity of the renin angiotensin aldosterone system
      (RAAS) and activation of the sympathetic nervous system had been shown to be involved in the
      increase of blood pressure during Hemodialysis in this group of patients.

      None of these possible explanations or their inter-relationships has been studied in a
      controlled experimental setting and the actual physiological changes during hemodialysis in
      intradialytic hypertensive patients still remain unexplored.

      The NICAS (Non-Invasive Cardiac System) device, used mainly for noninvasive cardiac
      diagnostic purposes, is substantially equivalent to the use of other hemodynamic evaluation
      tools, yet it is non-invasive and provides on-line data regarding the hemodynamic status of
      patients. Using this device, the hemodynamic changes during the HD session of IDH patients
      will be investigated.

      By using the NICAS device, the hemodynamics parameters changes during the dialysis session
      will be measured. The parameters that will be measured are heart rate, stroke volume, cardiac
      index, cardiac power index and total peripheral vascular resistance.

      During the hemodialysis treatment several hemodynamic changes may occur due to intravascular
      volume reduction. Changes in peripheral vascular resistance, cardiac output and cardiac power
      index contribute to the hemodynamic stability during the dialysis session.

      By using a non-invasive technique, the NICAS device,hemodynamic changes that occur during the
      hemodialysis session will be evaluated.

      An increase of blood pressure is correlated with the increase of peripheral vascular
      resistance and/or the increase of cardiac output, reflecting an adjustment to the fast
      changes in the intravascular volume.

      Aim of the study The hemodynamic changes that occur during the dialysis session in patients
      with intradialytic hypertension by using the NICAS device will be evaluated.

      Methods This will be an observational prospective study that examines hemodynamic parameters
      before and immediately after the dialysis session.

      The hemodynamic data is collected by the investigators during the study period. These
      parameters will be obtained before starting the dialysis session, every hour during the
      dialysis session and at the end of it.
    
  