
    
      The study will involve healthy smokers and non smokers enrolled in IRB approved protocol
      #0005004439 entitled "Evaluation of the Lungs of Normal (Smokers, Ex-smokers, Non-Smokers)
      Individuals with Segmental Bronchopulmonary Lung Lavage, Bronchial Brushing, and Bronchial
      Wall Biopsy". They will be invited to participate in this protocol only if they meet the
      additional inclusion/exclusion criteria of this protocol (see inclusion/exclusion criteria,
      section A6). The Principal Investigator, Ann E. Tilley, MD or authorized representative will
      obtain consent from individuals for this study. Once enrolled, smokers will be randomized to
      either the treated smoker group [320 micrograms (mcg) of beclomethasone; 2 puffs twice a day
      (each puff delivers 80 mcg) for 7 days] or non-treated group. Beclomethasone is available as
      a metered dose inhaler [QVAR(TEVA Pharmaceuticals)] delivering 80 micrograms (mcg) of
      beclomethasone per one puff. We will be using QVAR HFA (TEVA Pharmaceuticals), which delivers
      80 mcg per puff. QVAR will be purchased by the Department of Genetic Medicine. It will be
      dispensed as appropriate to each research subject recruited in the trial at the Department of
      Genetic Medicine at 1305 York Ave YAB-13th floor, New York, NY 10021 (a facility of Weill
      Medical College). It will be stored at The Arthur & Rochelle Belfer Gene Therapy Core
      Facility located at 515 E. 71st St., S901, New York, NY 10021 under the supervision of
      Stephen Kaminksy, PhD, Co-Director of the GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice). Each study
      individual will receive 1 package of the study medication which consists of 1 canister of
      QVAR 80 MDI (metered dose inhaler). Non-smokers, defined as individuals who have never
      smoked, will act as control like the Non-Treated Smoker group and receive no treatment. For
      all subjects, the screening, baseline bronchoscopy, and the bronchoscopies on Days 7±3 and
      14±3 tests will be performed as part of IRB approved protocol #0005004439. No additional
      bronchoscopies will be performed under the current protocol.
    
  