
    
      1. Following the consent process, the PI will collect demographics, music background, and
           preference information from participants' family and/or facility care staff. Where
           possible, the PI will ask participants directly about their music preferences.

        2. The main study period will last 9 weeks and will consist of the following: (a) a
           "pre-study" week involving a practice session that includes aspects of both study
           conditions. All study personnel, and facility staff, will gain practice running through
           study procedures; (1) one week of usual treatment (UT) to collect baseline mood and
           quality of life data; (2-3) random assignment to two weeks of either music therapy or
           the verbal discussion; (4-5) a two-week washout period for collecting mood and quality
           of life data during return to UT; (6-7) crossover to the other condition; and (8) one
           final week return to UT with mood and quality of life data collection.

        3. The PI will collect descriptive information during the pre-study week and first week of
           UT using the following measures (previously validated with this population):

             -  Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR; Morris, 1993), consists of semi-structured
                interviews with the patient and an informant by a trained rater (in this case, the
                PI) regarding memory, orientation, judgment and problem solving, community affairs,
                hobbies, and personal care. Provides information depth. Scores range from 0
                ("normal") to 3 (severe dementia).

             -  Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA; Nasreddine et al., 2005), a brief screening of
                cognitive function. Scores range from 0 (greatly impaired) to 30 (unimpaired).
                Provides a quick assessment of cognitive functioning.

             -  Charlson Age-Comorbidity Index (CACI; Charlson et al., 1987), compares the severity
                of International Classification of Diseases diagnosis codes and provides a
                systematic way to quantify general health in clinical research, via chart review.
                Scores range from 0 (excellent health) to 37 (poor health).

             -  Katz Index of Independence in Activities of Daily Living (Katz Index; Katz et al.,
                1970), a brief measure of basic daily functional activities. Scores range from 0
                (total dependence) to 6 (independent).

        4. Weekly measures (administered to facility care staff by data takers, or via REDCap, at
           the end of each of the 9 weeks of the study):

             -  REDCap is a data management tool that provides a secure, reliable web-based
                interface for collecting, managing, and storing study information.

             -  AD-RD Mood Scale: a proxy measure of mood (Tappen & Williams, 2008) that yields a
                positive mood total score with two subscores (spirited, contented) and a negative
                mood total score with three subscores (hostile, apathetic, sad).

             -  QUALIDEM: a multidimensional proxy measure of quality of life that examines
                person-environment quality of life indicators that are specific to persons with
                ADRD (Ettema, 2007; Ettema at al., 2005).

        5. Activity Involvement Checklist: A data taker will ask the activity directors at
           participating facilities to complete the Activity Checklist regarding the types of
           activities offered to participants in a typical week, and whether or not participants
           tend to join in these activities. Note that this tool will only be used once. The
           facility may also opt to complete this questionnaire electronically via REDCap.

        6. Session measures, all administered by trained data takers during participation in either
           music therapy or verbal discussion:

             -  Dementia Mood Picture Test (DMPT; Tappen & Barry, 1995), a 6-item self-report
                measure of participants' feelings using simple face drawings and verbal
                descriptors. Yields a single score that ranges from 0 (most negative mood) to 12
                (most positive mood). Administered before and after each session.

             -  Menorah Park Engagement Scale (MPES; Camp et al., 2015), an observational measure
                of social engagement and activity. Yields a profile of six engagement scores,
                averaged across 5-minute observation intervals. The MPES incorporate items from the
                Observed Emotion Rating Scale (OERS; Lawton et al., 1996; 1999), an observational
                measure of facial expressions that indicate basic emotions.

        7. Session protocol (music therapy, verbal discussion): grounded in a conceptual framework
           based in extant literature regarding how the intervention is expected to influence
           affective, social, and quality of life outcomes. This framework consists of intervention
           strategies organized within 6 themes: cognition, attention, familiarity, audibility,
           structure, and autonomy. The music therapy condition consists of live singing with
           guitar accompaniment by a board-certified music therapist (i.e., MT-BC) using
           participant-preferred selections. The conceptual framework and accompanying strategies
           inform how the music is manipulated in real time by the music therapist to meet
           participants' momentary needs and demonstration of strengths. The verbal condition is
           designed as a non-music comparison using all of the same strategies and adaptations, but
           in a non-music context. It consists of live conversation led by an MT-BC using
           conversation starters centered around age-appropriate, familiar topics. For both
           condition, sessions will be centered around a main topic (Travel/Places, Nature/Hobbies,
           & Love/Friendship), each of which will be used in two consecutive sessions in the same
           order across all participants. Sessions will occur three times per week for two
           consecutive weeks (6 sessions per treatment). Each session lasts for 25 minutes in the
           afternoon.

        8. "Pre-Study" Week: Practice session (one 30-minute session), the music therapist will
           practice aspects of both the music therapy protocol and the verbal discussion protocol.
           Data takers will practice all data collection procedures. Facility staff will gain
           practice transitioning participants to and from the sessions.

        9. Week 1, UT (baseline; AD-RD Mood Scale, QUALIDEM).

       10. Weeks 2-3, first randomly assigned condition - either music therapy first or verbal
           discussion first (DMPT pre/post session, MPES+OERS during session; AD-RD Mood Scale and
           QUALIDEM end-of-week)

       11. Weeks 4-5, UT (washout/return to baseline; AD-RD Mood Scale, QUALIDEM).

       12. Weeks 6-7, crossover to condition not yet received - either music therapy or verbal
           discussion (DMPT pre/post session, MPES+OERS during session; AD-RD Mood Scale and
           QUALIDEM end-of-week)

       13. Week 8, UT (return to baseline; AD-RD Mood Scale, QUALIDEM).

       14. Post-study: as a general measure of decline over the course of the study, the PI will
           re-administer the MoCA. To minimize burden on participants and nursing home staff, the
           PI will not re-administer any of the other pre-study assessments.
    
  