
    
      Currently over 3 million Veterans have adopted the VA Patient Portal, My HealtheVet (MHV),
      however actual use of the portal varies considerably, and we are only beginning to understand
      how the portal features can best improve patient outcomes, or whether effective use varies by
      subgroups. By examining the patient portal features associated with improved outcomes and
      clarifying how patients can best leverage these features to better manage their diabetes, the
      investigators will develop and test an intervention to improve adoption and use of the
      patient portal for diabetes management. The goal of this small scale study, using a
      randomized encouragement design, is to test the feasibility of engaging Veterans in a
      supported adoption intervention to promote effective MHV use, in a sample of Veterans with
      diabetes (with or without comorbid mental health problems).

      The investigators will recruit from Veterans age 18-85 who are actively receiving care at the
      study sites (as determined by upcoming scheduled appointment) who have uncontrolled glucose
      (HbA1c >= 8.5%) and have never used the VA patient portal or are inactive registrants who
      have not used the patient portal in the past 12 months. Participants who meet these
      conditions and do not opt out of the study will be randomized to one of four conditions: 1)
      Encouragement I (mailed training guide), 2) Encouragement II (mailed training guide+
      invitation to group training), 3) Encouragement III (mailed training guide+invitation to
      group and one-on-one training), and 4) Comparison (standard patient portal enrollment
      brochure only). All those invited will receive a mailing with the standard My HealtheVet
      patient portal enrollment brochure and information about the study. Those randomized to the
      Encouragement arms will receive a mailed training guide. Those in Encouragement II will
      receive an invitation to attend one of several group training sessions at a VA computer lab
      or virtually (which will emphasize the features most meaningful for diabetes management).
      Those in Encouragement III will be invited to schedule a one-on one session (to sign up and
      learn how to use the patient portal). Those in the comparison condition will receive a
      mailing with only the standard My HealtheVet trifold brochure that provides information on
      how to register. They will be mailed a training guide at the completion of the trial.

      The trainings were performed in-person in Bedford and virtually in Boston due to the timing
      of the COVID-19 pandemic.
    
  