
    
      The study will employ a cluster-randomized design, in which twelve communities within 1-2
      Tribal health regions will be randomized to one of the two study intervention conditions (6
      communities per intervention), matched by community size. All Alaska Native adults aged 45-75
      due for colorectal cancer (CRC) screening within each community will be offered the same
      intervention. A total of 770 participants will be recruited in at least six communities per
      study arm.

        1. High Intensity Intervention: Participants will receive navigated tribal health worker
           outreach, a mailed MT-sDNA kit, mailed culturally appropriate educational material
           describing CRC screening options available and follow-up reminders

        2. Medium Intensity Intervention: Participants will receive mailed culturally appropriate
           educational material describing CRC screening options available, including MT-sDNA, and
           navigated follow-up outreach reminders

        3. Usual Care (Control arm): All other communities in the participating Tribal health
           region will serve as the reference group receiving usual care (i.e., screening
           recommendation at a clinic visit) Participants receiving the high intensity intervention
           are expected to have a 20% increase in screening uptake while those receiving medium
           intensity intervention will have a 10% increase in screening uptake over those receiving
           usual care. The study will also measure MT-sDNA sample quality and neoplastic yield in
           these remote Alaska Native communities. The investigators anticipate that the proportion
           of MT-sDNA tests meeting quality control standards will be the same as in the general US
           population (96%) and that pre-cancerous polyp detection rates at diagnostic post-MT-sDNA
           colonoscopy will exceed routine clinical practice rates in the general US population
           (52%-67%).

      During and following the graded intensity intervention, the investigators will survey samples
      of patients to evaluate their awareness and response to the CRC screening intervention. The
      investigators will assess their perceived severity, perceived susceptibility, perceived
      benefits, perceived barriers, and self-efficacy relevant to CRC screening as well as measure
      the time-to-respond and screening method used. The study will use focus groups and key
      informant interviews to learn about factors associated with screening response. For the focus
      groups, AN people ages 45-75 who are unscreened or non-adherent to screening guidelines
      (colonoscopy within 10 years, sigmoidoscopy within five years, or fecal occult blood testing
      within preceding 12 months) will be invited to provide their views on barriers to and
      facilitators of screening, including barriers described in the literature and identified in
      the investigators previous work. Non-adherence will be identified through tribal medical
      records. Each focus group will last up to two hours, and will include 6-8 participants. All
      focus groups will be stratified by gender, and focus groups will be balanced so that
      approximately equal numbers of men and women are included in the analysis.

      The investigators will also conduct a brief survey and key informant interviews (6-8
      clinician interviews at each location) among community health aides, providers, and tribal
      health system administrators using validated measures of intervention feasibility,
      acceptability, and appropriateness to characterize provider- and system-level barriers and
      promotors to MT-sDNA implementation.
    
  