
    
      The goal of Shanghai stroke service system is to promote and facilitate high quality
      standardized stroke care in Shanghai area. The 11 hospitals involved are committed to provide
      the best stroke care to their patients. This quality goal consists of two parts: the acute
      phase of stroke care and the subsequent care during the hospitalization. To accomplish this
      goal, each hospital has organized a multidisciplinary stroke team that will address
      day-to-day stroke care. Each hospital provides prioritized neuroimaging service to patients
      with acute stroke 24hr per day, 7days per week. A stroke neurologist is on site 24hr per day,
      7 days per week in each hospital. This team will follow the guidelines to carry out
      standardized secondary stroke prevention once the patient has been admitted.

      The stroke clinical pathway is available on line in computers of each hospital. This pathway
      can be accessed from hospital computers, or from outside.

      Stroke team members in each hospital obtained and entered all data on each stroke patient:
      demographics, stroke onset time, onset to thrombolytic time, presenting NIHSS, timing of
      diagnostic procedures, treatment strategies, performance of quality measures, comorbidities,
      in-hospital mortality, etc. These data are contained in a three-page form, which are embedded
      in the electronic health record of each patient.

      If ICD-10 stroke codes were entered as the primary discharge diagnoses, the electronic health
      record systems would not allow the discharge of the patient until all required documentation
      has been completed. The EHR would not allow for any empty fields before it could be closed.
      Data quality was assured by automatic feasibility checks. The novel electronic data
      acquisition system provides the continuous clinical care data on all stroke patients from
      their acute management phase to inpatient rehabilitation or discharge.
    
  