
    
      The use of medical cannabis (MC) for the treatment of chronic pain has risen in the last
      decade. According to the Israel Medical Cannabis Unit (IMCU) of the Israeli Ministry of
      Health (IMOH), there are currently several tens of thousands licenses for the use of medical
      cannabis in Israel, mostly for the relief of chronic pain (mainly utilized by smoking and
      inhalation). It is estimated that 2,000 new licenses will be issued yearly. Recently, the
      IMOH approved the use of drops of whole extract of cannabis inflorescence formulated in oil,
      intended for sublingual administration, for the treatment of chronic pain. That far, there is
      a distinct lack of evidence about the efficacy and safety of MC treatment in the long-term
      with relatively few prospective randomized controlled trials (RCTs) examining this issue.
      This can be explained, at least partially, by the reluctance of physicians, researchers and
      pharmaceutical companies to engage in MC research for various reasons (mainly when utilized
      by smoking and inhalation). Such reasons include the following facts: MC is classified as a
      schedule I drug by the American Food and Drug Administration (FDA); MC is often smoked; that
      the level of cannabinoids and terpenes can vary between suppliers and even from the same
      supplier and therefore it is difficult to quantify the dose; there is abuse of MC;
      patentability of a natural compounds is problematic; and MC consumption is stigmatized. One
      of the accepted ways to narrow gaps of information in medical research where there is a
      dearth of RCTs is to develop cohorts that may allow for the prospective, structured data
      collection and data mining of a large number of "real life" patient conditions.

      The current study will prospectively follow-up on chronic pain patients treated with oil
      extracts MC for a period of six months in "real life" conditions. This study will enable a
      deep investigation regarding the effects of the active extract of cannabis inflorescence
      formulated in oil, derived from the cannabis plant. The results may allow us to reduce the
      gap in understanding MC's effects on pain reduction and its safety, to identify predictors
      for treatment success/ failure, as well as to enable us tailoring a personalize MC treatment
      by choosing optimal concentration and dose according to the patient needs.

      Methods: The sample will include a prospective cohort of patients with chronic non-cancer
      pain that will request license to use oil extracts medical cannabis. The estimated sample
      size is 600 patients. The patients who will be approved to receive a license will be
      followed-up longitudinally for a period of six months from the signing of the consent form.
      The patients will be recruited by their physicians in their clinics.

      Inclusion criteria - Patients that will be recommended to use oil extracts medical cannabis
      for the treatment of all forms of chronic pain (despite cancer); Patients above the age of 18
      years; Patients who will sign an informed consent after receiving explanation on the
      requirements, duration and nature of the study.

      Exclusion criteria - Patients who lack the ability to understand the purpose and instructions
      of the study.

      Questionnaires - (1) Demographic questionnaire includes data regarding age, gender, marital
      status, country of origin, religion, weight, height, smoking habitats, and pain etiology; (2)
      Co-morbidities; (3) Expectations from cannabis treatment; (4) Information regarding the oil
      extracts as: type of the oil, concentration, dose, effect, etc. (5) Patient satisfaction from
      the treatment and the information they will be receive; (6) Pain - The short-form McGill Pain
      Questionnaire (SF-MPQ), Pain Disability Index (PDI), Pain treatment and other pharmacological
      treatments; (7) Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI); (8) Beck Depression Inventory
      (BDI-II); (9) Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS); (10) General Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7); (11)
      Quality of life (EQ5); (12) Changes in appetite; (13) Adverse events - occurrence, severity;
      (14) Cognitive status - by a telephone interview.

      Study procedure - The study has been approved by the ethics committee of Haifa University
      (approval number 216/19). Participants will be recruited by physicians either with pain
      management expertise or those who have license to offer MC. Potential patients who will meet
      the inclusion criteria, will get a full explanation about the study aims and procedure.
      Following their agreement to participate in the study they will sign a written informed
      consent that will be sent to the investigator along with the patient's diagnosis and contact
      information. Then, the patients will be contacted by the investigator and will be asked to
      complete the questionnaires at each of the following time-points: at the time of approval of
      the license (before starting the treatment, baseline) a month, three months and six months,
      from the initiation of treatment. Data will be collected by a secured web based data
      collection technology (Qualtrics®). In case of difficulties in using that technology, the
      data will be collected via phone or face to face meetings. Notably, this study is only
      observational and not interventional, e.g., the patient will be informed that participation
      in this study will not influence the approval\disapproval for the acceptance\renewal of the
      oil extract medical cannabis license from the Medical Cannabis Unit (MCU) of the Israeli
      health ministry. Additionally, the research related tie between patients to their physician
      will be terminated following the signing of the consent form, from this point forward, the
      physician will have no access to the specific patients' study related data. This is in
      purpose to assure that decisions regarding the patient's further treatments will not be
      influenced by any way from the collected data.
    
  