
    
      This study includes 5 different hospitals in 4 cities of Greece. The responsible party in
      each hospital is an orthopedic department which will organize a fracture liaison service
      (FLS) for both Hospitalized patients over 50 years old with low energy fractures and
      Outpatients over 50 years old with low energy fractures (low energy fracture is defined as a
      fracture resulting from minimal trauma such as falling from standing height or less).

      This action targets to improve patient care and to reduce secondary osteoporotic fractures,
      along with collateral healthcare cost.

      Prerequisite for patients' enrollment in the FLS program is the voluntary signed acceptance
      of the program's terms and conditions (signed Inform Consent Forms).

      Program Services for eligible patients include the following steps:

        -  The FLS personnel informs patient about the program, its services and provides him/her
           with the relevant, informative, printed material. After obtaining patient's signed
           informed consent, the competent personnel in cooperation with treating physicians:

             1. Compiles and updates patient's file.

             2. Ensures that diagnostics and laboratory tests will include: Hip and Lumbar Spine
                BMD (of at least one hip, in two points of lumbar spine if possible); Thoracic
                Spine F/P & Lumbar Spine F/P X-rays; and the minimum required laboratory test for
                patients with low energy fracture, that are candidates to receive
                "anti-osteoporotic" medication, according to Greek osteoporosis guidelines.
                Calculates the relevant FRAX score.

           3) Assures that treating physician (or the physician accountable for the bone metabolic
           disorders) recommends a treatment for the prevention of a new fracture, if appropriate,
           after patient's examination and before patient leaves hospital.

        -  The FLS personnel ensures the restoration of regular contact with the fractured
           patients, aiming to inform and alert them (and/or their relatives, families), by
           reminding and facilitating the next appointment in outpatient office for Metabolic Bone
           Diseases.

        -  The FLS personnel compiles and applies a patient support program, with regular telephone
           contacts. The program informs, awares, motivates and facilitates patients to follow up
           with a specialized physician, by providing useful information or/and services (for
           example: to schedule the next appointment in the specific hospital's outpatient office).
           During the telephone contact specific data will be collected and recorded, such as if a
           new fracture has emerged, if patient is under regular supervision / follow up by
           physician for osteoporosis, if patient is still under treatment. If not the
           discontinuation reason should be collected. The telephone contact schedule will be as
           follows: One, six and twelve months after discharge from hospital.

      The enrollment period lasts 365 days in each hospital, starting from first patient's
      enrollment date in each particular center. Patients' follow up will also last 365 days and
      therefore the total duration of the program is 2 years in every center.
    
  