
    
      Background:

        -  Patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) have few approved
           therapeutic options and those that exist are of transient benefit.

        -  Recent clinical experiences with experimental agents that release checkpoints on the
           host immune response (such as anti-PD-1 and anti-PDL1 antibody) have induced tumor
           regressions in patients with NSCLC.

        -  Data from sequencing the genomes of human cancers have shown that, like malignant
           melanoma, NSCLC has a very high rate of tumor-specific genomic mutation.

        -  In metastatic melanoma, a tumor infiltrating lymphocyte cell therapy product (TIL) can
           mediate the regression of bulky disease at any site when administered to an autologous
           patient with high dose aldesleukin following a non-myeloablative but lymphodepleting
           chemotherapy preparative regimen.

        -  Recent studies on tumor infiltrating lymphocytes from melanoma have demonstrated that
           they can frequently recognize tumor-specific mutated proteins as foreign antigens and
           that is one hypothesis as to why melanoma is such an immunogenic tumor.

        -  We propose to investigate the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of growing and
           administering an autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocyte product (TIL) to patients with
           metastatic NSCLC.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective:

      -To determine the rate of tumor regression in patients with advanced non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC) who receive an autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocyte product (TIL) plus
      aldesleukin following a lymphodepleting preparative regimen.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients who are 18 years of age or older must have:

             -  Advanced NSCLC refractory to standard therapy

             -  A site of tumor that can be excised with minimal morbidity and mortality or that
                requires excision for clinical indications

             -  At least one remaining site of measurable disease

             -  Normal basic laboratory values.

        -  Patients may not have:

             -  Concurrent major medical illnesses that preclude aldesleukin administration or
                immunosuppression;

             -  Severe hepatic function impairment due to liver metastatic burden;

             -  Any form of immunodeficiency;

             -  Severe hypersensitivity to any of the agents used in this study;

             -  Symptomatic brain metastases or more than 3 CNS metastases

      Design:

        -  Patients will undergo biopsy or resection to obtain tumor for generation of autologous
           tumor infiltrating lymphocyte cultures and autologous cancer cell lines.

        -  The TIL product will be generated according to current TIL-lab standard operating
           procedures, using interleukin-2 and OKT3 antibody.

        -  All patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine

        -  Cohort 1 will receive TIL on day 0 and then begin high-dose aldesleukin (720,000 IU/kg
           IV); cohort 2 will receive TIL on day 0 and then begin low-dose aldesleukin (72,000
           IU/kg IV). Assignment to this cohort will be made if there are concomitant medical
           conditions that would preclude the use of high-dose aldesleukin

        -  Clinical and immunologic response will be evaluated about 4-6 weeks after TIL infusion.

        -  For both cohorts 1 and 2, using a Phase II design, 21 patients will be initially
           enrolled in each group to assess toxicity and tumor responses. If two or more of the
           first 21 patients per group shows a clinical response (PR or CR), accrual will continue
           to 41 patients, targeting a 20% goal for objective response. In order to allow for a
           small number of non evaluable patients, a total of 85 patients may be enrolled over 5
           years.
    
  