
    
      Overexpression of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) or other cytidine deaminases
      causes high rates of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage (mutations, double strand DNA breaks,
      and chromosome rearrangements) in a high number of patients with B-cell malignancies, such as
      NHL, MM, and CLL, and in a subset of patients with solid tumors, such as non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC), sarcoma, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and squamous cell carcinoma of the
      head and neck. Cancer cells that overexpress AID and other cytidine deaminases rely on RAD51,
      a protein involved in homologous recombination, to repair the DNA damage caused by cytidine
      deaminases. Inhibition of RAD51 with CYT-0851 in preclinical models induces cell death, tumor
      growth delay or tumor regression.

      The Phase 1 part of the study will follow an accelerated titration design, which includes
      enrollment of single patient cohorts until certain criteria are met, followed by a standard
      3+3 design. This design will allow for identification of a recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D)
      level while dosing the least number of patients as possible at potentially sub-therapeutic
      doses. In the Phase 2 part of the study, preliminary efficacy will be evaluated in 8
      expansion cohorts (total n = 92-220), using a Simon two-stage design. The RP2D will be
      selected based on the MTD, the safety profile, PK, and available pharmacodynamics data
      generated from all subjects in Phase 1.

      In both Phase 1 and Phase 2, patients will be treated in continuous 28-day cycles and all
      patients will be assessed for response every 2 cycles. Treatment will be terminated if the
      patient progresses, cannot tolerate treatment, or withdraws consent from active therapy.
      Patients will undergo a safety evaluation approximately 1 month (28-35 days) after the last
      dose. Patients will be followed for response until progression is documented.
    
  