
    
      The association between patient sex and the tolerability of antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) is
      increasingly being recognized. Several lines of evidence suggest that women are more likely
      than men to develop side effects to ARVs. On the other hand, it has been generally accepted
      that the efficacies of the ARVs are similar in both sexes. However, recent studies suggest
      that this may not always be the case. In addition to these observed sex-related differences
      in the effects of ARVs, there is growing evidence that the pharmacokinetic profile of some of
      these drugs may be different among male and female HIV infected patients.

      The fact that female sex is a risk factor for enhanced antiretroviral effects (including
      toxicities) has an important implication, particularly from a global health perspective as
      women now represent the fastest growing segment of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Therefore, an
      understanding of the magnitude, clinical significance, and the mechanisms underlying this
      phenomenon deserves further study. Knowledge acquired from such studies will likely
      contribute to improved survival among female HIV-infected patients, through optimization of
      antiretroviral therapeutic regimens in manners that minimize serious adverse effects and
      improve adherence.

      Similarly, the influence of race on the pharmacological effects of ARVs deserves further
      investigation. Although, there is no reason to believe based on available evidence that
      racial differences exist in the pharmacological effects of ARVs, the need however exists to
      explore the influence of race on ARVs pharmacokinetics and treatment outcomes. This is so
      because data on race related differences on ARV effects is limited, and in addition, people
      of ethnic minority have been disproportionately under represented in clinical trials
      involving these drugs in spite of the fact that they bear a larger burden of the HIV
      epidemic.

      Our study will examine the influence of race and sex on the 24-hr pharmacokinetics of
      lopinavir/ritonavir (an antiretroviral agent commonly used in naïve patients) following a
      switch from LPV/r 400/100 mg twice daily to 800/200 mg once daily dosing. Tolerability
      (measured by toxicity grade of diarrhea) and change in quality of life following switch from
      twice daily to once daily dosing will also be assessed using appropriate validated
      measurement tools.
    
  