
    
      Rational

      Maxillary Edentulous is one of the more frequent handicaps that cause many problems for
      dental prosthesis. Dental implants are currently the most convenient solution but require
      sufficient bone sinus height.

      The filling of the sinus can be made by two ways :

        -  Either with autologous bone removed from hipbone or cranial bone. This method has
           several drawbacks such as the multiplicity of the surgery sites.

        -  Or with alloplasty materials that are subject to uncertain osseointegration and that are
           very expensive.

      The aim of this study is to show the interest of an autologous platelet concentrate (APC) in
      this surgery. We will use the osteogenic property of platelets associated with a small
      quantity of spongy bone removed from the surgery site.

      It has been previously demonstrated that platelets contain growth factors, in particular PDGF
      (platelet derivated growth factors), TGF-α1 and 2 (transforming growth factors) and IGF-1
      (insulin like growth factor). These molecules have receptors on spongy bone, enhance mitosis,
      osteoblast differentiation, angiogenesis and induce the inhibition of osteoclats.

      Method :

      The sinus filling will be performed under general anaesthetic. On one side by the usual
      technique with hipbone transplant, the other side will be restored with APC mixed with
      autologous bone tissue removed from the surgery site.

      The side selection will be determined by the randomization. For each patient a waiting period
      of 6 months is required before dental implants.

      Twenty patients will be enrolled in this single-centre study with a follow-up of one year.

      Main objective :

      - To demonstrate that the osteogenesis with APC mixed with a small quantity (1 to 2 cm2) of
      autologous bone tissue removed from the surgery site, has a sufficient quality to allow the
      dental implants.

      Secondary Objectives :

        -  To compare the osteogenesis with the current procedure (hipbone transplant)

        -  To estimate the kinetic of osteogenesis using successive radiography.
    
  