
    
      Investigators will conduct a blinded cluster randomized controlled trial to evaluate the
      health and economic impacts of having access to automatically chlorinated water. The unit of
      randomization will be shared water points that typically serve 20-200 households. Shared
      water points connected to holding tanks compatible with the water treatment technology, and
      serving more than 4 households with at least one child under five, will be identified.
      Households accessing eligible water points as their primary drinking water source will be
      enrolled before installation of chlorine devices, and a baseline survey will be conducted of
      water quality, diarrhea prevalence, and health care expenditures. Following this baseline,
      households will be randomly assigned to control or treatment groups. The chlorination devices
      will be installed at the treatment group water points, while a doser containing vitamin C
      (and no chlorine), will be installed in the control group. The free chlorine dosing target
      will be below <1ppm to preserve blinding. All households will be surveyed every 2-3 months
      for a total follow up period of 14-16 months (5-7 survey rounds, budget permitting).

      Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the impact of an automated chlorination system on microbial stored drinking
           water quality, residual chlorine, user satisfaction, user perceptions of water taste and
           smell, under-five child diarrhea (longitudinal prevalence) compared to a control group.

        2. Compare the marginal additional cost (per person served) of installing and maintaining
           an automated chlorination system integrated with the current water supply infrastructure
           in low-income areas of Dhaka.

        3. Assess the impact of an automated chlorination system on hospital visits and health care
           expenditures.

        4. To measure secondary outcomes of the impact of an automated chlorination system
           including under-five child weight-for-age (WAZ), under-five height-for-age (HAZ), as
           well as levels of C-reactive protein and immunoglobin G in serum samples collected from
           children under five (these are objective indicators of infection, such as repeat
           diarrheal episodes).

      Analysis:

      The primary analyses will be intent-to-treat (investigators will analyze differences in
      outcomes between the treatment and control groups, with groups defined by their random
      allocation). Investigators will also conduct a secondary analysis comparing outcomes between
      intervention and control, where the intervention group is defined as those households that
      had free chlorine residual detected in their stored drinking water (treated on the treated
      analysis).
    
  