
    
      Significance and Purpose:

      Many different resources and tools are necessary to make significant advances in medical
      research. Progress in rare diseases such as cystinosis can often be impeded by the lack of
      information available about the disease and limited access to volunteers eligible for
      clinical trials. Therefore, patients who are willing to provide information about how the
      disease has affected them and also make themselves available to participate in trials are
      among the most valuable resources the investigators have to fight a disease. However, the
      research community desperately needs the right tool that will permit access to these
      resources.

      A tool widely used to conveniently collect both data about a disease and information about
      potential clinical trial participants is a patient registry. A patient registry is any system
      that allows for the organized collection of data about disease outcomes in affected
      populations for a scientific, clinical, or policy purpose. The Cystinosis Research Foundation
      (CRF) has aligned itself with cystinosis medical experts and organizations worldwide to
      create the first ever international, online patient registry for cystinosis, Cure Cystinosis
      International Registry (CCIR). The express purpose of CCIR is to make anonymous information
      available to the research community and thus promote accelerated research in advanced
      treatments and ultimately a cure for cystinosis.

      Objectives:

      The objectives of CCIR are:

        -  Evaluate epidemiology and clinical characteristics of cystinosis around the world.

        -  Evaluate and compare the diagnosis, treatment, and kidney transplant rates among
           cystinosis communities from different geographical areas.

        -  Enhance the understanding of how cystinosis affects quality of life.

      CCIR Registration:

      Interested cystinosis patients may register themselves with CCIR online at
      http://www.cystinosisregistry.org. Registration is easy and secure. Simply go to the website
      and create a CCIR account and complete a survey. The CCIR website is currently available in
      English and Spanish, and will soon be available in French, Portuguese, and possibly other
      languages.

      Benefits to CCIR participants include instant access to the registry's accumulated survey
      results (reported as anonymous group data), and opportunities to submit questions to
      cystinosis experts and to learn of clinical trial opportunities. No personal information is
      shared outside of CCIR. Individual identities are known only to appropriate CCIR staff.
    
  