
    
      Determining the optimal intensity of treatment is essential to the design and implementation
      of any treatment program for aphasia. Yet, treatment intensity is a complex construct and
      information on the variables modulating it remain ambiguous and limited. Studies reported in
      the neuroscience and clinical literature support the need for intensive treatment to induce
      long-term neuroplastic changes while the cognitive psychology literature suggests that
      learning is best maintained with distributed schedules. A few studies have looked at dose
      parameters for single word naming tasks, but there is limited evidence regarding dose
      parameters for treatments that focus on training the production of larger units, such as
      sentences or even connected discourse. One approach that is frequently used clinically and
      has evidence for its efficacy is script training. Little is currently known regarding the
      optimum dose of script training (i.e., the number of repetitions over time of each sentence
      within the script) that is required to promote the best outcomes.

      This study investigates the effects of modulating stimulus variables, specifically stimulus
      practice distribution and stimulus repetition. We use a baseline script treatment that has
      experimental support regarding its efficacy, and that allows the manipulation of these
      variables. To ensure independence and fidelity, treatment is provided in a controlled
      computer environment (desktop and tablet). To avoid clinician-related variables such as
      expertise and personality factors that may influence treatment, sentences are modeled during
      treatment by an anthropomorphic agent with high visual speech intelligibility and affective
      expressions.

      With regard to "best outcomes", generalization is the ultimate goal of any treatment
      approach. Therefore, the primary outcome is a generalization measure of conversation.
      Secondary measures address short-term acquisition, longer-term maintenance, and stimulus and
      response generalization for assessing gain over baseline, differential effects, and
      interactions. A mobile-connected wireless wearable laryngeal sensor allows tracking of talk
      time at home and in the community as a measure of treatment effectiveness and transfer. For
      privacy, it does not record audio.

      Results and computational models of learning (generalization, short-term acquisition, and
      longer-term maintenance) will contribute new evidence to fill critical gaps in current
      scientific understanding regarding the effectiveness and clinical application of aphasia
      treatment approaches. More generally, findings will help to inform clinical practice and
      treatment of neurologic communication disorders; the virtual clinician guided intervention
      that the proposal develops has the potential to reduce costly clinician-client time otherwise
      required for long-term rehabilitation.
    
  