
    
      Subjects will be individuals undergoing unilateral or bilateral mastectomy; upper or lower
      limb amputation; primary, unilateral total knee or shoulder arthroplasty; primary, unilateral
      rotator cuff repair; video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery; and burn-related skin grafting of
      the lateral thigh. Those who consent to participate in this study will have standard
      preoperative peripheral nerve blocks administered and catheters inserted: paravertebral
      blocks or a fascial plane block (e.g., erector spinae plane block) for mastectomy,
      femoral/sciatic for lower limb amputation, and brachial plexus (or terminal nerves) for upper
      limb amputation; femoral or adductor canal for total knee arthroplasty; interscalene for
      shoulder arthroplasty or rotator cuff repair; thoracic epidural for video-assisted
      thoracoscopic surgery (VATS); and lateral femoral cutaneous nerve for skin grafting of the
      lateral thigh.

      Treatment group assignment (randomization). Subjects with successfully-administered
      peripheral nerve blocks (defined by sensory changes in the appropriate nerve distribution)
      will be allocated to one of two possible treatments:

        1. cryoneurolysis

        2. sham cryoneurolysis (placebo control)

      Randomization will be stratified by surgery type (e.g., mastectomy, upper limb amputation,
      and lower limb amputation). Computer-generated randomization lists will be used to create
      sealed, opaque randomization envelopes with the treatment group assignment enclosed in each
      envelope labeled with the randomization number.

      The specific nerves targeted will depend on the surgical site: intercostal nervesblocks (4
      levels depending on the specific surgical approach) for mastectomy; femoral/sciatic for lower
      limb amputation, and brachial plexus (or terminal nerves) for upper limb amputation;
      infrapatellar branch of the saphenous nerve for knee arthroplasty; suprascapular nerve for
      shoulder surgery; intercostal nerves for VATS procedures, and the lateral femoral cutaneous
      nerve for skin grafting of the lateral thigh. The cryoneurolysis sites will be cleansed with
      chlorhexidine gluconate and isopropyl alcohol. Using the optimal ultrasound transducer for
      the specific anatomic location and subject anatomy (linear vs curvilinear array), the target
      nerves will be identified in a transverse cross-sectional (short axis) view.

      We initially used a hand-held cryoneurolysis machine (Iovera, Myoscience, Redwood City, CA;
      prior to merger with Pacira Pharmaceuticals). For subjects randomized to sham, we inserted
      the angiocatheters just through the skin and subsequently place the probe through the
      angiocatheter, but not deeper than immediately subcutaneous (lidocaine 2% will be
      administered, as needed, to anesthetize the angiocatheter track). We simulated a cryo
      treatment but did not actually deliver gas to the probe. Therefore, there was no temperature
      change. However, since all subjects had a paravertebral block in place, and intercostal
      cryoneurolysis approach was via the subjects' back outside of their line of vision, subjects
      were unable to sense much besides the pressure of the angiocatheter insertion and remained
      masked to treatment group. For subjects randomized to receive cryoneurolysis, the same
      procedure was used, only the angiocatheters inserted deeper towards the intercostal nerves,
      the probes situated adjacent to the intercostal nerves, and active gas passed through the
      probe resulting in cryoneurolysis of the target nerves.

      When it became available, the hand-held device was replaced by a console cryoneurolysis
      device. Cryoneurolysis probes are available for a console neurolysis device (PainBlocker,
      Epimed, Farmers Branch, Texas) that either (1) pass nitrous oxide to the tip inducing
      freezing temperatures; or, (2) vent the nitrous oxide at the base of the probe so that no gas
      reaches the probe tip, resulting in no temperature change. Importantly, these probes are
      indistinguishable in appearance, and therefore treating physicians, subjects, and all
      clinical staff will be masked to treatment group assignment [only the treating
      physician/investigator performing the cryoneurolysis with be unmasked]. An
      angiocatheter/introducer may be inserted beneath the ultrasound transducer and directed until
      the probe tip is immediately adjacent to the target nerve (lidocaine 2% will be administered,
      as needed, to anesthetize the angiocatheter track). The angiocatheter needle will be removed,
      leaving the angiocatheter through which the appropriate Epimed probe will be inserted until
      it is adjacent to the target nerve. The cryoneurolysis device will be triggered using 3
      cycles of 2-minute gas activation (active or sham) separated by 1-minute defrost periods. For
      active probes, the nitrous oxide will be deployed to the tip where a drop in temperature to
      -70°C will result in cryoneurolysis. For the sham probes, the nitrous oxide will be vented
      prior to reaching the probe shaft, resulting in a lack of perineural temperature change. The
      process will be repeated with the same treatment probe for any additional nerves (e.g., all
      nerves will receive either active cryoneurolysis or sham/placebo, and not a mix of the two
      possible treatments).

      Statistical Analysis. The limb amputation, total knee and shoulder arthroplasty, rotator cuff
      repair, VATS, and skin grafting subjects will be included in pilot studies to help power a
      future clinical trials, so the investigators will enroll a convenience sample and not have a
      pre-determined primary endpoint or statistical plan. However, the end points of most interest
      will be average pain score on postoperative day 2 for shoulder arthroplasty and skin grafting
      subjects, range-of-motion at 6 weeks for the rotator cuff repairs, range-of-motion for knee
      arthroplasty, and FEV1 for the VATS procedures.

      For the subjects having mastectomy, the investigators will power this study for an acute pain
      end point which will provide conclusive results for that end point; but, the data will also
      be used to help power a subsequent large, multicenter clinical trial for a chronic
      pain-related end point (which will require far more subjects than the investigators will
      enroll for the current study).

      For the mastectomy subjects, sample size calculations are centered around the hypothesis that
      cryoneurolysis decreases the incidence and severity of post-mastectomy pain in the week
      following surgery. To this end, the primary outcome is the average NRS (as administered as
      part of the Brief Pain Inventory) queried on the afternoon of postoperative day 2. The
      difference in the distribution of NRS between groups will be assessed using the Mann-Whitney
      U test. The investigators approximate power using the two-sample t-test. Assuming a standard
      deviation of 2.25 NRS points, and minimum clinically meaningful difference of 2 NRS points,
      n=30 patients per group provide 86% power with two-sided alpha=5%.

      The t-test approximation was confirmed by simulating integer valued NRS scores in the range 0
      to 10. One group was simulated by rounding normally distributed data with mean 1.5 and
      standard deviation 2.5 (resulting in median of 2 and interquartile range 0 to 3); and the
      other with mean 3.5 and standard deviation 2.5 (resulting in median of 4 and interquartile
      range 1 to 5). Note these resulting summary statistics are consistent with Ilfeld et al
      (2014). When 10,000 trials were simulated under these assumptions, the Mann-Whitney U test
      provided 89.5% power, and Type I error was maintained at 4.85%.

      Differences between groups in demographic variables and secondary endpoints will be assessed
      with the Mann-Whitney U test for continuous or ordinal data, and Fisher's Exact test for
      categorical data. Box-and-whisker plots will be used to visualize distributions by group.

      R version 3.4.4 (R-project.org) was used for sample size calculations and simulations; and
      the most recent version of R will be used at the time of analysis.
    
  