
    
      Isoproterenol is a direct acting Beta-1 and Beta-2 agonist useful for its effects on
      bronchodilation and myocardial contractility. Its CNS side effects include nervousness,
      headache, dizziness, restlessness, insomnia, anxiety, tension, blurring of vision, fear, and
      excitement. In addition to our preliminary data, two case reports show an increase in BIS
      with administration of isoproterenol. Our hypothesis is that administration of isoproterenol
      will increase the level of consciousness of the patient as reflected in the BIS reading.

      The BIS Vista Monitor is a non-invasive device that measures the electrical activity of the
      brain. It computes a number between 0 and 100 which corresponds to a level of consciousness
      which is known as the Bispectral (BIS) value. Using the BIS value to guide administration of
      anesthetic medication, clinicians can make informed decisions for optimal anesthesia. This
      technology has the potential to prevent over sedation, but is currently not a standard
      monitoring device.

      Another approach to evaluating the level of consciousness of anesthetized patients is to
      assess their ability to form memories or recall events which occurred while under anesthesia.
      Conscious recall is the first to disappear with decreasing levels of consciousness. A BIS of
      60 or less has been shown in various studies to be sufficient to prevent conscious recall in
      the vast majority of patients. We propose to use a modified isolated forearm technique test
      in which the patient is asked to squeeze an observer's hand during anesthesia to ascertain if
      awareness can occur without recall at a BIS of 60 to 70. (6) Implicit memory in which there
      is no conscious recall or evaluation of awareness can be assessed by word stem completion
      tests and has been shown to occur with a BIS as low as 40 - 60 although these results are not
      consistent across all studies. (7)
    
  