
    
      About 15% of the general population shows resistance to the antiplatelet effects of aspirin,
      due to genetic polymorphisms and other factors. This resistance is a cause of increased
      myocardial infarction and death in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary interventions.
      Aspirin resistance can be detected by whole blood impedance aggregometry using the
      Multiplate® analyzer. The population of patients undergoing vascular surgery is at particular
      risk of suffering myocardial infarction in the perioperative period because of the high
      prevalence of risk factors. Most of these patients are treated by aspirin, as a measure of
      primary or secondary prevention. In this study we aim to establish baseline aspirin efficacy,
      as measured by the Multiplate® analyzer, in this high-risk population and evaluate the
      changes in aspirin efficacy over the first five days of the postoperative period. It is our
      hypothesis that the state of chronic inflammation, accompanying severe, generalized
      atherosclerosis results in a higher incidence of aspirin resistance in this population. Also,
      the surgical trauma and postoperative thrombocytosis may reduce the efficacy of aspirin in
      the postoperative period, partially explaining the increased incidence of postoperative
      myocardial infarction in this population.

      In whole blood impedance aggregometry, the electrical impedance of the blood sample is
      measured by placing two electrodes in the recipient. After the addition of a platelet
      activator, the impedance will increase as platelets accumulate on the electrodes surfaces.
      Several activators, testing the patency of different platelet receptors can be used.

      In this study, blood will be drawn on the day of surgery, and daily until the fifth
      postoperative day. Arachidonic acid, ADP, TRAP-6 and collagen will be used as activators. The
      first specifically tests the platelets reactivity to thromboxane A2. Aspirin inhibits this
      pathway, and the increase in impedance should therefore be limited in patients treated by
      this drug. The three other tests will be performed to evaluate the evolution of overall
      platelet reactivity in the postoperative period.
    
  