
    
      The primary objective is to assess the effect and safety of aliskiren on reducing systemic
      and local complement activation as indicated by a reduction of serum C3 during the cross-over
      study and serum C3 and complement deposition in renal biopsies during the extension study in
      patients with C3 glomerulopathy as compared to the currently used treatment with the
      angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEi) enalapril.

      Secondary objectives are to assess the effect of aliskiren as compared to the currently used
      treatment with the ACEi enalapril on: complement activation (such as serum C3a, C3dg, C5a and
      related complement assays), proteinuria, kidney function, kidney biopsy findings, blood
      pressure, activation of the renin angiotensin system.

      Aliskiren will be administered orally in tablet form at 150 -300 mg/daily (maximal dose 300
      mg). Enalapril 2.5-20 mg/daily (maximal dose 20 mg). These drugs may be administered once or
      twice.

      The investigators estimate an inclusion of maximum 15 patients for start of treatment with
      aliskiren and maximum 15 patients for start of treatment with enalapril. Suitable patients
      will be chosen from those patients who:

        1. Do not have severe renal failure. Pediatric patients will be included if they have a
           glomerular filtration rate ≥ 50 ml/min/1.73m2, adults ≥ 30 ml/min/1.73m2.

        2. Children, above the age of 6 years of age and adults.

        3. Patients treated with aliskiren will be compared to patients treated with the ACE
           inhibitor enalapril as monotherapy. Use of ACE inhibitor as a nephroprotective therapy
           will increase renin levels without blocking its effect. Thus, the investigators will
           compare patients on aliskiren with those on enalapril to investigate if ACE inhibition
           as monotherapy has a negative effect on complement activation in comparison to direct
           renin inhibition.

        4. Patients treated with immune suppressive medications at the start (such as mycophenolate
           mofetil (MMF) or corticosteroids) will be compared to patients treated with MMF or
           steroids plus aliskiren or enalapril.

      All suitable patients who fulfill inclusion criteria and who submitted written informed
      consent (patient or patient's legal guardians) will have undergone a renal biopsy at the most
      2 years before inclusion or at inclusion and will be randomized for treatment with aliskiren
      or enalapril. After 6 months patients on aliskiren will switch to enalapril and vice versa,
      patients on enalapril will switch to aliskiren treatment. Patients will be followed
      routinely, every 3rd month, regarding renal function (creatinine, urea, estimated glomerular
      filtration rate), albumin (blood and urine), renin levels and complement activation assays in
      blood samples (C3, C3dg, C5, properdin, soluble terminal complement complex, C3a, C5a, C3
      nephritic factor and other complement assays). The follow-up period, a total of 3 years from
      the start, will be carried out by the patient's own nephrologist and will not differ from the
      clinical follow-up offered patients not participating in the study. After 1-3 years (when
      medically indicated but at the most 3 years after start), a repeat renal biopsy will be
      performed to validate the effect of treatment on renal morphology. Renal biopsies, both the
      initial and the repeat biopsy, will be evaluated for complement deposition and glomerular
      basement membrane thickness.
    
  