
    
      Trauma is a major healthcare problem with a high mortality rate that might be caused by
      immune-suppression.

      Trauma initiates an immunosuppressive response which is contributor tocell damage and could
      be a marker of multi organ failure and mortality.

      Programmed cell death receptor-1 (PD-1) and programmed cell death receptor ligand-1 (PD-L1),
      which are co-inhibitory receptor molecules, may participate in trauma-induced
      immune-suppression.

      Both sterile and infected trauma induce the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS),
      originally defined by pyrexia, tachycardia, hyperventilation and neutrophilia, the latter
      responding poorly to pathogens. (10) Accompanying these changes is a decrease in circulating
      basophil, eosinophil and natural killer precursors, which further weakens systemic immunity.

      Apoptosis (Programmed Cell Death):

      Programmed cell-death (PCD) is death of a cell in any form, mediated by an intracellular
      program. PCD is carried out in a regulated process, which usually confers advantage during an
      organism's life-cycle. Apoptosis and autophagy are both forms of PCD, but necrosis is a
      non-physiological process that occurs as a result of infection or injury.

      Programmed cell death protein 1 Programmed cell death protein 1, also known as PD-1 and CD
      279 (cluster of differentiation 279), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PDCD1
      gene. PD-1 is a cell surface receptor that belongs to the immunoglobulin super family and is
      expressed on T cells and pro-B cells. PD-1 binds two ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2. PD-1,
      functioning as an immune checkpoint, plays an important role in down regulating the immune
      system by preventing the activation of T-cells, which in turn reduces autoimmunity and
      promotes self-tolerance.

      Ligands PD-1 has two ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2, which are members of the B7 family. Several
      lines of evidence suggest that PD-1 and its ligands negatively regulate immune responses PD-1
      knockout mice have been shown to develop lupus-like glomerulo-nephritis and dilated
      cardiomyopathy Triggering PD-1, expressed on monocytes and up-regulated upon monocytes
      activation, by its ligand PD-L1 induces IL-10 production which inhibits CD4 T-cell function.
    
  