
    
      Background: Excessive drooling of saliva (sialorrhoea) is a common complication of
      Parkinson's disease (PD). Unfortunately current medications, which rely on anticholinergic
      properties, often induce systemic side effects, such as confusion, hallucinations or urinary
      retention.

      Aim: We therefore hypothesise that local application of an anticholinergic aerosol spray into
      the mouth would reduce sialorrhea in PD without inducing systemic side-effects.

      Method: A double blind, randomised, placebo-controlled cross-over trial of the muscarinic
      antagonist, ipratropium bromide in patients with bothersome drooling in idiopathic
      Parkinson's disease. All patients are recruited from the Movement Disorders Clinic, Toronto
      Western Hospital and informed consent is obtained. Patients are randomised to receive
      ipratropium bromide, 1- 2 metered doses (sprays) of active drug (21 micorgram per metered
      dose) or matching placebo, up to a maximum of 4 times per day, in a double-blind, cross-over
      design using randomisation tables. Total treatment length is two weeks for each limb of the
      study with a 1-2 week wash out period. The primary outcome measure is an objective measure of
      saliva production. Dental rolls are inserted into the mouth for 5 min and the patient
      instructed not to swallow and sit upright. The weight of dental rolls before and after
      insertion is calculated as a measure of saliva production. The secondary outcome measures are
      subjective measure of saliva where patients or caregivers record the level of saliva
      production each day for the 2 weeks of each treatment using validated subjective rating
      scales which assess drooling severity and frequency. In addition, parkinsonism is rated using
      the UPDRS parts I - IV and adverse events are recorded. The scores for measured saliva
      production following ipratropium bromide and placebo treatment will be compared using
      appropriate paired t-tests. Results from the scales assessing the subjective measures of
      saliva production and UPDRS ratings will be compared via paired non-parametric Wilcoxon
      matched pairs test. 20 patients will be recruited.
    
  