
    
      The proportion of Veterans over age 65 has risen from 11% to 26% from 1980 to 1990, and is
      estimated to rise to over 50% by 2030. Due to the growing number of older Veterans, health
      issues specific to the aging Veteran population is a primary concern for the Veterans Health
      Administration. Fear of developing dementia is common among older adults and minor memory
      lapses that were previously of little concern may be misinterpreted as signaling the
      beginning stages of dementia. Although normal cognitive aging is not the same as pathological
      aging, the impact of normal age-related changes warrants intervention since it can cause
      emotional distress and functional difficulties impacting occupational, recreational, and
      social pursuits and subjective cognitive impairment, defined as a noticed cognitive change
      without objective evidence of decline on neuropsychological testing may be the earliest
      precursor for dementia. While cognitive changes can be expected as we age, there is a growing
      body of literature demonstrating that modifiable lifestyle factors can influence functional
      ability and quality of life as one ages. In addition, cognitive training may result in
      improvements in cognition and functioning in older adults. Unfortunately, many older adults
      lack knowledge about cognitive aging and the factors that contribute to successful cognitive
      aging, which limits their ability to make changes that can improve the odds of successful
      cognitive aging. The need to disseminate information related to brain health has recently
      been recognized by key agencies involved in promoting the welfare of older adults, including
      the National Institutes of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, Mental Health, and Aging as
      well as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Alzheimer's Association. The
      current study builds upon previous work on cognitive intervention in older adults by
      investigating a multi-component intervention which includes psychoeducation about cognitive
      aging, presentation of lifestyle factors that contribute to successful cognitive aging, and
      broad cognitive skills training. Using a randomized controlled trial design, 72 Veterans will
      be assigned to either the intervention group (36) or a no treatment control group (36).
      Veterans will undergo baseline assessment, which will be used for comparison immediately
      following the intervention and at 3 and 6 month followup. Outcomes include knowledge of
      cognitive aging, measures of psychological wellness, and indicators of cognitive and
      functional ability.
    
  