
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the indications for the liver transplantation. With
      the advancement of liver transplantation associated science and technology, the recurrence of
      tumor posttransplantation has become the principal contradiction to worsen the prognosis and
      therefore the prevention of recurrence of HCC is the key to improve the efficacy of liver
      transplantation. Adoptive cellular immunotherapy has been applied in various malignant tumors
      including HCC and has obtained significant effects. But for patients with liver transplant in
      immunosuppressed states, to successfully apply the immune cells to prevent and treat HCC
      relapse after liver transplantation must balance immunosuppression and anti-tumor immunity.
      It is necessary to consider the safety of adoptive cellular immunotherapy,and it is also
      necessary to consider the effectiveness of treatment that the immune cells in the
      immunosuppression state can exert anti-tumor effects. Natural killer cells (NK cells) have
      MHC-unrestricted killing effect on malignant tumor cells and are not major mediating cells
      for GVHD, and might be an optimum choice to meet the above requirements.

      Patients with confirmed recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma after liver transplantation at
      the Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University were enrolled.Participants in the
      study will be assigned to one of three treatment arms:

      Arm A: Participants will received conventional treatment and low dose of NK cells treatment
      for 4 times. Arm B: Participants will received conventional treatment and normal dose of NK
      cells treatment for 4 times. Arm C: Participants will received conventional treatment and
      normal dose of NK cells treatment for 8 times. The cultured NK cells from the peripheral
      blood of the same blood type were taken and infused at intervals of two weeks. Periodic liver
      function recheck and imaging examination were conducted for 6 months after the last NK cells
      infusion.
    
  