
    
      Swallowing problems and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) are common in the community
      with important effects on health, quality of life and NHS costs. Furthermore, these problems
      may explain the increasing rate of oesophageal cancer. These concerns highlight the
      importance of appropriate investigation and management of these symptoms.

      Medications that suppress gastric acid relieve symptoms in many patients; however this does
      not improve oesophageal function or reduce 'non-acid' reflux from the stomach. At least 1 in
      4 patients have symptoms despite treatment and further management of these individuals is
      challenging. Conventional multichannel intraluminal impedance (MII) studies assess swallowing
      function and reflux, but cannot assess volume. This is important because larger volumes of
      food stuck in the oesophagus and failure to clear larger amounts of irritant reflux from the
      stomach are more likely to cause symptoms and damage to the lining of the oesophagus.

      The proposed project builds on recent work at St. Thomas' in which a new MII technique was
      shown to detect changes in oesophageal volume. The aim is to assess whether this volume
      sensitive MII (vMII) is useful in clinical practice.

      Patients with swallowing problems and reflux symptoms will undergo vMII and High Resolution
      Manometry in unison in a combined Catheter Assembly during a test meal containing barium
      (known as videofluoroscopy) as it is visible on x-ray. The volume of fluid stuck in the
      oesophagus or refluxing from the stomach will be measured by both vMII and videofluoroscopy
      and the problems with motility will be assessed with HRM. The results will be compared and
      the link between oesophageal volume, dysmotility and symptoms will be examined. Finally the
      studies will be repeated after treatment (videofluoroscopy being offered only males and women
      over 40) to see if improvements are linked to reduced volume measurements.

      In routine clinical practice, successful vMII would reduce the need for barium swallows
      (therefore reducing exposure to radiation) and improve the ability to link oesophageal
      dysfunction and reflux events with symptoms, and thus guide further management in patients
      that fail to respond to standard treatments.

      Existing measurements of oesophageal function assess the presence or absence of acid (pH),
      bolus transport (HRM) or fluid (conventional MII) in the oesophagus, but are not sensitive to
      volume change. It is thought that this explains the failure to establish the cause of
      oesophageal symptoms in some patients (Sifrim Gut 06). Firstly because retention and reflux
      of large volumes in the oesophagus is more likely to cause symptoms. Secondly because
      conventional MII lacks sensitivity in patients with poor emptying of residual fluid in the
      oesophagus much of the time (e.g. achalasia, post-fundoplication). Volume sensitive MII
      (vMII) is a novel adaptation of catheter technology that is sensitive to volume changes in
      the oesophagus of healthy volunteers (Fox DDW 06). It is a non disposable catheter which is
      3mm in diameter and is very similar to the impedance and pH manometry catheters routinely
      used at St Thomas' and many other hospitals and are well tolerated by patients.

      Study Design and Methodology Studies will be performed in two, well-defined patient
      populations that represent the two cardinal presenting symptoms in oesophageal disease.

        1. Patients with swallowing difficulty (dysphagia) related to achalasia

        2. Patients with reflux symptoms referred for consideration of fundoplication. Individuals
           (age 18-65 years) referred to the oesophageal laboratory for investigation will be
           invited to participate. All participants will undergo complete physical and mental
           health questionnaires, and an assessment of predominant complaint and symptom severity.

      This study will test two key issues in order to compare the clinical value of volume
      measurements by vMII to existing techniques in these two patient populations.

        1. Stationary: The accuracy of volume measurements acquired by vMII in patients with
           oesophageal disease compared to videofluoroscopy (gold standard).

        2. Ambulatory: The association of volume measurements with symptoms compared to
           conventional pH / MII measurements before and after treatment.
    
  