
    
      Delirium and sleep disruption are both common in the intensive care unit (ICU). Delirium is a
      state of acute confusion, experienced especially by older adults admitted to the hospital,
      with the potential to adversely impact patients' outcome. Of hospitalized patients, the
      highest rate of delirium occurs in elderly patients in the ICU. Development of ICU delirium
      is associated with longer ICU and hospital length of stay, significantly higher risk of
      functional decline, loss of independent living, and increased mortality. Previous studies
      have focused on describing the clinical manifestations, risk factors and outcomes of ICU
      delirium; yet, the contribution of sleep timing, as well as its quality and quantity, to the
      development of delirium, has not previously been rigorously investigated. Sleep disturbance,
      including changes in sleep patterns and architecture, and decreased quality of sleep are
      commonly observed in older subjects. In the ICU, environmental factors (such as noise levels
      and continuous ambient light) and health care practices (such as frequent performance of
      medical procedures and tests) further contribute to sleep disruption in the critically ill
      older patients. Additionally, many sedative and analgesic agents potently suppress slow wave
      sleep. In preliminary data acquired from ICU patients, the investigators have observed that
      fragmented sleep is prevalent due to frequent arousals and awakenings, and that sleep
      architecture is altered with an increase in light sleep, and a decrease in restorative slow
      wave sleep. Despite the common occurrence of both ICU delirium and sleep disruption, it is
      not known whether sleep disruption increases the risk of developing delirium in the
      critically ill older patients. In this exploratory study, the investigators propose to test
      the hypothesis that the severity and duration of sleep disruption is an independent predictor
      of the onset and duration of ICU delirium in a cohort of older ICU patients. The
      investigators will measure sleep disruption using continuous processed electroencephalography
      and measure ICU delirium using a well-validated and reliable standardized instrument. Results
      from this study will inform the contribution of sleep disruption in the development of ICU
      delirium in the older critically ill patients.
    
  