
    
      Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor is the standard of care
      for the prevention of thrombotic complications in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD)
      undergoing percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI). However, such ischemic benefit occurs
      at the expense of enhanced bleeding, the risk of which increases in a graded fashion with
      prolonged exposure to DAPT. Recent studies have shown that withdrawing aspirin and
      maintaining P2Y12 inhibitor monotherapy for up to 12 months post-PCI, after a brief period of
      DAPT, reduces bleeding without increasing ischemic harm. Such effects have shown to of
      particular benefit in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM). However, if an aspirin-free
      approach can be considered after this time frame is a matter of debate. In fact, current
      guidelines recommend maintaining P2Y12 inhibiting therapy for high risk patients but which
      all imply background use of aspirin. P2Y12 inhibitors for long-term (beyond 12 months)
      secondary prevention mainly include clopidogrel and ticagrelor. In particular, the dosing
      regimen for clopidogrel remains the standard 75 mg qd, whereas ticagrelor dosing is
      recommended to be reduced from 90 mg bid to 60 mg bid. However, of these regimens the
      pharmacodynamics (PD) effects of ticagrelor 60 mg in the absence of aspirin has not yet been
      tested. Because DM patients are likely to continue with long-term P2Y12 inhibitor therapy,
      defining the optimal antithrombotic approach for these patients is of critical importance. In
      light of the above made observations, patients with DM represent an ideal population to
      define the antiplatelet effects of a ticagrelor 60 mg monotherapy regimen. The aim of this
      study is to assess the PD effects of ticagrelor 60 mg with and without aspirin therapy in CAD
      patients and to compare this with a standard DAPT regimen of aspirin plus clopidogrel.
    
  