
    
      This is an interventional, prospective, randomized, 1:1 open label, multicenter trial
      comparing two different methods of bystander CPR in witnessed cases of OHCA. Since CO-CPR is
      a simplified form of CPR that could lead to a higher incidence of bystander-CPR by itself a
      non-inferiority design for the primary outcome has been chosen. Superiority testing will also
      be performed for the purpose of demonstrating a possible increase in survival with CO-CPR.

      Witnessed cases of OHCA with a non-asphyctic aetiology will be the principal study
      population. According to current guidelines an unresponsive patient with no or agonal
      breathing is treated as a suspected case of OHCA at the dispatch centre. These cases are
      eligible for screening for inclusion. If the case is witnessed, the bystander has previous
      knowledge in CPR and no exclusion criteria are present, the case can be included in the
      study. If included, it will be randomly assigned to either CO-CPR (intervention) or S-CPR
      (control).

      The intervention consists of instructions from a dispatcher at the dispatch center to
      bystanders to perform either CO-CPR (intervention) or S-CPR (control).

        -  Instructions to bystanders on how to perform CO-CPR includes continuous chest
           compressions without interruptions or rescue breaths.

        -  Instructions to bystanders on how to perform S-CPR in the control group include
           information on giving chest compressions and rescue breaths in a 30:2 ratio (like
           current CPR recommendation state).

      This is a national study were all dispatch centers in Sweden participate.

      The overall study project is conducted in three different phases:

        1. Pre study RUN-IN period, for establishing logistical and technical study procedures
           (completed)

        2. PILOT STUDY, with focus feasibility, logistics and safety (Active, not recruiting)

        3. MAIN STUDY will focus on 30 days survival (primary end point) and other important
           clinical outcomes (secondary outcomes)

      Objective pre study RUN-IN period:

      In order to test the technical inclusion procedures, logistics, feasibility and data
      collection a pre-study RUN-IN period started in Stockholm during 2015.

      Objective PILOT study:

      The aim of the PILOT study is to assess safety and feasibility of the TANGO2 trial design, as
      well as intermediate clinical outcomes. The TANGO2 trial started recruitment of patients on
      January 1st 2017 and last patient included on December 31st 2018. All patients from the PILOT
      study will be included in the MAIN STUDY in a seamless design.

      Objective MAIN study:

      The aim of the MAIN study is to evaluate whether survival to 30 days following instructions
      to perform CO-CPR is non-inferior compared to instructions to perform S-CPR bystanders in
      witnessed OHCA where the bystander has previous CPR training. Secondary and exploratory
      objectives include the evaluation of neurological favorable survival, return of spontaneous
      circulation, admission to hospital, long-term survival and other clinical outcome variables
      as well as evaluations of 30-day survival between CO-CPR and S-CPR in pre-specified
      subgroups. The MAIN study will include patients from the PILOT phase in a seamless design

      Experiences from the pre study RUN-IN period and implications for the PILOT and MAIN studies:

      The pre-study RUN-IN period started in Stockholm County in 2015 and analysis were performed
      during 2016. After continuous technological adjustments, the randomization module was
      integrated within the computer aided dispatch system and was found to functioned well in the
      end of 2016. However, during pre-study RUN-IN period, one major obstacle was identified. Due
      to unexpected technological matters and an unanticipated new organization of the dispatch
      centers in Sweden only about 15% of the cardiac arrest calls for patients suffering cardiac
      arrest in Stockholm were actually answered by dispatchers in Stockholm; all other calls were
      transferred to other dispatch centers throughout Sweden. This meant that the dispatchers had
      to consider the geographical site of the suspected cardiac arrest and remember if that area
      was part of the study area. This new organization and logistics, were the call could be made
      in one area and answered and handled at another site and county during the pre-study RUN-IN
      period, resulted in a far greatly slower inclusion rate than anticipated and made a correct
      follow-up of patients unmanageable and unreliable. This made it impossible to conduct a PILOT
      study in Stockholm only.

      As a consequence, a decision was made by the steering committee:

      A) To move the start of the PILOT study forward, until completion of the national expansion
      of the study and not to start inclusion of patients into the PILOT study before January 1st
      2017. The new length of the PILOT study was set to two years to assure sufficient inclusion
      of patients to assess safety in terms of survival to hospital admission.

      B) That the PILOT study seamlessly will move on into the MAIN study in an inferentially
      seamless manner after the PILOT phase inclusion ended on Dec 31 2018. This means that
      patients from the PILOT study will also be included in the MAIN survival study. The outcomes
      for the PILOT study were changed to not interfere with the primary endpoint of the main
      survival study (see below). Inclusion and Exclusion criteria remained unchanged throughout
      the TANGO2-project.
    
  