
    
      Mood disorders in youth, which include Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and Bipolar Disorder
      (BPD), are highly prevalent, and are associated with significant mortality and morbidity.
      Many youths with major depression fail first-line treatments with psychotherapy and
      psychotropic medications. Lamotrigine (Lamictal®) recently gained approval by the FDA for
      maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder in adults. A few pilot studies have also shown
      promising results for lamotrigine (LTG) in treatment refractory mood disorders in both youth
      and adults, especially for depressive symptoms (Carandang et al., 2003; Frye et al., 2000).

      For this proposed study, the modified design begins with adolescents with major depressive
      disorder who have not responded to a trial of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor
      antidepressant (SSRI), fluoxetine, of adequate dose and duration, and randomizes them either
      to a second SSRI or to fluoxetine augmented by lamotrigine. Non-responders to 8 weeks of
      fluoxetine, on at least 40 mg/day, who have not had to discontinue fluoxetine because of
      adverse effects, would be randomized to: (A) continue fluoxetine with lamotrigine
      augmentation, for 8 weeks, as in the active arm of the original Stage 2, or (B) discontinue
      fluoxetine and begin a second SSRI, for 8 weeks. We will use sertraline as the second SSRI,
      because of the data supporting efficacy from the randomized placebo-controlled trial by
      Wagner, et.al. (JAMA, '03). Citalopram is also a possibility (Wagner et.al, Am J. Psychiatry
      '04), but it has been in use for a shorter period of time than sertraline.

      To maintain the blind, the B group will receive placebo augmentation.

      The assessments and outcome measures would be the same as in the original study. We will
      consult with primary care offices to coach them through doing the initial, Stage 1,
      fluoxetine trial in their offices, and we will monitor the progress of adolescents started on
      fluoxetine in our clinic. Consent will be discussed only with those who are not responding,
      and treatment in the study will involve only the post-randomization treatment.

      Background

      Mood disorders in youth are common and debilitating. Early-onset of mood disorders often
      indicates a severe illness, with high likelihood of recurrence into adulthood. For
      prepubertal children, point prevalence of MDD is 2%, and 6% in adolescents, while the
      lifetime prevalence for MDD in adolescents is 20% (Birmaher et al., 2002). The duration of a
      Major Depressive Episode in youth ranges from 3 to 9 months, with 10% lasting more than 2
      years, 60-70% recurring in adulthood, and 20-40% developing Bipolar Disorder within 5 years
      (Weller and Weller, 2000). The prevalence of prepubertal bipolar disorder is estimated at
      0.5%. Prevalence of bipolar disorder in adolescents is 1% (Lewinshon et al., 1995). Suicide
      is the third leading cause of death in the 15 - 24 year old age group (10.1 per 100,000) and
      the fifth leading cause in the 5 - 14 year old group (0.7 per 100,00), and is highly
      correlated with MDD and BPD (Pfeffer, 2002). In addition, mood disorders in youth can impair
      functioning, often characterized by poor school performance, impaired relationships,
      delinquent behavior, and substance abuse.
    
  