
    
      In a randomized clinical trial, 30 eyes with traumatic cataract after open globe injury
      underwent early (during the first week after the trauma) (Group 1) and 30 eyes underwent late
      cataract surgery (after one month of the trauma) (Group 2) (Figure 1a). All cases were
      observed for at least a 6-month period after the surgery.

      Inclusion criteria included patients older than 12-year-old with significant traumatic
      cataract after open globe injury. Exclusion criteria included patients with anterior capsule
      rupture as well as disseminated lens materials in the anterior chamber (Figure 1b), patients
      with hypopyon, eyes undergoing simultaneous primary repair and cataract extraction, cases
      that IOL implantation was not possible and patients with direct trauma to the posterior
      segment or with lacerations associated with vitreous prolapse.

      In those cases, that IOL power calculation was not possible by the biometry of the affected
      eye, it was performed using the biometry of the fellow eye. The Ethics Committee of Tehran
      University of Medical Sciences approved the conduction of the present study and all
      procedures started after written informed consent was obtained following the explaining the
      possible consequences of the different methods of treatment to patients. All procedures were
      performed by the same surgeon (M.B.R.).

      All cases underwent lensectomy using vitrectomy probe through the limbal incision. We
      excluded those patients who needed pars plana vitrectomy from the study. Anterior
      capsulectomy was performed using a vitrectomy probe and anterior vitrectomy was performed in
      cases of posterior capsular rupture or vitreous prolapse because of zonular dehiscence. If
      there was a too hard nuclear part for the vitrectomy probe, we emulsified and suctioned the
      nucleus using a phacoemulsification handpiece. If the capsular integrity permitted, a
      posterior chamber IOL was implanted. In this situation, if posterior capsule was not intact,
      a three piece acrylic foldable (Alcon MA60) IOL was implanted. In other situations, a
      one-piece foldable acrylic (Alcon SA60) IOL was implanted.

      Patients were randomly assigned for early or late cataract extraction and IOL implantation.
      Randomization was based on a computer-generated sequence based on permuted block
      randomization method. The length of blocks varied randomly between two, four and six
      patients. A biostatistician performed the randomization and the sequence of randomization was
      concealed from the investigators.

      All patients received prophylactic oral antibiotic therapy (ciprofloxacin 750 mg twice daily
      for three days) following the open globe injury. (1). Following surgery, topical antibiotics,
      corticosteroids and cycloplegics were prescribed and then topical steroids were continued for
      four weeks and tapered gradually during this period.

      We visited all patients at 1week, 4weeks and 12 weeks and 6 months after surgery. In each
      visit, patients were examined regarding visual acuity, intraocular pressure (IOP), anterior
      chamber inflammation, IOL position and posterior synechiae. In addition, posterior segment
      evaluation and funduscopy were performed. Anterior chamber inflammation assessed by
      Standardization of Uveitis Nomenclature (SUN) Working Group grading scheme for anterior
      chamber cells and flare and grade ≥2+ was considered significant (14). BCVA ( best corrected
      contact lens visual acuity) of both eyes was evaluated in logMAR at six months of follow up
      visits. Another surgeon who did not know timing of the surgery (M.S.) performed this
      evaluation.

      Sample size was calculated as 30 eyes to have a power of 90% to detect a difference of 0.2
      logMAR in BCVA between the two groups when the standard deviation of BCVA was assumed to be
      0.24 logMAR and the type I error was 0.05 for two-sided test. To assess for the normal
      distribution of data we used Q-Q plot and Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. To describe data we used
      mean, standard deviation, median and range. To compare the results between two groups we used
      t-test, Mann-Whitney, Fisher exact and Chi-Square tests. All statistical methods were
      performed using SPSS software (IBM Corp. Released 2013. IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows,
      Version 22.0. Armonk, NY: IBM Corp.). P-values less than 0.05 were considered statistically
      significant.
    
  