
    
      The prevalence of tobacco use in India among men has been reported to be high in most parts
      (generally exceeding 50%). It's use is more common in rural areas as compared to urban areas.
      Oral cancer, the main cause of which is tobacco, is common in men in developing countries and
      the most common cancer among men in India. The five year survival rate for oral and
      pharyngeal cancers even in premier institute like the Tata Memorial Hospital ranges from a
      poor 8% (hypo pharynx) to 43% (lower lip). Evidence has shown that cessation is the only
      intervention with the potential to reduce tobacco related mortality in the short- term and
      medium- term. An emphasis on prevention of tobacco consumption will, in the short run, only
      have a limited positive effect on tobacco related morbidity and mortality, as prevention
      strategies do not affect existing consumers. Workplace tobacco cessation activities in India
      are still in rudimentary stage.

      In the proposed study of one year duration, professional help in the form focus group
      discussion, one to one counseling and pharmacotherapy will be provided to the employees by a
      team of doctors and counsellors from Tata Memorial Hospital. Self reporting of tobacco
      history will be validated with Biochemical test. This will add objectivity to the programme,
      so that, if successful, it can be replicated as a model to promote tobacco control activities
      at other workplaces. Naked eye examination of oral cavity of all employees for detection of
      oral pre-cancers and cancers will be done by doctors from the Tata Memorial Hospital. The
      employees with lesions may be referred for further management, if required. Nursing staff and
      Doctors attached to the industry and from the local referral hospital will be invited to
      participate as trainees during the active intervention sessions.

      The long term objective of this initiative is to establish a model workplace tobacco
      cessation and oral cancer screening programme. It will contribute to the human resource and
      infrastructure development for tobacco cessation services at the industrial unit and at the
      local referral hospital. Proposed tobacco cessation services in the chemical industry would
      be of great help for boosting Anti - Tobacco Activities not only in the particular factory
      unit but also in the nearby industrial and residential zone.
    
  