
    
      According to the National Institute of Health, one in every twenty Americans over the age of
      50 years old suffers from peripheral artery disease (PAD). PAD is a manifestation of systemic
      atherosclerosis and is specifically characterized by atherosclerotic blockages of the
      arteries in the legs. This results in claudication, a commonly experienced leg pain and
      immobility due to occlusion of the blood vessels. This pain reduces the amount of physical
      activity PAD patients can participate in, which can be detrimental to the patient, as it can
      lead to more systemic issues such as coronary artery disease, heart failure, and metabolic
      disorders, as well as amputation and death. These periods of occlusion are thought to be
      caused by endothelial dysfunction in the peripheral arteries leading to the legs, which
      results in an inability to produce nitric oxide (NO), a potent vasodilator which has been
      shown to be decreased in patients with PAD. Patients with PAD have also shown higher levels
      of systemic and skeletal muscle inflammation due to the impaired oxygen transfer capacity of
      these blood vessels. This inflammation leads to an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS),
      which reduce the bioavailability of NO and are closely linked to the vascular dysfunction in
      PAD. Furthermore, mitochondria, a major cellular component that is responsible for the
      regulation between levels of production of ROS and antioxidants have shown to be altered in
      patients with PAD, which may lead to impaired oxygen transfer and utilization capacity,
      ultimately resulting in claudication, impaired functional capacity and reduced physical
      activity. Nitric oxide has been shown to be an important regulator within the cardiovascular
      system, responsible for regulation of blood flow, blood pressure and vascular growth.
      Additionally, many cardiovascular diseases have been shown to be highly associated with a
      reduced bioavailability of NO and a positively associated increase in ROS. These heightened
      levels of ROS not only reduce the availability of NO, but they may also cause cellular damage
      within the muscle and cardiovascular system. This combination of a reduced ability of the
      peripheral blood vessels to dilate due to decreased levels of NO, with a concomitant
      increased level of inflammation due to higher ROS levels could be extremely detrimental to
      patients with PAD, as the limited oxygen delivery to skeletal muscles could ultimately result
      in claudication and reduced physical ability. However, this reduced oxygen delivery and
      utilization may be able to be improved as previous studies have suggested that
      tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), is an important cofactor responsible for NO production.
      Furthermore, recent studies have shown that endothelial BH4 levels are associated with the
      vascular pathophysiological response to hypoxia, as it directly mediates endothelial nitric
      oxide synthase regulation and reduces superoxide production. Additionally, acute
      administration of BH4 was shown to improve vascular function, specifically, endothelial
      mediated vasodilatory function, in patients with systemic vascular and coronary disease, as
      well as six minute walking distances in patients with hypertension. Therefore, the purpose of
      this proposed study will be to examine the effects of BH4 on vascular function, oxidative
      stress and leg performance in patients with PAD. The findings of this study may help to
      develop a new clinical therapy for patients with PAD. In this study we will examine
      endothelial function via flow-mediated dilation, blood flow in the femoral and popliteal
      arteries with a doppler ultrasound, leg skeletal muscle oxygenation with near-infrared
      spectroscopy, oxidative stress via blood samples and leg function by conducting a endurance
      test on an isokinetic dynamometer in 10 class-1 or class-2 PAD patients. We will use 5 mg/kg
      of BH4 obtained from Biomarin Pharmaceutical Industries in a 1:1 randomized, double-blinded,
      cross-over design with a 2-week washout period between testing days.
    
  