
    
      Electrical stimulation guidance is generally used nowadays, and is recommended over the use
      of palpation and anatomical landmarks. However, electrical stimulation has its limits. It is
      sometimes poorly tolerated by patients as it causes pain, which is greater in muscles less
      responsive to such stimulation and requiring a stronger electrical current. The pain also
      increases with the number of injections performed in a single session. Electrical stimulation
      does not guarantee for certain that the needle is placed within the muscle, as a stimulation
      of the aponeurosis may cause the muscle to contract through the excitation of motor branches
      entering the muscle. The injection of botulinum toxin in the aponeurosis does not provide a
      satisfactory effect and may render the injection ineffective. In some patients, the muscle to
      inject may present some degree of retraction with fat degeneration, which reduces its
      sensitivity to electrical stimulation. Individual patients may also respond poorly or not at
      all to electrical stimulation, which causes technical and treatment problems. Finally,
      certain muscles are difficult to locate by electrical stimulation because their contraction
      produces only weak mechanical effects (e.g. short muscles such as the interossei muscles).
      All these factors explain why ultrasound imaging provides an interesting alternative guidance
      technique for botulinum toxin injections. In most cases, it can replace electrical
      stimulation altogether, and thus avoid the pain it causes. Ultrasound guidance is already
      recommended in pediatric patients to improve their comfort during the injections. In our
      study, the patient's comfort during the injection was chosen as the main endpoint because it
      has already been demonstrated in children and because the investigators feel it is an
      essential aspect of our routine practice. Moreover, ultrasound imaging helps locate
      accurately the muscle to be injected. Once the tip of the needle has been located, it can be
      tracked during the injection, and guided to the muscle belly. Previous studies have already
      shown that this technique improves the efficacy of the injections. Ultrasound imaging is also
      interesting when the muscles to be injected are located in a deep plane or close to vital
      structures, such as nerves, arteries, or veins (e.g. piriformis or psoas). All these
      considerations have been studied in children and should be validated in adult spastic
      patients as well.

      Therefore, the investigators will compare ultrasound guidance to electrical stimulation
      guidance in routine clinical practice. This study will be carried out in adult spastic
      patients who may receive botulinum toxin injections in the Service of Physical Medicine and
      Rehabilitation of University Teaching Hospital. The aim is to analyse the advantages of this
      injection technique under current practice conditions.

      The evaluating physician (blinded) will conduct a clinical examination of the patients before
      the injections, and 6 to 8 weeks after the injection of botulinum toxin. The pain associated
      with the toxin injections will be evaluated after the injections and during the follow-up
      visit, using the vertical indexed VAS and the Face Pain Scale. The spasticity will be
      evaluated on the Tardieu scale before the injections and during the follow-up visit. The
      duration of the botulinum toxin injections will be measured. Finally, functional objectives
      will be determined prior to the injections. The GAS (Goal Attainment Scaling) methodology
      will be used during the follow-up visit to determine whether these objectives have been met
      or not.
    
  