
    
      The immunogenicity of anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (anti-TNF) therapy in inflammatory
      bowel disease (IBD) is an important cause of loss of response to therapy that may lead to
      escalation of dose or discontinuation of therapy. Antibodies may develop to infliximab (ATI)
      or to adalimumab (ATA) and cause this loss of response, also known as a secondary loss of
      response. In an attempt to overcome these antibodies, dose escalation can be accomplished
      either by increasing the dose or shortening the interval between doses. The ability of dose
      escalation to overcome loss of response due to the presence of ATI or ATA remains
      controversial. Escalation of dose increases the cost of therapy substantially. If the
      decision is made to discontinue therapy after a secondary loss of response, a clinician may
      choose to switch to an alternate anti-TNF therapy of which there are currently only four.
      Loss of response to one agent predicts a lesser response to other anti-TNF agents and with a
      limited number of therapeutic options the goal should be to optimize therapy rather than to
      discontinue therapy.

      An alternative approach is the addition of immunomodulator (IM) therapy to counteract the
      antibody response and regain efficacy of the biologic medication. Three such IMs known to be
      effective in the treatment of IBD are azathioprine (AZA), 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) and
      methotrexate (MTX). The SONIC trial showed that patients on infliximab and azathioprine only
      developed antibodies at 4% of the time as opposed to those on infliximab monotherapy who
      formed ATI at 13%. The same principal was shown during the COMMIT trial in which patients on
      infliximab alone had ATI at a rate of 20% versus 4% on methotrexate plus infliximab.
      Ben-Horin et al. reported five patients treated initially with infliximab monotherapy whom
      had secondary loss of response based on clinical symptoms. These patients had ATI and all had
      undetectable troughs of infliximab. In all five patients ATI became undetectable, an adequate
      trough level was restored and the patients regained clinical response with the addition of an
      immunomodulator. Combination therapy with azathioprine and infliximab has led to a higher
      percentage of patients in steroid free remission than either drug alone. Our goal is to treat
      patients' who have lost response to adalimumab or infliximab with an immunomodulator with the
      goal of eliminating the circulating antibodies to the anti-TNF and restoring efficacy.
    
  