
    
      Introduction: New-onset diabetes after transplantation (NODAT) is strongly associated with
      postoperative hyperglycemia, and reduced patient as well as graft survival. In our recent
      proof-of-concept clinical trial (TIP), we have shown that immediate post-transplant basal
      insulin therapy decreases hyperglycemia and reduces the prevalence of NODAT by improving
      pancreatic β-cell function. In consequence, a collaborative multicenter study on NODAT
      prevention using basal insulin has been approved by the National Institutes of Health (NIH),
      and will start recruiting 380 patients at 6 international transplant centers, including the
      Medical University of Vienna and the University of Michigan in 2012. In addition to the
      NIH-sponsored trial, the Vienna SAPT-NODAT study will test the hypotheses that intensive
      subcutaneous insulin treatment with short acting insulin, applied continuously through an
      insulin pump in combination with a glucose sensor (SAPT), (i) improves glycemic control, (ii)
      reduces the prevalence of NODAT and prediabetes, and (iii) offers further β-cell protection,
      in comparison to the standard of care control group, and the basal insulin treatment group.

      Methods: Combining the NIH-sponsored basal insulin study and the SAPT-NODAT study will yield
      three study arms, with 28 patients in each arm, namely: [1] the control arm, treated by
      standard-of-care; [2] the basal insulin arm, treated predominantly with intermediate acting
      NPH insulin (human insulin isophane, Humulin N, Eli Lilly); [3] the SAPT arm, treated with
      short acting insulin (Insulin lispro, Humalog, Eli Lilly), applied continuously by SAPT
      technology. Adult patients with absence of diabetes will be randomized prior to renal
      transplantation and stratified by deceased donor or living donor, if they are capable of
      understanding the study and are willing to give informed written consent for all three study
      arms. Patients will receive standard triple immunosuppressive medications (twice-daily
      tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil or mycophenolic sodium and steroids) with predefined
      tacrolimus targets and steroid doses. The algorithm for insulin administration is designed to
      account for the prominent evening peak of hyperglycemia observed in our previous TIP-study.
      The primary endpoint is HbA1c (in rel.%), at 3 months, and superiority will be assumed if a
      statistically significant difference between the SAPT-treatment group versus the
      standard-of-care control group can be determined, by two-sided Student's t-test. Secondary
      endpoints will be compared between all three groups and will include hypoglycemic events,
      glycemic variability, 2h glucose ≥200 mg/dL (by oral glucose tolerance test [OGTT] to
      determine prevalence of diabetes, prediabetes and normal glucose tolerance), beta cell
      function and insulin sensitivity derived from OGTT, serum creatinine, quality of life
      measures, patient and graft survival. All secondary endpoint comparisons relying on OGTTs
      will be made at 6, 12 and 24 months after kidney transplantation, respectively. The result of
      the 6-months OGTT will be blinded to patients and investigators to prevent subsequent
      treatment bias.

      Discussion: Basal insulin treatment in our previous proof-of-concept study could not prevent
      a high number of transplant patients exhibiting overt prediabetes (impaired glucose
      tolerance) at 3, 6 and 12 months, probably on the basis that hyperglycemia was improved, but
      far from being aggressively treated in patients receiving basal insulin. Prediabetes however
      is an independent predictor of all-cause mortality in patients after renal transplantation,
      and therefore not only a harbinger of overt diabetes mellitus but rather a high-risk
      condition per se. The use of HbA1c as primary endpoint at three months is debatable, but
      necessary to determine whether SAPT technology may lead to a clinically meaningful
      improvement of overall glucose control. Specifically, in our previous study (TIP), we
      observed an intra-individual rise in HbA1c (0.5±0.7 rel.%) from baseline to 3 months, despite
      basal insulin treatment. If the intra-individual rise in the SAPT arm will remain below that
      value, SAPT technology could be considered to be a clinically meaningful improvement. The
      SAPT-NODAT study, besides holding promise to further improve glycemic control, thereby
      reducing diabetes, prediabetes and possibly cardiovascular events after transplantation, may
      ensure that the present team of investigators continues to take the lead in post-transplant
      insulin administration, which is emerging as a central focus in NODAT-prevention and may soon
      reach broader clinical application.

      (Study approval: EK-Nr. 10/2012)
    
  