
    
      Inflammation is now recognized as central to the pathophysiology of sickle cell disease
      (SCD), and is manifest as leukocytosis, elevated levels of inflammatory cytokines, and
      activation of monocytes, polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) and endothelial cells. It is
      present at steady state and is strongly associated with acute events, acute chest and early
      mortality. Inflammation contributes to endothelial cell dysfunction, potentiates
      vaso-occlusion, and may also give rise to the airway hyper-reactivity (AHR) that often
      accompanies SCD. A spectrum of lung disease is seen in this patient population, from AHR and
      obstructive lung disease in children, to restrictive lung disease and pulmonary vascular
      remodeling in adults.

      Evidence from our laboratory suggests that a specific angiogenic cytokine, Placenta Growth
      Factor that is produced by hyperplastic erythroid marrow cells and elevated in SCD,
      contributes to activation of monocytes and endothelial cells by inducing a key leukotriene
      (LT) synthetic enzyme, 5-Lipoxygenase (5LO). 5LO increases production of LT. LT are among the
      most potent inflammatory mediators known. LT-B4 is a very potent chemoattractant and
      activator of PMN and enhances endothelial cell activation, and cysteinyl LT produce airway
      smooth muscle constriction and inflammation in lung. Elevated LT-B4 and cysteinyl LT, and a
      high incidence of AHR are observed in patients with SCD. Zileuton (ZL) is a specific
      inhibitor of 5LO that decreases LT production, and is FDA-approved for treatment of asthma
      for individuals 12 years of age or older. In the context of SCD, ZL reduced adhesion of PMN
      and sickle RBC to rat pulmonary vasculature. In vitro data shows that ZL also increased fetal
      hemoglobin (HbF) production from erythroid cells in vitro, and could have
      additive/synergistic effects with hydroxyurea (HU). Thus, ZL may be beneficial in SCD by
      reducing inflammation, mitigating AHR, and increasing HbF.

      We hypothesize that inhibition of 5LO activity with ZL will be safe, feasible; will
      significantly reduce leukotrienes and biomarkers of inflammation, will decrease AHR; and will
      induce HbF in patients with SCD.

      We will test this hypothesis in a Phase I study of ZL in SCD. First, we will establish a safe
      dose of ZL and its pharmacokinetics in patients with SCD. The secondary objectives will be to
      determine its pharmacodynamic effects on biological endpoints and compliance to twice daily
      ZL administration.
    
  