
    
      Many thousands of patients attend emergency departments (ED) with displaced (deformed) wrist
      fractures and undergo closed manipulation under local anaesthetic (MUA) in the ED. Local
      audit suggests between 25-40% of these manipulated fractures slip back into an unacceptable
      position (unstable fractures) and require a subsequent open operation to reduce and pin or
      plate the bone (ORIF). There is some evidence that the degree of initial deformity and other
      factors might predict instability but this is neither well established nor well researched.
      Reliably predicting which fractures are likely to fail and which are likely to succeed closed
      ED manipulation could reduce the proportion undergoing a futile ED procedure, save patients'
      time and visits to hospital and ensure definitive care the first time round.

      We will identify cases from a previously conducted clinical activity analysis of patients who
      had undergone MUA for Colles' fracture over a two year period at Royal Devon and Exeter
      Hospital ED. These cases were retrospectively identified (from electronic attendance logs)
      and followed up until fracture healing or surgery. In this database, the need for subsequent
      surgery was recorded from electronic records and review of comments in fracture clinic.
      X-rays of these patients have been identified and anonymised by a member of radiology staff,
      who is not a member of the research team. These X-rays and the database cases have been given
      a unique trial number and all identifiable data removed before trial use. The database will
      be used to provide outcome data for the development of a model to see if x-ray features can
      reliably predict ED MUA failure. We will exclude Smiths' (anteriorly displaced) fractures and
      those whom there is no follow up data in the database eg. Patients who were followed up
      elsewhere.

      Anonymised x-rays will be used to develop computer-assisted methods to measure key fracture
      angles as well as other factors such as degree and position of comminution (fragmentation)
      and markers of osteoporosis. All x-rays will then by analysed using the system to record
      these measurements. Depending upon the speed of development, any user facing systems could
      also be tested on staff to gauge usability and test for inter-rater agreement.

      Multivariate analysis of these x-ray features measured by computer, together with the
      database demographic and outcome data will be used to develop the best model /decision rule
      to predict likelihood of MUA success. A 'leave one out cross validation' technique will be
      used to validate such a model and assess whether we could have reduced the ED MUA failure
      rate without increasing the overall number of open operative procedures. This work will be
      used to inform a larger prospective study where any decision rules can be assessed and
      further factors explored with the prospect of adding these to any final computer model.
    
  