
    
      Patients will be referred from primary individual therapist at the Stanford psychiatry
      outpatient clinics or community. Patients meeting inclusion criteria will be contacted for
      consent to participate in intake process consisting of objective evaluation with Patient
      Health Questionnaire (PHQ9; assessment of mood), Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD7;
      assessment of anxiety), Psychological General Well-Being Index (PGWBI), adult attachment
      style questionnaire (ASQ), and the interpersonal communication inventory (ICI), followed by
      standardized interpersonally oriented intake interview. Test and interview administration
      will be done by resident psychiatrists with training by supervising psychiatry faculty. A
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV) diagnosis will be obtained
      using the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI). Patients entered on
      antidepressants will be held at a stable dosage. Patients will be required to continue to see
      their individual therapist throughout the duration of their participation in the study, and
      will be asked for consent for group leaders to speak with individual therapist as clinically
      indicated.

      A total of 25 patients are projected to be entered into the group. Rolling enrollment will
      proceed to maintain a minimum of 5 and maximum of 10 people in the group, as expected group
      therapy drop-out rates are on the order of 30%. This number of people is expected to provide
      sufficient group membership for effective interpersonal psychodynamic group therapy. The
      group will use psychodynamic principles tailored to the group setting, which focus on
      interpersonal dynamics happening within the group in real-time, as described in Dr. Irvin
      Yalom's Group Psychotherapy text. Sessions will be 75 minutes in length on a weekly basis.
      Sessions will be led by two senior (4th year) psychiatry residents and videotaped for
      supervision by two faculty psychiatrists. During the study, all group members will complete
      PHQ9, GAD7, and Sheehan disability scale prior to each group therapy session. The full
      battery of objective assessments delivered at the start of the study will be repeated every 6
      months. Study will involve group participation for six months, with the option to continue in
      the group afterwards. Subjects who withdraw prior to 6 months will be asked to complete the
      full battery of objective assessments otherwise administered every 6 months and their data
      will be used as pilot data examining outcomes at intermediary time points.

      Additionally, age and gender matched patients who meet inclusion criteria but are unable to
      attend group sessions due to scheduling conflict will be given objective scales described
      above at screening and at 6 months (or earlier if clinical or treatment status changes). This
      group will act as control. They will continue to engage in their typical individual
      psychiatric care, as the goal of this study is to examine additional benefit of adjunct group
      therapy above individual therapy alone.
    
  