
    
      In the present study the investigators will conduct a clinical trial in which a standard
      protocol will be used to examine five different breakfasts (different in type: breakfast
      cereals and bread, and macronutrient composition) with satiating ingredients which will
      reveal actual human satiety scores. The visual analogue scales used for determination of
      satiety feelings is an accepted method by EFSA and studied extensively. It is used by TNO in
      an earlier carbohydrate containing breakfast experiment.

      Subjects may feel and eat differently at home. Especially since supervision by a researcher
      is known to influence behavior of participants. Self-measuring has the potential of giving
      more reliable estimates of intervention effects. Therefore, it is interesting to repeat the
      tests that are performed in the clinical unit, in an 'at home' condition, because that is the
      place consumers eat their breakfast habitually (= ecological validity).

      Study design: The study is designed as an open, randomized, controlled, cross-over trial.

      Study population: Forty healthy, lean and overweight, non-restrained eating women.

      Intervention: The intervention consists of five different normal breakfasts (normal amount,
      about 243-355 kCal; bread, cooked oatmeal, cereal meal, fried egg with bread) provided as a
      breakfast in the metabolic ward and at home.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Satiety scores will be obtained with visual analogue rating
      scales (VAS). Subjects will rate hunger feelings, fullness feelings, satiety feelings, desire
      to eat and rate their prospective food consumption, before and multiple times after
      consumption of a breakfast. A test session lasts for four hours (t = 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90,
      120, 150, 180, 210 and 240 minutes).

      In the controlled conditions at TNO, finger pricks will be performed at t = 0, 30, 60, 90 and
      120 minutes after breakfast consumption to measure blood glucose.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Subjects will consume prescribed, standardized breakfast products; five times at
      a clinical unit and five times at home. No risk is associated with intake of the test
      products. The VAS questionnaire will be filled in on the laptop multiple times on all test
      days (at home and at the clinic). No risk or real burden is of concern in this study.
      Subjects will perform finger pricks five times in each controlled session at TNO, what is
      known as a minimally invasive technique to obtain drops of blood.
    
  