
    
      Cardiovascular diseases remain the principal causes of death in Portugal and approximately
      one quarter of these are directly to ischemic heart disease, especially Acute Coronary
      Syndromes (ACS).

      In order to reduce mortality for ACS, a significant number of new drugs and new techniques
      have been introduced into clinical practice, resulting in important heterogeneity of approach
      and treatment of patients with ACS.

      The Portuguese Society of Cardiology have sought to review and incorporate in its
      recommendations the evidence to date, with the aim to standardize diagnosis and treatment of
      patients with ACS, which is not always able to in daily practice.

      Since it is essential to characterize the national reality of the ACS, the Portuguese Society
      of Cardiology has promoted the Portuguese registry on Acute Coronary Syndromes, aimed at
      bridging the knowledge gaps in this area of cardiovascular disease.

      This will include all adult patients (≥ 18 years) diagnosed with Acute Coronary Syndrome
      (ACS) with <48 hours of evolution. The inclusion is of responsibility of the last service of
      Cardiology where the patient was hospitalized. The ACS is set to the presence of angina at
      rest last 48 hours, with 1) ischemic electrocardiographic changes ST-segment deviations or
      negative T waves, and / or 2) elevation of biomarker (cardiac troponin and CK-MB) above the
      reference value. For diagnosis ACS with ST elevation is considered to be persistently
      elevated (> 30 minutes) of the ST segment. The rest should be considered as ACS ST-segment
      elevation. In the absence of angina, the SCA will be considered consistent elevation (curve
      ascending / descending) biomarker (above reference value for cardiac troponin or higher 2
      times the value of reference to the CK-MB) associated with other clinical manifestations such
      as ill-defined chest discomfort or dyspnea.

      Are included patients participating in clinical trials

      Are excluded patients with MI after revascularization procedures (EAM type 4 and 5) and MI
      type 2 (classification according to the redefinition of Myocardial Infarction, 2007 the Joint
      ESC / ACCF / AHA / WHF Task Force)
    
  