
    
      Background

      A keystone in preventing diabetic complications in patients with type 1 diabetes is good
      glycaemic control (1). Today, intensive glycaemic treatment is generally achieved through
      multiple daily insulin injections (MDI) or an insulin pump, also termed continuous
      subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII, [2]). Regular capillary self-measured blood glucose
      values have been most crucial in obtaining good glycaemic control and guiding the patient on
      insulin doses (3, 4, 5).

      During recent years continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) has become a treatment option for
      guiding the patient on insulin dosage and other activities (6). CGM has the advantage of
      informing the patient on estimated glucose values continuously, not the least important of
      which is to illustrate trends on increases or decreases in glucose levels.

      Data from several clinical trials on CGM has shown divergent results on its glycaemic control
      effects (7). In some clinical trials, only patients on CSII have been included or have
      initiated CGM and CSII simultaneously as an intervention. In other trials both patients with
      MDI and CSII have been included, and post hoc analyses have also resulted in divergent
      findings whether the effect on glycaemic control potentially differs when combining CGM with
      MDI or CSII (8, 9, 10). Although the absolute majority of adult type 1 diabetic patients are
      treated with MDI, clinical trials initiating CGM in a pure MDI-treated group are absent.

      The current trial is a cross-over design and 69 weeks in duration, where patients will be
      randomized patients to CGM-treatment for 26 weeks, conventional therapy for 26 weeks and a
      wash-out period for 17 weeks. The primary endpoint is the effect on HbA1c.

      Purpose/aim

      The aim of this study is to analyse the effect of CGM on glycaemic control measured by A1C,
      high and low glucose levels measured by CGM, and quality of life in patients with type 1
      diabetes treated with MDI.

      Treatment

      The studied intervention will be CGM (Dexcom G4, Dexcom Corporation) which will be compared
      to conventional therapy using only self-measurements of blood glucose levels (SMBG) for
      guiding the dosage of insulin.

      Randomization

      After a maximum run-in period of six weeks patients will be randomized to either CGM or
      continued conventional therapy. During the run-in period blinded CGM will be performed during
      two weeks. After the blinded CGM period patients that do not believe they will wear a CGM
      sensor more than 80% of the study time during the period of randomization to CGM, or patients
      who did not perform adequate calibrations during the run-in period (on average at least 12 of
      14 during a 7-day period), will not be randomized. The patient will be shown an example
      picture of glucose curves (not their own curves) with trend arrows, explained by the
      physician/diabetic educator to give the patient a better chance to judge how often they will
      use the sensor. Consenting patients will be randomized to CGM or conventional therapy for 26
      weeks and conventional therapy for 26 weeks, with an intermittent wash-out period for 17
      weeks.

      Patients will be initially randomized 1:1, stratified by site, to CGM or conventional
      therapy. A centralised web system will be used for randomisation. Each patient will be
      assigned a unique and anonymous Subject ID at randomisation.

      Duration

      The expected study duration for each participant is 72 weeks, including an assumed mean
      run-in period of 3 weeks. The total study period is expected to be 84 weeks, including a
      recruitment period of 12 weeks.

      Selection and withdrawal of subjects

      Patients fulfilling all inclusion and no exclusion criteria will have their HbA1c levels,
      fasting C-peptide and creatinine analysed by the central laboratory.

      The study is planned to include 120 patients randomized 1:1, stratified by site, to CGM or
      conventional therapy. Treatment will be for 26 weeks for each group, with a wash-out period
      of 17 weeks between treatments. An expected drop-out rate is assumed to be 5%-10% without
      replacement.

      Rescreening

      Rescreening of patients is possible in the study, but maximally at one time. There is no time
      limit for rescreening. It can be performed at any interval from previous screening.
      Rescreening can be performed for any inclusion/exclusion criterion that did not fit the
      inclusion criteria or fulfilled any exclusion criteria at the previous screening. However,
      there should be a possibility that this criterion can fit this inclusion criterion or not fit
      the exclusion criterion at the rescreening visit; e.g. that the glycaemic control has
      worsened since last screening and HbA1c did not fit inclusion criteria at the previous
      screening visit.

      Treatment procedures

      During the run-in period all patients will have blinded CGM during two weeks. If the patient
      believes after performing blinded CGM that he/she will not be able to wear the sensor and use
      the CGM-system during the majority of the study period (more than 80% of the time) when
      randomized to CGM, he/she will be excluded from randomization. In addition, subjects not
      adherent with calibration procedures (require on average > 12 out of 14 calibrations over a 7
      days period). There should be at least 10 days with valid blinded CGM data before
      randomization.

      All patients in the trial will be instructed regarding basic information on insulin dosing,
      such as bolus correction, types of food elevating glucose levels and the effect of physical
      activity on glucose control. This information will be provided at the same level as in
      clinical practice for patients with type 1 diabetes, i.e. to guarantee that all patients have
      basic skills for dosing insulin. All patients will also be educated on the proportion of
      rapid acting insulin analogues remaining at various time points after injection.

      At clinical visits the care-giver will discuss glucose levels measured by SMBG and CGM data
      with the patient for possible improvements in the diabetes care. This will be performed in
      correspondence with intensive therapy used in clinical practice. All patients will have the
      possibility to contact the responsible staff for the trial at each site for additional
      support between the visits if needed, e.g. technical problems with SMBG meters or the DexCom
      4G system, but extra visits will not be planned with the aim of improving the glycaemic
      control.

      During at least the first week of randomization to CGM there will be no alarm levels set on
      the CGM, other than a constantly active acute alarm to low glucose levels. The reason is that
      the patient shall be taught to be active in judging trends of CGM and not only reacting at
      certain levels for alarms.

      Alarm settings will be introduced 2 weeks after randomization, at the latest. At each visit
      the patient will be motivated to be active using the information from the CGM at least every
      1-2 hours during daytime. In correspondence, patients will be motivated in measuring blood
      glucose levels when randomized to conventional therapy in accordance with guidelines, i.e. at
      least 4 times a day. At the 2 initial visits of each treatment period patients will be
      checked for general skills adopted on dosing insulin, types of foods that elevate glucose
      levels and the influence of physical activity on glucose levels. BG-values will be evaluated
      at the visits for patients receiving conventional therapy for possible improvements in dosing
      insulin, food intake and physical activity. In correspondence, CGM-curves will be analysed as
      well as algorithms for dosage of insulin from CGM-data and physical activity and influence of
      eating habits on glucose levels. When randomized to CGM patients will be instructed at the
      start point of the treatment phase and the two consecutive visits on a predefined algorithm
      for adjusting insulin. In each treatment phase visits will take place at starting point,
      weeks 2, 4, 13 and 26.

      Blinded CGM will be performed for all participants during two weeks before baseline and two
      weeks before the starting point of the second treatment phase. Participants randomized to
      conventional therapy will also have CGM during 2 of the 4 last weeks of each treatment period
      (performed 23-26 and 66-69 respectively).

      HbA1c will be recorded at the starting point of each treatment period and all subsequent
      study visits except week 2 in each treatment phase. At starting point and at the end of each
      treatment phase extended blood samples will be taken including biobank samples.

      At all visits SMBG and CGM data will be downloaded for randomized patients, and a diabetes
      educator or physician will discuss potential improvements for optimising glycaemic control
      with the patient. SMBG-data will be downloaded also for patients with CGM-treatment.

      Rescue criteria

      If the clinician or diabetic educator determines that CGM use is associated with severe
      risks, e.g., severe hypoglycaemia, CGM treatment shall be stopped and the patient will
      receive conventional treatment.

      Treatment satisfaction and quality of life

      Patients will fill in questionnaires before blinded CGM of each treatment phase and at the
      end of each treatment phase. The DTSQ has been used in many diabetes therapy clinical trials
      and is a validated questionnaire consisting of 8 questions. Two versions are used, the DTSQs
      and DTSQc, where the DTSQs is used for recording the current treatment satisfaction and the
      DTSQc for patients to retrospectively compare various treatments.

      SWE-HFS consists of 23 questions concerning actions to prevent hypoglycaemia and fears about
      hypoglycaemia. The Swedish translation has been well validated (12).

      SWE-PAID-20 consists of 20 questions regarding situations about diabetes that may be a
      problem to the individual.

      WHO-5 consists of 5 questions assessing patient well-being.

      IPAQ consists of 4 questions of various levels of physical activity during the last 7 days.
      (13)

      Hypoglycaemia confidence questionnaire consists of 9 questions regarding how confident the
      patients are regarding handling of hypoglycaemia

      The questionnaires will be completed at the study site. The patients will be allowed to
      individually complete the questionnaires in a reasonably quiet environment. It will be
      emphasized that patients complete the questionnaires prior to clinical measurements and
      before meeting a doctor. Questionnaires should be answered by the patient alone; however, the
      nurse/assistant will be informed to help patients complete the questionnaires, if necessary,
      but without influencing patients' responses. Only the anonymous Subject ID will be used to
      identify questionnaires to ensure patient confidentiality. Study nurses/assistants should
      check questionnaires for completeness. The PI shall ensure that appropriate study training is
      provided.

      Hypoglycaemia

      Periods of hypoglycaemia will be compared using blinded CGM versus randomization to open CGM
      during the corresponding time period. The regular definitions of hypoglycaemia using SMBG
      will be difficult to compare since patients using CGM will detect asymptomatic hypoglycaemia
      due to CGM and be more alert to symptoms of hypoglycaemia. The number of severe hypoglycaemic
      events, defined as unconsciousness due to hypoglycaemia or need of assistance from another
      person to resolve hypoglycaemia, will be recorded. The time with low glucose values will be
      analysed by comparing active treatment with CGM with blinded CGM for the corresponding time
      period.
    
  