
    
      The hypothesis is that ultraviolet A (UVA) exposure during pregnancy will release nitric
      oxide (NO) from the skin and that in turn this will cause blood vessel dilatation. This will
      be seen by changes in uterine artery blood flow, blood pressure, and arterial stiffness
      (arteriography). The aim is to investigate this in a low risk group and a high risk group, as
      these 2 groups of women have different baseline characteristics of their vascular system and
      potentially different responses to our intervention. A subset of these women will be invited
      to repeat the intervention in the third trimesters of their pregnancies to establish if the
      effect differs with advancing gestation. Birth outcomes on participants will be collected to
      check if the high and low risk groups are representative of this status.

      Participant contact information will be kept separately from their collected data to
      anonymise the collected data and all outcome data will be de-identified. All collected
      information will be stored on secure university servers that are password protected.

      Participants will be recruited to participate in the low sunshine months November 1st until
      March 1st to minimise background sunshine and UV exposure.

      LOW RISK ARM:

      20 participants will be recruited from community and hospital antenatal clinics, day
      assessment unit, labour ward or at first trimester screen appointment by posters, a research
      midwife or a member of clinical research team. Potential participants will be given an
      information form and will be asked to give written consent following sufficient time for
      consideration.

      The participants will be between 14 and 28 weeks pregnant at the time of the intervention and
      have no pregnancy related complications or risk factors for pre-eclampsia or growth
      restriction.

      Over a single morning or afternoon the protocol will be completed with the participant
      exposed to both the intervention and the control in the one 4 hour period. The intervention
      participants will be exposed to is ultraviolet A for 20minutes in a dermatology phototherapy
      cabinet. This is the equivalent of 2 standard erythemal doses (SED's) of UV light exposure.
      On a normal summer day in Northern Europe the general population would expect to receive
      30-40 SED's. In the control intervention participants will be exposed to sham irradiation
      where they will undergo this exposure while wearing a loose fitting paper boiler suit that is
      UVA impenetrable to prevent UVA exposure. Protective sunglasses will be provided.

      On arrival at the Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility, participants will be randomized
      to the active or control treatment arm first with a simple randomisation method (coin toss)
      by a member of the clinical research team. As the groups will be controlled for risk factors,
      the main important covariate is age. The purpose of randomisation in this setting is to aid
      with blinding the ultrasound investigator to which arm the patient is in, as the investigator
      can affect ultrasound results. As such, a simple randomisation procedure such as a coin toss
      by the research nurse on arrival is appropriate. One toss will determine group allocation
      with heads getting control exposure first and tails getting intervention first. This will be
      recorded on the participant information sheet and unblinded for analysis. The participant
      will then rest seated for 30 minutes in comfortable clothing in a temperature controlled room
      at 25 degrees Celsius. They will be assigned a study number and the researcher will collect
      pregnancy and maternal characteristics.

      A member of the research team will measure baseline blood pressure, skin temperature, heart
      rate and perform arteriography. Arteriography has a standard collecting procedure and is an
      established tool to measure stiffness of the aorta (the largest blood vessel from the heart).
      An ultrasound will confirm fetal viability and baseline uterine artery Doppler measurements.
      An intravenous (IV) cannula will be inserted and a 5ml venous blood sample will be collected
      by an experienced member of the clinical research team.

      The participant will then be exposed to the intervention of UVA for 20 minutes in either
      their underwear (active) or in a loose fitting paper boiler suit that is UVA impenetrable.
      The suit allows the skin to heat up, but not be exposed to the UVA. This controls for any
      temperature effects. The investigator performing ultrasound is blinded to whether the
      participant was wearing the suit or not by the use of a research nurse and the investigator
      not being present during the irradiation.

      Immediately following exposure BP, heart rate, skin temperature and uterine artery Doppler's
      will be measured at 10 minutely intervals for 1 hour. 3 measurements will be collected at
      each time point for BP, heart rate and uterine artery Doppler. A venous blood sample will be
      collected from the cannula at the 0, 30 and 60 minute time points. At the 60 minute time
      point, arteriography will be repeated. Uterine artery Doppler images will be stored with a
      study number for offline analysis.

      The participant will then cross over in to the other arm, which the investigator remains
      blind to and the process is repeated.

      HIGH RISK ARM:

      20 participants between 14 and 28 weeks will be referred from their direct care team based on
      historical risk factors in a previous pregnancy or high risk factors in their current
      pregnancy including essential hypertension, renal or vascular disease, previous intrauterine
      growth restriction or from a low Papp-A result on their first trimester screening blood
      tests. Papp-A is measured as part of first trimester screening and is produced by the
      developing placenta. Low results are associated with poor fetal growth and pre-eclampsia.
      Their direct care team in community or hospital antenatal clinics, day assessment unit or in
      the ultrasound department may identify these potential participants and refer them to the
      research team if they are interested in participating. This will include midwives, doctors
      and ultrasound staff. A poster and mechanism for self referral will be present in the care
      areas of antenatal clinic and the ultrasound department. If they give consent, they will be
      recruited to participate. If there is any concerns about fetal or maternal well being they
      will be excluded from this trial.

      They will undergo the above protocol including randomisation.

      LONGITUDINAL ARM:

      All participants will be invited to return to undergo the trial protocol again at a third
      trimester time point within the 3 month window that the trial is being run. The investigators
      would aim to collect 10 from the low risk group and 10 from the high risk group. Participants
      whose third trimester commences outside this window will not be eligible for the longitudinal
      group.

      FOR ALL GROUPS:

      The consent will include permission to collect birth outcomes once they are delivered.
      Outcomes of interest will be pregnancy outcome (stillbirth, live birth), birth weight,
      gestational length, incidence of pre-eclampsia or pregnancy induced hypertension. This will
      be retrieved from the medical record and will be used for post hoc subgroup analysis to
      assess for any difference in response to UVA exposure. The study will conclude once the last
      baby is delivered and their birth data collected.

      Results will be recorded in an anonymised way with a study number, and anonymised data will
      be stored separately to participant data. After the last pregnancy is delivered, all data
      will be completely de-identified. Blood samples will be stored in the Edinburgh Reproductive
      Tissue Biobank with participant consent.
    
  