
    
      Intervention group (TEVAR plus OMT): patients will undergo TEVAR besides strict control of
      blood pressure and heart rate and pain management as mentioned above. According to the
      preoperative imaging, the potential risk location of the aortic dissection or rupture and the
      extent of lesion involvement are evaluated, and the appropriate anchoring zone is selected to
      ensure a sufficient anchorage area of more than 15 mm. If the distance between the potential
      accident site and the left subclavian artery (LSA) is less than 15 mm, LSA will be covered to
      obtain sufficient anchoring area. LSA revascularization will be performed by chimney
      technique or hybrid operation, depending on the choice of the surgeon. The left femoral
      artery is punctured or cut, the artery sheath is inserted, and the pigtail catheter is
      inserted into the ascending aorta along the sheath. Next, the aortic covered stent was
      implanted reverse through the femoral artery under the guidance of the wire. When the stent
      was released, rapid pacing or intravenous antihypertensive drugs was used to ensure that the
      blood pressure was lower than 90 mmHg. After stent implantation, re-angiography to confirm
      the stent location and blood flow, which will indicate whether the operation was successful
      or not. After all above, the patients will be observed in the hospital for at least 3 days.
      Controls of the blood pressure and heart rate and relief of the symptoms will meet the
      discharge criteria.

      Conservative group: all patients are under strict control of their blood pressure and heart
      rate with the guidelines-recommend drugs during hospitalization, including β receptor
      antagonists with or without other types of antihypertensive drugs if patients can tolerate.
      The target blood pressure is that systolic blood pressure fluctuates between 100-120 mmHg in
      the acute and sub-acute phase and blood pressure <130/80 mmHg in the chronic phase. The
      target heart rate should be limited to 60 bpm in the acute and sub-acute phases.
      Additionally, pain-releasing drugs ought to be prescribed when needed. Discharge criteria
      include control of the blood pressure and heart rate and relief of the symptoms.
    
  