
    
      rTMS as an alternative to ECT

      Background Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is highly effective in the treatment of severe
      depression (UK ECT Review Group, 2003). During the past decade, transcranial magnetic
      stimulation has emerged as a new anti-depressant treatment (e.g. Berman et al, 2000). Some
      randomized trials suggest that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) might be
      as effective as ECT in the treatment of non-psychotic depression (Grunhaus et al, 2000, 2003;
      Janicak et al, 2002; Rosa et all, 2003; Pridmore et al, 2000; Pridmore, 2000 ). Even at 3 and
      6 month follow up, patients treated with rTMS continue to do as well as those treated with
      ECT (Dannon et al, 2002). A recent review also supported the efficacy of rTMS in treatment
      resistant depression (Lee et al, 2012). However, other reviews and meta-analyses show only
      moderate enthusiasm for transcranial magnetic stimulation as an alternative to ECT (e.g.
      Martin et al, 2003; Schlaepfer et al, 2003) and emphasize the need for further studies.

      Given the small number of side effects and comparable efficacy to ECT, we would like to
      continue investigating rTMS as an alternative to ECT. The study will aim to compare the
      efficacy of sham vs. active rTMS in patients meeting standard criteria for ECT. In addition,
      the study will also determine the safety and efficacy of this trial and provide data for a
      power analysis to support a larger clinical trial if there is evidence of a clinically
      relevant treatment effect.

      Our sample population will include 40 adult patients from the Emory University Outpatient
      Psychiatry Department and Atlanta community. Potential subjects may be identified by their
      treating physicians as potential subjects for the study and after obtaining permission from
      the patient, the physician will refer the patient to the research coordinator.

      Subjects will enter a 4-week fixed-treatment phase and a variable 2-week extension for
      clinical improvers (defined below). Subject will receive rTMS treatment according the FDA
      approved protocol with treatments given five times a week daily Monday through Friday at 10
      pulses/sec, 120% of motor threshold, and 3000 pulses/session for 4 weeks.

      Patients who meet remission criteria (MADRS < 7 for one week, Riedel et al 2010) will be
      tapered from rTMS. Patients who do not show sufficient improvement at the end of the fixed
      4-week period (defined as a < 30% drop from baseline in MADRS scores) will be discontinued.
      If patients improve sufficiently (i.e., > 30% reduction in MADRS score) but do not meet
      remission criteria, treatment will continue for up to 2 additional weeks (variable 2-week
      extension). In the variable phase, the MADRS assessments will be performed twice weekly and
      improvers, but nonremitters, will continue receiving treatment during the variable 2-week
      period if they show progressive improvement, defined as at least a 2-point MADRS score
      reduction at every other rating. The acute trial will be terminated when patients meet the
      stable remission criteria. The rTMS will then be tapered during a 3-week period.

      Data Analysis Dichotomous outcomes (remission, response (defined as a 50% decrease in the
      baseline MADRS)) will be assessed using a logistic regression model (SAS Institute Inc.,
      Cary, North Carolina) with independent variables of treatment (active vs. sham), medication
      resistance using the Antidepressant Treatment History Form (ATHF) (low vs. high), current
      depressive episode duration (log transformed) and age (continuous). The primary analysis will
      be conducted using the intention-to-treat (ITT) population, defined as all randomized
      patients who started at least 1 treatment session. All the statistical tests will be
      performed at the .05 significance level. Interactions were considered significant at the .15
      significance level.

      A primary purpose of the present study is to determine the safety and efficacy of this trial
      and provide data for a power analysis to support a larger clinical trial if there is evidence
      of a clinically relevant treatment effect.
    
  