
    
      Background:

        -  Patients with non-metastatic carcinoma of the anal canal are treated with concurrent
           mitomycin C (MMC), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and radiotherapy (RT) in the curative setting
           in an attempt to preserve the anal sphincter.

        -  Radiation dermatitis is a uniform complication of this therapy which frequently results
           in treatment delay due to pain and discomfort. High grade dermatitis may also become
           superinfected in the setting of decreased blood counts from chemotherapy and diarrhea
           from radiation proctitis, further delaying therapy. Approaches that decrease toxicity
           may be particularly important in patients infected with HIV.

        -  MTS-01 (tempol, 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl) is a piperidine
           nitroxide known to act as a chemical radioprotector with selective protection of normal
           versus tumor tissue.

        -  Tempol gel (tempol 70 mg/mL plus water, ethanol, and hydroxypropyl cellulose) has been
           evaluated as a topical radioprotector in pilot trials that included a variety of sites.

      Objectives:

        -  Primary Objective: To determine the safety and tolerability of topical MTS-01 on a daily
           basis prior to irradiation in the groin and gluteal cleft of patients receiving combined
           therapy with MMC, 5-FU, and RT for carcinoma of the anal canal.

        -  Secondary Objectives will include evaluation of the following endpoints in a preliminary
           fashion:

             -  To describe the rates and severity of skin toxicity in patients treated with this
                regimen

             -  To describe the need for toxicity related treatment breaks with this regimen

             -  To describe the opiate requirements in patients treated with this regimen

             -  To describe 12-month progression-free survival, disease-free survival, and overall
                survival in patients treated with concurrent chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and
                MTS-01

             -  Evaluate the effects of antiretroviral therapy, 5-fluorouracil, mitomycin C, and
                radiation on low level persistent HIV viremia and HIV genetic diversity during
                therapy and recovery

             -  To evaluate the feasibility of collecting HIV RNA and mononuclear cells from rectal
                associated lymphoid tissue for correlative studies

             -  Collect and store anal cytology and core needle biopsies of tumor for future HPV
                and tumor based analyses

      Eligibility:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years.

        -  ECOG performance status less than or equal to 2.

        -  Histologically confirmed carcinoma of the anal canal without evidence of distant
           metastases

        -  No contraindications to definitive chemoradiotherapy for carcinoma of the anal canal

      Design:

      This is a pilot trial of topical MTS-01 in patients receiving MMC, 5-FU, and IMRT for
      definitive management of carcinoma of the anal canal. Fifteen patients will be enrolled. MMC
      will be delivered at a dose of 10mg/m(2) on days 1 and 29. 5-FU will be delivered as
      1000mg/m(2)/day as 96 hour continuous infusion beginning on day 1 and 29. RT will be
      delivered to a total dose of 50-54 Gy based on tumor characteristics. Tempol gel will be
      applied to the bilateral groins and the gluteal cleft, avoiding a 3 cm radius from the anal
      verge, immediately prior to each fraction of RT. RTOG grading will be used to evaluate skin
      toxicity in both the groin and gluteal cleft weekly during treatment and at 4 weeks, 3 months
      and 6 months after completion of treatment. The duration of treatment, number of treatment
      breaks, opiate requirements, and level of pain will be evaluated weekly during treatment and
      at 4 weeks and 3 months after the completion of treatment. Disease control will be assessed
      at 4 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months of follow-up.
    
  