
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
      nanoparticle albumin-bound rapamycin (ABI-009) administered as an intravenous infusion over
      30 minutes on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle, in combination with temozolomide and irinotecan
      hydrochloride (irinotecan) (administered on days 1-5) in pediatric patients with recurrent or
      refractory solid tumors, including central nervous system (CNS) tumors.

      II. To define and describe the toxicities of single-agent ABI-009 administered as an
      intravenous infusion over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle in pediatric patients
      with recurrent or refractory solid tumors, including CNS tumors.

      III. To define and describe the toxicities of ABI-009 administered as an intravenous infusion
      over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle in combination with temozolomide and
      irinotecan (administered on days 1-5) in pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory
      solid tumors, including CNS tumors.

      IV. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of ABI-009 in pediatric patients with recurrent or
      refractory solid tumors, including CNS tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To preliminarily define the antitumor activity of ABI-009 in combination with temozolomide
      and irinotecan within the confines of a phase 1 study.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the biologic activity of ABI-009 by examining S6K1 and 4E-BP1 expression status
      in archival tumor tissue from solid tumor pediatric patients using immunohistochemistry.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of nanoparticle albumin-bound rapamycin.

      Patients receive nanoparticle albumin-bound rapamycin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on
      days 1 and 8 beginning on cycle 1. Patients also receive temozolomide orally (PO) and
      irinotecan hydrochloride PO on days 1-5 beginning on cycle 2. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for up to 35 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  