
    
      Design: a multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized clinical trial in
      parallel groups.

      The study will include both male and female patients aged 18-64 years with clinical signs of
      influenza within the first 24 hours of the onset of illness.

      The influenza diagnosis must be supported by a positive rapid test (detection of influenza
      virus antigens in nasal epithelial cells). After the patients provide signed Participant
      Information Sheet and Informed Consent form, their medical history and body temperature will
      be recorded and physical examination and rapid diagnostic test performed. Patients who test
      positive will be assessed for 7 influenza-associated symptoms: cough, sore throat, headache,
      nasal congestion, feverishness or chills, muscle or joint pain, fatigue.

      4-point Flu Symptom Severity scale will be used: 0 = no symptom; 1 = mild symptom; 2 =
      moderate symptom; 3 = severe symptom.

      Nasopharyngeal swabs will be obtained from these patients for subsequent real-time reverse
      transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) influenza A/B testing and laboratory tests
      performed.

      If a patient meets all inclusion criteria and does not meet any of the exclusion criteria at
      Visit 1 (Day 1), he/she will be randomized into one of the treatment groups: Group 1: ММН-407
      for 5 days, or Group 2: Placebo on the ММН-407 regimen for 5 days.

      The patients will use electronic patient diaries to daily record their morning and evening
      axillary temperature (taken using a Geratherm mercury-free thermometer) and severity of 7
      influenza-associated symptoms (using the Flu Symptom Severity scale). In addition to this,
      the patients will record doses of antipyretic drugs taken (when applicable) and any worsening
      of their health status (when applicable, to assess treatment safety and collect adverse
      events data).

      In total, patients will be observed for 14 days (screening and randomization - up to 24
      hours, treatment - 5 days, subsequent observation - up to 2 days; and a follow-up 'telephone'
      visit - Day 14).

      During the study, 3 visits from patient to the physician's office and a follow-up telephone
      visit will be accomplished: 1) patient visits - Days 1, 3 and 7 (Visits 1, 2, and 3) at the
      medical centre; 2) telephone visit from the physician (Visit 4) - Day 14.

      During Visits 2 and 3, the physician will perform a physical examination, record the changes
      in patients' symptoms and the use of concomitant medications and check the completion of
      patient diaries. At Visit 2, nasopharyngeal swabs for RT-PCR will be collected. Visit 3 will
      involve an assessment of treatment compliance and laboratory tests. The telephone visit is
      intended to provide information on a patient's health status, presence/absence of secondary
      bacterial complications and the use of antibiotics.

      During the study, subjects will be allowed to use symptomatic therapy and medications for
      their co-morbidities, except for the medicines listed in the "Prohibited Concomitant
      Medications" section.
    
  