
    
      Lacrimal Drainage Resistance

      I. Introduction

      This proposal describes our plan to study the resistance of the lacrimal drainage system
      during irrigation.

      II. Research Aims

      A. Specific Aims

        1. To quantitatively measure the resistance of the lacrimal drainage system during
           irrigation.

        2. To determine differences in lacrimal drainage resistance between patients with
           obstructed tear drainage systems and patients with functional tear pump failure.

        3. To measure the pressure generated during traditional probing and irrigation of the
           lacrimal drainage system.

      B. Background and Significance

      Epiphora, or uncontrolled tearing of the eyes, represents a common presenting complaint of
      patients seen by ophthalmologists. Epiphora may be due to non-obstructive causes, such as
      tear hypersecretion or functional tear pump failure, or obstructive causes. Functional tear
      pump failure may result from malposition of the eyelids, such as an abnormal out-turning
      (ectropion) or in-turning (entropion) of the eyelid.

      Tears normally drain from the eye through two small holes, called puncta, one located in the
      upper eyelid and one in the lower eyelid, and then through two channels, called canaliculi,
      that empty into the lacrimal sac. Tears drain from the lacrimal sac through the bony
      nasolacrimal duct into the nasal cavity. Obstruction may occur at any level of the system,
      and may be partial or complete.[1] The focus of this study is acquired (as opposed to
      congenital), nasolacrimal duct obstruction.

      The normal work-up for evaluation of nasolacrimal duct obstruction includes multiple clinical
      tests to evaluate the patency of the drainage system, including the fluorescein dye
      disappearance test, primary and secondary Jones dye tests, and canalicular probing and
      irrigation (P&I). While complete obstruction is relatively easily determined, partial
      obstruction is more difficult. Each of the available tests is qualitative in nature and is
      unable to determine the degree of partial obstruction. [1, 2] Current management options for
      the treatment of partial nasolacrimal duct obstruction include repeated canalicular probing
      and irrigation, balloon catheter dilation with placement of silicone stents, and
      dacryocystorhinostomy (DCR) surgery. Repeated probing and irrigation may be performed in the
      clinic without anesthesia, but has a low rate of improved symptoms. Balloon catheter dilation
      with stent placement is typically performed under general anesthesia, requires no incisions,
      and has a success rate between 60-73%.[3, 4]. DCR surgery, also typically performed under
      general anesthesia, surgically bypasses the nasolacrimal duct by removing a window of bone
      and anastomosing the lacrimal sac to the nasal cavity. The success rate of DCR is over
      95%.[1, 5] There are two previously published methods to measure lacrimal drainage
      resistance. In 1991, Stanley and Masri described a device to measure resistance with a
      hand-held instrument connected to a personal computer.[6] They reported values from 13 normal
      controls, but did not test the device in patients with tearing. In 1995, Tucker et al.
      reported a laboratory-based device that measured the resistance to fluid flow in the lacrimal
      drainage system.[2] They measured resistance in healthy controls, in patients after
      successful DCR, and in one tearing patient.

      The investigators will measure the pressure generated during conventional P&I using a
      disposable in-line pressure transducer. In addition, the investigators will use a syringe
      pump to deliver a constant flow rate of saline through a nasolacrimal cannula and measure the
      steady state irrigation pressure using the in-line transducer and digital pressure monitor.
      Resistance can be directly calculated from the known flow rate and pressure measurements.

      Clinical applications for measuring lacrimal drainage resistance include quantifying partial
      nasolacrimal duct obstruction, guiding the choice of surgical procedure, and determining the
      success of lacrimal drainage procedures.

      III. Study Design and Methods

      Study Design:

      The investigators plan to measure lacrimal drainage resistance in consented patients
      undergoing evaluation and management of epiphora who require traditional probing and
      irrigation. In addition to the traditional probing and irrigation of the nasolacrimal system,
      the investigators will measure the lacrimal drainage resistance using our study equipment.

      Accrual Goals and Recruitment Period:

      The accrual goal for this study is 40 eligible patients.

      The final clinical diagnosis of lacrimal drainage obstruction versus functional tear pump
      failure will be based upon the investigators clinical findings and standard probing and
      irrigation results.

      Patient Entry:

      Patient eligibility will be determined by the study's principal investigator or
      co-investigators and as described in this protocol. The investigator will interview eligible
      patients and explain in detail the purpose of the study. Those patients who agree to
      participate will have the pressure measured during conventional P&I and lacrimal drainage
      resistance measured in addition to the normal clinical work-up. For those patients who agree
      to participate in the study, signing the informed consent constitutes study entry.

      Time Requirement:

      The investigators estimate that it will take 2 months for patient accrual and measurements.

      Follow-Up:

      There are no required follow-up visits.

      Measurement of outcomes:

      Two measurements will be obtained from each patient. First, the investigators will record the
      pressure generated during traditional probing and irrigation using a disposable in-line
      pressure transducer. Second, the investigators will measure the pressure generated using a
      syringe pump to deliver a constant flow rate. The investigators will then directly calculate
      the resistance to irrigation from the pressure and flow rate.

      IV. Study Procedure: The Intervention

      Probing and irrigation (P&I) of the lacrimal drainage system is a standard component of the
      evaluation of tearing patients. During this procedure, a nasolacrimal cannula is inserted
      into the canaliculus and saline solution is irrigated through the system. The investigators
      will measure the pressure generated during P&I using a disposable in-line pressure
      transducer. In addition to conventional P&I, consented patients would undergo a second
      irrigation procedure using our measuring equipment. In order to eliminate any bias due to the
      order of testing, half of the patients will undergo conventional P&I first, and half will
      undergo the experimental P&I first. During the experimental P&I, a syringe pump will deliver
      a constant flow rate of saline through a nasolacrimal cannula. The investigators will measure
      the steady state irrigation pressure using an in-line transducer and digital pressure
      monitor. Resistance will be calculated from the known flow rate and pressure measurements.
      The investigators will obtain three measurements from each patient.

      The syringe pump is designed to prevent backflow of saline, and in addition the disposable
      portion of the pressure transducer exposed to the saline will be changed between each
      patient. The syringe pump has an automatic safety cut-off if the line is occluded.

      V. Interpretation of Data

      The investigators will record the pressure generated during conventional P&I and the average
      pressure generated during steady-state irrigation. Resistance will be directly calculated
      from the average pressure measurement. The investigators will compare both the pressure
      generated during P&I and the lacrimal drainage resistance between patients with lacrimal
      drainage obstruction and controls patients with no obstruction (functional tear pump failure)
      as determined by clinical exam. The investigators will summarize data in terms of means and
      standard deviations. The null hypothesis, that there are no differences between groups, will
      be tested by a two-sample Students t-test with p < .05 for rejection of the null. For
      lacrimal drainage resistance, a sample size of 17 patients per group gives a power of 0.91 to
      detect a difference as small as 20 mmHg*sec/ml. The power measurements are based upon the
      work of Tucker et al., who measured an average resistance of 49.5 +/- 17.0 mmHg*sec/ml in
      normal controls, and a single measurement of 212 mmHg*sec/ml in a patient with symptomatic
      tearing.[2] Technical complications will be noted and described. All patient information will
      be a part of the permanent medical record and will be no different from the information
      documented in standard nasolacrimal irrigation.

      VI. Consent Procedure

      In addition to a verbal discussion describing the study, including the risks and benefits,
      the investigators will provide patients undergoing evaluation for epiphora including
      conventional probing and irrigation with a formal consent form, and the investigators will
      provide a copy of this consent for personal reference. The proposed consent form is attached.

      VII. Adverse Events

      The anticipated adverse events of conventional probing and irrigation are anxiety and
      discomfort during the procedure, foreign body sensation for 12-24 hours following the
      procedure, and irrigant or dye on clothing. Anticipated serious adverse events of
      conventional probing and irrigation include dacryocystitis and damage to the lacrimal
      drainage system including punctal rupture. The incremental risks of the experimental probing
      and irrigation relate to the pump device. Because the pump device has an automatic safety
      cut-off and pushes fluid at a very low flow rate (0.09 mL/s) the investigators believe that
      the incremental risks are very low. Stanley and Masri reported one case of punctal rupture
      using their experimental setup.[6] The investigators believe this is unlikely to occur in our
      experiment because the investigators are using a standard nasolacrimal cannula to irrigate,
      and the investigators are using a much lower flow rate (0.09 mL/s versus 0.25 mL/s).

      All adverse events will be documented in the data collection forms and brought to the
      attention of the patient and his or her family as soon as possible after their occurrence.
      Patients are provided with contact information for the principle investigator as well as the
      Institutional Review Board in the consent form, and an on-call ophthalmologist is always
      available for emergent care after hours. On-call ophthalmologists will have direct pager
      access to the investigators and will notify them immediately of any adverse events
      encountered in study patients. Serious and unanticipated adverse events will be promptly
      reported to the Institutional Review Board by the principle investigator.

      VII. Cited Literature

        1. Mills, D.M. and D.R. Meyer, Acquired nasolacrimal duct obstruction. Otolaryngol Clin
           North Am, 2006. 39(5): p. 979-99, vii.

        2. Tucker, S.M., et al., Measurement of the resistance to fluid flow within the lacrimal
           outflow system. Ophthalmology, 1995. 102(11): p. 1639-45.

        3. Kuchar, A. and F.J. Steinkogler, Antegrade balloon dilatation of nasolacrimal duct
           obstruction in adults. Br J Ophthalmol, 2001. 85(2): p. 200-4.

        4. Perry, J.D., et al., Balloon catheter dilation for treatment of adults with partial
           nasolacrimal duct obstruction: a preliminary report. Am J Ophthalmol, 1998. 126(6): p.
           811-6.

        5. Tsirbas, A., G. Davis, and P.J. Wormald, Mechanical endonasal dacryocystorhinostomy
           versus external dacryocystorhinostomy. Ophthal Plast Reconstr Surg, 2004. 20(1): p.
           50-6.

        6. Stanley, C.F. and F.A. Masri, Instrument to test patency of lacrimal drainage system. J
           Clin Eng, 1991. 16(1): p. 57-60.
    
  