
    
      This study will involve 4 primary care sites across Scotland, 4-8 healthcare professionals
      (HCPs) who will administer the intervention, and 48 patient participants (1-2 HCPs and 12
      patients at each site). Half of the patient participants will act as the control group and
      receive no intervention.

      4 sites within primary care will be recruited through Pain Concern's current network of
      healthcare professionals. The sites will consists of general practitioners, physiotherapists
      and pharmacists, to ensure that the study reflects the usefulness of the intervention across
      primary care. Each site will nominate 1-2 healthcare professionals who will undergo a
      training session to learn about supported self-management and how to use the paper-based
      Navigator Tool effectively. This training will be developed as a collaboration between Pain
      Concern and the Thistle Foundation, an organisation specializing in supporting
      self-management for people living with chronic conditions.

      Each site will identify 12 patients from their practice who will be asked to participate in
      the study. With their consent, the patient's contact details will be passed to the researcher
      who will contact them over the phone and inform them of what the study entails. Prior to this
      phone call, the patients will have received a written information and a consent sheet through
      email, post or in person at their practice. The signed consent sheet can be returned the in
      same way. Once recruited, the participants will be randomly allocated to either the
      intervention group (24 patients) or the control group (24 patients).

      Once allocated to a group, the participant will be sent a pre-intervention pack. There will
      be two versions of this pack, one for the intervention group and one for the control group.
      Both packs will contain a Pain Self-Efficacy Questionnaire (PSEQ), and the pack for the
      intervention group will contain a copy of the Navigator Tool. The participants will be
      instructed to fill out the questionnaire straight away and return it to the researcher
      through email or post.

      During the active research period (3months), the intervention group will have 2-3
      consultations using the tool with a healthcare professional who has undergone the training
      session. The control group will receive "standard care", i.e. they will not have access to
      the paper-based tool, and they will be allocated whatever healthcare professional they would
      have seen if they had not been in the study. There will be no regulation of how many
      consultations these control participants will have during the research period.

      After the 3 month active research period, all patient participants be sent a
      post-intervention pack. The intervention and control group will be sent identical packs,
      consisting of a demographics questionnaire, another PSEQ, and a Consultation Quality Index -2
      (CQI-2) (which includes the CARE measure).

      The scores will be compared between the control and active group and indicate the effect
      intervention has on our outcome measures. The two most important outcome measures are
      improvement in communication (measured by CQI-2) and improvement in confidence of pain
      management (PSEQ). Other outcome measures include engagement with the intervention, perceived
      participation in decision making, consultations and relational satisfaction and
      patient-centeredness, extent to which GP was enabling to the patients and perceived efficacy
      for self-management, scores of which will also be derived from the above questionnaires.

      A more in-depth follow-up interview will be conducted with all HCPs and a sample of patient
      participants (8 patients) spread out over the 4 sites. These interviews will provide a more
      specific, nuanced and individual understanding of the patients' and healthcare professionals'
      satisfaction with the intervention and quality of consultations. Possible topics include ease
      of use, impact on consultation length, effectiveness of communication, required changes to
      the intervention, and extent to which the intervention achieved aims. These interviews will
      take place 1-2 months after the last consultation with the tool has taken place, last for
      around 30-45 minutes, and will be conducted in a venue close to the primary care site the
      participant was recruited from.

      The interviews will be recorded and the researcher will then transcribe the interviews and
      code them using N-vivo. Themes will be elicited and cross-compared between the participants
      to establish prevalent experiences, views and attitudes.
    
  