
    
      The objective of the current application is to evaluate different strategies of
      cardiovascular therapy with carvedilol, aiming to reduce the incidence of LVEF decline and HF
      in patients undergoing curative intent trastuzumab-based HER2-directed therapy for breast
      cancer. It will compare: a) a pre-emptive preventive approach, i.e. cardiovascular therapy
      with the beta-blocker carvedilol started before trastuzumab-based HER2-directed therapy and
      b) a reactive preventive approach, i.e. cardiovascular therapy started in response to early
      subclinical signs of cardiac dysfunction/injury (either cardiac troponin elevation or
      abnormal global longitudinal strain), with the current standard approach of initiation
      cardiovascular therapy once cardiotoxicity has occurred, addressing the question if and at
      which point in time carvedilol therapy would be efficacious. It will furthermore compare
      outcome measures between a limited carvedilol therapy duration, confined to the time of the
      active trastuzumab-based HER2-directed treatment and cardiac function recovery versus an
      extended carvedilol therapy duration continuing one year after completion of
      trastuzumab-based HER2-directed therapy, addressing how long carvedilol needs to be given in
      this unique patient population. The above will be combined with pharmacogenomic measures to
      identify those at highest risk of irreversible LVEF decline and lack of response to therapy.
      The investigator's central hypothesis is that a pre-emptive or a reactive preventive approach
      will reduce the incidence of cardiotoxicity in breast cancer patients undergoing treatment
      with trastuzumab, and that extension of carvedilol therapy beyond the active
      trastuzumab-based HER2-directed therapy treatment will prove superior for preservation of
      cardiac function.

      Three specific aims will be pursued:

      Aim 1: to compare the incidence of a) HF or asymptomatic decline in LVEF by >10% in patients
      whose LVEF is ≥50% or LVEF drop ≥5% in those with a decrease to <50%. (primary aim #1), and
      b) reversible LVEF decline to within 5% of baseline (secondary aim #1) with a pre-emptive and
      reactive preventive approach with carvedilol versus a "wait-and-see strategy" of carvedilol
      initiation in response to HF or LVEF declines in breast cancer patients over the course of
      trastuzumab therapy. It is to address the question if and when to start cardioprotective
      efforts for patients undergoing trastuzumab therapy.

      Aim 2: To compare the delta change in LVEF from completion to one year after completion of
      trastuzumab therapy between cardioprotective approach with carvedilol confined the duration
      of trastuzumab therapy or extended for one year thereafter. This aim is to address the
      question of duration of cardioprotective efforts for patients undergoing trastuzumab therapy.

      Aim 3: To identify genetic variants that predict trastuzumab cardiotoxicity in general as
      well as lack of response (primary prevention of drop in LVEF or secondary improvement of
      LVEF) to carvedilol.
    
  