
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Test the feasibility and toxicity of combined cetuximab, weekly docetaxel, and
           concurrent radiotherapy in patients with poor-risk stage III non-small cell lung cancer
           (NSCLC).

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate response rates (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial) as well as
           overall and progression-free survival.

        -  Correlate EGFR mutations, KRAS mutations, EGFR/HER2 gene copy number detected by FISH,
           and protein expression by immunohistochemistry of EGFR-HER signaling pathways,
           phosphorylation, proliferative markers, apoptotic markers, selected oncogene markers,
           and markers for angiogenesis in biopsied pre-treatment tumor tissues with response and
           survival outcomes.

        -  Explore possible associations between changes in plasma angiogenic factors (VEGF, IL-8,
           bFGF) and cytokine levels (IL-6, IL-1α, ICAM, TGF-β, and others) and the risk of
           treatment-related pneumonitis and esophagitis.

      OUTLINE: Patients are enrolled sequentially to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

        -  Cohort 1: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

        -  Cohort 2: Patients receive cetuximab as in group 1 followed by docetaxel IV over 15-30
           minutes on days 8, 15, and 22 of course 1 and on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of course 2.

      Initially, 27 patients will be enrolled in Cohort 1. Once all patients in Cohort 1 have
      discontinued treatment, if toxicity rates are acceptable per protocol specifications, an
      additional 27 patients will be enrolled to Cohort 2. Treatment in both cohorts repeats every
      28 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All
      patients also undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, beginning on day 8 of course 1
      and continuing through course 2 (approximately 7 weeks). Patients with no progressive disease
      then receive cetuximab alone once weekly. Treatment with cetuximab alone continues in the
      absence of disease progression for up to 2 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 54 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  