
    
      The outcome of esophageal cancer is poor, with an overall 5-year survival rate of 10%
      worldwide. In resectable esophageal cancer, outcome can be improved by multimodality
      treatment. The current standard treatment of resectable esophageal cancer consists of
      neoadjuvant chemoradiation followed by resection. In the Netherlands, the preferred
      chemoradiation regimen consists of carboplatin plus paclitaxel with concurrent radiotherapy
      in 23 fractions of 1.8 Gray.1 In a meta-analysis the benefit of chemoradiation over surgery
      alone for both adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma has been shown.2 However, not all
      patients benefit from this preoperative treatment regimen. Some patients develop recurrent
      disease despite chemoradiation and additional (systemic) treatment might have been indicated.
      In contrast, in other patients a (nearly) complete response is observed after chemoradiation
      and those patients could possibly have been treated with a less extensive treatment regimen.
      Furthermore, in patients without a threatened circumferential resection margin (CRM) and
      lymph node metastases chemoradiotherapy could possibly be omitted, reducing patients' risk
      for complications and unnecessary, expensive treatment. Thus, stratification of patients with
      esophageal cancer is urgently needed. Functional magnetic resonance imaging techniques (MRI)
      can provide in vivo, quantitative information on tumor biology and may prove to be a useful
      non-invasive tool for this purpose. In this project, ultra-small superparamagnetic particles
      of iron oxide (USPIO) enhanced MRI using ferumoxytol (Rienso®), diffusion weighted MRI (DWI)
      and T2* MRI will be developed, both in terms of improvement of acquisition and data
      processing techniques. For patients with esophageal cancer, the proposed acquisition
      techniques and data processing have not been performed before.

      Objectives of the study

        1. To determine the optimal acquisition technique for USPIO enhanced MRI and DWI and T2*
           MRI of esophageal cancer in terms of signal-to-noise ratio, time resolution and spatial
           resolution.

        2. To determine the optimal data processing approach for USPIO enhanced MRI, DWI and T2*
           MRI of esophageal cancer.

        3. To explore the correlation between lymph node involvement on USPIO enhanced MRI in
           relation to results obtained at pathological examination.

        4. To explore the correlation of DWI and T2* MRI of esophageal cancer in relation to
           stromal involvement and markers of hypoxia and vasculature obtained at pathological
           examination.

        5. To explore the accuracy of MRI concerning circumferential tumor delineation compared to
           pathological examination.

        6. To determine the feasibility to detect lymph node involvement on USPIO enhanced MRI in
           initial staging, prior to preoperative chemoradiation therapy.

        7. To determine the correlation between lymph node involvement on pre-treatment USPIO MRI
           in relation to results obtained at pathology after complete treatment.

      The project will be executed in four steps:

        1. Optimization of acquisition and data processing techniques of USPIO MRI, DWI and T2* in
           five healthy volunteers to optimize field of view, number of slices, slice thickness
           (objectives 1 and 2).

        2. Assessment of ferumoxytol dose-response with three different dose levels at three
           different time points in six healthy volunteers (two per dose-level) (objectives 1 and
           2).

        3. Using the data of (1) and (2): assessment of USPIO MRI, DWI and T2* MRI in 20 esophageal
           cancer patients with clinically suspect lymph nodes directly before surgery (objectives
           3, 4 and 5).

        4. Using the data of (1) and (2): assessment of USPIO MRI, DWI and T2* MRI in 10 esophageal
           cancer patients with clinically suspect lymph nodes, before initial start of the
           treatment (objectives 6 and 7).

      For step 1 and 2 we aim to include healthy volunteers; for step 3 and 4 we aim to include
      patients with esophageal cancer.
    
  