
    
      Achondroplasia is the most common form of dwarfism and is characterized by short limbs with
      the thighs and upper arms being the most affected. Achondroplasia is also associated with a
      narrowing of the foramen magnum and spinal stenosis. Hypochondroplasia is a related, but less
      severe form of dwarfism that does not have the neurologic problems. Achondroplasia and
      hypochondroplasia are caused by mutations in the fibroblast growth factor receptor-3 (FGFR-3)
      gene that causes constitutive activation of the receptor. FGFR-3 signals primarily through
      the MAP kinase pathway, which is overactivated in growth plate chondrocytes in
      achondroplasia. C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) is a hormone that is produced and acts in
      the growth plate as a potent positive regulator of linear growth. CNP signals through
      natriuretic peptide receptor-B (NPR-B), generating cGMP. Studies in mice show that activation
      of the MAP kinase pathway inhibits signaling through NPR-B. Hence the achondroplasia
      phenotype may be due in part to inhibition of CNP signaling. Conversely, CNP intracellular
      signaling inhibits the MAP kinase pathway and CNP analogs are being studied as a potential
      specific therapy for achondroplasia. The objective of this project is to define the state of
      the CNP system in children and adults with achondroplasia or hypochondroplasia. Our
      hypotheses are 1) blood levels of CNP and its aminoterminal propeptide (NTproCNP) are
      elevated and blood levels of cGMP are reduced in children with achondroplasia or
      hypochondroplasia, due to inhibition of NPR-B; 2) CNP and NTproCNP levels are normal in
      adults with achondroplasia and hypochondroplasia, due to their lack of growth plate
      cartilage; and 3) as in healthy children, NTproCNP levels predict height velocity in children
      with achondroplasia or hypochondroplasia. These hypotheses will be addressed with two
      specific aims. Specific aim 1 is to determine plasma levels of CNP, NTproCNP, and cGMP in
      children and adults with achondroplasia or hypochondroplasia. Specific aim 2 is to determine
      if NTproCNP levels correlate with height velocity in children with achondroplasia or
      hypochondroplasia.

      The study is an observational, cross-sectional/partially longitudinal study of children and
      adults with achondroplasia or hypochondroplasia. Children will be seen as part of routine
      clinic visits. Children seen more than once during the study period will provide longitudinal
      data. Adult subjects with achondroplasia or hypochondroplasia will be studied a single time.
      Data collected will include anthropometrics, information on neurologic complications of
      achondroplasia, and blood levels of CNP, NTproCNP, and cGMP. We anticipate 100 subjects will
      be recruited, with about 20 being studied as many as three times during the course of the
      study.

      By studying the potential role of the CNP system in achondroplasia and hypochondroplasia, not
      only will we provide further insight into the pathophysiology of these common syndromes, we
      will also provide greater insight into the regulation of normal linear growth.
    
  