
    
      The integration of complementary medicine in supportive and palliative cancer care (i.e.,
      Integrative Oncology) is becoming more prevalent in many of the leading oncology centers in
      Israel and worldwide. Guidelines for these practices, as established by the Society for
      Integrative Oncology, were adopted in 2018 by the American Society of Clinical Oncology.

      The proposed study will be conducted within a pragmatic, randomized and controlled format,
      and will examine the impact of a nurse-guided intervention on 540 oncology patients
      undergoing Integrative Oncology treatments for quality of life (QOL)-related concerns during
      adjuvant/neo-adjuvant or curative/palliative treatments. Patients in both study arms will
      undergo patient-tailored integrative treatments, which will include manual and relaxation
      therapies, acupuncture and lifestyle changes. The integrative treatments will be provided by
      trained integrative oncology practitioners. Patients in the intervention arm of the study
      will receive additional nurse-guided instruction in the self-administration of manual
      therapies, relaxation, lifestyle changes and traditional medicine practices.

      The primary study outcome will be the assessment of the impact of the integrative treatment
      (with vs. without the nurse-guided intervention) on patient QOL-related concerns, from
      baseline to 48 hours following the intervention. For this purpose, two patient-reported
      outcome measures (PROMs) will be administered: the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS)
      and the Measure Yourself Concern and Wellbeing (MYCAW) questionnaire. Secondary outcome
      measures will include the need for medications for supportive/palliative care-related
      indications (pain, nausea, anxiety/depression, constipation/diarrhea, etc.); and the rates of
      referral of patients to the services provided by the supportive/palliative care service.
    
  