
    
      Background: Atherosclerosis is the main cause for premature morbidity and mortality in the
      western world. It becomes evident that one of the main causes for development of
      atherosclerosis is the presence of low grade, internal inflammation. The inflammatory process
      leads to endothelial dysfunction, the early event in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. The
      inflammatory process is known to be induced by several factors such as obesity, recurring
      infections, smoking, and sedentary lifestyle. It was found that weight reduction decreased
      sub clinical inflammation. It was also found that the composition of the diet affects the
      inflammatory process.

      Working hypothesis and aims: Our preliminary results show that high complex carbohydrate diet
      (HCCD) has beneficial effect on several markers of inflammation. The aims of this study are
      to reinforce our preliminary results by measuring the effect of HCCD on additional markers of
      inflammation (TNFα, IL6) and of endothelial dysfunction (ICAM-1, VCAM-1), and to identify the
      genes affected by HCCD in monocytes. In addition the aim of this study is to determine
      whether consumption of omega-3 oil actually increase the anti-inflammatory effect obtained by
      HCCD.

      Methods: 150 healthy overweight volunteers will be divided into 2 groups; HCCD group and HCCD
      supplemented with the omega-3 fatty acids. Blood sample will be taken following an overnight
      12 hour fast, before and after 8 weeks diet, for the following analysis: total cell count,
      plasma lipids, glucose and insulin, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, fibrinogen, white blood
      cell count, and CRP. Markers of leukocyte activation will be determined using FACS analysis.
      In addition, using ELISA, the following pro and anti inflammatory cytokines and markers for
      endothelial dysfunction will be analyzed: VCAM-1 and ICAM-1. Micro array analysis for genes
      transcription differences induced by HCCD will be performed in monocytes using Affymetrix
      chips.

      Expected results: We assume that HCCD consumption may improve the inflammatory markers as
      well as markers of endothelial dysfunction and affect expression of genes involved in
      inflammation in monocytes. In addition we assume that omega-3 fatty acids will strengthen the
      positive effect of HCCD on parameters of inflammation.

      Importance and probable implications to Medicine: The results of this study may establish
      scientific basis for guiding people for healthy lifestyle, including the consumption of diet
      composed of components with anti inflammatory effects, as well as nutritional supplements
      enhancing anti-inflammatory properties of the diet. This work will also be able to establish
      the influence of the diet and supplementations on gene expression for inflammatory reaction
      in monocytes.
    
  