
    
      Susceptibility to malaria infection during pregnancy and the severity of clinical
      manifestation are determined by the level of pre-pregnancy immunity, which depends on
      intensity and stability of malaria transmission. Most intervention trials to prevent malaria
      during pregnancy have been conducted in areas of intense transmission. The results of trials
      conducted in high-transmission areas may not be applicable to low transmission areas, where
      malaria is less frequent but the risk of spontaneous abortion and stillbirth is very high in
      women of all parities due to lack of sufficient malaria immunity. Routine chemoprophylaxis is
      generally not recommended in areas of unstable malaria transmission. However, intermittent
      treatment with an effective anti-malarial drug may be beneficial, especially during periods
      of malaria transmission. Little work has been carried out amongst pregnant women living in
      areas of low and unstable transmission in Africa. No data are available on the
      cost-effectiveness of malaria control in low transmission settings.

      This study will compare the efficacy and cost effectiveness of three preventive strategies
      for the control of malaria during pregnancy in low-transmission settings. The study is
      located in Kabale district, a highland area in SW Uganda.

      Women attending antenatal care are randomised to receive either:

        -  intermittent preventive treatment with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (IPT-SP)

        -  an insecticide treated net (ITN), or

        -  intermittent preventive treatment with SP and an ITN. It is hypothesized that when
           combined with IPT-SP, the additional impact of ITNs by reducing exposure may be greatest
           where the intensity of transmission is low.

      In addition to the main individually-randomised trial, outcome data was subsequently also
      gathered on pregnant women whose houses where sprayed with indoor residual insecticides (IRS)
      as part of a non-randomised district-wide control programme to compare the impact of IRS with
      the three intervention arms.

      The study aims to identify the most effective intervention strategies suited to areas
      characterised by low and unstable transmission. Research findings should be applicable to
      other hypoendemic areas of the East African highlands.
    
  