
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study was part of an initiative "Interventions to Improve Asthma Management and
      Prevention at School". The Broad Agency Announcement was released in June, 1994.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study had several objectives. The first was to demonstrate that a comprehensive
      school-based asthma education program could be implemented, using existing resources, in a
      largely poor, inner city educational environment. The second objective was to provide broad
      information on asthma and its management to elementary school faculties in order to help
      reduce fear and anxiety due to lack of knowledge about asthma. The third was to provide
      curriculum-based information about asthma to the general student bodies of elementary
      schools. The fourth objective was to institute a cost effective screening program that would
      identify elementary school students with asthma. The fifth was to provide an education
      program designed to improve knowledge and prevention. The sixth was to develop an individual
      asthma action plan for students with asthma that would improve their management and
      prevention skills and to coordinate the individual asthma action plan with school personnel
      and activities in order to improve support for the students in following their management
      plans.

      The program was evaluated through a randomized controlled design with the schools as the unit
      of randomization and the students the unit of analysis. The Birmingham public schools were
      divided into three cohorts of 18 schools each on the basis of geographic location. Schools
      were randomly assigned within cohorts so that nine schools were experimental and nine were
      control. The research protocol was implemented in the first cohort in the fall of 1995, in
      the second cohort in the fall of 1996, and in the third cohort in the fall of 1997. Students
      with asthma were followed for three school terms following collection of baseline data and
      implementation of the education program. Outcomes were assessed in terms of school absences
      and performance, health care utilization, quality of life and asthma morbidity during school.
    
  