
    
      Overweight and obesity have been identified as major neglected public health issues, as the
      prevalence of unhealthy body weights is increasing world-wide at an alarming rate. There is a
      robust link between the fetal environment and its long-term influence on health and
      susceptibility to future chronic disease in the offspring. Obesity begets obesity, and an
      unhealthy maternal metabolic state can have a profound influence on the risk of early obesity
      development in the child. Excessive pregnancy weight gain and high pre-pregnant body-mass
      index (BMI) have been linked to gestational diabetes (GDM) and macrosomic infants (birth
      weight >4.0kg. Since much of the influence of the intrauterine milieu is transmitted to the
      next generation non-genetically, potentially deleterious effects can be reversed and
      prevented. An intervention targeting school-aged children on the importance of healthy
      lifestyles occurs too late to prevent childhood obesity and establish lifelong healthy body
      weights. To break the spiralling cycle of generations of unhealthy body weights in Canadian
      children, and to reduce the risk of future obesity-related health problems, it is imperative
      to prevent excessive pregnancy weight gain, GDM and to promote a healthy prenatal and early
      postnatal lifestyle.

      Reversing the obesity epidemic will involve a lifetime of effort by the medical and research
      communities, however, over the next 3 years, we believe that we may contribute to the
      solution by using a two-pronged approach by first targeting pregnant overweight and obese
      women with a healthy lifestyle approach called the Nutrition & Exercise Lifestyle
      Intervention Program (NELIP) combined with a Family-based Behavioural Treatment (FBBT) that
      will prevent excessive weight gain and GDM, and promote a healthy fetal environment. The
      second prong will use this healthy lifestyle (NELIP+FBBT) approach starting at 2 months
      postpartum continuing to the first year, to minimize postpartum weight retention, encourage
      breastfeeding, and promote a healthy family lifestyle.

      Primary objectives are:

        1. To prevent excessive pregnancy weight gain and GDM in order to decrease the incidence of
           macrosomia and large for gestational age babies

        2. To prevent weight retention postpartum and encourage healthy infant feeding practices in
           order to decrease the risk of developing obesity during the first year of life.

      Secondary objectives are:

        1. To track pregnancy weight gain and postpartum weight loss, gradually reducing body
           weight as needed (0.5 kg per week) to achieve and maintain a healthy body weight in the
           mother

        2. To track birth weight and infant growth within the first year of life (at 2, 6 and 12
           months), including body weight, height, BMI, and body fatness, using the World Health
           Organization growth charts as a standard.

      Currently, the R. Samuel McLaughlin Foundation-Exercise and Pregnancy Lab at the University
      of Western Ontario is the only research laboratory in North America actively investigating
      metabolic changes in exercising pregnant and postpartum women. Our longitudinal aim is to
      reduce obesity, and chronic disease risks (such as diabetes) in the offspring of overweight
      and obese women using our two-pronged intervention program, which includes healthy food
      choices and increased physical activity (NELIP and FBBT) initiated during pregnancy and
      reinforced in the early postpartum period. With our NELIP team as a cornerstone, and our
      pilot data already collected, we foresee an opportunity over the next 3 years to contribute
      to intervention strategies and patient care with emphasis on disease prevention and healthy
      family lifestyle initiation early in life to reverse the trend of childhood obesity. With a
      solid research-based initiative from the lab to the community by knowledge translation to
      health care providers, future health care costs can be reduced by putting prevention-based
      programs into practice.
    
  