
    
      This is a prospective observational pilot study to assess the feasibility of studying
      endothelial cell and neutrophil differences between coronary atherosclerotic plaque rupture
      and plaque erosion in patients presenting with NSTEMI. The data obtained from this study will
      be used to determine the feasibility of a larger study, if appropriate.

      Patients presenting with a diagnosis of NSTEMI within 24 hours of chest pain will be
      approached to take part in the study if an invasive strategy is planned. A control group of
      patients scheduled to undergo elective PCI for stable angina will also be recruited.

      Following written informed consent peripheral venous blood samples will be taken as soon as
      possible after admission (or immediately prior to elective PCI in the control group) this
      will be analysing using flow cytometry to determine circulating cell sub-populations. Stored
      plasma will be used for proteomic analysis (separate funding to be sought). Cellular
      populations will be isolated and characterised by transcriptome analysis using RNA-seq
      (separate funding to be sought).

      The culprit lesion will be identified by coronary angiography in the NSTEMI group, and if
      feasible OCT will be undertaken in the culprit and non-culprit vessels. If OCT is not
      feasible (eg lesion requires pre-dilatation with a balloon, or vessel is too tortuous) the
      patient will be excluded from the study and no further study related procedures will be
      undertaken. Blood samples from such patients will also be discarded.

      OCT data will be analysed off line by two independent experts to classify plaque morphology
      (rupture, erosion, other). Endothelial cell populations will be analysed in coronary and
      peripheral arterial blood using flow cytometry: results will be analysed according to
      OCT-defined plaque pathology.

      Blood samples will be stored with a view to proteomic analysis using the Olink Cardiovascular
      panel.

      The patients will be contacted at 1 month by telephone to determine vital status and adverse
      events.
    
  