
    
      Aging leads to the biological and physiological changes in the human body but it is more
      pronounced in frail elderly. One of the body systems which will undergo changes due to aging
      is the respiratory system. Respiratory system changes can be in terms of mechanics, muscular
      and immunological aspects. These changes often lead to respiratory impairment or more often
      defined as spirometrically airflow limitation or restrictive- pattern. Aging will change the
      structure of thoracic cage, causing a reduction in chest wall compliance. Moreover, aging
      disease such as osteoporosis also causes stiffening of the thoracic cage and kyphosis. As a
      result, the ribcage is unable to expand and contract, causing difficulty in breathing. In
      addition, atrophy of skeletal muscles leads to increased loss of lean tissue. With the loss
      of lean tissue in the respiratory muscles, the pulmonary function of an elderly will
      subsequently be compromised. All these changes decrease the volume of the thoracic cavity and
      reduce lung volumes which leads to limitation of air flow, decrease of FEV1, FVC and FEV1/FVC
      as well as increase in residual volume and functional residual capacity. As a result, elderly
      will tend to have increased work of breathing compared to younger individuals.

      Other than that, immunological changes that occur in the elderly increases their risk of
      getting respiratory tract infection, leading to development of pulmonary disease such as
      pneumonia. In addition, elderly have higher exposure to second-hand smoke, toxin exposure
      from the environment which can predispose them to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      leading to dyspnea and alter the pulmonary function. All these changes can have a strong
      impact on morbidity, mortality and quality of life in elderly.

      As a person ages, observable changes can be seen in body composition and body phenotype.
      These changes will alter the structure and function of the respiratory system. Prevention and
      intervention programs are necessary to minimize the loss of respiratory function in order to
      reverse the progression of frailty condition. Exercises such as inspiratory muscle training
      (IMT) and hold relax pectoral stretch has been found to be helpful in strengthening the
      breathing muscles and improving pulmonary function respectively. Studies have shown that
      these two exercises will help in increasing the pulmonary function but till date there is no
      study which has been carried out to find the effectiveness of these 2 exercises on pulmonary
      function in frail elderly.

      A total of 34 residents from Seavoy Nursing Home were recruited after screening (excluded;
      bed ridden participants, not able to communicate and give their consent, suffering from a
      ruptured eardrum or any other condition of the ear, abnormally low perception of dyspnea,
      presence of cardiac pacemaker, unable to do overhead movement and hyper-mobility of
      shoulder). Based on the inclusion criteria, the participants needed to be above 60 years of
      age, currently residing in a care facility, a citizen of Malaysia, ability to understand
      Malay, English, Mandarin and Cantonese and able to score more than 16 out of 30 in Montreal
      Cognitive assessment (MoCA). Score of 16 and above on MoCA was to make sure participants were
      able to follow and understand the instructions given during testing and intervention. This
      was followed by assessment for frail criteria. At least 3 of the frail criteria; shrinking,
      weakness, poor endurance, slowness of gait, and low physical activity level needed to be met
      by participants. Questions such as body weight, height, losing weight, their daily physical
      activity, their endurance and power status by self reported exhaustion were asked. For
      shrinking, body weight and height were measured and compared to nursing homes past 1 year
      record. Participants with unintentional weight loss of 4.5Kgs or more from past 1 year were
      considered for this study. Weakness criterion was evaluated by checking the grip strength of
      the dominant hand with cut-off point for different BMI. Besides that, the poor endurance
      criterion was assessed using two statements of the CES-D scale: "I felt that everything I did
      was an effort" and "I could not get going" for much or most of the time, when asked. A low
      physical activity criterion was met if male scored less than 64 and female less than 52 on
      Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly (PASE). Besides the slow gait speed criterion was met
      if the participant took more than 10 seconds to walk back and forth over a ten-foot.

      After meeting all the inclusion criteria, participants were randomly divided into either into
      experimental group who did inspiratory muscle training or control group who did hold-relax
      pectoral stretch. Pulmonary function (FVC, FEV1, FEV1/FVC) were measured by spirometer in
      sitting upright position. A nose clip was used and participants were instructed to tightly
      securing the lips around the mouth piece of spirometer. A single trail was run to make sure
      participants know how to use the spiromter before actual test was conducted.

      For screening purpose, Montreal Cognitive assessment (MoCA) was used to evaluate the
      cognitive status. Physical Activity Scale for the Elderly (PASE) was used to evaluate the
      physical activity level of the elderly. Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale
      (CES- D) was used to evaluate the poor endurance and energy of the elderly. Dynamometer
      (Jamar hydraulic hand dynamometer) was used to measure the grip strength of the elderly to
      evaluate the weakness. Furthermore, Portable spirometer (MIR Spirobank II ®) was used to
      measure the outcome measures (FVC, FEV1, FEV1/FVC). Last but not least, IMT device
      (Respironics Threshold IMT) was used for inspiratory muscle training.

      34 participants were assigned into two groups; control group and experimental group. Each
      participant was supposed to complete a total of 12 sessions of exercises, 3 sessions per week
      for 4 weeks. In control group, the participants received 3 sets of passive hold- relax
      pectoral stretch for each session. Each stretch was maintained for 10 seconds with a rest
      period of 30 seconds given between the sets. Participants were in sitting position, shoulders
      held in abducted position with elbows flexed and both hand joined behind the neck. The
      subjects were asked to contract the agonist muscles and hold for 10 seconds while resistance
      was applied to the contraction.

      On the other hand, participants in the experimental group were given Inspiratory Muscle
      Training by using an IMT device (Respironics Threshold IMT). Participants were in Fowler's
      position. Based on the protocol of Inspiratory Muscle Training, a nose clip was used during
      the training. Participants were advised to inform the researchers and stop the exercise
      immediately if they felt dizziness or breathlessness. Before the training, participants were
      taught how to use the device and were instructed to use the correct breathing technique while
      using the device. For this training, the inspiratory load for each participant was set at 30
      cmH2O. During the protocol, researchers observed the participants for their facial expression
      to ensure that they do not breath forcefully to exhaust themselves. Verbal cue such as don't
      lift up the chest when doing the breathing exercise, use diaphragm to perform the exercise
      were given. Participants performed three sets of ten breaths with resting period of one
      minute between the sets.

      The primary outcome measure in this study was pulmonary function. The measures of pulmonary
      function were: Forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1),
      FEV1/FVC. These were assessed by spirometry and expressed in litres. The measures were
      assessed with the participants in sitting position with the use of nose clip. A clear
      instruction was given to the participants to expire forcefully out into the disposable
      mouthpiece and after the machine provide a sound, the participants were asked to inspire
      forcefully from the disposable mouthpiece. A trail run was performed before running the
      actual test. The measurement of FVC, FEV1 and FEV1/FVC was evaluated before and after the
      intervention. Data was recorded in the data collection sheet. However, during this study
      there were 2 dropouts from experimental group who refused to continue the exercise after
      first week of intervention. There were also 2 dropouts from the control group as 1
      participant was discharged from the nursing home in the second week of the study and another
      one felt sick in the last week of intervention. Hence, data analysis was performed only for
      15 participants in each group.
    
  