
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: To determine the safety and tolerability of BYL719 given in combination
      with endocrine therapy in post-menopausal patients with hormone receptor-positive metastatic
      breast cancer by determining:

      I. Dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) during the first 4 weeks of treatment (cycle 1).

      II. Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of BYL719 (PI3K inhibitor BYL719) given in combination with
      letrozole.

      III. Highest tolerated dose - ability to tolerate BYL719 with letrozole for a total of 8
      weeks without development of:

        -  Hyperglycemia (fasting glucose > 200 mg/dL) for more than 2 weeks in a row despite
           optimal medical treatment

        -  CTC Grade 3 or > rash for more than 2 weeks in a row despite optimal medical treatment

        -  CTC Grade 2 or > GI toxicity for more than 2 weeks in a row despite optimal medical
           treatment

        -  CTC Grade 2 or > serum creatinine, bilirubin, AST, ALT elevation from baseline for more
           than 2 weeks in a row despite optimal medical treatment

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: To determine the anti-tumor effect of the combinations of endocrine
      therapy with BYL719 in post-menopausal patients with hormone receptor-positive metastatic
      breast cancer by assessing:

      I. Progression free survival (PFS). II. Objective response rate (ORR). III. Clinical benefit
      rate (complete response [CR]+partial response [PR]+stable disease [SD] >= 6 months).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Pharmacokinetics of BYL719 in combination with letrozole: Plasma concentration-time
      profiles and derived basic pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of BYL719 and letrozole, including
      but not limited to area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to the last
      measurable concentration (AUC0-tlast), AUC curve to infinite time (AUC0-inf), maximum
      observed concentration (Cmax), time to peak concentration (Tmax), clearance over
      bioavailability (CL/F), apparent volume of distribution (Vz/F) and the terminal half-life
      (t1/2) and other PK parameters if deemed appropriate.

      II. Correlation of response with alterations of the PI3K pathway: Mutational analysis of
      PIK3CA (exons 9 and 20), phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), and AKT1 in formalin-fixed
      paraffin blocks (FFPB) from previous surgeries or fresh-frozen biopsies (if available) on all
      patients enrolled in the trial.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label phase Ib dose-escalation study of the PI3K inhibitor BYL719 in
      combination with letrozole in post-menopausal patients with ER+ metastatic breast cancer.

      Patients receive BYL719 orally (PO) once daily (QD) and letrozole PO QD. Courses repeat every
      4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  