
    
      A prospective longitudinal cohort study will be conducted at National Cancer Centre Singapore
      (NCCS) and KK Women's and Children's Hospital (KKH) from April 2018 to April 2021. Eligible
      cancer patients aged between 15-39 years old will be recruited and followed up for a period
      of 12 months. In addition, healthy individuals will also be recruited into the control arm of
      the study. The prevalence of cognitive impairment will be assessed via objective cognitive
      functional assessments in the form of the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery
      (Cantab) test scores and Functional Assessement of Cancer-Therapy Cognitive Function
      (FACT-Cog v3.0). The overall cognitive performance and post-treatment health issues measured
      by the assessment tools used would be compared between AYA cancer patients and healthy
      controls at baseline and 6 months after baseline.

      Other post-treatment health issues will be assessed in relation to cognitive impairment with
      a series of questionnaires including Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form
      (MFSI-SF) for cancer-related fatigue, the Rotterdam Symptom Checklist (RSCL) for symptom
      burden, the Paediatrics Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL 4.0) for psychosocial outcomes,
      InCharge questionnaire for perceived financial distress and a work/education questionnaire
      respectively.

      To enhance the understanding of the biological mechanism behind cognitive impairment, levels
      of biomarkers and genetic determinants will also be correlated with overall cognitive
      impairment. Blood plasma samples drawn from patients will be assessed for Brain-derived
      neutrotrophic factor (BDNF) levels, hormone levels and pro-inflammatory cytokines such as
      IL-1β, IL-4, and IL-6 using multiplex immunoassay. MRI scans and relevant neuroimaging
      techniques will be used to assess structural changes and functional connectivities in brain.
      Lastly, wearable devices will be utilized to track activity and lifestyle data among AYA
      cancer patients to investigate on the extent of impact of cognitive impairment and to assess
      the feasibility of using these wearables devices to personalize symptom management.

      Findings from this proposed study will enhance understanding of cognitive toxicity and
      post-treatment health issues faced by the AYA patient group, which will facilitate the
      development of effective interventions to better cope with their daily lives.
    
  