
    
      Though significant research effort has focused on autism spectrum disorder (ASD) screening,
      less attention has been devoted to optimizing follow-up of children who are subsequently
      identified as at-risk. Despite increases in ASD screening rates, many children with ASD wait
      years between when autism is suspected in the primary care setting and when definitive
      diagnosis and treatment begin. Delayed and missed diagnoses are particularly problematic for
      low-income and racial/ethnic minority children in the US, who experience higher rates of
      these adverse outcomes. In this project, we propose to pilot test Autism Access Link to Early
      Referral and Treatment (Autism ALERT), a statewide monitoring and case management program to
      accelerate access to ASD diagnosis and treatment among children with suspected ASD the
      primary care setting. The system will reduce the time between identification of suspected ASD
      in the primary care setting and establishment of ASD diagnosis and treatment services, by
      reducing family barriers to care, decreasing primary care provider burdens, and simplifying
      referral processes. The program will be available to any Oregon child age 12-54 months,
      regardless of health system or payor type. Autism ALERT will become part of the Help Me Grow
      national network, which gives it potential for statewide and national spread. In this
      proposed research, we will pilot test Autism ALERT by comparing it to an existing ASD
      screening intervention in 6 Oregon primary care practices. Primary goals of this pilot
      project are to assess feasibility and acceptability of Autism ALERT for primary care
      providers and families, to test the mechanism of action of Autism ALERT, to pilot test
      efficacy in reducing time to autism diagnosis and treatment, and to test fidelity of protocol
      implementation. If successful, this project will be expanded into an
      implementation/effectiveness R01 in which the program will be tested throughout the state of
      Oregon. In the long term, this research will result in a sustainable, evidence-based
      statewide and ultimately national monitoring system children with suspected ASD.
    
  