
    
      Purpose and design

      Aims:

      To determine if the PillCam™ Crohn's capsule (PCC) performs similarly to ileo-colonoscopy
      (IC) and magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) when assessing patients with an established
      diagnosis of Crohn's disease (CD).

      Objectives:

      Primary objective: To assess the number of positive results showing active disease which are
      detected ("positive yields") by PCC compared to IC and MRE in patients with an established
      diagnosis of CD.

      Secondary objectives will focus on other performance characteristics of PCC in assessing CD
      and include the following:

        -  To investigate the association between the different scoring systems (MEGS, MaRIA,
           SES-CD, Lewis, CECDAIic) for severity of bowel inflammation for each test.

        -  To see if the clinical findings seen on PCC matches the clinical severity as graded by
           patients based on the Harvey-Bradshaw Index and patients' quality of life from the short
           IBD-Q.

        -  To assess the patient experience of each test in a smaller group of patients.

      This study is a three-centre prospective non-randomised study held across three NHS hospital
      sites. The investigators will be recruiting 125 patients who have been referred for IC and
      MRE as part of standard NHS care to assess their CD. As part of this study, all patients will
      undergo the investigations as part of their routine care plus PCC so overall, the
      participants will undergo all three investigations, namely IC, MRE and PCC.

      The three sites in this study are:

        -  South Tyneside District Hospital (STDH), South Tyneside and Sunderland NHS Foundation
           Trust (STSFT)

        -  Royal Hallamshire Hospital (RHH), Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust
           (STH)

        -  Darlington Memorial Hospital (DMH), County Durham and Darlington NHS Foundation Trust
           (CDDFT) (not capsule endoscopy delivery site in delivering routine care)

      DMH does not routinely deliver care for capsule endoscopy. Patients recruited from DMH will
      be referred to STDH for patency ("dummy") capsule and PCC. Whenever possible, the research
      team at STDH will perform both "dummy" capsule and PCC examinations in DMH to avoid patients
      travelling.

      Recruitment

      Study design and methodology:

      Suitable patient candidates for the study will be identified in a gastroenterology clinic or
      an inflammatory bowel disease meeting. These patients will have been referred for both MRE
      and IC as part of their standard care. The clinician responsible for the patient's care will
      explore the patient's interest in participating in the study. Verbal consent to allow the
      research team to approach these patients will be gained by their responsible clinician either
      in clinic or via telephone.

      These patients will be signposted to a research nurse or a clinical research doctor involved
      in the study at each hospital site. The research nurse and clinical research doctor would be
      authorised on the delegation log. The patient will be provided with a patient information
      sheet on the study and a patient information leaflet on the capsule procedures ("dummy"
      capsule and PCC) in clinic by either the patient's usual clinician or the research nurse.
      Alternatively, these documents could be sent to the patient in the post by the research team.
      The patient will also be given adequate time to consider participating in the study and be
      given an opportunity to ask questions about the study and about both the "dummy" capsule and
      PCC.

      Following this, a patient may be approached or contacted by the patient's usual clinician
      (who will be authorised on the delegation log) or a member of the research team to discuss
      the study. A member of the research team at each hospital site will gain written consent from
      the patient to participate in the study. In addition to study participation consent, another
      form of written consent will be obtained for procedures such as IC (as part of standard care)
      and the "dummy" capsule and PCC (as part of research protocol). The consent forms used for
      the procedures are standard NHS consent forms used nationally. Specific consent will also be
      gained from the patient so that the investigators can inform the patient's General
      Practitioner of study participation.

      All the study procedures and tests remain the same across all 3 hospital sites. Nevertheless,
      as CDDFT is not a hospital site which provides a capsule endoscopy service, suitable members
      of the research team who are trained in capsule endoscopy from STSFT will travel to CDDFT to
      gain consent from the participants for the "dummy" capsule and PCC, administer these and
      follow-up the participants' progress.

      Once a patient has been consented, the patient will first undergo the MRE. This is important
      as the participant cannot have the scan if there is a retained capsule. The research team
      will coordinate patient appointments with the radiology and endoscopy department to ensure
      that the participant's MRE appointment occurs prior to the "dummy" capsule and PCC
      appointment.

      All MRE results will be reviewed by the research team before the participants are given the
      "dummy" capsule. The participant proceeds to this unless the MRE shows a long fixed segment
      of small bowel narrowing (stricture) which is more than 30cm. In this case, the particular
      patient will be excluded from the study due to the risk of the capsule getting stuck within
      the bowel (capsule retention).

      Within the 2 weeks following the MRE, the participant will attend the participant's local
      hospital site to have the "dummy" capsule. The participant does not need to drink bowel
      preparation (a drink to clean the bowel) for this. The participant will be supervised by a
      member of the research team while swallowing the "dummy" capsule at approximately 0800 hours.
      At approximately 1400 hours the following day, the participant will attend the hospital to
      assess the location of the "dummy" capsule. This involves using a handheld scanner. The
      investigators will not be able to use the handheld scanner on some patients who have a
      cardiac pacemaker or implanted cardiac defibrillator. These patients will have to undergo a
      limited CT scan to look for the location of the "dummy" capsule as recommended by the
      Sheffield Hospitals Trust. The limited CT scan will also be used if the handheld scanner is
      not available or if the scanner cannot detect the location of the "dummy" capsule.

      If the participant pass the "dummy" capsule safely, the participant will proceed to PCC (and
      IC on the same day if possible) which will be scheduled as a separate appointment, usually
      within 3-5 working days. The patients who are found to have capsule retention will not be
      able to participate in the study. However, an appointment will be arranged to undergo IC as
      this was organised from the patients' recent clinic appointment. A retained "dummy" capsule
      will eventually dissolve itself in 72 hours and pass safely.

      Before attending the appointment for PCC and IC, the participant will have to take bowel
      preparation the evening before. The participant may require additional bowel preparation and
      another appointment if IC cannot be performed on the same day as PCC. To avoid the need for
      bowel preparation to be taken twice, the research team will endeavour to ensure the
      appointments for PCC and IC coincide. The investigators acknowledge that this may not be
      feasible for all patients and appointments will be made at the convenience of patients.

      Participants will be scheduled to arrive at the endoscopy department early in the morning
      (approximately 0730 hours). The participant will be supervised while swallowing the PCC to
      allow enough time for the capsule to pass. This gives the greatest chance of the participant
      being able to have the IC the same day. The progress of the capsule is monitored through the
      day. In a small number of patients who are unable to swallow the PCC or where it is delayed
      in travelling from the stomach into the small bowel, these patients will have a short camera
      test procedure (gastroscopy) to place the PCC in the small bowel. This is standard clinical
      practice under these circumstances and will be carried out after these patients have given
      additional consent. When the PCC is confirmed to have left the body, the participant proceeds
      to IC in the afternoon (approximately 1500 hours). Following this, the participant is
      discharged from hospital.

      Anticipated situations where this may not occur include an incomplete capsule recording by
      the time of the participant's IC appointment later in the afternoon. If so, the recording of
      PCC is allowed to continue and the participant will be given the option of undergoing IC that
      afternoon (in which case the capsule would be encountered by the clinician performing the IC)
      or coming back on a different day (after further bowel preparation), within 2 weeks, for
      their IC.

      The investigators would allow a 4-week period for participants to have all the investigations
      (MRE, "dummy" capsule, PCC and IC). Results from the MRE, PCC and IC will be recorded.
      Information about the participant's Crohn's disease, medication, recent blood or stool tests
      will be recorded. Participants would also be asked to complete a short quality of life
      questionnaire. All patients will have follow-up until all investigations are complete.
      Additionally, passage of the actual capsule (PCC) from the bowel will be confirmed with
      patients. If a patient is uncertain if it has passed, an X-ray of the abdomen will be
      arranged 2 weeks later at the patient's local hospital site.

      A smaller group of 10-15 patients will be asked to attend an interview to evaluate the
      patients' experience relating to the PCC to see if this could be introduced into routine
      clinical care. At least 3 from each of the 3 sites will be selected. One-to-one interviews
      will be conducted and recorded on telephone by an experienced researcher (Dr Close).
      Interview schedules will be developed in collaboration with a patient group and interviews
      will be held at a time convenient to patients, between 1-6 weeks following the end of the
      patients' various investigations. The analysis will focus on how acceptable is the new test
      compared to usual care and patient views about its place in disease monitoring and
      management. Initial analysis will be conducted by Dr Close and the patient group will be
      consulted about the interpretation of findings.

      As patients would have multiple hospital visits for IC and MRE as part of routine care, the
      investigators would attempt to minimise the number of additional hospital visits related to
      study consent, "dummy" capsule administration and follow-up. All patients are entitled to
      claim up to £25 to cover for any additional research-related hospital visits. This will be
      organised via the research nurse at each local hospital site.

      Study calibration:

      This study is designed in a way that the investigation and management pathway is reliable and
      can be readily applied to real-world routine practice. As such, interpreting and reporting
      scans and procedures will occur across all 3 hospital sites. Everyone involved in reporting
      these will have prior training to standardise report findings. For every patient's set of
      investigations, a clinician who reports a particular test for that patient will not have
      access or be made aware of the results of that same patient's other test results. This is to
      prevent any bias effect on all the report findings.

      The approach to each investigation is described below:

        -  MRE: All MRE will be read locally. On top of standard reporting, all radiologists will
           be given training on how to calculate disease severity scores for the small bowel.

        -  PCC: All PCC will be read locally. Examinations performed at DMH will be read by someone
           at STDH. The data recorder will be securely transported between these 2 hospital sites.
           The data is encrypted and only accessible with specific reporting software. All readers
           will be experienced capsule endoscopy readers (reporting >75 capsule endoscopies per
           year). The capsule endoscopy readers will also have completed online learning provided
           by Medtronic (company that manufactures and provides PCC) and be given training on how
           to calculate disease severity scores when reporting.

        -  IC: All IC will be performed locally. Clinicians performing this procedure will be asked
           to report the IC by a standardised scoring system which details disease severity in the
           large bowel. Every effort will be made to access the last part of the small bowel
           (terminal ileum) to complete assessment but this may not sometimes be possible if
           patients have an inflamed bowel lining. These will be recorded. Tiny samples (biopsies)
           may be taken from the lining of the bowel if deemed necessary by the clinician
           performing the procedure.

      As mentioned above, the clinicians reading PCC will be different from the clinicians
      performing IC. All clinicians will only have access to the results of the patient's
      investigation that the clinician is involved in reporting and not the other investigations.

      Study information gathering:

      The following information will be collected and recorded onto a paper case report form and
      then uploaded onto a secure online database (REDCap):

        -  Age

        -  Gender

        -  Reason for CD assessment

        -  Current Montreal-Paris classification of CD

        -  Current medication for CD

        -  Blood tests within 8 weeks prior to study entry: full blood count, urea & electrolytes,
           CRP, albumin

        -  Stool tests (faecal calprotectin) within 8 weeks prior to study entry

        -  Harvey-Bradshaw Index (HBI)

        -  Short IBDQ (IBD patient quality of life questionnaire)

        -  MRE results and disease severity scores

        -  IC results, biopsy results if applicable and disease severity score

        -  PCC results and disease severity scores

      No follow-up (beyond confirmation of the passage of the PCC) is required for the study except
      for a subset of 10-15 patients recruited for interviews as stated above in "Study design and
      methodology". The duration of patient involvement in the study is from patient consent up to
      4 weeks after the last investigation (MRE, IC or PCC). This is to allow time for the
      investigations to be carried out, reported, repeated if required and for data collection.

      Results from IC and MRE will be managed in keeping with standard care. It is possible that
      subtle and abnormal small bowel findings are picked up by PCC that are not picked up by MRE.
      Results from PCC will be reviewed by the Principal Investigator of each hospital site and
      where the results differ from IC and MRE, this will be passed on to the patient's usual
      responsible doctor for further action if necessary.

      Consent

      Patients will be allowed adequate time to consider study participation. The patients will
      also be offered the opportunity to ask any questions. Written consent will be sought after a
      full explanation has been given by a fully-trained member of the research team. Additional
      written consent will be sought during the same session for all 3 procedures i.e. the "dummy"
      capsule, PCC and IC. A small proportion of patients who are selected for the telephone
      interview will have to sign a separate consent form for this purpose.

      As participation in this study will require potentially one or more additional visits for the
      "dummy" capsule, or a further appointment for either PCC or IC if these cannot be performed
      on the same day, patients will be informed of this upon study participation. Additionally,
      the patients will be made aware that they may need to take bowel preparation twice.
      Participants will be reimbursed for research-related travel costs up to £25. This can be
      arranged via the participants' local hospital research team.

      The patients will reserve the right to refuse to participate or withdraw at any time without
      affecting subsequent care. Any information collected up to that point will be recorded,
      unless participants specifically request that the investigators destroy any information
      collected.

      Risks, burdens and benefits

      Patients with CD often require two tests to assess if their CD is active, namely IC and MRE.
      These tests help determine if their symptoms are due to CD, which is important as medications
      to control the disease and heal the bowel lining are strong and expensive. However, these
      tests are uncomfortable, embarrassing, time-consuming and involve hospital visits to two
      separate departments.

      The new test (PCC) involves swallowing a miniature camera, the size of a large vitamin pill
      that video-records the lining of the small and large bowel. Images are sent to a recorder
      worn over the tummy. This proposed study includes PCC, IC and MRE, therefore all findings
      within the entire small bowel and colon are compared between these tests. The investigators
      aim to assess how PCC performs in comparison to IC+MRE when assessing the severity of a
      patient's CD activity. There have not been prior studies comparing PCC to a combined set of
      IC+MRE which is more reflective of current standards of care. The outcome of this study will
      therefore be more readily applicable to standard practice.

      If PCC delivers a single test that is comparable to current tests (IC+MRE) for patients with
      CD, then not only does it address issues patients have over having an invasive and
      potentially uncomfortable test (IC), but it also reduces the number of tests that patients
      need to have and visits to different hospital departments. It means fewer test results to
      wait for and lesser delay in treatment decisions, on top of saving cost and relieving huge
      pressure on radiology departments and endoscopy units which are trying to meet all demands on
      their service.

      Anticipated adverse events from this study could be related to either procedure (PCC or IC).

      Adverse events (AE):

        1. Retained "dummy" capsule or retained PCC

        2. Bleeding or perforation (damage or puncture to the bowel lining) related to IC

      Serious adverse events (SAE):

        1. Unplanned admission to hospital due to retained "dummy" capsule or PCC

        2. Camera test procedure (endoscopy) or an operation to remove the retained "dummy" capsule
           or PCC

        3. Unplanned admission to hospital following IC or MRE which are directly related to the
           investigations

      A retained capsule is defined as the presence of capsule two weeks after first swallowing it
      and where its passage from the bowel has not been detected. This can also happen if a patient
      starts developing symptoms strongly suggestive of a blockage within the bowel after
      swallowing the capsule. Side effects from bowel preparation such as nausea, vomiting,
      abdominal pain and bloating are not included as an adverse event. Each AE or SAE will be
      recorded in an adverse event form and the sponsor, trials steering committee and independent
      data monitoring committee will be notified.

      Risks of retained capsule will be minimised by reviewing the MRE results to ensure there are
      no strictures before they are given to patients. Patients will be given a "dummy" capsule
      which can self-dissolve and pass spontaneously even if it is stuck before being given the
      actual PCC. This would help exclude the group of patients who have strictures which are not
      visible on MRE.

      The IC will be performed by fully qualified endoscopists so the risks of bleeding or
      perforation are very small (1 in 1000 chance).

      The radiation exposure that the patient might receive over the course of the study (assuming
      2 abdominal X-rays and 2 limited CT scans) could very slightly increase the risk of getting
      cancer. The normal risk of developing cancer at some point is 50% i.e. 1 in 2. The patient's
      total risk, including the risks from the scans involved in the patient's participation in the
      trial, would become 50.05% i.e. an increase of 0.05%. This increase in risk is considered to
      be low.

      Confidentiality

      The Caldicott Principles and General Protection Data Regulation (GPDR) will be fully adhered
      to when dealing with patient identifiable data. The Chief Investigators will preserve the
      confidentiality of participants taking part in the study. The data will be held at the site
      in accordance with local Trust policies and will be destroyed following the study has closed
      in accordance with local Research and Development protocols.

      Patients will be informed upon study consent that relevant sections of their hospital notes,
      endoscopy records, laboratory results and biopsy samples will be accessed by a member of the
      research team. Results of PCC will not be anonymised to allow the investigators to match the
      participant's findings to the IC and MRE. Any information collected and uploaded onto the
      secure online database will be allocated a unique study ID for each patient with no
      identifiable information. No patient identifiable information will be passed outside of the
      participating Trusts. Any results published as part of this study will be anonymised.

      All members of the research team will be trained in Good Clinical Practice in Research which
      is in line with the National Institute for Health Research policy. All those dealing with
      data will receive GDPR training and the study will be registered with the Caldicott Guardian
      at each hospital site.
    
  