
    
      This is an investigator-initiated double-blinded study in which one hundred and eighty male
      and female subjects ages 6 to 10 will be recruited from the Division of Pediatrics at Boston
      University Medical Center. Potential volunteers will undergo a screening process to ensure
      that inclusion and exclusion criteria are met. A general medical history will be taken before
      the study starts. A baseline biochemical profile (blood) including calcium, phosphorus,
      osteocalcin, alkaline phosphatase, C-telopeptide (CTX), 25(OH)D, PTH, albumin, vitamin A, and
      vitamin E will be determined after the study is completed. The amount of blood estimated to
      be drawn on the first visit is 27 ml. Dietary intake will be assessed from 3 day food records
      via NDS-Minnesota Database by Dr. Christine Economos, Friedman School of Nutrition Science
      and Policy at Tufts University. Once the subject has met the inclusion criteria, he/she will
      receive two gallons of orange juice via a delivery service to their home. He/she will be
      instructed to drink two 8 oz. glasses of orange juice a day and record each glass of juice
      that was drunk; stickers and calendars will be provided. A delivery service will be used to
      deliver juice to parents/caregiver biweekly. Signature and log sheets of deliveries will be
      maintained. A glass that has a mark designating eight ounces will be provided to the subject
      so that the amount of orange juice that is drunk is measured. Sixty subjects will receive
      intervention A, sixty subjects will receive intervention B, and sixty subjects will receive
      intention C. Subjects randomized to intervention A will receive juice that contains 200 IU of
      vitamin D and 700 mg of calcium per day. Subjects randomized to intervention B will receive
      200 IU vitamin D, 12 IU vitamin E, 2000 IU vitamin A as beta-carotene, and 700 mg of calcium
      per day. Subjects randomized to intervention C will receive 700 mg calcium per day. A venous
      blood sample of 27 ml [two red top tubes (10ccs each) and one purple top tube (7ccs)] will be
      obtained at the initial and final visits. 25(OH)D, PTH, calcium, phosphorus, osteocalcin,
      C-telopeptide(CTX), alkaline phosphatase, albumin, vitamin A, and vitamin E will be measured
      from the blood samples. During the mid-intervention blood draw (week 6) 10mL of blood will be
      drawn and 25(OH)D and PTH will be measured. The study will consist of 12 weeks of drinking
      two eight-ounce glasses of orange juice a day (one in the am and one in the pm).
    
  