
    
      Introduction:

      The average age of menopause in the Polish population is around 50 years. After the last
      menstruation a number of hormonal changes occur in the female body: estrogen, ovarian
      androgens (testosterone, androstenedione) and adrenal ones (DHEA, DHEAS), progesterone,
      growth hormone and insulin-like growth factors decrease. The concentration of gonadotropins
      gradually increases. These hormonal changes may result in the appearance of osteoporosis,
      climacteric syndrome, depression, changes in the structure of the skin or stress urinary
      incontinence in women. It has been documented that the risk of ischemic heart disease
      increases significantly after the onset of menopause which is reflected in the lowering of
      estrogen levels. These hormones are responsible for changes both in the lipid profile and in
      the vascular wall which significantly increases the likelihood of atherosclerotic plaque
      formation.

      Hypertension is the most important cardiovascular risk factor affecting morbidity and
      mortality due to cardiovascular disease. It is estimated that there are as many as 34% of
      adult Poles. The incidence of hypertension increases with age in both women and men and
      significantly greater increases are observed in perimenopausal women.

      An equally important and growing health and economic problem in Poland is heart failure. It
      is estimated that up to 700,000 patients in our country are struggling with this disease and
      the proportion of women in this group is constantly growing. This is the third reason for the
      death of women in Poland causing more deaths than cancer.

      The influence of menopause on the occurrence of heart failure in a group of women with
      controlled hypertension remains unclear and is the subject of ongoing research. Similarly,
      there is still no convincing data on the increased risk of organ complications of arterial
      hypertension in the group of postmenopausal women.

      Research carried out as part of this work will supplement the current knowledge on the impact
      of menopause in the population of women with hypertension on the risk of heart failure and
      complications of organ hypertension. Thanks to the observed relationships, it will be
      possible to early start the appropriate diagnostic procedure, the selection of personalized
      treatment and the development of a model of cardiac care for women in the perimenopausal
      period and thus, improve quality and extend their life.

      Aim of the study: assessment of the influence of menopause on the ratios of myocardial
      efficiency, hemodynamic parameters and body composition in women aged > 40 years.

      Detailed objectives:

        -  the influence of menopause on the body weight of the subjects assessed by the electrical
           bioimpedance method (BIA - BioelectricalImpedance Analysis)

        -  influence of menopause on early echocardiographic indices of heart failure and exercise
           capacity assessed objectively in spiroergometric study

        -  influence of menopause on endothelial function and central pressure assessed with the
           sphygmocor device (Atcor, Australia)

        -  influence of menopause on the concentration of biomarkers: asymmetric dimethylarginine
           (ADMA), NT-proBNP and neprilysin

        -  influence of menopause on the thickness of the intima-media complex

      Methods:

        -  Subject and physical examination (BMI, waist measurement) and analysis of medical
           records

        -  Resting 12-lead electrocardiogram

        -  Transthoracic Echocardiography: a study will be performed on all patients using the GE
           Vivid E95 device according to current guidelines. The measurements of heart cavities,
           left ventricular volume and left ventricle ejection fraction calculated on the basis of
           Simpson's two-plane method will be evaluated. The mass of the left ventricle will be
           calculated using the Devereux formula. Evaluation of the left atrium with volume
           measurement will be performed. In addition, the assessment of cardiac output, mitral
           inflow with evaluation of the isovolumetric diastole time, speed of fast filling wave E,
           inflow wave velocity associated with left atrial contraction A, E / A ratio, rapid wave
           filling deceleration (E) of the mitral inflow, left atrial inflow with assessment of the
           maximal retrograde flow velocity in the lung veins, myocardial velocity in the study
           tissue Doppler technique with evaluation of the mitral ring velocity in the early stage
           of diastole E 'and late phase diastole A', systolic speed of the mitral annulus S ', E'
           / A 'ratio, E / E ratio and measurements of regional myocardial strain including global
           peak indices early and late diastolic deformities as well as echocardiographic vascular
           stiffness indexes.

        -  Biomarker Concentrations: blood taken from a vein by a vacuum (butterfly) system will be
           collected 10 ml of blood for the determination of selected biomarkers. Blood for the
           determination of biomarker concentration will be taken after inclusion into the study
           (the serum for determinations will be stored at -70 ° C and the assays will be performed
           using dedicated enzyme immunoassays after the first thawing of the samples, after
           collecting the entire pool.

        -  Body composition analysis using electrical bioimpedance (BIA). It is a method of
           analyzing fat, muscle and bones with the use of electricity. Particular tissues of the
           body contain a diversified amount of water, and therefore differ in the degree of
           electrical conduction. During the test, the amount of muscle, fat, visceral (abdominal)
           tissue, total water content in the body, bone mass, daily energy demand, metabolic age
           and, of course, body weight are measured. Methodology: the patient stands on a scale
           that contains electrodes. Then he sends weak current pulses to the organism (intensity
           0.8-1mA, which is virtually imperceptible by human). The impedance or resistance of the
           body's tissues to the current is measured. A special computer program analyzes the
           individual bioelectrical impedance.

        -  Non-invasive assessment of haemodynamic parameters using the sphygmocor device (Atcor,
           Australia) with the assessment of vascular stiffness parameters such as: PWV (Pulse Wave
           Velocity), PWA (Pulse Wave Analysis), Alx (augmentation index) and central pressure

        -  Measurement of the intima-media complex All patients will be tested using the GE Vivid
           E95 device

        -  A spirometric stress test with the MetaLyzer 3B device is used to assess physical
           performance which translates into a clinical assessment of the patient's condition. The
           exercise test is carried out on a treadmill or a cycloergometer. During the effort, the
           respiratory gases are measured. One of the most important parameters being evaluated is
           the maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max). While in patients with cardiac diseases due to
           the difficulty in achieving their VO2max, the peak oxygen consumption (VO2 peak) is
           usually assessed. Other parameters assessed are: oxygen consumption (VO2), elimination
           of carbon dioxide (VCO2), oxygen consumption at the anaerobic threshold (VO2AT) and
           ventilation volume (VE). A spirometric stress test allows you to set an anaerobic
           threshold (AT). This is the intensity of the effort at which energy begins to be
           delivered as a result of anaerobic transitions. The anaerobic threshold can be
           determined by a non-invasive method using exhaust gas analysis. For this purpose, the
           V-slope method is used, in which the dependence of oxygen consumption (VO2) on the
           elimination of carbon dioxide (VCO2) is analyzed. The anaerobic threshold is the point
           at which the increase in VCO2 production exceeds the increase in O2 consumption.

        -  Statistical analysis. Statistical calculations will be made using statistical packages
           STATISTICA PL 10, SPSS 21, R-project 3.0.1 (packages: rms and predictAbel).

      The Spearman rank correlation coefficients will be used to assess the dependencies between
      variables measured on an ordinal scale. Significant variables in the one-dimensional analysis
      (at the p <0.10 significance level) will be used to build multivariate logistic regression
      models. The quality of individual models and the usefulness of subsequent markers will be
      assessed using ROC curves [with the optimal cut-off points for which sensitivity, specificity
      and negative predictive power will be determined, also odds ratios OR with 95% confidence
      interval (95% CI) ], reclassification tables, NRI and IDI meters. Analysis of the endpoints
      will be performed using Kaplan-Meier curves.
    
  