
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate if the response rates (complete response [CR] + partial
      response [PR]) are sufficiently high and the severe acute toxicity rates acceptably low.
      Patients must be cisplatin-ineligible as defined by consensus criteria (see Inclusion
      criteria). Patients who experience disease progression >12 months following completion of a
      platinum-based adjuvant or neoadjuvant regimen will also be eligible for enrolment into the
      study.

      Once it is confirmed that the subjects fulfil the eligibility criteria and have signed the
      informed consent form, they will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive avelumab in
      combination with gemcitabine/carboplatin or gemcitabine/carboplatin alone as follows:

        -  Arm A: patients will receive 2 cycles of induction avelumab 10mg/kg every 2 weeks
           followed by 6 cycles of carboplatin/gemcitabine plus avelumab (carboplatin 5AUC day +1,
           gemcitabine 1000mg/m2 day +1 and +8 and avelumab 10mg/kg day +15) every 3 weeks followed
           by avelumab monotherapy 10mg/kg every 2 weeks until progressive disease or intolerance.

        -  Arm B: patients will receive 6 cycles of carboplatin/gemcitabine (carboplatin 5AUC day
           +1, gemcitabine 1000mg/m2 day +1 and +8) every 3 weeks.

      Random assignment of treatment will be stratified by the presence or absence of visceral
      metastasis and ECOG < 2 versus ECOG 2.

      All the patients enrolled in avelumab arm will receive avelumab monotherapy maintenance until
      disease progression or intolerable/unacceptable toxicity. Patients in the
      carboplatin-gemcitabine arm, will receive up to six cycles of treatment. Tumour evaluations
      will be scheduled every 6 weeks (±2 weeks) during carboplatin-gemcitabine treatment (in case
      of cycle delay this tumour evaluations every 6 weeks should be maintained to avoid any bias
      in the assessment of date of progression with appropriate imaging studies for response
      evaluation) and every 9 weeks thereafter until progressive disease (during this period,
      patients at arm A will be receiving avelumab maintenance treatment).

      Patients with disease progression during the treatment phase will be withdrawn from the study
      and will receive their treatment according to the investigator's judgment and monitored to
      evaluate OS.

      If a patient withdraws consent and refuses to receive more treatment, the patient must be
      followed up for survival. If a patient withdraws consent and refuses to continue in the
      study, the follow-up evaluations must be discontinued.

      If at the moment of end of study there would be any patient still on maintenance treatment
      with avelumab, Sponsor will have commitment to provide the study drug in case patient is
      having clinical benefit.
    
  