
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a growing public health problem highly amenable to prevention and
      health promotion interventions. Over 26 million people are diagnosed with diabetes, and an
      estimated 79 million people have pre-diabetes (1). Physical inactivity, poor eating habits,
      obesity and smoking are common risk factors for multiple chronic diseases, including DM, and
      are associated with premature deaths in the United States (2). Traditional interventions for
      diabetes emphasize education and typically do not address patient-generated health data (3).
      Motivational interviewing (MI) is a counseling tool to improve self-efficacy and support
      behavioral changes that has been used successfully in treatment of addictions and chronic
      conditions including diabetes (4-6). MI focuses on enhancing goal-setting skills by
      encouraging focus on manageable steps to improve overall health, establishing reasonable
      goals, and managing barriers and obstacles to goal attainment. Mobile health (mHealth)
      technology can be used to allow bi-directional, timely communication of data and tailored
      feedback between the patient and health care team; thus mHealth has the potential to change
      an individual' health behavior and prevent factors that lead to disease (7). This proposal
      tests the effectiveness of nurse coaches and the mHealth platform as resources to patients.
      Specifically, the investigators will test a mobile technology-enabled nurse coaching
      intervention as a means to engage and empower patients to set their own personal goals to
      address lifestyle and behavioral changes to better manage their diabetes and comorbidities.
      The addition of a wireless sensing wearable device to monitor participant activities
      (physical activity, energy expenditure and sleep quality) will allow the investigators to
      perform meaningful analysis of patient-generated health data and provide tailored feedback to
      motivate the patient to reach personal goals. The investigators will achieve this project
      through the following Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1: To evaluate the effectiveness of the P2E2T2 program on diabetes management as
      measured by the following outcomes: 1) quality of life (QOL); 2) self-efficacy; 3) readiness
      to change; and 4) clinically relevant outcomes.

      This study is a randomized, controlled trial with two groups: 1) Usual care (Care
      Coordination); and 2) the Patient and Provider Engagement and Empowerment Through Technology
      (P2E2T2) program - nurse coaching paired with mobile sensor technology to provide targeted
      feedback of patient-generated, real-world community physical activity and sleep quality data
      to the nurse coach, participants, and primary care providers to improve self-management of
      diabetes. Participants will be recruited from the UC Davis Primary Care Clinics network.
      After enrollment in the study, those randomized to receive the intervention will interact
      with their nurse coach through mobile technologies by telephone, or by text/e-mail through
      the secure mHealth dashboard platform established for communication and transfer of data. The
      investigators expect to enroll at least 150 patients in each of the intervention and control
      arms. This sample size will be sufficient to detect differences between the two groups. Even
      under the conservative assumption that design effects and dropout rates may result in a
      reduced sample size of 100 per treatment group, the study will still have at least 80% power
      to detect the specified clinically important effect size. Based on a previous study of nurse
      coaching using MI to improve disease self-management (8), the investigators found improvement
      in self-efficacy scores significantly higher in the intervention group compared to the
      control group. Data will be collected from participants at three time points: 1) baseline
      data at time of recruitment; 2) 3 months (coinciding with the completion of the
      intervention); and 3) 9 months (selected to assess sustained effects of the intervention (6
      months after intervention ended)). At baseline, in addition to outcomes, all participants
      will complete a demographic survey which will include age, gender, race/ethnicity, education
      level, income level and insurance type and health history using the Charlson Comorbidity
      Index which includes common chronic conditions. All data for the study will be collected by
      the research coordinator and entered into the REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture)
      system housed in the servers managed by UC Davis Clinical and Translational Science Center
      (CTSC) (9).
    
  