
    
      Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) is a frequent cause of neuromuscular paralysis occurring at all
      ages. The incidence of GBS is reported to be 1.2-2.3 per 100,000 per year .

      GBS is a post infectious disorder. The most frequently identified preceding infection is
      Campylobacter jejuni. Others are cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, Mycoplasma pneumoniae,
      and Haemophilus influenzae . Many reports have documented the occurrence of GBS shortly after
      vaccinations, operations, or stressful events, but the causality and pathophysiology are
      still debated .

      Rapidly progressive weakness is the core clinical feature of GBS. By definition, maximal
      weakness is reached within 4 weeks, but most patients reach it within 2 to 3 weeks.
      Thereafter, patients enter a plateau phase that ranges from days to several weeks or months .
      This phase is followed by a usually much slower and variable recovery phase. In Europe, about
      one-third of GBS patients remain able to walk ("mild patients") .about 25% of the GBS
      patients who are unable to walk ("severe patients") need artificial ventilation. This is
      predominantly due to weakness of the respiratory muscles. GBS has a great impact on social
      life and the ability to perform activities of daily life. therefore, GBS remains a severe
      disease for which better treatments are required .

      . Magdy EL-Ekiaby, et al 2010 introduce the concept of small-scale ("minipool") plasma
      processing methods. The preparation of the Immunoglobulin G (IgG) plasma fractionation from
      20 blood donations which are tested for anti-A and anti-B titre < 32. Implementable with
      minimum infrastructural requirements. They developed viral inactivation and protein
      purification technologies in single-use equipment to prepare virally safe
      solvent/detergent-filtered (S/D-F) plasma Producing a 90%pure immunoglobulin fraction in
      disposable single-use devices for transfusion .

      IVIG adverse events (AEs) are not frequent; hemolysis after IVIG is a known, rare
      complication. Higher doses and non-O blood group are key risk factors. The incidence of
      post-IVIG hemolysis is estimated at 1 per 1000 IVIG treatment episodes, most of which occur
      within 2 days of exposure. Although the preparation of blood group specific IVIGs in industry
      is a complex issue because of the pooling of thousands of plasma donations per batch, the
      preparation of blood group-specific mini-pool IVIG (MP-IVIG) is possible because each pool
      consists of only 20 plasma donations. Blood group-matched MP-IVIG is assumed to reduce the
      incidence of IVIG-associated hemolysis, which is largely caused by the presence of anti-A and
      anti-B agglutinins reacting with non-O blood group recipients.
    
  