
    
      This is an exploratory, proof of concept, open sequential registration comparative study
      designed to establish the utility and accuracy of the ASI Non-Invasive Arterial Stiffness
      Screening Device (ASI-Device) for the non-invasive vascular assessment of arterial stiffness
      relative to other such devices already approved and commercially available in Canada and the
      United States.

      The pressure exerted from the contraction of the heart creates a wave form, which travels
      down the individual's arterial trunk to all parts of the body. The velocity (speed) at which
      this wave form travels can serve as an indicator of the degree of arterial stiffness. The
      faster the speed of travel of the pulse wave the stiffer the arteries. It has been
      demonstrated in other studies that the contour (shape) of the waveform can be affected by the
      pulse wave velocity and that analysis of this shape is an acceptable surrogate for
      determining the pulse wave velocity and ultimately determining the severity of arterial
      stiffness. This method of analysing the contour of the pulse wave to determine the severity
      of arterial stiffness is called pulse wave analysis (PWA).

      The ASI Device non-invasively measures the severity of arterial stiffness derived through
      pulse wave analysis. The study will compare measurements of arterial stiffness and other
      central haemodynamic parameters, as derived through pulse wave analysis obtained with the ASI
      Device, against similar measurements from the SphygmoCor Px System from AtCor and the CR-2000
      CV Profiler from Hypertension Inc, devices that already have approval for this purpose by
      Health Canada and/or the United States Food and Drug Administration.

      Three groups of individuals will be sought;

        1. Healthy participants (n=25)

        2. Persons with Type 2 Diabetes and/or Obesity (n=15)

        3. Persons with a diagnosed Cardiovascular/Vascular disease (such as CAD or PAD) (n=15)

      Participants will be asked to provide written informed consent prior to participation in the
      study. Eligible participants will be asked to attend an in-person visit where they will
      undergo the non-invasive vascular testing. Testing will be comprised of:

        1. Pulse Wave Analysis using the ASI Device

        2. Pulse Wave Analysis using the SphygmoCor Device

        3. Pulse Wave Analysis using the CR-2000 CV Profiler

      Although pulse wave contour analysis (PWA) has been demonstrated to be an acceptable
      surrogate for the assessment of arterial stiffness, Pulse Wave Velocity has been the gold
      standard for the assessment of arterial stiffness. As such, the VP-1000, a non-invasive
      vascular screening device, will also be used to measure pulse wave velocity.
    
  