
    
      Hypothesis and specific aims

      In this randomized multicenter trial the investigators will study the effect of etelcalcetide
      in comparison to alfacalcidol on left ventricular hypertrophy and fibrosis in hemodialysis
      patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism (sHPT). Etelcalcetide is a calcimimetic drug that
      has been approved for the treatment of secondary HPT in hemodialysis patients.

      Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) levels rise early in the development of chronic kidney
      disease (CKD) and recent studies have shown that FGF23 increases the development of left
      ventricular hypertrophy in these patients. Elevated FGF 23 levels are further associated with
      progression to end-stage renal disease, cardiac events and all-cause mortality. In animal
      models a blockade of FGF23 ameliorates the pathologic effect on left ventricular mass and
      function. Calcimimetic therapy has been shown to reduce systemic FGF23 levels, while vitamin
      D therapy is known to elevate FGF23. However, there is limited data on the clinical relevance
      of therapeutic modification of FGF23 levels in humans.

      The investigators specifically hypothesize that treatment with etelcalcetide ameliorates
      pathological changes in cardiac structure in dialysis patients with sHPT by suppression of
      systemic FGF23 levels.

      Specific aim 1

      In this trial the investigators will determine the influence of calcimimetic therapy on left
      ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in hemodialysis patients with sHPT: They will perform a
      head-2-head trial testing etelcalcetide vs. alfacalcidol treatment on top of conventional HPT
      therapy (phosphate binders, calcium supplementation and if necessary vitamin D substitution
      or cinacalcet) for 12 months. Etelcalcetide or alfacalcidol will be administered
      intravenously three times per week following chronic hemodialysis treatment. The primary end
      point will be a change in left ventricular mass index (LVMI) that will be assessed using
      cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI) at baseline and after 12 months of treatment. As
      secondary end points we will measure changes in left atrial diameter (LAD), cardiac fibrosis
      (using T1 mapping and cardiac strain), wall motion abnormalities and left ventricular
      function (measured in cMRI and echocardiography), changes in serum FGF 23 and soluble Klotho
      levels as well as changes in proBNP as well as pre- and postdialysis troponin T (TnT) levels.

      Specific aim 2

      The pathophysiology by which elevated FGF 23 levels can cause cardiac remodeling is still
      unresolved. The two major hypothesis propose either a direct effect of FGF 23 on the
      myocardium or a predominantly volume dependent effect caused by FGF 23 and Klotho mediated
      renal sodium retention:

        -  Sodium and volume balance in dialysis patients without residual renal function is
           regulated by ultrafiltration and not by renal sodium handling. In this trial the
           investigators will perform a stratified randomization procedure to ensure an equal
           distribution of dialysis patients with residual renal function and those without in both
           treatment groups.

        -  Additionally, FGF 23 directly inhibits Angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE 2) as the
           central enzyme of the antifibrotic alternative renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
           (RAAS) and shifting the RAAS toward the pro fibrotic Angiotensin II. To assess
           suppression of ACE 2 we will measure Ang 1-5 and Ang 1-7 levels by quantitative analysis
           of the individual metabolites of the RAAS using mass spectrometry ("RAAS fingerprint").

      The specific design of this trial will therefore contribute to the fundamental understanding
      of FGF 23 mediated myocardial remodeling.

      After completion of the trial two T-50-test will be performed in each patient from existing
      frozen serum samples (one at baseline and one at the end of 12 months of treatment). The
      measurement of the T50-time can evaluate an individual's risk for the development of vascular
      calcification
    
  