
    
      Objectives

        1. Primary objective: To determine the innate immune functions of immature neutrophils in
           comparison to those from mature neutrophils, sampled from patients with severe sepsis
           and sepsis shock and in control patients (trauma patients and healthy donors (only
           mature neutrophils in the latter case)

        2. Secondary objectives: To determine the fate and span life of immature neutrophils in
           comparison to mature neutrophils, sampled from patients with severe sepsis and sepsis
           shock and in control patients (trauma patients and healthy donors (only mature
           neutrophils in the latter case).

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Patients with severe sepsis or septic shock (according to ACCP/FCCM standard
           definitions) with > 5% immature neutrophils.

        -  Patients with a noninfectious systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), e.g.
           patients with head trauma or multiple trauma with > 5% immature neutrophils.

        -  Healthy donors

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Severe immunosuppression (e.g. HIV with < 200 CD4/mm3), treatment with glucocorticoids
           (> 300 mg hydrocortisone/day) or other immunosuppressive therapy

        -  Neutropenia (neutrophils < 0.5 G/l).

        -  Recent chemotherapy or administration of intravenous immunoglobulins within the last 4
           weeks.

      Endpoints

        -  Surface expression of receptors of the innate immunity in immature vs. mature
           neutrophils.

        -  Production by immature vs. mature neutrophils of inflammatory mediators and reactive
           oxygen species in response to bacterial agonists.

        -  Chemotaxis of immature vs. mature neutrophils.

        -  Phagocytosis of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria by immature vs. mature
           neutrophils.

        -  Ex vivo viability and resistance to apoptosis of immature vs. mature neutrophils.
    
  