
    
      Headaches have been posed to be a common occurring complaint being as frequent as 66% in
      general population. One the common types of headaches is Cervicogenic Headache which is
      considered as a secondary headache whereas the symptoms occur due to cervical spine and its
      bony components, disc or soft tissue structures. Cervicogenic headache is a syndrome
      described as pain felt on one side of the head, relating same side neck, shoulder and arm
      pain that is aggravated by neck movements or sustained head posture The prevalence of CGH has
      been reported 4.1% in general population 17.5% in patients and 41.4% in medical students.

      The most general cause of cervicogenic headache (CGH) is the alteration of structure in the
      neck due to bad posture.

      Proper posture is defined as a musculoskeletal balance which involves a minimal amount of
      stress and strain on the body , Forward head posture (FHP) is one of the commonly recognized
      types of poor head postures in the sagittal plane.FHP was defined as 'any alignment in which
      the external auditory meatus is positioned anterior to the plumbline through the shoulder
      joint.

      Sustaining the head in this forward posture for prolonged period of time has been associated
      with the development of other musculoskeletal disorders such as 'upper crossed syndrome',
      which leads to reduction of lordosis in lower cervical and kyphosis of upper thoracic
      vertebra. In the long run, this may cause shortening of muscular fibers muscles involving the
      atlanto-occipital articulation, overstretching of muscles around joint and leads to chronic
      neck pain , There are many factors that could contribute to the development of forward head
      posture such as age, gender frequency of physical activity, occupation, usage of computer and
      smartphones and others.

      It is noted that CGHs can often be related to forward neck and head posture, which is
      accompanied by a high muscular tone of the supporting extensors to keep the head from
      gravity. Such unstable state causes overstrain of the cervical muscles, and induces headache
      and neck pain.

      FHP is a common postural defect among university students. This high prevalence may be
      related to the prolonged computer use and faulty posture during lectures.

      Office workers of being sedentary for prolonged periods are liable to adopt forward head
      posture and thus generating neck strain, sprain and pain. Moreover, forward head posture is
      commonly found in people spending long periods on computers, mobile phones and game consoles.

      Cervical dysfunction from abnormal posture has been proposed to aggravate or cause CGH, but
      there are conflicting reports as to whether there is an association between posture and CGH.

      Statement of the problem:

      There is lack of literature concerning the presence of cervicogenic headache among subjects
      with forward head posture.

      This study will answer the following question Does forward head Posture is associated with
      cervicogenic headache?

      Purpose of the study:

      This study will be designed to determining whether there is a relationship between CGH and
      cervical posture which may potentially provide physical therapists with evidence supporting
      the assessment and treatment of abnormal posture in this patient group.

      Significance of the study:

      Ideal posture describes a state of maintaining balance in the body using minimal
      musculoskeletal activity without causing pain or discomfort. The tendency to stay seated for
      long periods of time can cause changes in the alignment of the spine, leading to improper
      posture, such as a rounded shoulder or forward head posture (FHP) .This change in posture can
      lead to a spatial change between the spine and the line of gravity, causing an overload on
      muscles and connective tissues . Neck pain or neck dysfunction is a musculoskeletal disorder
      caused by improper posture with physical impairment or functional limitation. The FHP is
      known as an internal factor that causes dysfunction with shoulder and neck pain. FHP results
      in a posture in which the extended head and upper cervical, and the lower cervical vertebrae
      flex. This increases the length of the external moment (the arm) by moving the gravitational
      center (the head) ahead of the load bearing axis. The exposure to this constant load on the
      craniovertebral extension muscles and the noncontractile structures causes a change in the
      biomechanical movement, and this increased stress can cause musculoskeletal damage or pain.
      In addition, FHP can also limit the functional movement in the head and neck area. These
      limitations are caused by irregular rotation and gliding movement inside the articular
      capsule whilst moving the joint. Moreover, it was reported that extended periods of FHP can
      result in a decreased number of sarcomere, as well as shortening of the muscle fibers, which
      can affect muscular contraction. As mentioned above, there are frequent occurrences of
      functional movement limitations or non-specific pain in the head and neck region in patients
      with FHP. Therefore, many studies have described the aspects of FHP that lead to functional
      movement limitations, and the pain in the head and neck area.

      It is known that the quality of life in people suffering from headache is worse than in
      healthy subjects, in addition, this high prevalence disorder has negative health consequences
      in terms of occupational, economic and social factors.

      The proposed association between abnormal cervical posture and headache has been demonstrated
      in migraine and tension-type headaches, but there are conflicting results in CGH. Despite
      this lack of agreement, clinicians routinely assess and treat altered posture for CGH.
      therefore, it is important to examine possible associations in order to guide treatment.

      Hypotheses:

      There will be no significant relationship between cervicogenic headache and forward head
      posture.
    
  