
    
      Background: The Birth Ball, in childbirth care, has become a widely used resource in
      obstetrical centers, as it allows the adoption of vertical postures and exercises of pelvic
      mobility. It is an inexpensive and user-friendly feature that can facilitate pelvic exercise
      and thus contribute to positive maternal and neonatal outcomes.

      Aim: To evaluate the effectiveness of the use of the Birth Ball compared to usual care in
      reducing the time of the first period of labor.

      Methods: This is a randomized and pragmatic clinical trial that will be developed at the IMIP
      Childbirth Center in the state of Pernambuco. Pregnant women with normal risk, will be
      included in the first period of labor, with term gestation of the single and cephalic fetus,
      and pregnant women with a fetus dead, with a psychiatric disorder, using psychoactive drugs
      and in use of epidural analgesia or oxytocin prior to randomization. The sample size was
      calculated in 200 parturients, being randomly allocated 100 pregnant women for the
      experimental group and 100 for the control group, according to a list of random numbers
      specifically generated for this purpose. The duration of the first period of labor and, as
      secondary, pain, duration of the second period, birth routes, use of analgesia and oxytocin
      before randomization, fatigue, anxiety, maternal satisfaction, APGAR in the 5th neonatal
      resuscitation and hospitalization in a neonatal intensive care unit. The intervention group
      will use Birth Ball to perform active anteversion and pelvic retroversion exercises,
      lateralization and circumference according to the obstetric evaluation. The control group
      will receive the usual routine care of the service. Measurements will be made during and
      after fetal birth. The control group will receive the usual routine care of the service.
      Measurements will be made during and after fetal birth. To compare the continuous variables,
      the mean difference with the 95% Confidence Interval and Student's t-Test will be used. In
      order to compare the dichotomous variables, the Chi-square Test will be used. The Relative
      Risk will be calculated with the respective Confidence Interval of 95%. Data analysis will be
      performed using the Epi Info for Windows, version 3.5.4. The data will be presented in
      tables.

      Ethical aspects: This study will comply with Resolution 466/12 of the National Health Council
      and will be submitted to the IMIP Research Ethics Committee, beginning only after its
      approval. All participants will only be included if they voluntarily agree to participate by
      signing the Free and Informed Consent Form. The research protocol will be registered in
      Clinical Trials.gov.

      There are no conflicts of interest.
    
  