
    
      TPAPN is a voluntary program funded by the Texas Board of Nursing that provides early
      identification, support, monitoring, and accountability to Texas nurses who have an
      identified substance use and/or mental health condition or related incident. The goal of
      TPAPN is to help the nurse return to safe nursing practice. Currently, TPAPN does not offer a
      wellness intervention as part of their services. The purpose of this study is to explore the
      efficacy and feasibility of a self-management wellness intervention that is integrated,
      prescriptive, and trackable in a population of Texas nurses referred to a peer assistance
      monitoring program for an identified substance use and/or mental health condition or related
      incident. It is expected that this 30-day integrated, prescriptive, and trackable wellness
      intervention (combining five wellness elements including exercise, mindfulness, sleep, social
      connectedness, and nutrition) will be found to be an efficacious program for those with
      nurses enrolled in TPAPN.

      Nurses are more susceptible to maladaptive coping behaviors, including turning to substance
      use or abuse, due to workplace stressors (Jarrad et al., 2018). Participating in a nursing
      monitoring program may increase stress in an already highly stressful profession; monitoring
      requirements alone can cause feelings of embarrassment and guilt (Mumba, 2018). It is the
      hope that adding the KickStart30 program, previously studied in a population with mental
      health issues (Rolin et al., 2019; NCT03993548) to the current offerings of TPAPN will result
      in the nurse replacing negative coping mechanisms with the positive coping mechanism,
      increasing long-term recovery and decreasing the likelihood of making an error in the
      workplace.

      To the best of our knowledge, even though there is abundant research supporting each of the
      KickStart30 elements (exercise, mindfulness, sleep, social connectedness, and nutrition)
      individually, there is no research exploring the effectiveness of an integrated,
      prescriptive, and trackable wellness intervention combining these five elements specific to a
      cohort of nurses. Therefore, this work will be unique in that it will collect both objective
      and subjective data to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of this type of wellness
      intervention. It will lend support to the growing body of research on the efficacy of
      wellness interventions for a variety of different health conditions, as well as a
      community-based population. Finally, it is hoped that positive results will yield increased
      access to and utilization of this type of intervention, thereby improving public health.

      The recruitment period will be open for 12 months to obtain a maximum of 50 participants. The
      study population will be nurses, ages 18 and older, interested in improving their overall
      wellness as part of the TPAPN program. Potential participants will be recruited via TPAPN
      Case Managers, Peer Support Partners, and Program Director who will provide recruitment
      flyers to potential participants. The study flyer will be posted to the TPAPN website as well
      as a informational video for potential participants to view. Interested individuals will be
      provided a toll-free phone number belonging to study personnel, which will be monitored daily
      Monday through Friday. Study personnel will reply to interested parties with a verbal
      screening/orientation call to determine eligibility. If the participant meets study criteria,
      the participant will be emailed a link to the online consent form, registration form, and
      program forms. Participants will have the option to download a PDF of their signed consent
      form for their records at the time of signing/completion. Study personnel will collect the
      participant's email address, physical mailing address, and assign the participant a unique
      identification code based on the order in which the participant was screened

      Study personnel will mail each participant a KickStart30 Workbook within one day of emailing
      participants their unique identification codes. Participants will be instructed to document
      adherence of their daily wellness practices and their daily HERO exercises online via
      Qualtrics, an online survey software. Participants can document their daily adherence using
      their computer and/or their smartphone as Qualtrics offers a mobile version of the
      Participant Tracking Form. A copy of the Participant Tracking Form will also be available in
      the KickStart30 Workbook so participants that prefer keeping a daily paper log can do so, and
      they can then transfer their program adherence information to the online Participant Tracking
      Form at their convenience throughout the program. The workbook will contain the participant's
      personal identification code; no personal identification will appear in the workbook in order
      to protect participant confidentiality. Participants will also receive daily motivational
      emails from MailChimp, which will provide general information about one of the five wellness
      elements and/or one of the HERO wellness traits, as well as encouragement to track their
      participation on a daily basis, and encouragement to contact study personnel via email with
      any questions and/or concerns.

      Data capture will occur at two points: once prior to beginning the study and again at the end
      of the 30-day study. Data will be collected online through program forms; all data will be
      hosted on Qualtrics, an online survey software. Program Forms assess items including
      depression, anxiety, wellbeing, mindfulness, sleep quality, social connectedness, emotional
      eating, pain, disability, physical function, cognition, substance and alcohol use,
      suicidality, happiness, enthusiasm, resilience, and optimism.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to discuss pre- and post-intervention scores.

      Differences between pretest and 30-day measures will be assessed with repeated measures
      ANOVA, with a p value of less than 0.05 indicating statistical significance.
    
  