
    
      The morbidity after TORS has not yet been fully investigated, but a recent studies suggest
      that pain is one of the primary causes for unplanned readmission This issue has been
      investigated by Clayburgh D et al who found that a prolonged dexamethasone regime lowered the
      pain scores on day three after surgery. The patients treated with the prolonged dexamethasone
      regime also showed a significant improvement in the food consistency they were capable to
      swallow and had a shortened length of stay (LOS). Recently, a pilot-study showed, that an
      intensified dexamethasone regime among TORS patients reduced the pain level to that of a
      standard tonsillectomy. Besides an analgesic effect glucocorticoids furthermore poses an
      anti-inflammatory quality which can be used to lower the physiological stress and
      inflammatory response following surgery and may prevent organ dysfunctions and complications
      The analgesic effect of dexamethasone has been the topic of many clinical studies, and are
      well described in various surgical fields. However, the optimal dose and regime for
      glucocorticoids prescription has so far not been established. The evidence favoring one
      dosage regime and an optimal prescribed dose is restricted by the variance in the regimes
      used in various clinical trials and the fact that there is a need for clinical trial
      investigating steroids with pain as the primary endpoint Consequently, it is important to
      thoroughly investigate and optimize the analgesic regime after TORS.

      Hospitalization So far when evaluating the long-term consequences of TORS, the main focus has
      been on oncological outcomes and quality of life with attention to functional outcomes, i.e.
      feeding tube dependency and dysphagia while the LOS following TORS and why the patient is
      hospitalized after the procedure have been sparsely studied.

      The reason why TORS patients are still hospitalized after the procedure and which clinical
      and organizational factors contribute to the hospitalization have not yet been examined and
      understood but is highly relevant in order to understand and improve the postoperative care.

      A method to assess the efficiency of a therapy have emerged from the cardiology field and is
      called Days Alive and Out of Hospital (DAOH). This has been used in investigations of heart
      failure patients and myocardial infarction patients. This outcome combines mortality and
      morbidity, and accounts for the number but also duration of several hospitalizations after
      the primary discharge.

      DAOH has only sparse been used in the surgical field, and only in few studies in the cardiac
      surgery area. The measurement is a patient-centered outcome that provide better information
      to the patient and surgeon when planning surgery, and can be used for quality improvement
      studies since it accounts for effective and efficient care.

      Therefore, the DAOH measurement applied to the evaluation of TORS treatment for SCCUP will
      benefit the insight in how the patient's life after treatment is affected.

      The aims of this study comprising patients treated with TORS for SCCUP:

        1. To lower the patients pain intensity after the TORS procedure with an intensified
           dexamethasone regimen.

        2. To investigate the clinical and organizational factors contributing to hospitalization
           after TORS, and with this knowledge to establish an optimized postoperative care
           program.

        3. To measure the efficiency and morbidity after TORS using DAOH as a descriptive
           assessment 12 months postoperatively.

      This project consists of four studies:

      Study 1 - Corresponding to aim A. The investigators hypothesize that an intensified
      dexamethasone regime will lower patients' reported pain intensity following TORS. This will
      be investigated in a randomized (1:1) double-blinded clinical trial among SCCUP patients
      undergoing TORS and extrapolated to the entire TORS population.

        -  A routine surgical complications study will be performed and examine surgical
           complications within the first 30 postoperative days.

      Study 2 - Corresponding to aim B The investigators hypothesize that not much is known about
      the precise reasons for why patients are hospitalized following TORS. Hence, a prospective
      observational study regarding "why still in hospital after TORS?" will be conducted among all
      patients with SCCUP scheduled for TORS.

      Study 3 - Corresponding to aim C The investigators hypothesize that TORS is an efficient
      procedure with a low morbidity. Hence, a prospective observational study regarding DAOH will
      be conducted among all SCCUP patients scheduled for TORS.
    
  