
    
      Anesthesia is a state of reversible unconsciousness induced by one or more pharmacological
      agents. The three main anesthesia components are analgesia (pain relief), amnesia (memory
      loss), and immobilization, including autonomic reflexes' inhibition for harmful stimuli.1
      Drugs used to induce anesthesia, in general, have different effects on each of these three
      components mentioned above.

      Anesthesia depth assessment ( DoA: from English, Depth of Anesthesia ) is essential for
      anesthetic practice. The DoA depends on two opposing factors: the amount of anesthetic agent
      administered to the patient and the stimuli produced during surgery, increasing the level of
      awareness, and the patient's nociception. The ideal level d the DoA involves the guaranteed
      unconsciousness and anti-nociception adequate during surgery without compromise the functions
      of vital organs. In other words, one of the main challenges for anesthetists is to identify
      the appropriate amount of anesthetic to be administered to avoid the unwanted effects of
      anesthetic shortages (leading, for example, to intraoperative awareness) or anesthetic
      overdose, which can cause severe problems during intra and postoperative periods. 2 Before
      using muscle relaxants, the appropriate level of DoA could be monitored by the absence of
      movements to painful stimuli; once, the surgical incision's lack of movements was a sure sign
      that the patient was not superficially anesthetized. However, with the muscle relaxants'
      adoption in the anesthetics protocols, other measures to ensure that anesthetic agents'
      concentrations were administered properly were necessary.

      Becoming conscious during surgery is a major concern for patients and anesthesiologists. It
      is estimated that the incidence of consciousness during general anesthesia is low, around
      0.04% to 0.3%. However, considering the high number of surgical interventions, accidental
      awareness during surgery represents thousands of cases worldwide. Therefore, despite being an
      old problem, awareness during anesthesia is still a very relevant issue in public health.

      DoA inefficient may also lead to an imbalance nociception x anti-nociception
      intraoperatively, even without patient conscious pain. Nociceptive stimuli can substantially
      affect the physiological state, inducing, for example, tachycardia, hypertension, nausea,
      fainting, and, therefore, negatively influencing patients' postoperative period 1 Thus,
      careful and efficient monitoring of DoA is the key to minimizing both the possibility of
      accidental awareness in surgeries and the overdose of anesthetic agents. 3 However, despite
      the importance of monitoring d the DoA, it is not easy to quantify this parameter during
      general anesthesia, and several approaches have been proposed to accomplish this task.

      Quantification of DoA:

      The anesthetic depth could be identified by monitoring the sympathetic activity of the
      patient. However, many anesthetics substantially alter autonomic activity, both sympathetic
      and parasympathetic. The observation of autonomic responses such as sweating, tear formation,
      hypertension, tachycardia, and pupil dilation are also important indicators of adequate
      unconsciousness levels. However, these signals cannot guide the anesthetist, considering that
      the patient cannot react due to neuromuscular blockade. 3 On the other hand, some authors
      suggest monitoring the concentration of inspired and expired anesthetic gases as markers of
      DoA.4 However, to date, there is no standardized and universally accepted method for
      quantifying DoA, and the anesthesiologist's experience is still the most important and
      effective factor in determining DoA.

      DoA's monitoring techniques have advanced considerably in recent years. The nature of changes
      in electroencephalographic patterns during the stages of anesthesia was studied in detail,
      opening up possibilities for monitoring DoA by identifying electroencephalogram (EEG)
      patterns with crucial clinical significance for anesthesia.5 The use of EEG devices made
      monitoring of DoA potentially easier and was recommended by NIH - Care Excellence.

      Although the progress brought by EEG-based monitors to anesthetic practice is indisputable,
      they still have significant limitations: 1) the algorithms created to derive a single DoA
      index from the EEG are exclusive (owned by their creators) for each device; 2) The EEG
      obtained in these devices is limited, exclusively, to the activity of the frontal lobe,
      lacking the representation of deeper subcortical structures ; 3) EEG is recognized for being
      highly sensitive to a variety of sources of interference during monitoring; 4) it is high
      cost restricts the availability of such equipment. Several monitors have prices ranging from
      £ 4,687 to £ 10,285 for the initial purchase, followed by the acquisition of single-use
      sensors ranging from £ 0.56 to £ 14.08. (3) Also, recent studies have pointed to substantial
      divergences between the most common commercial displays at DoA, making the application of
      these electronic devices still controversial and not universally recommended. 4 Specific
      limitations to the use of BIS, such as the inconsistency of this index in some situations,
      have also been reported. 6 BIS's particular challenge involves the administration of
      ketamine, nitric oxide, and xenon, which do not produce the typical EEG patterns observed
      during general anesthesia with other anesthetic agents. Besides, as the BIS was created based
      on a database of volunteers under specific conditions, it must be revalidated whenever used
      with a new drug or even a unique patient population, whose characteristics differ from the
      original population database data.7
    
  