
    
      The investigators are proposing to investigate direct-to-patient health promotion
      interventions that promote sleeping pill dose reduction and treatment discontinuation by
      enhancing self-efficacy through various behaviour change techniques embedded in printed
      information provided to patients. Seniors will be invited to participate via direct telephone
      contact, information sharing through seniors' organizations, education sessions for seniors,
      and public notices. Prospective participants will be given the option of which way they would
      like to participate in the research:

      Option 1: full participation including baseline interview, 6-month interview, and access to
      specific data from the participant's personal health record); Option 2: limited participation
      to baseline and 6-month interviews only; and Option 3: limited participation to baseline
      interview and access to specific data from the participant's personal health record.

      This will form two sets of participants; those who do and those who do not permit access to
      outcomes from their personal health record. Participants that select Options 1 or 3 will
      consent to their medication and health resources use being assessed objectively over a six
      month period. Participants that choose Options 1 or 2 will directly provide baseline
      information about their health, medication use, and use of health resources via
      communications with researchers. Similar information will be collected directly from
      participants in this group after six months.

      Random group allocation:

      Options 1 and 2: i) Sleepwell package; ii) Empower package; iii) No package Option 3: i)
      Sleepwell package; ii) No package

      The investigators will compare the rates of reducing and stopping sleeping pill use among the
      different groups over 6 months. Safety outcomes including falls and hospital visits will be
      measured. The investigators will also track participant access to online CBTi resources using
      Google Analytics.

      Encouraging results from this study of direct-to-patient health promotion regarding insomnia
      management and sleeping pill use can be utilized repeatedly over time to reach all
      individuals who could benefit from the intervention, leading a transformational change in
      insomnia management.
    
  