
    
      Introduction

      This study assumes that family nursing for the patients with Chronic nonmalignant pain (CNP)
      and their family members by increased self-efficacy will enhance the management of the
      changed life condition and alleviate the related suffering of the family. The study has a
      quasi-experimental design and is the first sub-study of a superior mixed methods study
      consisting of a total of three sub-studies. The other substudies apply qualitative designs.

      Background

      CNP is usually understood as pain with a duration of at least three months with no relation
      to life-threatening causes. CNP accounts for a major healthcare problem with a thorough
      impact on several levels. Nineteen per cent of the adult European population has been found
      to suffer from moderate to severe CNP, which decreases physical and mental health, ability to
      work, wellbeing and quality of life. Additional mortality is increased. CNP has consequences
      for the patients´ social network as well and is associated with a poorer family function. The
      relatives get affected themselves with reduced physical and mental health. Living with CNP is
      a condition of life, that calls for acceptance. But CNP is an invisible illness, and despite
      the considerable impact, the patients often experience a lack of understanding and doubt
      about, whether the CNP is real. In the strive to achieve a legitim sick role and help to
      alleviate the suffering, patients with CNP continually seek out the health care system. The
      expenses at the socioeconomic level are compared to other chronic diseases comprehensive.
      Thus, gaining acceptance of CNP may be challenging.

      Involvement of relatives for patients with CNP is sparsely described in the literature, but
      indicates, that involvement increases marital satisfaction and contribute to a better outcome
      for both patients and spouses. Managing CNP necessitates "being on the same page", and
      involvement of relatives is vital to obtain a common understanding. Within other disease
      areas, the involvement of relatives has resulted in reduced stress for spouses, closer family
      relations and increased family function. Thus, it may be assumed that the involvement of
      relatives has a positive effect on the management of CNP.

      A multicenter study exploring experiences, needs and preferences of the patient, relatives
      and pain specialists regarding the involvement of relatives in chronic pain trajectories
      indicates that patients and relatives have an existential need for individualised adapted
      involvement. Family nursing based on the concept of "family systems nursing" developed by
      Lauren Wright and Maureen Leahey has the potential to comply with the expressed need. Wright
      and Leahey´s understanding of family nursing is inspired by the postmodernism and biology of
      cognition and based on theories of systems, communication, cybernetic and change. The nurse
      must simultaneously concentrate on both patient and family and focus on interaction,
      reciprocity and connection between different systems, consisting of the patient, the family
      and the larger system they are a part of. Family nursing aims to change restricting beliefs
      and alleviate illness suffering. The essential components of the family systems nursing
      concept comprise the clinical practice models: The Illness Beliefs model and the
      Calgarymodels. The illness beliefs model illuminates the family's different beliefs about
      their problems. The Calgary models consist of the Calgary family assessment model and the
      Calgary intervention model and aim to support change and help the family to find new ways to
      handle the illness. In the family assessment, the nurse may use the concrete assessment
      tools: Genogram and ecomap to draw the internal and external structures of the family. The
      intervention model is focusing on strength and resilience in the family instead of deficits
      and dysfunction and describes the cognitive, affective and behavioural interventions the
      nurse may use to facilitate change. Family nursing and the clinical practice models are
      operationalised within a therapeutic relationship between the nurse, the patient and the
      family members, making the conversation fundamental to perform family nursing. Using
      questions during the conversations is essential to create new perspectives and alleviate
      suffering. Questions may provide information for both the nurse and the family, and an
      invitation to tell about illness experiences may on its own be a healing intervention. There
      is a distinction between two kinds of questions making a dichotomy. Assessment/linear
      questions are investigating and intend to provide information for the nurse.
      Interventional/circular questions invite to reflection, initiate change and encourage the
      family members to understand their problems in new ways and find new solutions.

      The rationale of the study

      Summarised CNP is a condition with radical consequences on several levels. Due to the
      chronicity of the condition, management is necessary, but the impact and invisibility of CNP
      impede this discipline. It is assumed that the involvement of relatives will strengthen
      patient's and family members self-efficacy and benefit the process of acceptance. Family
      nursing based on the family systems nursing concept has the potential to comply with the need
      for individualised adapted involvement expressed by patients and relatives but has not been
      investigated on patients with CNP. Family nursing interventions in other illness areas have
      shown positive. An integrative review describing the reactions from diseased families, who
      participated in family nursing interventions finds that the family response corresponds to
      the intention of family nursing. However, there is a need for further illness specific and
      quantitative research since existing knowledge primary is based on qualitative studies.

      Aim

      The objective of this study is to investigate, whether an intervention with systematic
      conversations with patients with chronic nonmalignant pain and their selected family members
      in a context of family nursing is effective on primary self-efficacy and secondary family
      function, quality of life and anxiety/depression.

      Setting

      The study will be conducted at the Multidisciplinary Pain Centre, Department of
      Neuroanaesthesiology, The Neuroscience Centre, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen.

      The intervention

      The intervention with family nursing is based on the previously described concept of "family
      systems nursing". The intervention will consist of structured conversations named "family
      nursing conversations" between the nurse, the patient and up to three selected family members
      on 15 years or older. In the framework of family systems nursing the family is widely
      understood as a group of individuals who are bound by strong emotional ties, a sense of
      belonging, and a passion for being involved in one another's life. Thus, the notion of family
      members goes beyond relationships connected by law or genetic. Family nursing will, during
      the conversations, be operationalised by the selected components from the concept. The
      specific use of the components cannot be standardised since family nursing must be tailored
      to match the needs of the specific family. Each conversation takes 1,5 hour. Every family are
      offered three or four family nursing conversations as needed with roughly three weeks
      interval. All patients also receive the usual treatment from the Multidisciplinary Pain
      Centre. Previous to the intervention, the involved nurses will go through a three days family
      nursing course, and will during the intervention participate in regular reflection sessions.

      Study design

      The study design is quasi-experimental with a baseline- and a post-test in two comparable
      groups of patients and their selected family members: An intervention group and a control
      group. In the intervention group, a follow-up assessment will be conducted four months after
      the post-test. The design is chosen because the number of nurses in the chosen clinical
      setting is limited. All the nurses must participate in the family nursing course and will
      subsequently likely change their behaviour regarding the involvement of family members. The
      control group will be recruited at the beginning of the study to prevent contamination of
      data when the nurses' after the course have developed competencies to care for the whole
      family.

      Outcomes and missing data

      Structured telephone interviews will obtain the selected self-reported outcomes from patients
      and their family members. By this, the amount of missing data is expected to be minimal. All
      participants consisting of the patients and their selected family members are assessed by the
      same outcome measures. The primary outcome is General self-efficacy scale (GSE), and
      secondary outcomes are Iceland-Expressive Family Functioning Questionnaire (ICE-EFFQ),
      quality of life (SF12) and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). The study
      comprises a self-designed questionnaire for the patients and their family members with the
      chosen outcomes, socio-demographic data and health information.

      Sample size

      The sample size is based on the primary outcome GSE and the results from Scholz et al. 20002
      regarding psychometric findings from 25 countries, including Denmark. Based on the average
      GSE on 29,716, with a significance level on 95% (α = 5), a power on 80 % (β = 20), a desired
      MIREDIF on 15% between the control group and the intervention group plus a calculated drop
      out on 25%, the sample size is calculated to 25 patient/family dyads in each group. Thus, a
      total of 50 patient/family dyads must be included. A patient/family dyad consists of one
      patient and a maximum of three selected family members. If the patient drops out, the entire
      dyad drops out. If a family member drops out, the dyad is retained in the project, when at
      least one family member continues. If all family members drop out, the dyad drops out as
      well.

      Analysis

      Data will be described from the selected questionnaires using conventional descriptive
      statistics, parametric statistics as regards normally distributed variables and
      non-parametric statistics as regard variables, that differs from the normal distribution.
      Logistic regression analyses are carried out to describe GSES-10, ICE-EFFQ, SF12, and HADS
      for patients and family members, who receive family nursing conversations and usual
      treatment. These are compared to patients and family members, who only receive usual
      treatment. Connections to socio-demographic data and health information will be described.
      The reporting of the study will attempt to meet the recommendations from The Joanna Briggs
      Institute Checklist for Quasi-Experimental Studies (non-randomized experimental studies).

      Ethical

      The study will follow the ethical guidelines of the Declaration of Helsinki. The study has
      been reported to the Data Protection Agency and is approved with j-number VD-2019-152.
      According to The Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics, there is no obligation
      to notify the study (record number: H-19016896). The patients and their family members will
      receive written and oral information about the project according to the guidelines from the
      Danish National Committee on Health Research Ethics and rules about time to think it over
      will be followed. Written consent will be obtained, and verbal consent will be obtained
      before each telephone interview. Data will be anonymised throughout the analysis process and
      in all forms of reporting of the results. The aim is to include at the maximum three family
      members of each patient, but if the patient caused by this is forced to choose between the
      family members, the number of family members may be adjusted. Likewise, children younger than
      15 years may be included, if it is considered proper and unethical to refrain from doing it.
    
  