
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is the 3rd leading cause of morbidity and
      mortality in the US with increasing prevalence in older adults. The impact of COPD on the
      brain is an area of expanding research interest. A staggering 40-60% of patients with COPD
      have cognitive impairments including deficits in executive functioning (e.g., decision
      making), processing speed, and memory. Intact cognition is critical for independently
      managing daily tasks (e.g., medication and money management). Since there are currently no
      treatments to fully reverse cognitive impairment once it is present, preventing and delaying
      onset is essential. Given the high prevalence of COPD, understanding how COPD confers an
      increased risk for cognitive impairment should be a top public health priority. There is an
      urgent need to identify potentially modifiable physiological characteristics of individuals
      with early COPD-related pathophysiology who are at risk of developing brain abnormalities.
      The earliest changes that occur in COPD are driven by an enhanced chronic inflammatory
      response that includes small airway disease in the lung and vascular abnormalities.
      COPD-related lung pathophysiology can be measured continuously and is separable from amount
      of smoking. These physiological changes are often present in individuals who do not meet
      traditional criteria for COPD diagnosis and have not yet manifested significant clinical
      symptoms. We propose that chronic smokers who are susceptible to COPD and show evidence of
      COPD-related lung pathophysiology on lung CT also experience vascular dysfunction
      (particularly central artery stiffness) that contributes to structural brain abnormalities
      and cognitive impairment. The proposed project will: 1) model the effects of novel
      physiological mechanisms on the brain in COPD, 2) focus on changes in brain structure and
      function early in the development of COPD by including smokers who have evidence of early
      COPD-related lung pathophysiology but do not meet traditional criteria for COPD, and 3)
      utilize advanced technology to assess the lung (lung CT) and brain (MRI). We will recruit
      participants with existing lung CT from ongoing NIH projects to complete pulmonary and
      vascular measures, cognitive assessment, and brain MRI. The project is highly
      multidisciplinary and leverages unique resources at the University of Iowa including the
      Institute for Clinical and Translational Science, the Translational Human Vascular Physiology
      Lab, the Iowa Neuroimaging Consortium, and the Iowa Comprehensive Lung Imaging Center.
    
  