
    
      In this pilot study, we propose to test a virtual reality home-based intervention as an
      alternative or supplement to traditional rehabilitation for upper extremity weakness after
      stroke. We are hoping to discover that the device is easily adopted by patients and increases
      the dose of rehabilitation, as well as potentially leads to motor recovery.

      With the increasing affordability and accessibility of virtual reality (VR) systems, VR has
      emerged as a new platform for stroke rehabilitation. VR therapy involves using computer-based
      programs to simulate daily tasks and events. VR has shown promise in both allowing patients
      to practice activities that directly translate to their ADLs, as well as motivating them by
      providing a novel and interesting virtual environment.

      Relevance Regaining upper extremity function is very important for stroke survivors to
      increase their independence and ability to perform ADLs. The large majority of outpatient
      stroke rehabilitation currently takes place in a therapy clinic, however access is often
      limited by resource allocation, financial hardship, and transportation difficulties. The
      Smart Glove can provide an inexpensive and convenient means for stroke patients to continue
      their rehabilitation in the comfort of their own home.

      Patient Population Subacute and chronic stroke patients presenting with upper extremity
      weakness, as identified by Stanford physicians in clinic, will be eligible for participation
      in this study. Patients will be screened and selected from the population of people with
      strokes who are seen in the Stanford Neuroscience Clinic. Patients will be allowed to
      participate in any scheduled outpatient rehabilitation during the study. The doctor and/or
      research coordinator may introduce the study to potential candidates in-person in the
      Stanford Neurology Clinic, and the research coordinator may contact potential candidates by
      phone after the doctor's referral.

      Procedures:

      Once the participant has given informed consent and enrolled in the study, they will have a
      total of five visits, with one visit every two weeks.

      Visit one will entail the participant and identified caregiver undergoing training on the use
      of the Smart Glove by the research coordinator and Neofect staff. This involves
      donning/doffing of the glove as well as instruction as to how to use the software program.
      The participant will be issued a Smart Glove and a tablet preloaded with the software.
      Subjects will also undergo baseline functional testing, including manual muscle testing
      (MMT), Fugl-Meyer assessment (FM), Jebsen-Taylor hand function test (JTT), and Stroke Impact
      Scale (SIS). This first visit is expected to take 60-90 minutes. The participant will be
      expected to use the Smart Glove for 60 min per day for at least 5 days per week.

      The subsequent three visits will be at two week intervals and will involve the participant
      bringing the device to the Clinical and Translational Research Unit (CTRU). The research
      coordinator will upload the data from the device as well as troubleshoot any device-related
      issues. These visits will last 15-30 minutes each.

      The final visit will occur after eight weeks of Smart Glove use. In addition to downloading
      the data, the research coordinator will also repeat functional testing functional testing,
      including manual muscle testing (MMT), Fugl-Meyer assessment (FM), Jebsen-Taylor hand
      function test (JTT), and Stroke Impact Scale (SIS). This visit will last 45-60 minutes.
    
  