
    
      From end of 2013 303 HCV-monoinfected patients with advanced liver disease (F3/4) were
      treated with interferon (IFN)-free and RBV-free SOF-based regimens. During this period only 7
      patients received additional RBV. These patients were not included in this analysis. Only
      patients who completed 12 weeks of treatment-free follow up until July 2015 were included in
      this analysis. In Austria, prescription of DAAs is restricted to specialized treatment
      centers. Data are obtained by 6 participating centers and submitted to the central database
      forming for of the Austrian Ribavirin- and Interferon-free cohort (AURIC). Incoming data are
      reviewed by the staff of the hepatitis study group of the Dept. of Medicine III, Medical
      university of Vienna.The treatment regimens consisted of SOF/DCV, SOF/SMV, and SOF/LDV. The
      duration of treatment was based on a response guided approach at the discretion of the
      treating physician (12 or 24 weeks).

      Sixty six patients who had started therapy before August 2014 received SMV or DCV as part of
      a named patient program, SOF was prescribed. For the remaining patients all drugs were
      prescribed and paid for by the Austrian social insurance.

      This study will investigate various aspects of treatment response to regimens containing
      direct-acting antiviral agents for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C:

      Sustained virologic response (SVR) defined as undetectable HCV-RNA after 12 weeks of
      treatment free follow up

      Virological breakthrough/relapse defined as reappearance of HCV on treatment/during follow up

      Impact of viral kinetics on prediction of treatment efficacy: Viral load measured repeatedly
      (at baseline, on days 2,7,14,21,28,and than every 4 weeks until end of treatment) allows to
      study the rapidity of viral clearance. This parameter was used to assess whether length of
      treatment can be modified. Plasma HCV RNA levels were quantified by One Signal Amplification
      (Versant HCV RNA 3.0),

      Adverse Event Recording (using standard GCP criteria)

      Longterm outcome after SVR based on examining patients with SVR in six monh intervals.
      Examination will include liver sonography, elastography, routine blood chemistry including
      alpha1-fetoprotein
    
  