
    
      High-density lipoprotein (HDL) is known to have a protective role in cardiovascular disease.
      Apart from transporting cholesterol from peripheral blood vessels back to the liver where it
      is processed, HDL has the ability to inhibit chemical changes (called oxidation) to
      low-density lipoprotein (LDL) which would make the latter more toxic to the body. HDL can
      also stop inflammatory particles from damaging the vessel walls. The anti-oxidation and
      anti-inflammatory properties of HDL are associated with an enzyme on HDL called paraoxonase 1
      (PON1). It is not the level of measured HDL but the level of PON1 activity that is important
      in preventing cardiovascular disease. PON1 activity determines the quality of HDL and the
      effect against vascular disease.

      Obese patients accumulate most of the fat within their abdomen (termed visceral fat). It is
      known that visceral fat produces large quantities of inflammatory particles so that obese
      patients have increased systemic inflammation and thus higher risk of vascular disease. The
      impact of heightened inflammatory status on HDL functions and PON1 activity is not known.
      Weight-reducing (bariatric) surgery can result in significant weight loss in obese patients.
      It is unclear whether the weight loss is associated with improvement in HDL functions,
      possible reversal of lipoprotein abnormalities and other physiological parameters. We plan to
      study a population of obese patients scheduled to have bariatric surgery before and after the
      surgery and compare the results with a matching population of healthy control patients.

      Diabetic patients are at increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease. HDL in diabetic
      patients is often dysfunctional. Even though HDL levels are normal, PON1 activity may be
      reduced. LDL is able to interact with raised levels of blood glucose (called glycation) and
      become more harmful to the body. Glycation of lipoproteins associated with PON1 may affect
      PON1 activity. We plan to study glycated lipoproteins and PON1 activity in a population of
      diabetic patients who have either type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Some of the type 1 diabetics
      will have diabetic kidney disease, these patients are known to be particularly at high risk
      of cardiovascular complications. We also plan to recruit a cohort of patients who do not have
      diabetes but who have had an abnormal blood glucose test. These patients will be having an
      oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) which establishes whether they have diabetes. During the
      OGTT, patients are given an oral glucose load which results in a rapid rise in blood glucose.
      We will see if this accelerated change in blood glucose level has any effects on the
      glycation of lipoproteins.
    
  