
    
      South African adolescent girls and young women (AGYW) remain at extraordinarily high risk of
      HIV infection. Oral pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) has the potential to alter the epidemic
      in this vulnerable population, given that it is has been shown that if it is adhered to, oral
      PrEP can protect women from HIV infection. Yet, a critical question is whether AGYW will
      adopt and adhere to oral PrEP.

      The investigators propose that two innovations can reach young, at-risk AGYW, inform them
      about PrEP and motivate them to use it: (1) introducing PrEP through a gender lens in a group
      workshop; and (2) peer-driven recruitment-recruiting women to attend the workshop by those
      who have already attended it. To inform intervention development, the investigators conducted
      six focus groups with at-risk AGYW (aged 18-25), 8 qualitative interviews with focus group
      participants, and 20 qualitative interviews with men (10 HIV-positive, 10 HIV-negative or of
      unknown status) partnered with women in this age range that explored knowledge of, beliefs
      about, motivators for, and concerns about using PrEP in the context of gendered relationship
      dynamics and PrEP-related stigma. Guided by gender theory and the Information Motivation
      Behavior (IMB) model, and in collaboration with a Working Group of AGYW, a virtual (online)
      group-based Gender-Enhanced (GE) Workshop (using the WhatsApp® platform) was developed. The
      intervention has components that are conducted by participants on their own time as well as a
      "real-time" "live" interactive session and aims to provide PrEP information and address
      AGYW's barriers to using it. The goal of the intervention is to promote consideration of and
      uptake of PrEP.

      In this phase 1 pilot study to assess feasibility and acceptability and potential for impact
      of the workshop, investigators will compare AGYW (N=98) assigned to the virtual group-based
      (GE) workshop or to an Individually Accessed (IA) condition in which women are given access
      to a PrEP video and to websites that provide information on PrEP and on contraception
      options. To evaluate Peer-driven recruitment (PDR), AGYW randomized to either condition will
      be invited to become Peer Health Advocates (PHAs), who are incentivized to talk to social
      network members and refer up to three to the workshop type the PHA attended. Acceptability
      and feasibility of PDR will be evaluated by assessing whether the method can be
      self-sustaining (i.e., on average >50% attendees become PHAs and >2 recruitees/PHA attend a
      workshop); and whether it reaches high-risk women and women who would not be captured by
      other methods of recruitment (percent who score high on HIV risk; percent who never tested or
      attended family planning). If promising, these approaches will be further tested in a larger
      study.
    
  