
    
      Background: Syncope affects about 50% of Canadians, is the cause of 1-2% of emergency room
      visits, and probably is responsible for C$250 million (Canadian dollars) in health care
      spending each year. It is associated with decreased quality of life, trauma, loss of
      employment, and limitations in daily activities. The most common cause is vasovagal syncope.
      This occurs in people of all ages, and is a lifelong predilection. While the median number of
      faints in the population is 2, those who come to the investigators' care have a median 10-15
      lifetime spells, and have an increased frequency in the year before presentation. Vasovagal
      syncope is due to abrupt hypotension and transient bradycardia, which cause cerebral
      hypoperfusion. The pathophysiology may be either failure of venous return or progressive
      vasodilation, both due to inappropriately low sympathetic outflow.

      There is no known medical treatment for frequent fainting. The investigators performed the
      pivotal Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR)-funded randomized trials that showed
      that neither permanent pacing, beta blockers, nor fludrocortisone help the majority of
      patients. However 2 randomized studies suggest that inhibition of norepinephrine transport
      (NET) reuptake with sibutramine and reboxetine (NET inhibitors) prevents syncope on tilt
      testing by about 80%, and the investigators reported that sibutramine markedly reduced the
      frequency of vasovagal syncope in 7 of our most symptomatic patients. Sibutramine and
      reboxetine, for different reasons, are not available in Canada. However atomoxetine is
      available and is used to help patients with attention deficit disorder. There are no data
      pertaining to its hemodynamic effects in patients with vasovagal syncope. Although a
      randomized clinical trial of atomoxetine for the prevention of vasovagal syncope would be
      needed before clinical use, a proof of principle study is needed first.

      Objective: To determine if atomoxetine 40 mg bid (bis in die) in patients ≥18 years old with
      recurrent vasovagal syncope will better prevent syncope during tilt testing than placebo.

      Methods: The investigators will conduct a prospective, randomized, parallel, double-blind,
      proof-of-concept study to test the hypothesis that norepinephrine transporter inhibition with
      Atomoxetine prevents tilt-induced vasovagal syncope (VVS)/pre-syncope in patients with
      clinical vasovagal syncope. Subjects will have had ≥1 faint in the previous year, and a
      diagnosis of vasovagal syncope based on the Calgary Syncope Symptom Score. The primary
      outcome measure will be the time to syncope or presyncope with a trough rate-pressure product
      <7000 mm Hg/min. The primary analysis will be performed on an intention-to-treat basis.
      Secondary analyses will include modelled estimations of systemic vascular resistance and
      stroke volume, based on arterial waveform and blood pressure. This will permit us to address
      whether NET inhibition prevents the vasovagal reflex by maintenance of cardiac preload or
      maintenance of systemic vascular resistance. The investigators will randomize 64 patients in
      a double blind acute phase 2 study to either Atomoxetine 40mg PO bid x 2 doses or matching
      placebo.

      A sample size of 56 syncope patients would have 85% power to detect a 60% relative risk
      reduction from a placebo outcome rate of 65%, using an unmatched 2-tailed test with
      alpha=0.05. To compensate for the report dropout rate we will inflate the sample by 15% to 64
      subjects. A formal, blinded mid-way safety and efficacy analysis will be performed with a
      p<0.01 stopping rule for efficacy. The sample size will be inflated to 74 to account for
      spending power on the interim analysis. This will provide 85% power to detect an 80% relative
      risk reduction.

      Relevance: This will be the first adequately powered study of the ability of atomoxetine to
      prevent the vasovagal reflex. It will also provide insight as to whether norepinephrine
      transport inhibition functions here to maintain venous return or increase systemic vascular
      resistance. If positive, the study will provide a strong biomedical rationale and preliminary
      clinical results leading to a randomized clinical trial of atomoxetine for the prevention of
      vasovagal syncope.
    
  