
    
      When a tooth is avulsed, it is separated from its socket causing damage to the attachment
      apparatus. The periodontal ligament (pdl) is a group of specialized connective tissue fibers
      that attaches the cementum of the root (outer layer) to the alveolar bone. Avulsion can cause
      damage to the pdl and possible cemental tears. If the periodontal ligament is left attached
      to the root and minimal time lapse occurs damage to the tissues is usually limited. In these
      cases, reimplantation is a widely accepted treatment; however the long term success of an
      avulsed tooth is dependent on various factors. When excessive drying occurs prior to
      re-implantation, a severe inflammatory response is elicited directly on the root surface
      which may result in osseous replacement or replacement resorption. Some necrosis always
      occurs after avulsion injury, and while the necrotic pulp is of little consequence, this
      necrotic tissue is at high risk for bacterial contamination. If the pulp tissue does not
      revascularize or if endodontic therapy is not performed, the pulp space can become infected.
      It has been suggested that treatment strategies should attempt to limit peri-radicular
      inflammation therefore promoting favorable cemental healing and limiting unfavorable osseous
      replacement.

      Platelet rich fibrin (PRF) is a second generation platelet concentrate that allows the
      clinician to obtain fibrin membranes enriched with platelets and growth factors from an
      anticoagulant-free blood harvest and without the addition of artificial biochemical
      modification. PRF has demonstrated clinical relevance through its ability to stimulate cell
      proliferation of osteoblasts, gingival fibroblasts, and periodontal ligament (PDL) cells. In
      addition, PRF has been shown to limit epithelial cell growth therefore promoting connective
      tissue and alveolar bone regeneration and inhibiting epithelial proliferation. These
      properties make it a favorable product for surgical procedures requiring micro
      vascularization.

      In vitro studies with PRF and canine dental pulp cells demonstrate PRF's ability to promote
      chemotaxis and proliferation of the pulp cells and contributed to pulp repair. When PRF was
      combined with human dental pulp cells derived from extracted third molars it did not
      interfere with vitality and stimulated proliferation and differentiation. Additionally it
      upregulated the expression of osteoprotegerin and alkaline phosphatase.

      Animal models evaluated PRF granules combined with human pdl stem cells and placed them on
      the root surface of freshly extracted canine teeth. The teeth were then reimplanted and
      evaluated histologically after a healing phase. A regeneration of the PDL-like tissue and
      reduction in ankylosis and inflammation were noted in animals with the PRF granules.

      Clinical relevance of PRF and revascularization has been demonstrated in several case studies
      of avulsion. These case studies utilized a general protocol of minimally instrumenting the
      avulsed tooth. One study performed a 3 mm resection of the root apex followed by minimal
      instrumentation of the canal. Blood is then drawn from the patient and PRF is prepared via
      Choukroun's method. The PRF is then placed on the root surface and condensed into the canal.
      The tooth was then reimplanted, splinted, and the patient followed for up to 24 months. The
      tooth tested vital to thermal and percussion testing and radiographically did not show signs
      of replacement resorption or inflammation.

      To date no human studies have been performed evaluating the effectiveness of PRF on pulpal
      revascularization after reimplantation and its benefits in limiting inflammation.
      Additionally, only histological evidence of the benefits of PRF has been demonstrated in
      animal models. If PRF is capable of promoting revascularization in mature teeth the potential
      benefits extend to limiting the need for endodontic therapy following mature tooth avulsion,
      potential for mature tooth transplantation in situations of congenitally missing teeth, and
      utilization of PRF in endodontic revascularization therapy.

      The following research would consist of two phases: Phase 1. An in vitro model evaluating the
      effects of PRF in limiting inflammatory response of pulp and pdl cell cultures in the
      presence of an inflammatory mediators. Phase 2. An in vivo model utilizing mature teeth
      previously treatment planned for extraction, treating in accordance to the procedure
      documented by one group, reimplanting teeth and following for three to four months before
      extracting and performing histological analysis.
    
  