
    
      Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome is poorly understood. Many of these patients have
      elevated levels of plasma norepinephrine, particularly when upright One subgroup of patients
      has a primary hyperadrenergic state. The majority of patients have a marked deficit in plasma
      blood volume compared to healthy control subjects. The investigators have previously reported
      that some patients suffer paradoxically from a partial dysautonomia affecting the lower
      limbs. Most patients seem to suffer from either a primary or secondary increase in central
      sympathetic nervous system drive. Recent data have shown that patients with postural
      orthostatic tachycardia syndrome have a lower cardiac stroke volume than their healthy
      counterparts and this low stroke volume may drive their orthostatic tachycardia.

      The investigators plan to do the following:

      The physical examination will include (at minimum):

        -  Height

        -  Weight

        -  Orthostatic vital signs (heart rate and blood pressure) Supine and Standing for up to 10
           minutes

        -  Beighton Criteria for Joint Hypermobility Syndrome (Ehlers-Danlos III)

        -  Dependent acrocyanosis (during stand test)

      Continuous Heart Rate and Blood Pressure Recording A subset of subjects will be given the
      opportunity to also have continuous recordings of heart rate and blood pressure for 5-10
      minutes while lying down quietly. They will be instrumented with EKG patches on their body
      and a finger blood pressure cuff, and these data will be digitally sampled and acquired on a
      dedicated laptop computer for later offline analysis.

      There will be an optional rider on the consent form to allow the patient to consent to this
      portion of the study.

      Blood work

      Blood will be drawn for future assay and analysis of the following tests:

        -  Antibodies regulating cardiovascular function

           o The clinical significance of these antibodies is unknown. The investigators will share
           the results of the antibody panel with the subject, but with the caveat that no clinical
           interpretation or comment on significance can be made.

        -  Inflammatory markers

      The total amount of blood drawn for this project will be less than 15 ml.

      Questionnaires

        -  RAND-36

        -  Health Thermometer

        -  Chandler Fatigue Scale

        -  Daily diary of Fatigue Symptoms - Fibromyalgia

        -  Pain Detect Questionnaire

        -  Orthostatic Grading Scale

        -  COMPASS-31

        -  Structured History (including some of the elements from section 6.1)

      These questionnaires will be completed directly online (web-based interface) using a
      personalized link that will be provided to the subjects after they give their informed
      consent. These will be created in a REDCap-Survey environment, with the data collected and
      stored on a password-protected, HIPAA-compliant, secure computer server.
    
  