
    
      Nasal rhinomanometry provides a measure of the airflow through the nose during inspiration
      and expiration. The effect of static obstructions, such as septal deviation, as well as
      dynamic obstructions, such as lateral nasal wall collapse, can be measured by the
      rhinomanometer. The effect of commercially available nasal stents on nasal airflow will be
      measured. In subjects chosen from the general population, some of whom may not complain of
      nasal obstruction, the airflow will be measured before and after the placement of removable
      nasal silastic stents. In addition, these subjects will complete a one question scale in the
      Likert model to rate the degree of their subjective nasal obstruction; they will complete
      this both before and after placement of the stents. The results of the scale before and after
      application of the stents will be correlated with the objective measurements of airflow by
      rhinomanometry taken before and after stent insertion.Several studies have measured the
      effect of external nasal splints (such as Breathe-Rite strips) on nasal airflow and nasal
      airway size (as measured by acoustic rhinometry), but few have studied internal nasal stents.
      No studies have correlated rhinomanometric evaluation of effect on nasal obstruction by nasal
      stents with the validated NOSE survey (Nasal Obstruction Symptom Evaluation). In patients
      with a chief complaint of nasal obstruction and who are noted to have anterior nasal
      obstruction, nasal stents may provide a satisfactory improvement in nasal airflow without
      surgical or medicinal intervention. For patients who are determined to be candidates for
      surgical intervention, the surgical procedure is tailored to their specific anatomic
      deformities, as determined by the staff facial plastic surgeon. While the patient's complaint
      of nasal obstruction as well as the surgeon's assessment of the nasal anatomy are important
      components in the determination of the need for surgical intervention, no studies have
      utilized the validated NOSE instrument of subjective complaint of nasal obstruction combined
      with objective measurements of dynamic airflow. Rhinomanometric measurements can be used to
      further validate the NOSE instrument both preoperatively and postoperatively.
    
  