
    
      It is not surprising that complications related to surgical procedures occur. Chronic Post
      Surgical Pain (CPSP) is considered one of the more common surgical complications, despite all
      the advances in understanding acute pain and the development of new modalities for pain
      management 1. Chronic Post Surgical Pain was defined by Macrae and Davies 7 as a persistent
      pain, which existed for a minimum of two months following a surgical procedure. The condition
      of pre-existence of pain, and causes for the pain other than surgery should be excluded.
      Thoracic surgeries including thoracotomy and video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) are
      some of the highest risk procedures that often lead to CPSP. The prevalence of chronic pain
      after VATS is close to that after thoracotomy (25-47 %), half of them having neuropathic pain
      A, B. Because of the fact that chronic pain is a major physical and mental health care
      problem affecting the patient and the community in general, it has become essential for
      physicians to prevent the development of chronic pain 8.

      While multimodal analgesia has largely replaced pain mono-therapy with opioids, they remain
      the most commonly used medications to treat post operative pain. Lidocaine is an amide local
      anesthetic which when used intravenously demonstrates significant analgesic,
      anti-hyperalgesic and anti-inflammatory properties . It also reduces the sensitivity and
      activity of spinal cord neurons, decreases N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors mediated
      post-synaptic depolarization. The analgesic effects of systemic lidocaine were first tested
      in chronic neuropathic pain when the results support the usage of these drugs.
      Perioperatively, when lidocaine is administered as a continuous infusion at clinically
      relevant doses (1-2 mg/kg/hr) results in plasma concentration below 5µg.mL-1. At this plasma
      level, it is adequate to attenuate sympathetic responses , decrease pain and demonstrate a
      significant opioid sparing effect. Perioperative lidocaine administration was associated with
      a decreased incidence of CPSP when it is associated with neuropathic pain . It reduced CPSP
      in mastectomy by 40-50% after 3 and 6 months follow-up. To the best of our knowledge there is
      no study that has addressed the usage of lidocaine in VATS or thoracotomy.
    
  