
    
      Neurocysticercosis (NCC) is the most common helminthic CNS infection and the main cause of
      adult-onset seizures in low-to-middle income countries. Studies have documented significant
      endemicity in Latin America, Eastern Europe, sub-Saharan Africa, India and other parts of the
      world. The prevalence of NCC in North America is rising as a result of increased migration of
      people with the disease and, occasionally, immigration of individuals with asymptomatic
      tapeworms. Despite the gains in knowledge and understanding of the epidemiology,
      pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment, clinical care continues to be hampered by
      unanswered fundamental questions related to optimal diagnosis, staging, treatment, and
      follow-up of patients with NCC.

      This multi-center, natural history study seeks to characterize: the frequency of the various
      forms of NCC in North American populations; the spectrum of treatment and management
      strategies across the North American Cysticercosis Consortium; and the response to therapy by
      evaluating a number of endpoints related to disease evolution and treatment, such as burden
      of disease, cognitive changes, radiographic changes, and treatment complications. This study
      will inform future research studies needed to eventually establish standardized management
      protocols for each form of this complex infection.

      Subjects will have visits at screening, baseline, 1, 2 (optional), 3, 6, 12, and 24 months.
      Evaluations will include assessment of clinical status, antigen assays, radiographic imaging,
      functional assessments, immunologic evaluations, cognitive assessments, and quality of life
      measures. Additional clinically indicated visits may be scheduled as needed. This study does
      not provide any interventional therapies but will collect data on the course of treatment.
      Diagnostic examinations, consultations and medical treatment will be determined by the study
      clinician. Any samples removed for medical indications related to NCC may be evaluated for
      research purposes.
    
  