
    
      Tonsillectomy is one of commonly performed pediatric otorhinolaryngology surgeries.

      The two main indications of tonsillectomy in children include recurrent tonsillitis and
      Obstructive Sleep-Disordered Breathing (OSDB); including obstructive sleep apnea and upper
      airway resistance syndrome.

      Total tonsillectomy means total removal of the tonsillar tissue with the tonsillar capsule.
      The main drawbacks of tonsillectomy are the potential for serious postoperative bleeding,
      postoperative pain, eating and drinking difficulties, and reduced immune function in the
      early stages after the operation. Partial tonsillectomy (intracapsular tonsillectomy,
      subtotal tonsillectomy) means subtotal removal of tonsillar tissue, leaving a margin of
      tissue on the tonsillar capsule . In contrast to complete tonsil removal, Partial
      tonsillectomy does not violate the capsule, and leaves lymphoid tissue as a protective tissue
      on the pharyngeal muscle layer thus preserving of the connective tissue capsule and
      pharyngeal muscles. This diminishes the direct and indirect trauma during an intraoperative
      procedure and the inflammation due to secondary infection during the postoperative period.
      Recently, children with OSDB have benefited from the less invasive partial tonsillectomy with
      less pain, equivalent or easier recovery, better food intake, and maintain the immunological
      function of the tonsils, while being as effective as tonsillectomy for resolving upper-airway
      obstructive symptoms.

      Many studies have evaluated the outcomes of the two techniques, but uncertainty remains with
      regard to the efficacy, complications and long term outcomes. Some studies have reported the
      recurrence of obstructive symptoms due to regrowth of the remaining tonsillar tissue. Thus,
      it is important to evaluate Partial tonsillectomy comprehensively, especially paying
      attention to short-term and long-term results.

      Over the last years, unilateral complete tonsillectomy (usually combined with adenoidectomy)
      was the most commonly utilized procedure for treatment of pediatric obstructive
      sleep-disordered breathing below the age of four years old in Otorhinolaryngology Department,
      Assiut University
    
  