
    
      Studying quality of life over time in patients followed for metastatic breast cancer will
      identify when a person may feel most vulnerable in their experience of the disease and
      treatment. A specific and adapted support can thus be set up throughout the disease, from the
      diagnosis and during the different phases of treatment.

      Patients will benefit from a longitudinal follow-up determined according to the treatments.
      For example :

      Chemotherapy : After the first assessment time at 1 month from diagnosis, patients receiving
      chemotherapy treatment are seen every 3 months.

      Hormone therapy : After the first assessment time at 1 month from diagnosis, patients
      receiving hormone therapy are seen every 2 months.

      Each type of treatment has its own schedule based on medical consultation times. At each
      change of treatment, from chemotherapy to hormone therapy or vice versa, the assessment times
      are determined according to the nature of the treatment.

      The rhythm of the evaluation visits will therefore be defined by the doctor, according to the
      habits of the centre.

      Patients will complete an end of study visit 3 years after inclusion

      Quality of Life and Psychological vulnerability will be assessed through questionnaires :

        -  QLQ-C30 explores 5 functional scales (physical, social, psychological, cognitive
           functioning, daily activities) and 1 scale of health status and overall quality of life.
           It allows a detailed analysis of symptoms related to the disease and its treatment
           (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, pain, dyspnea, loss of appetite, sleep disturbance,
           constipation and diarrhea) as well as the financial impact for the patient.

        -  BR23 : specific questionnaire for breast cancer validated in French

        -  Psychological distress scale (PDS)

        -  State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) : Assesses the feelings of apprehension, tension,
           nervousness and worry that the subject feels at the time of the anxiogenic or
           endangerment situation. This questionnaire is therefore an indicator of transient
           changes in anxiety caused by aversive or therapeutic situations.

        -  Beck Depression Inventory (BDI II) : assesses the severity of depression.
    
  