
    
      Background: Patients presenting to the emergency department (ED) currently face inacceptable
      delays in initial treatment, and long and costly hospital stays due to suboptimal initial
      triage. Accurate ED triage should focus not only on initial treatment priority, but also on
      prediction of medical risk and nursing needs to improve site of care decision and to simplify
      early discharge management. Different triage scores have been proposed, such as the
      Manchester Triage Score (MTS). Yet, these scores focus only on treatment priority, have
      suboptimal performance and lack validation in the Swiss Health care system. Because the MTS
      will be introduced into clinical routine of the Kantonsspital Aarau, we propose a large
      prospective cohort study to optimize initial patient triage. Specifically, the aim of this
      trial is to derive a three part triage algorithm to better predict (a) treatment priority;
      (b) medical risk and thus need for inhospital treatment; (c) post-acute care needs of
      patient's at the most proximal time point of ED admission.

      Methods / Design: Prospective, observational, cohort study. We will include all consecutive
      medical patients seeking ED care into this observational registry. There will be no
      exclusions except for non-adult and non-medical patients. Vital signs will be recorded and
      left over blood samples will be stored for later batch analysis of blood markers. Upon ED
      discharge, the post-acute care score will be recorded. Attending ED physicians will
      adjudicate triage priority based on all available results at the time of discharge. Patients
      will be reassessed daily during the hospital course for medical and nursing stability. To
      assess outcomes, data from electronic medical records will be used and all patient will be
      contacted 30 days after hospital admission to assess vital status, rehospitalisation and
      quality of life measures.

      We aim to include between 5000 and 7000 patients over one year of recruitment to derive the
      three part triage algorithm. The respective main endpoints were defined as (a) initial triage
      priority (high vs. low priority) adjudicated by the attending ED physician at ED discharge,
      (b) adverse 30 day outcome (death or intensive care unit admission) within 30 days following
      ED admission to assess patients risk and thus need for inhospital treatment and (c) care
      needs after hospital discharge, defined as transfer of patients to a post-acute care
      institution, for early recognition and planning of post-acute care needs. Other outcomes are
      time to first physician contact, time to initiation of adequate medical therapy, length of
      hospital stay, patient's satisfaction with care and overall hospital costs.

      Discussion: Using a reliable initial triage system for estimating initial treatment priority,
      need for inhospital treatment and post-acute care needs is an innovative and persuasive
      approach for a more targeted management of medical patients in the ED. Our group has proven
      feasibility with a track record of several completed and ongoing trials. The proposed
      interdisciplinary project has unprecedented potential to improve initial triage decisions and
      optimize resource allocation to the sickest patients from admission to discharge. The
      algorithms derived in this study will be compared in a later randomized controlled trial
      against a usual care control group in terms of resource use, length of hospital stay, overall
      costs and patient's outcomes in terms of mortality, rehospitalisation, quality of life and
      satisfaction with care.
    
  