
    
      Autism spectrum Disorder is a complex neuro- developmental, incurable disease with lifelong
      impacts.Epidemiological studies have shown a rapid increase in the prevalence of ASD
      throughout the world including Bangladesh. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimated
      every 1 in 160 children has an autism spectrum disorder. Various environmental, genetic
      ,biochemical, metabolic factors are presumed to be involved in the etiology of ASD.
      Researchers found Vitamin B6 with Magnesium has the potential effects to alleviate the core
      symptoms of autism. A possible association higher doses of vitamin B6-Magnesium
      supplementation may reduce biochemical abnormalities e.g. reduction of urinary excretion of
      homovanillic acid and improve neurobehavioral symptoms.Therefore the present study has been
      designed to assess the effects of high dose of vitamin B6 with magnesium along with standard
      care of treatment upon ASD patients. The study would be randomized, double blind placebo
      controlled trial to be conducted in the Department of Pharmacology and the Institute of
      Pediatric Neurodisoder and Autism(IPNA), BSMMU in between July 2019 to July 2020. A total 66
      newly diagnosed ASD patients will be selected according to inclusion and exclusion criteria.
      The patients will be divided randomly into 2 groups: intervention and control. Intervention
      group would consist of 33 patients who wlill receive high dose of vitamin B6 with magnesium
      orally for three months. Vitamin B6 will be given 50 mg for 2- 3 years, 200 mg for ages 4-6
      years, 300 mg for ages 7-8 years and Magnesium will be given 50 mg for 2-3 years, 100 mg for
      ages 4-8 years. Control group would also consist of 33 patients who will receive placebo in
      the same manners along with standard care of treatment for three months. Comparison between
      the two groups will be performed through urinary homovanillic acid estimation at baseline and
      three months after the intervention. Neurobehavioral status will be assess by Autism
      Diagnostic Checklist (ADCL) at baseline and after three months of intervention. Data would be
      analyzed by Scientific Package for Social Science and represented by tables and figures as
      applicable. Significance level would be set at 0.05, 0.01 and 0.001. Patients data will be
      recorded in a predetermined data sheet. Parents of the patient will be informed about the
      study in easy language and then written informed consent will be taken.This study has no
      potential risk to the patients.
    
  