
    
      Randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, double-blind, multiple-dose, activity and
      safety clinical study of SRT2104 administered orally once daily for 28 consecutive days. This
      will be an inpatient/outpatient study to assess the safety and pharmacokinetics (PK) of
      SRT2104 in type 2 diabetic (T2D) male and female subjects on an existing, stable, background
      metformin therapy. Approximately 112 subjects aged 18-65 years, who fulfill the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, will be screened for this study to enroll approximately 80
      subjects. Subjects will be evenly randomized to receive SRT2104 2.0 g/day or placebo
      approximately 15 minutes following consumption of a standardized morning meal. Subjects will
      remain on a fixed dose of test material for all dosing days in the study.

      Subjects will sign the informed consent form at the Screening Visit, and will undergo
      screening assessments to verify eligibility for the study. If eligible and willing to
      participate, subjects will return to the clinic within 21 days of the Screening Visit to
      participate in the pre-dosing phase of the study. On Day 1 of the study, subjects will be
      randomized to receive SRT2104 or placebo. Subjects will be required to stay overnight at the
      study center on Days -2, -1, 0, 1 (optional discharge at investigator's discretion), 27, 28,
      41, and 42 for testing, to assess safety, and to gather required biomarker samples. In
      addition, subjects will be asked to return to the study center on Day 14 for interim safety
      assessments. The subject will be telephoned on Days 7 and 21 to assess safety. Subjects will
      be required to monitor their fasting blood glucose and complete a daily diary for the
      outpatient portion of the study between Days 1 and 28. A follow-up, safety phone call will
      occur 30 days following their final dose of SRT2104 or placebo (Day 58 of the study) to
      identify any possible additional adverse events (AEs) or concomitant medications.
    
  