
    
      Postsurgical thyroid remnant ablation with (131)I is considered standard clinical care for
      most cases of papillary and follicular thyroid cancer, to eliminate normal thyroid tissue
      which may contain microscopic cancer. Furthermore, ablation enhances the sensitivity of
      subsequent (131)I scanning and serum thyroglobulin (TG) measurement for the detection of
      recurrent or persistent disease. Low dose (131)I (30 mCi) successfully ablates thyroid
      remnant in 8-61% of cases. This dose can be repeated and result in overall less radiation
      exposure than that associated with high dose therapy (100 mCi). Ablation achieved with one or
      more small doses of radioactive iodine is not associated with decreased survival or cancer
      recurrence. According to the literature there is no difference in the 30-year recurrence
      rates between groups receiving low and high dose ablation therapy for well differentiated
      thyroid cancer without distant metastases at the time of initial therapy. The benefits of
      using low dose of (131)I are minimization of whole body radiation exposure, reduction in side
      effects and lower cost. Higher rates of successful ablation by low dose of 131I could be
      achieved by increasing uptake of (131)I and/or lengthening retention of radioiodine in the
      remnant thyroid tissue. Recombinant human thyroid-stimulating hormone (rhTSH) has been used
      successfully to increase radioiodine uptake. Lithium has been used to increase radioiodine
      retention and has been shown to be useful in the treatment of residual or metastatic cancer.
      The combination of rhTSH and lithium as adjuncts to 30 mCi radioactive iodine (RAI) ablation
      therapy in low risk thyroid cancer patients may provide a method that reduces the cumulative
      dose of radioiodine needed to successfully treat thyroid cancer. The specific aim of this
      study is to determine whether adjunct lithium carbonate improves the success rate of
      postsurgical ablation of thyroid remnants using low dose (131)I (30 mCi) and rhTSH in low
      risk patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma. Patients with well-differentiated
      papillary or follicular thyroid cancer stage I or II, according to the National Thyroid
      Cancer Treatment Cooperative Study (NTCTCS) classification at time of surgery, will be
      enrolled. Eligible patients will have had a total or near-total thyroidectomy within 6 months
      of enrollment. This randomized, placebocontrolled, double-blind study will permit an
      evaluation of the risk/benefit ratio of adding lithium as an adjuvant to the already
      established method of administering low-dose (131)I ablation therapy, to optimize the (131)I
      retention. All patients will undergo diagnostic rhTSH (123)I whole body scan at the end of
      the study to assess the success of thyroid ablation.
    
  