
    
      Currently there is no established database or recording system of eye injuries occurring in
      Canada. Estimates place the figure at approximately 100000 significant eye injuries occurring
      in our country every year. This represents a large public health and long-term disability
      challenge. Lost productivity of working-age individuals with vision loss amounts to $4.4
      billion annually in Canada, part of which is due to eye injury. By recording the types,
      locations, and outcomes of significant eye injuries, it is hoped improved public health
      strategies may be established to prevent further ones. The need for such a database has been
      recognized by the Ivey Eye Institute, the Canadian National Institute for the Blind (CNIB)
      and the Canadian Ophthalmological Society (COS).

      The United States Eye Injury Registry (USEIR) has been in existence for greater than 20
      years. Through their database they have recorded thousands of eye injuries which has led to
      public health interventions through their various ocular societies. They have also
      established a standardized reporting system and ocular trauma score which has improved
      diagnosis and prognosis of eye injuries. This system has been used in many countries as a
      standardized reporting scheme for eye injuries.

      It is hoped that through a pilot recording system established in London a framework for a
      national reporting system will develop. The objective is to use the standardized reporting
      system of the USEIR to report Canadian eye injuries.

      The time frame for outcome measures will be 6 months. The patients will be followed along for
      this amount of time to assess there visual outcomes. No further follow up after 6 months will
      be undertaken for the purpose of the registry.

      The hypothesis is that by recording the type and outcome of eye injuries, a better
      understanding of mechanisms and location of these injuries in Canada will occur. Subsequent
      public health interventions can then be made in conjunction with the CNIB and COS to improve
      eye health in Canada.
    
  