
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common invasive malignancy and the second leading cause of cancer
      death in American males. In 2005, an estimated 230,000 men will be diagnosed and 30,000 will
      die from prostate cancer. The current estimated risk of developing prostate cancer is 1 in 6
      men. Carcinogenesis and neoplastic progression of prostate cancer depend on both genetic and
      epigenetic factors; a multi-step process leads to progression from an androgen-dependent,
      non-metastatic phenotype to a more malignant, metastatic, androgen-independent phenotype.

      Treatment options for localized prostate cancer include watchful waiting, surgical
      prostatectomy, or targeted irradiation. The latter two treatments can cure cancers that are
      confined to the prostate gland, yet many patients have occult metastasis at the time of
      presentation, particularly to the bone or regional lymph nodes.

      Advanced prostate cancer with metastases presents a difficult therapeutic problem. Those who
      have disease progression with hormonal therapy have limited options. Patients initially
      treated with the combination of a Luteinizing Hormone Releasing Hormone (LHRH) analog and a
      synthetic antiandrogen occasionally respond to withdrawal of the anti-androgen. Chemotherapy
      is also an option in this setting, with docetaxel-based therapy having a small survival
      advantage in patients with hormone refractory prostate cancer.

      There is clearly a need for more effective regimens for patients with prostate cancer. With
      the current limitation in treatment options, there has been a renewed public and scientific
      interest in the use of less toxic herbal preparations in the treatment of cancer. Herbal
      supplements may play an especially important role in prostate cancer, considering its high
      incidence and oftentimes slow progression. However, before physicians can confidently
      recommend dietary supplementation, further scientific investigation is required.
    
  