
    
      This protocol describes a multicenter phase I/II trial of RAD001 in combination with
      hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) (phase I anticipated n=6-12) with a 35 patient phase II trial in
      patients with previously treated (1-3 prior regimens) advanced renal cell carcinoma. The
      preclinical rationale for this combination is extensive, the safety of HCQ combination
      strategies has been established, and effective autophagy pharmacodynamics (PD), and
      pharmacokinetics (PK) assays are available to guide development. The practical advantage of
      combination with HCQ is that this drug is off patent, commercially available, and is
      investigational new drug (IND) exempt. The institutions involved have combined 11 clinical
      protocols open for accrual involving HCQ, so regulatory approval will be rapid. There are no
      competing HCQ protocols for advanced renal cell carcinoma. As described in the sample size
      justification we are setting a high threshold to consider RAD001 + HCQ active since there are
      many competitors and other potential rational combinations. The 35 patient sample size is
      designed as a 2 stage phase II trial that will guide the go/no-go decision regarding the
      conduct of a followup randomized study to definitively prove efficacy. The primary (6 month
      PFS) and secondary outcomes (response rate, toxicity rates, correlative endpoints) will be
      analyzed for the entire group, and for patient populations stratified by number of prior
      therapies. The phase I portion of this trial is anticipated to be short, based on our
      experience from other HCQ trials. As a safety measure we have included intermediate dose
      levels which will only be used if there are Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs). Since we have
      seen responses at lower doses of HCQ in other trials, and because frequently over months HCQ
      dose is lowered from Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) doses in many trials because of nausea and
      anorexia, we would like to have some data on renal cell patients treated at the lower dose
      levels. If there is activity demonstrated at lower doses, this would be informative for dose
      modification decisions in patients treated on the dose expansion. The patient population for
      this trial, including the phase I dose escalation portion is advanced renal cell carcinoma
      with 1-3 prior treatments.
    
  