
    
      Objective: Uveitis refers to intraocular inflammatory diseases that are an important cause of
      visual loss. Standard systemic immunosuppressive medications for uveitis can cause
      significant adverse effects and many patients continue to experience disease flare-ups.
      Ustekinumab is a human IL-12 and -23 antagonist. The involvement of IL-12 and IL-23 in the
      pathophysiology of uveitis and other autoimmune diseases known to be associated with uveitis
      suggests that ustekinumab could be a potential treatment for uveitis. The study objective is
      to investigate the safety, tolerability and potential efficacy of subcutaneous injections of
      ustekinumab as a possible treatment for active intermediate uveitis, posterior uveitis or
      panuveitis.

      Study Population: Five participants with active intermediate uveitis, posterior uveitis or
      panuveitis who meet the inclusion criteria will be initially enrolled. Up to seven
      participants may be enrolled, as up to two participants may be accrued to account for
      participants who withdraw from the study prior to Week 8.

      Design: This is a prospective, non-randomized, uncontrolled, single-center pilot study to
      evaluate subcutaneous injections of ustekinumab as a possible treatment for active
      intermediate uveitis, posterior uveitis or panuveitis. Participants will receive a 90 mg
      subcutaneous injection of ustekinumab at baseline and a second and third injection at Week 2
      and 4 and every 12 weeks thereafter. Participants will continue to receive injections of
      ustekinumab every 12 weeks until Week 52. Participants will return for a final safety visit
      12 weeks later.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome is the number of participants who experience treatment
      response (as defined in Appendix 1) by Week 8. Secondary outcomes include changes in visual
      acuity, the number of participants who experience a recurrence, the number of days to
      recurrence, presence or extent of macular edema, the amount of retino-vascular leakage,
      changes in retinal thickening, the length of time to quiescence and the ability to taper
      concomitant immunosuppressive medications. Safety outcomes include the number and severity of
      systemic and ocular toxicities and adverse events, the proportion of participants who
      experience vision loss of greater than or equal to 15 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy
      Study (ETDRS) letters and the number of participants who experience a substantial rise in
      elevated intraocular pressure (IOP).
    
  