
    
      Cognitive deficits are the most important cause of long-term dysfunction in patients with
      Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). Among the most frequently-occurring difficulties are problems
      with attention, working memory (WM), and executive functioning (EF). Remediation and
      interventions to improve those deficits have the potential to impact the quality of life and
      long-term prognosis in this population. Cognitive training (CT) programs have increasingly
      been used independently or in conjunction with pharmacotherapies in children with accidental
      or disease-related brain injury. CogmedRM is both the most well-researched and widely-used CT
      program for remediation of WM deficits. Results from numerous randomized, controlled trials
      conducted with a variety of pediatric and adult patient populations generally show that
      CogmedRM training is associated with robust gains in performance-based WM scores over the
      short term, with some variability in improvement across disease groups. A single arm pilot
      study of CogmedRM in a sample of children with NF1 conducted at Children's National Medical
      Center has shown that the approach is likely feasible and acceptable to families.

      Because many children with NF1 are treated with stimulant medications, and there is
      biological evidence that both CT and Methylphenidate act on dopaminergic systems, the
      investigators are also interested in examining whether or not there is a synergistic effect
      between these widely available and safe interventions. Thus, the aim is to assess the
      efficacy of a home-based, computerized cognitive training (CT) program in a sample of 90
      children aged 8-16 with NF1 and working memory difficulties. This study will be conducted
      over the span of four years. If the participant qualifies following baseline testing, he/she
      will be randomized to the intervention, CogmedRM, or the active control condition, MobyMax
      (an online reading program). The participant will have 5-9 weeks to complete the program and
      will have follow-up testing 2 weeks after finishing the program. If CT, either singly or in
      combination with stimulant medication, can be shown to be efficacious in a sample of NF1
      pediatric patients at high risk for neurocognitive deficits, this intervention plan could be
      rapidly translated to clinical practice.
    
  