
    
      Breast cancer is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers for women in the United States,
      with an estimated 246,660 cases of invasive breast cancer and 61,000 cases of in situ breast
      cancer to be diagnosed in 2016. It is also the second leading cause of cancer death for
      women, with an estimated 40,450 deaths to occur this year. The therapeutic environment for
      the treatment of MBC is evolving rapidly. Clinicians are challenged with understanding new
      molecular targets, and identifying ongoing clinical trial opportunities for this patient
      population. Healthcare providers are required to be aware of the mechanisms of action,
      safety, and efficacy of promising novel agents and regimens on the horizon for the treatment
      of advanced breast cancer. Furthermore, central to individualizing therapy is an assessment
      of patients' goals of treatment prior to developing a plan of care.

      It is nearly impossible for the modern-day oncologist to remain current regarding the
      clinical tsunami of research to personalize MBC treatment. The tremendous pressures cancer
      centers and their oncology providers face in quantifiably demonstrating value in the care
      delivered compounds this problem. Almost instantly, government and commercial payers are
      demanding a change from pay for quantity to pay for value. In April 2016, CMMI implemented
      the Oncology Care Model (OCM). The new OCM program is complementary to other value-based
      payment initiatives in which oncologists may participate, including the Bundled Payment for
      Care Initiative, Chronic Care Management Program, Transforming Clinical Practices Initiative,
      Transitional Care Management Program, ACO/Medicare Shared Savings Program, and Medicare Care
      Choice Model, and others rapidly being introduced by commercial payers. These payment
      programs are transforming oncology care so that it is more pro-active, coordinated, vigilant
      and patient focused. At the center of this payment reform is the patient, as the ultimate
      consumer of health care services. Until recently, patients have been relatively blind to the
      actual cost and quality of the care they receive. Now, out-of-pocket costs are rising steeply
      and patients have instant access to a trove of health information as they are forced to
      become better-educated consumers regarding the costs and likely outcomes of their treatment.
      A recent JAMA Op-Ed piece receiving significant attention highlights that delivering
      value-based care requires an understanding of what the patient values. To that end, all the
      current cancer valued-based models require that oncology providers document their patient's
      goals of care and that the treatment course is evidence-based and commensurate with patient
      goals.

      Another significant component of value is ensuring that a patient is "fit" enough for the
      treatment selected. The priorities of frail patients, whose care is the costliest, are often
      not noticed nor met. The issue of fit/frailty status in breast cancer is highly relevant,
      given that the median age at diagnosis is 62 with 57% cases of invasive breast cancer in
      females being diagnosed at age 60 or older. When older adults are ill, they are more prone to
      hospitalization; higher health care utilization due to cancer toxicities drives up the cost
      of health care. Older adults have an 11-fold increased incidence of cancer and a 16-fold
      increased incidence in cancer mortality compared to younger patients. Comprehensive geriatric
      assessment (CGA) is recommended to stratify elderly patients with advanced breast cancer to
      ensure treatment dosing that balances efficacy and toxicity.

      Historically GAs are not routinely performed because they are complex and time-consuming, the
      optimal tools for administering the GA accurately and efficiently have not been established,
      many clinicians lack knowledge about how to incorporate GA into decision-making and care of
      older adults, and integration of a GA into a Health Information System platform has not been
      adequately studied for feasibility and usage. Hurria and colleagues developed the Cancer
      Specific Geriatric Assessment (CSGA), a shorter assessment that specifically captures data
      from seven domains (functional status, comorbid medical conditions, psychological state,
      cognition, nutritional status, social support, and medications). The CSGA requires nearly 30
      minutes to complete which lessens its usefulness in a busy clinic.

      A modified Geriatric Assessment (mGA) tool that utilizes age, functional status as determined
      by assessment of activities of daily living (ADLs) and instrumental activities of daily
      living (IADLs), plus comorbidity status was used to develop the Palumbo Frailty Index (FI).
      The FI categorizes patients into groups of fit, intermediate fit, and frail. In a
      retrospective analysis of data in 867 older adults with MM, toxicity, treatment
      discontinuation, and survival rates were correlated with the FI. As a result of this
      retrospective validation work, fit/frailty status is now being evaluated in the clinical
      setting by gathering information from a mGA and providing the data to the care provider to
      guide treatment decisions. Predictors of toxicity in elderly patients include age,
      tumor/treatment variables, labs, and geriatric assessment variables. The mCGA used in this
      study includes assessment of activities of daily living (ADLs), instrumental ADLS (IADLs),
      risk for toxicity using the Cancer and Aging Research Group's (CARG) "Chemotherapy Toxicity
      Calculator" and additional variables such as age, falls in the past six months, hearing,
      peripheral neuropathy, , stage and date of diagnosis.

      The science of value-based cancer care is in its infancy. The association of quality and
      patient outcomes are still largely a thing of the future-to be informed by longitudinal
      studies to come that will involve a new generation of better-structured big data. Thus,
      aligning evidence-based treatment decisions with patient goals and patient's performance/fit
      status is an imperfect science.
    
  