
    
      Written, informed consent will be obtained using an IRB-approved ICF prior to any study
      procedures. Lead insertion may occur up to 2 weeks prior to surgery within the CTRI, or the
      morning of surgery in the regional anesthesia induction area (it just depends on subject and
      surgeon preference, as well as logistical issues such as the time of the surgery and
      availability of the investigators). Muscle strength will be measured with a pressure
      transducer.

      Preoperative lead insertion (approximately 1-3 hours). A percutaneous, helically-coiled,
      insulated electrical lead will be inserted via an introducer needle at least 2 cm proximal or
      distal to the perineural catheter location along the target nerve using real-time ultrasound
      guidance:

      Surgical Procedure Location: Perineural Catheter Location, Electrical Lead Location

      Shoulder: Interscalene, Interscalene or supraclavicular or suprascapular

      At or distal to the elbow: Infraclavicular, Interscalene, supraclavicular or terminal
      nerve(s)

      Foot or ankle: Popliteal-sciatic [adductor canal optional], Subgluteal-sciatic [femoral
      optional] <or vice vera>

      Knee or distal thigh: Adductor canal [popliteal-sciatic optional], Femoral
      [subgluteal-sciatic optional]

      It will be optional for a conducting probe to be used prior to lead insertion-this allows
      identification of the optimal lead tip location relative to the target nerve by passing
      electrical current via the insulated probe. The desired end point is a pleasant paresthesia
      in the distribution of the target nerve reported by the subject. If used, the probe will be
      completely withdrawn following target location identification, and a lead subsequently
      inserted to the target location. Following needle removal, the percutaneous helical lead will
      have electric current passed using the SPRINT (SPR Therapeutics, Cleveland, OH) pulse
      generator to ensure accurate placement (a pleasant paresthesia in the distribution of the
      target nerve). It will be replaced, if necessary. Muscle strength will be measured with a
      pressure transducer during the delivery of electrical current. The pulse generator will then
      be removed and the lead affixed to the skin using an occlusive dressing.

      With the subject's permission the investigators may photograph or videotape the procedures
      described above for educational, training, or publication purposes. The photos or video will
      focus only on the lead insertion site and affected limb. Ultrasound images from the procedure
      may also be collected. Every effort will be made to protect the subject's privacy and the
      photos or video will not include the subject's face or any other personal identifiers such as
      birthmarks. Subjects and their caretakers will be trained in device care and management, and
      given written instructions as well. Following successful lead insertion, a perineural
      catheter may be inserted, if the patient desires a catheter (with normal saline injection and
      not local anesthetic via the inserting needle). This will be used to deliver perineural local
      anesthetic as a rescue analgesic method postoperatively in case the SPRINT system provides
      inadequate analgesia.

      Randomization. Within the recovery room, the surgeon often performs a standard neurologic
      examination (variable depending on the surgeon and surgical procedure), after which time the
      subject will have baseline end points measured, including a pain score at the surgical site
      using the Numeric Rating Scale (NRS, 0-10), pain score (NRS) within the target nerve
      distribution, and sensory deficits (measured with alcohol pads and von Frey filaments
      compared to the contralateral limb within the cutaneous distribution of the target nerve).
      For their first pulse generator-"Stimulator A"-subjects will be randomized to one of two
      treatments-current or sham-using computer generated lists and opaque, sealed envelopes. The
      stimulator will then be attached to the lead and switched "on" (sham stimulator produces no
      current). The end points will be measured per the table below. Subsequently, the stimulator
      will be replaced by the alternative (current or sham)-"Stimulator B". The subject will have
      the end points measured and the stimulator replaced with a unit set to deliver active current
      for the remainder of study participation ("Stimulator C"). Operating and recovery room
      pharmacologic analgesic requirements will be recorded. Of note, if a lead fails to provide
      paresthesias within the target nerve distribution with either Stimulator A or B (adjustment
      of stimulator settings allowed), the lead may be replaced at the discretion of the subject
      and investigators.

      End point collection (first day within the recovery room; approximately 30 minutes):

      Baseline, then stimulator A is activated (sham or real) Minutes 1-5, then stimulator B is
      activated (sham or real) Minutes 1-5, then stimulator C is activated (always real) Minute 5
      and 30 within the recovery room Daily x 14 days Months 1 and 3

      Endpoints will include the numeric rating scale for pain (NRS) at the surgical site at rest
      and with movement, the lead-related NRS (pain at lead site), muscle strength, sensory
      deficits, and the question "adequate analgesia?" as a nominal response of yes or no.

      Of note, the data derived from the chronic pain literature suggests that there is a "carry
      over" effect following stimulation: analgesia is provided even after the cessation of
      electrical current. It remains unknown if this is true following surgery in the acute
      postoperative pain period. For subjects randomized to active current from Stimulator A, the
      data collected for Stimulator B placebo treatment may be lowered due to the carry over
      effect. Therefore, this data will not be compared with the baseline or Stimulator A outcome
      measures. However, it is valuable data to possibly detect and quantify the carry-over effect
      of the initial stimulation.

      At any time, subjects may choose to have their perineural catheter bolused with local
      anesthetic and a perineural local anesthetic infusion begun (if they desired a catheter with
      subsequent insertion). Therefore, subjects will not risk receiving inferior analgesia by
      participating in this study. However, subjects also have the option of leaving their infusion
      pump off and using neuromodulation as their primary analgesic if the latter proves
      adequate-the decision is completely each subject's and may be made any time prior to
      perineural catheter removal.

      Subjects and their caretakers will be trained in device care and management, and given
      written instructions as well. Pain scores (resting and dynamic worst and average) will be
      collected daily for two weeks, along with oral analgesic requirements, perineural local
      anesthetic use, and sensory/motor deficits (all specific to the previous 24 hours).
      Perineural catheters will be removed at home upon subject request, after 3 days, or upon
      local anesthetic reservoir exhaustion, whichever comes first (standard-of-care). The
      electrical leads will be removed upon subject request, or after 30 days, whichever comes
      first. The leads will be removed at home by subjects or their caretakers (standard-of-care
      for perineural catheter withdrawal) or by investigators, depending on both investigator and
      subject preference. If removed by subjects or their caretakers, a picture of the extracted
      lead tip must be texted/emailed to investigators, or the physical lead returned to
      investigators for inspection. Subjects will be contacted no less than every 5 days following
      the initial 2-week period until their lead is removed; and, will then be contacted 1 and 3
      months postoperatively and the end points again verbally collected.
    
  