
    
      Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is one of the most aggressive subtypes of breast cancer.
      Chemotherapy is the current mainstay of treatment. The treatment of patients with TNBC has
      been challenging due to the heterogeneity of the disease and the absence of well-defined
      molecular targets. The investigators' previous study has successfully identified and
      independently validated prognostic and predictive RNA signatures for TNBC, which could be
      used to classify TNBC patients into high- or low-risk of recurrence. This study is intended
      to further validate the efficacy of the mRNA-lncRNA signature and also explore better
      chemotherapy for the predicted high risk TNBC patients.

      The current study is designed to validation the efficacy of the mRNA-lncRNA signature and
      evaluate the efficacy and safety between docetaxel combined with doxorubicin (epirubicin) and
      cyclophosphamide followed by gemcitabine combined with cisplatin and doxorubicin (epirubicin)
      combined with cyclophosphamide followed by docetaxel for high risk triple negative breast
      cancer predicted by the integrated signature.

      Primary endpoint for the study: recurrence free survival; second endpoint for the study:
      safety, disease free survival and overall survival; This open multi-center prospective
      randomized control study includes TNBC patients with invasive ductal carcinoma. All eligible
      patients' tumor samples were tested using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and
      recurrence risks were predicted using the mRNA-lncRNA signature. Patients with high
      recurrence risk were randomized to Group A or Group B to receive respective chemotherapy.
      Among which Group A: TA(E)C x 4 cycles to GP x 4 cycles (docetaxel + doxorubicin (epirubicin)
      + cyclophosphamide to gemcitabine + cisplatin), docetaxel: 75 mg/m2 IV on day 1; doxorubicin:
      50 mg/m2 IV on day 1 or epirubicin 75 mg/m2 IV on day 1; cyclophosphamide: 500 mg/m2 IV on
      day 1; gemcitabine: 1250 mg/m2 IV on day 1 and 8; cisplatin: 75 mg/m2 IV on day 1, dosing
      interval is 21 days. Group B: A(E)C x 4 cycles to T x 4 cycles (doxorubicin (epirubicin) +
      cyclophosphamide to docetaxel), doxorubicin: 60 mg/m2 IV on day 1 or epirubicin 90 mg/m2 IV
      on day 1; cyclophosphamide: 600 mg/m2 IV on day 1; docetaxel: 100 mg/m2 IV on day 1, dosing
      interval is 21 days. Patients with low recurrence risk received chemotherapy in Group C:
      A(E)C x 4 cycles to T x 4 cycles (doxorubicin (epirubicin) + cyclophosphamide to docetaxel),
      doxorubicin: 60 mg/m2 IV on day 1 or epirubicin 90 mg/m2 IV on day 1; cyclophosphamide: 600
      mg/m2 IV on day 1; docetaxel: 100 mg/m2 IV on day 1, dosing interval is 21 days.
    
  