
    
      Preoperative Care

      Patients will be approached at the preadmission clinic or in the general ward before
      operation. The anaesthetic techniques will be explained and s/he will be recruited into the
      study if s/he agrees. Fasting will start 6 hours before surgery for solids and 2 hours clear
      fluid. All patients will be given oral celebrex 200mg, paracetamol 1g and pregabalin 50mg po,
      two hours before start of anaesthesia.

      Range of movement of the operating knee, quadriceps function, pain scores of the affecting
      knee will be assessed on day before operation. Baseline data for health related quality of
      life, psychological status, and quality of recovery will be obtained using the Chinese Hong
      Kong version of SF-36, Depression Anxiety Stress Scales (DASS) and the Chinese quality of
      recovery (QoR) score, respectively.

      Anaesthesia and intraoperative care

      On arrival to the operation theatre, a 18 or 16 gauge intravenous cannula will be inserted.
      Standard monitoring with pulse oximeter, non-invasive blood pressure, and three lead
      electrocardiogram will be applied before start of anaesthesia. Non-invasive blood pressure
      will be checked at least every 5 minutes throughout the operation.

      Spinal anaesthesia (SA) group

      Patients in the SA group will receive intrathecal (L4-5, or L3-4 if failed at L4-5)
      administration of 2.2-2.4ml 0.5% heavy bupivicaine using a 25G Whitacare needle. No
      intrathecal opioid will be given during the procedure. Light sedation will be given during
      surgery with target-controlled infusion of propofol using the Marsh effect site model (0.3 -1
      mcg/ml). Supplemental oxygen 2L/min will be given via the nasal cannula.

      General anaesthesia with inhalational anaesthesia (GAS) group

      Patients receiving inhalational general anaesthesia will be induced with intravenous bolus
      propofol 1.5-3mg/kg, remifentanil 1mcg/kg, and rocuronium 0.6mg/kg for induction of general
      anaesthesia and intubation of the patient. General anesthesia monitoring will be used.
      Maintenance of general anesthesia would be provided using sevoflurane, together with air and
      oxygen. FiO2 will be maintained between 35-50%. Bispectral (BIS) monitoring will be applied
      and level of anaesthesia will be maintained at a BIS value of between 40-60. Remifentanil
      infusion will be given at between 0.1-0.2mcg/kg/min. This will be titrated to maintain mean
      arterial blood pressure within 20% of baseline (blood pressure in the ward before surgery
      will be taken as baseline) and heart rate between 45 to 100 beats per minute. Muscle
      relaxants can be given as required. Morphine sulphate will be given at a dose of 0.1mg/kg
      before skin incision. Sevoflurane and remifentanil infusion will be switched off at the end
      of the procedure. Reversal of muscle relaxation will be achieved using intravenous
      neostigmine 50mcg/kg and atropine 20mcg/kg after the operation.

      General anaesthesia with propofol total intravenous anaesthesia (TIVA) group

      Target controlled infusion (TCI) with modified Marsh effect site model (Fresenius Kabi) will
      be used for induction and maintenance of general anaesthesia. Level of anaesthesia will be
      titrated to produce a BIS value of between 40-60. For induction, remifentanil 1mcg/kg and
      rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg will be given intravenously prior to intubation. Sevoflurane will not be
      given. Air and oxygen will be given, and FiO2 will be kept at between 35-50%. Similarly, to
      the GAS group, remifentanil will be infused at a rate of between 0.1-0.2mcg/kg/min and
      titrated according to the haemodynamic parameters stated for the GAS group. Morphine sulphate
      will be given at a dose of 0.1mg/kg before skin incision. TCI propofol and remifentanil will
      be switched off at the end of the procedure. Reversal of muscle relaxation will be achieved
      as for the GAS group.

      Intraoperative care for all 3 groups

      Intravenous antibiotic will be given before skin incision. Hypotension will be managed with
      intravenous phenylephrine or ephedrine at the discretion of the anaesthesiologist.
      Hypertension or tachycardia in patients from the TIVA and GAS groups will be managed by
      titrating the remifentanil infusion up to 0.2mcg/kg. Intravenous anti-hypertensive drugs such
      as beta-blockers (eg esmolol, metoprolol), hydralazine, glyceryl trinitrate and phentolamine
      can be given if hypertension persists. Intra-operative fluid 8-10ml/kg/hr will be infused as
      maintenance. In addition, fluid replacement will be given for of blood loss. Infusion fluid
      warmer and thermal blankets will be used with the aim of keeping a core temperature of
      35.5-37.5 degrees Celsius. All patients will be given 4mg of intravenous ondansetron 30
      minutes before end of surgery.

      Local anaesthetic infiltration with 40ml 0.75% ropivacaine, 0.5ml 1:200,000 adrenaline, 30mg
      ketorolac in 60ml normal saline over the perisurgical area will be administrated by
      orthopaedic surgeon after implant insertion and wound closure.

      Patients will subsequently be transferred to the post anaesthetic care unit (PACU) for
      monitoring for at least 1 hour.

      Analgesic modalities and assessment

      Procedures for all the analgesic modalities are described below:

      For all the groups

      Resting numerical rating scale (NRS) pain scores will be checked every 5 minutes in the PACU.
      In the PACU, 2mg intravenous morphine will be given every 5 minutes until the numerical
      rating pain score (NRS) is less than 4/10. Patient controlled analgesia (PCA) with morphine
      will then be given once NRS is less than 4/10. The PCA device will be configured to give 1 mg
      of bolus dose of morphine with each demand and the lockout duration will be 5 minutes. No
      background infusion will be given and the maximum dose limit of morphine will be 0.1mg/kg per
      hour. Intramuscular morphine sulphate at a dose of 0.1mg/kg will be prescribed every 4 hours
      if necessary, for breakthrough beginning from postoperative day (POD) 0. Intravenous 4mg
      ondansetron every 4 hours as necessary will be prescribed for nausea or/and vomiting. While
      in the PACU, the respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, Ramsay sedation scores, blood pressure
      and heart rate will be monitored every 5 minutes.

      On POD 0, patients will resume oral diet if not contraindicated. Oral paracetamol 1g tds,
      celebrex 200mg daily, and pregabalin 50mg once at night will be given to all patients for 5
      days. Dihydrocodeine 30mg q6h po prn for 5 days will be prescribed after cessation of PCA
      morphine.

      While on PCA morphine, the patient's respiratory rate, SpO2 and sedation score will be
      monitored every hour. Heart rate and blood pressure will be checked every 4 hours. NRS pain
      scores at rest, during knee movement (knee flexion), cumulative PCA morphine doses, and
      number of PCA demands/goods delivered, and side effects (eg nausea, vomiting, dizziness,
      pruritis) will be recorded every 4 hours. Patients will be assessed by the pain team every
      day.

      Patients will be on PCA morphine for 2 days. If NRS pain scores during knee movement on POD 2
      is less than 4/10 and morphine consumption is low, PCA morphine will be stopped. PCA morphine
      will be continued if NRS pain score is equal or greater than 4, or if PCA morphine
      consumption is high. After cessation of PCA morphine, NRS pain scores at rest and during knee
      movement, as well as the dose and frequency of rescue analgesia and the incidence of side
      effects will be charted once a day until discharge. Patient satisfaction with analgesia
      (0-10, where 0 is the least satisfaction, and 10 is the most satisfaction) will be assessed
      daily during hospital stay. Overall benefit of analgesic scores (OBAS) will be checked once a
      day.

      Phone follow up will be done for all patients on POD 3, 4, and 5 (if patient discharged home
      on those days). NRS pain scores at rest and with movement, analgesic medication consumption
      (pill count), incidence of adverse side effects (nausea, vomiting, pruritis, dizziness), and
      OBAS.

      Surgical technique/Prosthesis

      The surgery will be performed by the same surgical team with standardized surgical technique.
      All the patients will have posterior stabilized knee prosthesis. Tranexamic acid will be
      given according to protocol. Standardized regimen and technique of local infiltration of
      analgesic at the end of the surgery will be given as part of the multi-modal pain control
      protocol.

      Postoperative care and assessment

      POD 0 mobilization or early mobilization with physiotherapy and occupational therapy
      rehabilitation is encouraged after operation. Fluid diet will be allowed on POD 0. The
      surgical team will assess for occurrences of postoperative surgical complications,
      suitability for discharge (good pain control, ambulation, normal bowel function, and ability
      to eat properly without vomiting. Urinary retention will be documented as well. Time to
      mobilization and time to soft diet intake will be recorded. Active and passive range of
      movement of the operated knee, ability to achieve straight leg raising, and other
      rehabilitation parameters will be assessment by allied health staffs from POD 0 till day of
      discharge. Sleep disturbance due to pain (0-10, where 0 represents no disturbance and 10
      represents the most disturbance possible) and quality of recovery (Chinese QoR) will be
      assessed on POD 1 and 2.

      Postoperative follow up (3 months, 6 months)

      Questions about pain that will be asked during the face-to-face interview at 3 months, 6
      months. Chronic post-surgical pain will be assessed based on the core outcome set recommended
      by Wylde et al, which is specific for total knee replacement:

        -  The presence or absence of chronic pain (yes/no)

        -  Pain intensity (NRS pain score, 0-10): at rest, during movement of the ipsilateral knee

        -  Pain and physical functioning: pain with general activity, with walking, when kneeling,
           climbing stairs, descending stairs (NRS 0-10)

        -  Temporal aspects of pain: frequency breakthrough pain (NRS pain score over 6/10),
           duration of pain since operation, night pain, constant pain.

        -  Pain description: location of the pain: medial or lateral aspect of knee, scar; pain
           quality

        -  Identification Pain Questionnaire to test for neuropathic pain

        -  Any analgesic consumption: yes/no, frequency of use (eg number of times analgesics taken
           per week), type of medication used, dose of medication used.

        -  Patient Global Impression of Change Scale (PGIC)

        -  Health related quality of life (Chinese SF-36)

        -  Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS)

        -  Pain self-efficacy questionnaire

        -  Effect of pain on sleep disturbance (0-10)

      Physical examination

        -  Range of motion of the knee

        -  Any area of decreased sensation, brush allodynia and pinprick hyperalgesia at the
           ipsilateral knee, scar site.

        -  KSKS and KSK functional score (done by physiotherapist and occupational therapist)

      Blood taking

      Blood taking will be performed to check for the levels of potential pain mediators. These
      include PTEN, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-β. These will be collected just before surgery (during
      induction of anaesthesia), on POD 0 and POD1.

      Other Data collection

      The following data will be collected during the perioperative period:

        -  Demographics

        -  Time of admission

        -  Intraoperative vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation)

        -  Estimated intraoperative blood loss

        -  Tourniquet time if any

        -  Volume of intraoperative fluid/blood infusion

        -  Duration of surgery and anaesthesia

        -  Time of discharge

      If at certain time point after operation, the patients cannot be managed according to the
      protocol due to any reason such as the development of complication, no further data will be
      collected. These patients will still be followed up. Intention-to-treat analysis will be
      used. Patients will remain in their initial designated groups for data analysis even if there
      is a change in surgical or anaesthetic/analgesic management, as long as they have had
      unilateral total knee replacement.
    
  