
    
      A prospective single-blinded two-group multicenter randomized controlled trial (RCT) of a
      targeted multi-domain intervention in military-aged civilians with complex mTBI will be
      conducted at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Sports Concussion Program (UPitt)
      and Inova Sports Concussion Clinic. During year 1 the investigators will obtain appropriate
      contract and research agreements, and institutional, site-specific, and Human Research
      Protection Official (HRPO) Institutional Review Board (IRB) approvals for the trial. This
      study will enroll 250 military-aged civilians with a diagnosed complex mTBI from UPitt (125)
      and Inova (125). Upon enrollment, participants will complete a comprehensive multidomain
      evaluation of symptoms and impairment that will inform an adjudication process to determine
      affected clinical profiles and targeted interventions. Participants will then be randomized
      to either the T-MD or usual care intervention arm. The T-MD group will receive targeted
      interventions (cognitive behavioral therapy, cognitive accommodations/activities, behavioral
      regulation for headache/migraine, oculomotor exercises, behavioral sleep intervention,
      vestibular rehabilitation, graded exertion) for affected clinical profiles based on the
      adjudication process, whereas usual care will only receive behavioral management strategies
      (e.g., sleep, nutrition, hydration, activity, stress management). In-clinic treatment
      sessions will be complemented with at-home activities and compliance will be monitored using
      a text-based tool. Data collection will include demographic data, medical history, health
      care utilization (the number of visits and utilization costs), and length of time to return
      to activity (RTA). Primary outcomes for Aim 1 will be assessed at baseline, 2-week, 4-week,
      and 3-month post-intervention intervals. Secondary outcomes for Aim 1 will be assessed at
      baseline, 2-week, and 4-week post-intervention intervals, with select outcomes being measured
      again at 3-months. The investigators will also determine if participants are recovered (i.e.,
      medically cleared for full return to activity) at 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 3 months
      post-intervention. Additionally, the investigators will tabulate each participant's
      healthcare utilization and related costs using electronic health record (EHR) at the
      conclusion of participation in the study protocol. For Aims 2 and 3, in years 2-3, concurrent
      measures of brain activation will be obtained (i.e., CBF) in the cerebral cortex using fNIRS
      for all participants at enrollment and 4 weeks-post intervention. Primary outcome measures
      for Aims 2 and 3 will be oxygenated (activation) and deoxygenated (deactivation) hemoglobin
      in regions of interest in the cerebral cortex at rest. Secondary outcomes will include the
      same fNIRS measures during cognitive and exertion activities. We will control for the time
      since injury in all analyses. For Aim 1, a linear mixed model will be used to compare primary
      and secondary outcomes between groups, while accounting for covariates. For Aim 2, a linear
      mixed model will be used to compare brain regions of interest, while accounting for
      covariates. For Aim 3, bivariate and partial correlational analyses will be conducted.
    
  