
    
      It is well known that the lung is the site at which oxygen enters the blood stream, diffusing
      from the alveolar air sacs into the pulmonary capillaries. This newly oxygenated blood is
      carried to the heart in the pulmonary veins, then passes into the systemic circulation to
      provide oxygen to the tissues.

      Patients with pulmonary arteriovenous malformations (PAVMs) have abnormal vascular
      connections between pulmonary arteries and pulmonary veins in the lung. Blood flowing through
      PAVMs therefore bypasses the oxygenation sites in the pulmonary capillaries. Low blood oxygen
      levels (hypoxemia) is frequent in PAVM patients but breathlessness (dyspnea) is not. The
      investigators have shown that dyspnea was not a common presenting complaint in a large UK
      series, and that there is little correlation between severity of dyspnea in PAVM patients,
      and blood oxygen levels.

      In this study the investigators will address the question "Why are hypoxemic PAVM patients
      not more dyspneic?"

      The investigators will address this by first performing standardised cardiopulmonary exercise
      testing, as used in the clinic, on age and sex matched patients with PAVMs and healthy
      controls. Physiological parameters will be compared, to test the null hypothesis that the
      impact of exercise on PAVM patients' cardiopulmonary systems does not differ to normal
      controls.

      If the expected differences are confirmed, the investigators will examine if there is any
      difference to normals by re-examining the exercise tolerance of the PAVM cohort after they
      have had their PAVMs treated by embolization.

      Most patients with PAVMs have an underlying hereditary vascular disorder, hereditary
      haemorrhagic telangiectasia. Assuming the expected differences between PAVM patients and
      controls are confirmed, the investigators will therefore also examine which pattern HHT
      patients without PAVMs display. Finally, cellular and molecular methods will be used to
      dissect mechanistic pathways.
    
  