
    
      Child maltreatment is the general term used to characterize all forms of child abuse,
      including neglect and physical, sexual, and emotional abuse. These forms of maltreatment can
      lead to a large number of child developmental, emotional, and behavioral difficulties. As
      adults, children who are maltreated are more prone to unhealthy behaviors and conditions,
      such as drug and alcohol abuse, smoking, eating disorders, and depression. A previous study
      found that Project SafeCare, a treatment program that provides parent training to families
      with children who were at risk for or victims of maltreatment, resulted in fewer child
      welfare reports. Participants in Project SafeCare reported improvements in child healthcare,
      home safety, and parent-child relations. However, the study suggested that the SafeCare
      program may not be equally effective in decreasing the occurrence of all forms of child
      maltreatment, particularly child physical abuse. This study will determine the effectiveness
      of a complex evidence-based practice program, extending upon the SafeCare program, in
      reducing the occurrence of physical abuse and other forms of child maltreatment.

      Participants in this study will receive services from Oklahoma Comprehensive Home-Based
      Services (CHBS), a program provided to families with issues of child abuse and neglect. Upon
      entry into the CHBS program, participants will undergo a computerized interview, lasting
      between 1 and 2 hours. The interview will include questions about family strengths and
      weaknesses, personal beliefs, substance abuse history, and opinion on CHBS. This computerized
      interview will be repeated at the end of treatment, approximately 6 to 12 months later.
      During the first few weeks of CHBS, an agent will make five visits to the homes of
      participants to observe pretreatment family life. Treatment services will concentrate on
      improving healthcare skills, parent-child interactions, and safety in homes and will
      specifically address ways to reduce physical abuse and other identified family issues. Study
      participation will continue for 12 months after completion of CHBS. Study researchers will
      obtain child welfare reports from the Department of Human Services (DHS) for up to 10 years
      after completion of CHBS.
    
  