
    
      Hypertensive patients are known to display exaggerated rise in blood pressure (BP) during
      exercise but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood.

      Traditionally, muscle afferents were dichotomized as metaboreceptors, which are activated
      slowly and only during intense or ischemic muscle contraction, or mechanoreceptors, which
      respond quickly to even mild deformation of their receptive fields. The increase in
      sympathetic nerve activity and BP caused by activation of these receptors, known as exercise
      pressor reflex, is normally buffered by activation arterial baroreceptors, which are reset to
      operate at higher BP range but at the same level of sensitivity. Mechanisms responsible for
      overactive exercise pressor reflex in hypertension remain unknown, but an increasing body of
      evidence suggested a role for aldosterone in regulating resting central sympathetic outflow
      in both hypertensive rats and humans.

      Experiments will be performed on 3 groups of subjects 1) stage I (140-159/90-99 mmHg)
      subjects with essential hypertension, 2) stage I hypertensive subjects with Primary
      Aldosteronism (PA), and 3) normotensive controls. All participants will attend a baseline
      study visit, which will include a physical examination, a medical history review, vital sign
      measurements, and blood and urine collection. Small electrodes will be used to measure muscle
      nerve activity while the subjects perform a series of exercises that include passive arm
      cycling, active arm cycling, rhythmic hand grip, sustained hand grip and cold pressor test.
      Muscle blood flow will be measured before and after hand grip exercises.

      A subgroup of subjects with essential hypertension and PA will be assigned to receive
      Eplerenone or Amlodipine on a randomized, double-blinded design. Participants will attend two
      weeks visits over a period of 16 weeks. Study visits include measurement of vital signs and
      blood samples collection. After completing 8 weeks on each medication, muscle nerve activity
      will be measured while performing the same exercises described in the baseline study visit.
    
  