
    
      A minimum of 240 volunteer women will be recruited through participating family practice
      offices throughout British Columbia. Women with symptoms of BV, who also have a positive
      whiff test/pH test or subsequent positive vaginal swab for BV, will be asked to participate.
      Women will be included if they have both a positive test result for BV (whiff test/vaginal
      swab) and if they have any symptoms of BV present. The following criteria must be met for
      enrolment in the study: 1) ages 16-50 and pre-menopausal; 2) capable of giving written
      informed consent; 3) fluent comprehension of spoken and written English; 4) negative
      pregnancy test on enrolment day; 5) agree to follow study protocol; 6) documented BV
      infection by positive vaginal swab (minimum Nugent score of 7/10) +/- positive whiff test/pH
      >4.5; 7) agree to no intercourse for the 10 days of treatment (or to use non-lubricated
      condoms if unavoidable); 8) agree not to douche or use any intravaginal products during
      treatment (including tampons, medications, devices); 9) abstain from alcohol during the 10
      days of treatment (from 24 hours before through 72 hours after taking study medication); 10)
      agree to no new medications or antibiotics during treatment; 11) no current sexually
      transmitted infection as determined by history, physical exam and negative swabs for
      chlamydia, gonorrhea, candidiasis, trichomonas; 12) patient is reliable for follow up.

      The following women would be excluded from study participation: 1) less than 16 or
      post-menopausal; 2) menstruating at diagnosis; 3) symptoms so severe as to make allocation to
      placebo unacceptable to the patient; 4) currently pregnant or at high risk for pregnancy; 5)
      current sexually transmitted infection (HIV, hepatitis, chlamydia, gonorrhea, trichomonas,
      HPV or HSV); 6) current yeast infection as determined by history, physical and swabs; 7)
      history of PID; 8) allergy to latex or metronidazole; 9) presently breast feeding; 10) any
      open wound, excoriation, vaginal irritation and including bartholin's cyst/abscess as
      determined by physical exam; 11) presence of another vulvar, vaginal or medical condition,
      including cervical neoplasia/treatment, that might confound treatment response; 12) using
      lithium, anti-coagulants or disulfiram drugs; 13) any antifungal or antibiotic use 14 days
      prior to enrolment 14) PAP smear done within one week of enrolment, 15) positive Whiff test,
      but negative vaginal swab result.

      During the initial visit, the physician will take a history and do a speculum and manual
      pelvic exam for the woman. At the time of the pelvic exam the physician will ensure intact
      mucous membranes and anatomy, take swabs for chlamydia and gonorrhea, bacterial vaginosis,
      candidiasis, and trichomonas, and perform a whiff test using a provided, standardized 10% KOH
      potassium hydroxide solution. Vaginal discharge will also have pH testing done. If the whiff
      test is positive and the vaginal discharge pH is >4.5, the woman will then take a urine
      pregnancy test, will be informed about the study, and will be given a handout explaining the
      study and the 3 possible treatment arms.

      If the woman is interested in participating she will be given a "Study Intake Survey" to fill
      out, a consent form to sign, and an assigned number.

      Within a few days, the physician would confirm participation, eligibility and exclusion
      criteria and collect the signed consent form. The patient will then be given a blinded,
      controlled and randomized treatment pack containing 10 capsules compounded and organized by a
      pharmacist. The patient will be given a package containing: 1) capsule applicators; 2) pads;
      3) non-lubricated condoms; 4) a diary to record their daily use of the treatment, any
      problems or side effects, any symptom changes, or any problems with maintaining the study
      agreements; 5) information sheet outlining follow up instructions and emergency contact
      numbers to reach the study members. If the woman does not want to join the study the
      physician will prescribe a standard treatment of their choosing and would follow up as usual.
      If the whiff test is negative but the vaginal swab is found to be positive for bacterial
      vaginosis as per the Nugent score (score minimum of 7/10), the woman will be called back in
      to the office. If her symptoms are found to be persistant at this juncture, then she will be
      offered to enroll in the study or may elect to start a treatment of her physician's choosing.
      If the woman prefers to take some time to decide about the study, she will be given the
      information package, the survey form, and consent form to take home, as well as a
      prescription for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis. She can then return the next day with
      the forms filled out should she decide she would like to enroll in the study and be assigned
      a treatment arm. If she chooses not to enroll, she can fill the above-mentioned prescription
      and start the treatment for BV provided by her physician.

      The women who satisfy the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be blindly and randomly
      assigned to one of 3 treatments (minimum of 80 women per treatment arm): 1) placebo
      (emollient cream); 2) boric acid (600 mg boric acid in emollient cream); 3) metronidazole 10
      % intravaginal cream (Sanofi-Aventis Canada Inc Product DIN 01926861) (for a total of 37.5 mg
      metronidazole) ). The treatments will be taken at night prior to sleep using the provided
      applicators for 10 days. The patient will be instructed to use a provided pads during the day
      and night for any discharge or fluid. The patient will record daily in a diary (provided)
      about compliance, side effects and problems, and changes in symptoms over the 10 days. The
      patient will be welcome to call the provided emergency numbers of the study members for any
      questions or problems related to the treatment. On day 5 of the treatment, the patient will
      receive a call or email from a study member to ask follow up questions about compliance, side
      effects, BV symptoms, and satisfaction of treatment.

      On both follow up visits: days 17-19 (one week after the treatment end) and 40-42 (one month
      after the treatment end), the participant will return to the clinic that enrolled her for
      reassessment, pregnancy test, and follow up examination including pelvic exam and repeat
      swabs. It will be noted whether her BV symptoms are still present, and if she had any side
      effects or problems during treatment. The participant returns her daily treatment diary on
      day 17 visit as well.
    
  