
    
      Currently, patients with oral cancer or oropharynx T1-N0 or T2-N0 are treated by surgery on
      the tumor and the neck, both validated techniques are either with a systematic lymph node
      dissection or a search for lymph sentinel node (GS). The goal on the lymph sentinel nodes is
      to diagnose the presence of metastasis (s). With the GS technique, the length of hospital
      stay can be shorter. The limited invasiveness of tumor surgery of the oral cavity and
      oropharynx and GS and short postoperative monitoring is compatible with outpatient
      management, so it should be evaluated through a study clinical.

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the rate of conversion to complete
      hospitalization or re-hospitalization within 10 days of surgery J0. The secondary objectives
      are the evaluation of the acceptance rate of outpatient surgery by the eligible patient,
      complications related to outpatient management, the quality of life of the patient and the
      cost of the strategy over the first month following J0.

      The surgical procedure associated with the sentinel lymph node technique is carried out in
      two stages:

      - Lymphoscintigraphy at Day-1 : This is the identification of the lymphatic network of the
      patient by a prior injection of radioactive tracer, nanocolloids labeled with technetium99,
      around the primary tumor. A planar or 3-minute CT image acquisition is performed 30 to 60
      minutes after injection in anteroposterior and lateral view to identify the sentinel lymph
      nodes (GS(s)) which are then marked on the skin with an indelible marker. This routine care
      examination is done in an external act.

      - Surgery on D0: The patient is admitted to the hospital at 7:00 am in outpatient unit. He is
      reviewed by the anesthetist before the intervention and is transferred to the operating room
      for the intervention under General anesthesia.

      The main tumor is operated by mouth. The ganglionic surgical procedure consists of the
      removal of the GS(s) by a limited cervical approach, following a cervical dissection line.
      The GS(s) are identified by a gamma detection probe, equipped with a high-resolution
      collimator whose tip is covered with a sterile disposable sleeve. Exeresis of the GS(s) is
      performed by removing the peri-ganglionic cellular tissue and avoiding any capsular
      intrusion. The GS lymph node (s) so taken is sent freshly by special request to the
      pathologist for final analysis according to the recommended procedure for GS.

      The cervical dissection will be performed later if the definitive analysis finds a ganglionic
      invasion. In this case, the patient will be re-hospitalized in unit full hospitalization for
      cervical lymph node dissection: the ganglionic areas systematically concerned are the levels
      I, II, III and IV for tumors of the oral cavity and II, III and IV for the oropharynx. The
      gesture will be bilateral if the lymphoscintigraphy had found a bilateral drains. The
      cervical dissection parts are labeled and sent for routine final pathological analysis.
    
  