
    
      By 2030, 70 million Americans will be over the age of 65. Currently, 70% of older adults have
      periodontal disease, 20% have untreated tooth decay, and 1 in 4 older adults have lost some
      or all of their teeth. This poses a significant problem as mounting evidence demonstrates a
      link between oral disease and life-threatening diseases, including premature death. Gum
      disease is associated with systemic conditions such as cardiovascular disease, stroke,
      diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease, respiratory disorders, dementia and cancers.
      Moreover, numerous studies suggest that the number of teeth lost in adulthood is a predictor
      of premature death. Therefore, an individual's oral health and general health are tightly
      linked and good oral hygiene could be an easy means of preventing serious, life-threatening
      conditions in many older adults.

      For many older adults, decreased manual dexterity, physical or mental impairment, income
      constraints, lack of dental insurance, all contribute to and exacerbate oral disease. A
      cost-effective, nontoxic and easy-to-take oral solution has been developed; PTx800 rapid
      dissolving lozenges. The investigators are evaluating PTx800 lozenge performance on gum
      health and ease of use in the older adult population who frequent community centers in the
      greater Cleveland, Ohio area. Efficacy assessment will be determined over the course of 6
      weeks on participants with confirmed mild-to-moderate gingivitis. Endpoint measurements on
      gum health for PTx800 vs placebo control will be evaluated. Furthermore, the ease of use and
      receptivity to the PTx800 lozenges will be assessed in order to determine whether the PTx800
      lozenges could be a viable candidate to supplement standard oral hygiene practices. A
      comparison in the change in oral health outcomes and dental pathogen burdens will be
      investigated in the 6-week study. As a part of the study design, a survey of this population
      will be conducted to understand perceptions, biases and habits as they relate to oral health,
      social and emotional well-being. The culmination of this work will impart a better
      understanding of, and facilitate appropriate actions to address, the oral health crisis in
      older adults. The ultimate goal of this study is to identify methods to improve the quality
      of life for this demographic.
    
  