
    
      This protocol presents a randomised phase II study aiming to investigate the tolerance and
      disease control of extreme hypofractionated RT for prostate cancer by delivering 5 x 7.25 Gy
      = 36.25 Gy over two alternative time schedules: either over 9 days (study A), or over 28 days
      once-a-week, the same week-day (study B).

      The total dose and fractionation schedules have been chosen based on the assumption of their
      isoeffectivity regarding potential late rectal effects to be expected with a maximum
      equivalent dose of 74 Gy in 2 Gy fractions and assuming an alpha/beta = 3 Gy for the rectum.

      In both arms, the prescribed dose per fraction to the urethra and the surrounding
      transitional zone will be dropped from 7.25 Gy to 6.5 Gy with a simultaneous integrated boost
      (SIB) technique. A dose of 5 x 6.5 Gy is equivalent to 31 x 2 Gy assuming an alpha/beta = 3
      Gy for the urethra and equivalent to 37 x 2 Gy assuming an alpha/beta = 1.5 Gy for
      microscopic tumour foci in the transitional zone surrounding the urethra. The two treatment
      regimens chosen will each be the object of a separate phase I-II study covered by the same
      protocol and performed in parallel by the participating centres. Randomised assignment to
      either of the two studies will be introduced to avoid selection bias in treatment assignment
      within each centre.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the risk of urinary, rectal and sexual acute and late toxicities rates in
           patients receiving two different time schedules of extreme hypofractionated radiation
           therapy

           • Secondary

        -  To determine the Quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30, Prostate cancer module EORTC QLQ-PR25)
           in patients receiving two different time schedules of extreme hypofractionated radiation
           therapy

        -  To determine the rate of local failure

        -  To determine in the two study arms the biochemical disease-free survival bDFS rate

        -  To determine in the two study arms the metastases-free survival rate

        -  To determine in the two study arms the disease-specific survival rate

      OUTLINE:

      This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo extreme hypofractionated radiation therapy for prostate cancer by delivering
      5 x 7.25 Gy = 36.25 Gy over two alternative time schedules:

      Experimental Arm A: Over 9 days. Experimental Arm B: Over 28 days once-a-week, the same
      week-day. All patients will be followed up for at least 18 months to contribute to the
      analysis of the main endpoints of the study. With reference to the secondary endpoints,
      follow-up will be extended to 10 years.

      Stopping rule: In order to avoid exposure of patients to a treatment that may be unsafe,
      acute GI and GU toxicity will be continuously monitored with the purpose of assisting in the
      decision of possibly interrupt recruitment in case of an alarming frequency.To this purpose,
      the procedure of Ivanova et al., 2005 will be applied.
    
  