
    
      Dietary protein appears to be the most satiating and thermogenic macronutrient (7-11).
      However, how protein exerts its effect on appetite is not fully known. The effect have been
      suggested to be related to a higher oxidation rate of protein compared to carbohydrate and
      fat (12), and also to a greater thermogenic effect causing greater increase in core
      temperature (13). The involvement of peripheral appetite-regulating hormones has only been
      sparingly investigated (14). These studies have only included two preloads of different
      concentrations of protein. This is not an optimal design for investigating the protein
      dose-dependent effect as the threshold can have been reached in between the two
      concentrations. The effect of protein has mainly been investigated on glucagon-like peptide-1
      (GLP-1), ghrelin, cholecystokinin (CCK), and generally after intake of protein below 35% of
      the energy content (35E%) (5;15-18). The relationship between these appetite-regulating
      hormones and appetite is still elusive due to contradicting results. Only one study has
      investigated the effect of protein preloads above 50E%. Bowen et al. (19) found that the high
      protein preloads could decrease the concentration of CCK and the rate of gastric emptying,
      which have been shown to enhance the satiating effect of food (20-22). Thus there is a need
      to examine the effect of protein on appetite-regulating hormones in a dose-response manner in
      order to detect whether there is an interaction between them and if they can be related to
      changes in subjective sensations of appetite and EI (14). This should be examined by
      comparing more than two isocaloric meals in which the protein content and one other
      macronutrient should vary whereas the third macronutrient should be kept fixed.

      Thus, the objective of this study is to investigate the mechanisms responsible for the
      satiating effects of protein in three isocaloric test meals with a protein content of 14, 25
      or 50 E% protein. A possible dose-response effect of protein is investigated on a number of
      appetite-regulating hormones/peptides, together with changes in ad libitum energy intake.

      Design: 25 men will participate in the 3-way, randomized, double-blind, crossover study. The
      test meals is isocaloric with 30E% fat and increasing protein content at the expense of
      carbohydrate. Test meals are: normal protein content (NP, 14E% protein), medium-high protein
      content (MHP, 25E%), and high protein content(HP, 50E%). Four-hour subjective appetite
      ratings and blood samples will be assessed every half-hour. Subsequently, the subjects will
      served an ad libitum lunch.
    
  