
    
      Intravitreal injection (IVI) is a preferred route of administration of drugs in the posterior
      segment of the eye. Intravitreal injection of anti-VEGFs constitutes the mainstay for the
      treatment of various retinal diseases such as AMD, RVO, DME etc.

      The procedure of the IVI is, however, associated with a level of discomfort for the patient.

      Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit the activity of cyclooxygenase-1 and
      cyclooxygenase-2, and thereby, the synthesis of prostaglandins and thromboxanes.
      Cyclooxygenase-2 inhibition leads to the anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic effects
      of NSAIDs.

      Ophthalmic NSAIDs constitute an established and effective treatment option for the management
      of inflammation and pain associated with cataract surgery and of pain associated with corneal
      refractive surgery, for inhibition of intraoperative miosis and for the treatment of seasonal
      allergic conjunctivitis.

      The primary goal of this study is to assess the analgesic effect of DIclofenac 0.1% Eye Drops
      a topical NSAID, as well as a combination of Diclofenac 0.1% Eye Drops and oral Diclofenac
      Sodium sustained-release (SR) 75mg tablets on pain related to intravitreal injections
      immediately after and up to six hours post-IVI.

      A number of patients scheduled to undergo IVIs of anti-VEGFs will be randomized and divided
      in three groups. All patients must have already undergone at least one IVI. In patients
      receiving IVIs in both eyes only one eye will be included in the study.

      The patients of the first group will receive placebo pill 4 hours before the IVI and
      Diclofenac 0.1 % Eye Drops 45 minutes prior to the injection.

      The patients of the second group will recieve oral Diclofenac Sodium SR 75mg/tb 4 hours prior
      to the injection and Diclofenac 0.1% Eye Drops 45 minutes prior to the injection.

      The patients of the third group will receive placebo pill 4 hours and Artificial Tears 45
      minutes prior to the injection.

      Patients will be required to complete the greek version of the short form McGill Pain
      Questionnaire (SF-MPQ) comprising of the Visual Analogue Scale, the main component of the
      SF-MPQ and the Present Pain Intensity Scale immediately after the injection and 6 hours
      post-IVI.
    
  