
    
      Anaemia is a recalcitrant problem in global health, affecting particularly children and
      childbearing women in sub-Saharan Africa. Anaemia causes impaired growth and cognitive
      development in children, poor pregnancy outcomes including both maternal and perinatal
      mortality. Also, it is associated with poor economic growth due to its impact on physical
      activity.

      Mass iron supplementation and food fortification are commonly used to combat anaemia in low-
      and middle-income countries. This due to the fact that the main driver of anaemia is thought
      to be nutritional iron deficiency. However, these programs have had little impact in
      sub-Saharan Africa and new strategies are desperately needed.

      Low-cost oral iron tablets and micronutrient powders are routinely given to treat and prevent
      anaemia in both children and pregnant women. However, often these interventions are
      frequently ineffective, never very effective, and may even cause harm by increasing
      susceptibility to infections. Both the aetiology of anaemia and the efficacy of iron
      absorption are complex processes influenced by multiple factors, including nutritional
      status, infection and host genetics.

      Hepcidin, a 25-amino acid liver-produced hormone is the master regulator of body iron status.
      Hepcidin controls plasma iron influx through its interaction with ferroportin - the only
      known cellular iron channel. Hepcidin's binding to ferroportin leads to the degradation and
      internalisation of the latter, thereby blocking iron traffic from macrophages, hepatocytes
      and duodenal enterocytes, into the plasma. Hepcidin secretion is dampened by hypoxia,
      erythroid drive and iron deficiency, to enable iron absorption, whereas, iron
      sufficiency/overload and infection enhances hepcidin transcription.

      Hepcidin transcription is regulated by a number of signals and pathways. At the molecular
      level, the regulation of hepcidin expression is complex, but one of the key regulators is
      TMPRSS6 (transmembrane protease serine 6). TMPRSS6 (also called matriptase-2) is a type II
      transmembrane serine protease principally expressed in the liver. TMPRSS6 indirectly
      regulates hepcidin transcription, by interfering with the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP),
      hemojuvelin (HJV), and son of mothers against decapentaplegic homolog (SMAD) signalling
      pathway. TMPRSS6 decreases hepcidin transcription by cleaving hemojuvelin (HJV), thus,
      reducing BMP-SMAD signalling. Cleavage of membrane-bound HJV, the BMP receptor, by TMPRSS6
      leads to BMP reduction, thereby decreasing BMP, resulting in hepcidin repression as BMP-HJV
      signalling is required for hepcidin transcription. TMPRSS6 is the main negative regulator of
      hepcidin expression and functional variants leas to iron-refractory iron deficiency anaemia
      (IRIDA).

      Due to its central role in iron homeostasis, most inherited iron pathologies arise from
      genetic defects in genes encoding proteins that regulate hepcidin or in the hepcidin gene
      (HAMP) itself. Genetic variations that inactivate HAMP expression result in hepcidin
      deficiency, which has been implicated inherited iron-loading diseases such as hereditary
      hemochromatosis (HH). In contrast, genetic alteration that lead to elevated ristrictis iron
      availability. For instance, genetic defects that curtail the expression of TMPRSS6 results in
      elevated hepcidin, thereby causing anaemia that is resistant to oral iron supplementation,
      IRIDA.

      This project aims to investigate the impact of functional single nucleotide polymorphisms
      (SNPs) in the genes within the hepcidin regulatory pathways that are known or proposed to
      predispose to low iron status. To begin with, the focus will be on three common SNPs within
      the TMPRSS6 gene, rs855791, rs4820268 and rs2235321, with minor allele frequencies (MAF) at
      7, 27 and 44% in the study population. These SNPs were selected with reference to previous
      association and genome-wide association (GWA) studies. All three SNPs have been significantly
      associated with fall in plasma iron status biomarkers, including serum iron, haemoglobin
      concentrations, transferrin saturation, and a rise in hepcidin levels, as well as iron
      deficiency anaemia in both association and GWA studies.

      The hypothesis is that risk alleles will cause a baseline increase in serum hepcidin levels
      and that individuals with these SNPs will absorb iron less effectively than those with the
      wild-type alleles. Subsequently, more functional or putative functional SNPs within the
      TMPRSS6 gene and other hepcidin/iron-related genes such as TF, SLC11A2, TFR2 will be
      investigated.

      Several GWAS have to identified dozens of SNPs association associated with low iron status.
      Although these studies can detect phenotype-genotype associations, they fail to reveal
      functional and mechanism underlying genotype-phenotyoe relationships. For instance, this
      approach may be misleading due influence of variations in interim phenotypes, especially in
      relation to genetic predictors of infections. Thus, in order to overcome this limitation, the
      investigators will employ a recall-by-genotype paradigm the investigators termed
      'Genes-in-Action' (GiA) to understand genotype-phenotype relationships and identify causal
      relationships. The GiA study design will use pre-determine genetic variants of interest to
      investigate the effect of genotype on phenotypic outcomes (genotype-biomarker-phenotype).
      Furthermore, the GiA study design will require a large and traceable pre-genotype population.
      Participant selection using pre-determined genetic variants improves statistical power by
      eliminating recruitment of non-informative participants, thus providing major ethical
      benefits.

      The existing resource of the MRC-Gambia Keneba Biobank will be used as the basis for study
      participant selection. This resource allows individuals from rural Gambia to be recalled from
      an area, where a recent survey reported that anaemia affects 60% and 73% of child-bearing
      women and children respectively. Participants will be selected from a database comprising of
      data on >3000 Gambians, with Illumina HumanExome array data on 80K directly genotyped
      putative functional variants as well as imputation data on 20M variants.
    
  