
    
      Evidence shows that people who do not recover from whiplash symptoms within the acute phase
      (3 months post-injury) may continue to have neck pain and disability years later. The
      investigators hope to show that these novel treatments offer long-lasting improvement in
      chronic whiplash symptoms long after the acute phase has passed and other more traditional
      treatments (standard physiotherapy, massage, etc) fail.

      Each of these needling techniques has small bodies of research, anecdotal evidence, and/or
      patient feedback to support its use. All are currently used in clinical practice throughout
      British Columbia for the treatment of many types of chronic pain symptoms. However, because
      they are quite new, many clinicians and insurance companies are resistant to them and will
      not recommend them to clients/patients, or they may only suggest these treatments as a last
      resort. Studies like this one are needed to provide concrete evidence of the efficacy of
      these treatments and increase their use.

      The objective of this project is to show proof of concept - all three needling techniques are
      valid and not because of a placebo effect. The investigators plan to use results from this
      study to support efforts to secure funding for large-scale, adequately powered studies. Our
      long-term objective is to make these types of treatments more readily available to those who
      need more than traditional therapies currently offer.

      Secondary objectives are to show relationships between pain and our secondary measures
      (function, depression, anxiety). The investigators plan to begin profiling patients who are
      more or less likely to respond to each type of needling treatment. This profiling will help
      identify people most likely to benefit from each treatment and to get patients the best
      treatment, sooner.

      This is a double-blind, randomized control trial. The person evaluating change in
      participants will not know what treatment the participant has received. Additionally, the
      patient will not know if they are in a treatment or a placebo group (though they may be able
      to use a process of elimination to determine what treatments they are NOT getting, but that
      is acceptable and unavoidable). Once volunteers have been confirmed as eligible, they will be
      randomly assigned to one of four groups - three treatment groups or the control group. The
      investigators will be assessing pain levels (and several secondary outcome measures) at three
      timepoints: pre-treatment, post-treatment, and 6-months post-treatment. At each timepoint,
      our primary and secondary outcome measures will be evaluated, and a number of general
      questions will be asked.

      the investigators hope to show that these three techniques, though somewhat novel and not yet
      well-supported in the literature, are all effective in treating WAD-II. Additionally, the
      investigators hope to show that these effects are long-lasting and provide pilot data that
      these treatments reduce the need to access other types of treatments and reduce the need for
      medications.
    
  