
    
      In Multiple Myeloma patients, the standard treatment is the oral combination of Melphalan and
      Prednisone (MP). This approach induces a partial response (PR) rate of approximately 50% and
      a complete remission (CR) rate of 1-5%, with a median remission duration of 18-20 months and
      a median overall survival of 3 years.

      Recently, the combination of oral MP plus thalidomide increased response rate to 80% and
      complete remission rate to 20%, marked cytoreduction is the first step toward a sustained
      remission period.

      CC-5013 (Revlimid) is a thalidomide analogue, 50000 times more potent than thalidomide in
      inhibiting TNF-alfa secretion, a potent growth factor for myeloma cells. Revlimid represents
      a novel class of anti-cancer drugs, it is active in patients with multiple myeloma who are
      refractory to conventional and high-dose chemotherapy with a response rate of approximately
      30%. The association Revlimid plus dexamethasone further increases the response rate induced
      by Revlimid by an additional 30%.

      This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the association of
      Melphalan/Prednisone/Revlimid (MPR) as induction treatment for newly diagnosed myeloma
      patients over age 65 or those under 65 years who refuse or are not eligible for high dose
      therapy. This association might further increase the response rate achieved by the standard
      oral MP regimen.

      In the first part of the study (phase I component), different doses of oral Melphalan
      (0.18-0.25 mg/Kg) associated with Prednisone (MP) will be combined with escalating doses of
      Revlimid (from 5 mg/day) and administered together. This phase will define the MTD of the
      association. In the second part of the study (phase II component), 30 patients will be
      treated with MPR at dose/s defined from phase I component to verify data of response and
      toxicity.
    
  