
    
      The long-term goal of this research program is to develop cost-effective strategies to
      increase moderate- intensity physical activity among sedentary women. Fewer than half of U.S.
      women meet recommendations for moderate-intensity physical activity, and thereby are at
      increased risk for cardiovascular disease. When provided a physical activity program, between
      25-60% of women either fail to adopt it or fail to adhere after six months. Physical activity
      health benefits are further negatively impacted by the fact that sedentary behavior at many
      worksites exacerbates low physical activity. Among efficacious treatments for increasing
      physical activity for women, four have had promising results: (1) enhanced physical activity
      monitor treatment (PA monitor with goal setting and a physical activity prescription); (2)
      motivational text messages; (3) motivational personal calls; and (4) group meetings. While
      each of these treatments has proven efficacy, they differ on resource use and cost, and there
      is heterogeneity in response. When treatments have heterogeneity of response, adaptive
      interventions can help close that gap. Adaptive interventions start with an initial treatment
      and then transition to an augmented treatment for non-responders. This study aims to
      determine the most effective adaptive intervention combining four efficacious treatments
      (enhanced physical activity monitor, motivational text messages, motivational personal calls,
      group meetings) to increase physical activity (step counts per day, minutes moderate/vigorous
      physical activity per week) and improve cardiovascular health (aerobic fitness, body
      composition) among sedentary employed women. The investigators will also assess treatment
      effects on intervention targets (physical activity benefits, physical activity barriers,
      physical activity self-efficacy, and social support). A Sequential Multiple Assignment
      Randomized Trial (SMART) design will address the following aims: 1) Among non-responders to
      the initial treatments (enhanced physical activity monitor and enhanced physical activity
      monitor+ motivational text messages), compare the two augmented treatments (motivational
      personal calls and group meetings); 2a) Compare the two initial treatments and; 2b) Compare
      the four adaptive interventions embedded in the SMART on physical activity and cardiovascular
      health; 3) Identify mediators and moderators of the initial and augmented treatments on
      physical activity and cardiovascular health; 4) Compare the cost-effectiveness of the four
      adaptive interventions from the societal perspective which includes both program costs and
      participant costs. The investigators will recruit 312 sedentary women, aged 18 to 70, who are
      employed at a large urban academic medical center. Data will be collected on physical
      activity (self- report, device), cardiovascular health, physical activity benefits, physical
      activity barriers, physical activity self-efficacy, social support, and program and
      participant costs. Data will be collected at baseline, weeks 9-10 (when response to initial
      treatment is assessed), weeks 35-36, and weeks 51-52. The investigators expect to identify an
      optimal adaptive intervention for improving physical activity and cardiovascular health that
      minimizes costs and burden to women who respond to less intensive treatments, while
      maximizing benefits for those who need a more intensive approach.
    
  