
    
      Boston Healthcare for the Homeless Program (BHCHP) is the study site for this research. It is
      the largest freestanding health care for the homeless program in the country - it provides
      primary care, behavioral health, oral health care and other wrap-around services to 12,500
      homeless individuals a year. BHCHP was recently awarded a two-year grant from the
      Massachusetts Health Policy Commission to demonstrate how intensive, coordinated case
      management can reduce costs of caring for homeless persons who are high utilizers of
      emergency department (ED) and inpatient care. The Social Determinants of Health Coordinated
      Care Hub for Homeless Adults project (hereafter the "Care Hub") will create capacity among 9
      Boston organizations serving homeless residents to meet their needs in primary care,
      behavioral health, housing, and shelter. This will improve quality of life, health outcomes,
      and care efficiency for the organizations. The participating organizations, in addition to
      BHCHP, are Bay Cove Human Services, Boston Public Health Commission, Boston Rescue Mission,
      Casa Esperanza, Massachusetts Housing and Shelter Alliance, The New England Center and Home
      for Veterans, St. Francis House, Victory Programs Specifically the investigators anticipate
      that patients participating in the Care Hub will have reduced use of ED and inpatient care
      because they will be better linked to and retained in appropriate care such as outpatient,
      mental health, substance use disorder (SUD), preventive care, and respite care. Regular care
      will increase the appropriate management of chronic health conditions and reduce episodes of
      exacerbations of these conditions which often lead to ED and hospital care. The purpose of
      this study is to evaluate whether an a text messaging system of appointment reminders, along
      with medication taking messages, and text messages about mood will augment the effectiveness
      of the Care Hub program.

      The investigators propose to pilot a cell phone-based outpatient care support and medication
      reminder system. The content will include appointment reminders and educational and
      motivational messages about the importance of going to all outpatient care visits and of
      taking medications. The investigators take a community-based participatory research approach
      to this study - both because it appropriately considers the needs of the target population
      (increasing the likelihood of success) and because it empowers a population that is often
      treated as if its members were powerless. The cell phone texting intervention will help
      patients stay engaged in care, adhere to their medications, and adopt and sustain behavior
      change. This will be accomplished by completing a series of objectives:

        1. To develop a text messaging system designed for homeless patients which includes
           appointment reminders, medication taking reminders and motivation, and texts messages
           that allow participants to report their mood, all in support of chronic disease
           management. The system will be based on a health coaching model, and message content
           will be reviewed and edited by patients who are members of drafted by patient members of
           a BHCHP Community Innovation Panel (CIP).

        2. To train Care Hub intervention patients (or refresh existing skills) in cell phone text
           messaging.

        3. To test the text messaging system in a randomized pilot study with 60 patients,
           comparing outpatient, respite care, ED, and inpatient utilization, and Health-Related
           Quality of Care (HRQOL) between the 30 intervention and 30 control patients.
    
  