
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Test the efficacy, in terms of resilience and quality of life, of a therapeutic music
           video (TMV) intervention vs listening and discussing books on tape (control group) for
           adolescents and young adults (AYA) undergoing autologous or allogeneic transplantation
           for cancer.

        -  Qualitatively describe the perception of helpfulness and meaningfulness of a sub-group
           of both interventions for AYA and family members 100 days post-transplant.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, limited multicenter study. Patients are randomized
      to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I (books on tape [control group]): Patients undergo six 1-hour sessions twice a week
           for 3 weeks with a trained counselor in which they choose up to 3 books on CD and listen
           to the book and/or discuss their impressions and thoughts about the contents with the
           counselor. Patients are provided with a portable CD player to listen to the books during
           their hospitalization.

        -  Arm II (therapeutic music video [TMV ] intervention): Patients undergo six 1-hour
           sessions twice a week for 3 weeks with a music therapist, designed specifically for the
           pre-transplant and acute phase of treatment. Phases of patient participation include
           song writing, recording the song with a digital accompaniment track, completing a video
           layout worksheet, taking photos or making drawings for the video, viewing clip art and
           pictures on a computer, and sharing the final video with family members and hospital
           staff.

      In both arms, patients complete questionnaires before and after sessions 2, 4, and 6 with the
      music therapist. Patients also complete computer-based questionnaires before hospitalization,
      after session six during hospitalization, and at 100 days post-transplantation.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 130 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  