
    
      Rationale: despite novel acute therapies the global burden of stroke remains high worldwide.
      Targeting the immune response after stroke has the potential to improve recovery in all
      stroke patients. Experimental studies suggest important roles for T-lymphocytes, especially
      anti-inflammatory regulatory T cells, in the evolution of stroke and neurological deficit.

      Objective:

        1. To confirm that patients experience an increase and migration of CD4+CD25+FoxP3+ "brain"
           Tregs..

        2. To characterize and subgroup brain T reg cells; to assess clonality of the T reg cells
           in order to determine whether a specific antigen-reaction is present; to assess whether
           specific antigen-directed FoxP3+ brain Treg cells are recruited through cervical lymph
           nodes and subsequently migrate towards the brain; to assess whether T reg cells play a
           role in neurotoxic astrogliosis after stroke.

      Study design: case control study.

      Study population: we will include: 60 patients aged 18 years or older with clinical symptoms
      of hemispheric ischemic stroke due to occlusion of a large cerebral blood vessel, onset
      within 48 hours and NIHSS of 1 or more; 30 healthy age- and sex- matched controls; 10
      patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy within 30 days after stroke and 3 patients without
      stroke undergoing carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic carotid stenosis.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: we will assess the amount and characteristics of regulatory
      T cells in peripheral blood and lymph nodes and compare these with patients without stroke.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: in 60 patients blood will be sampled at 9 time points. In addition, neurologic
      examination at 5 time points, 1 MRI scan and 1 telephone interview will be performed. In 10
      patients who undergo carotid endarterectomy, a lymph node will be extracted and blood will be
      drawn during this surgery. The study is carried out in both capacitated and incapacitated
      persons because exclusion of non-communicative stroke patients would lead to a selective
      patient sample.
    
  