
    
      Chronic pelvic pain (CPP) is a complex and devastating diagnosis, encompassing multiple
      different conditions. Many organ systems may be involved including musculoskeletal,
      neurologic, genitourinary, psychiatric or gastrointestinal systems. Furthermore, it can be
      associated with major insomnia, psychosexual trauma, and mood disorders resulting in
      challenging cases characterized by pain that is refractory to standard treatment modalities.
      In a study conducted by Mathias et al., one in seven women experience chronic pelvic pain.
      The economic burden can be substantial, with previous estimates of 2.8 billion dollars per
      year. (1) Dyspareunia is defined as recurrent or persistent pain associated with sexual
      intercourse and affects approximately 8-21% of women in the United States (19, 20).
      Understandably, women with dyspareunia often suffer a decline in sexual functioning. It may
      lead to decreased arousal, loss of libido, and anorgasmia. However, its impact extends beyond
      sexual functioning as it can affect a woman's reproductive health and overall sense of
      well-being. Previous estimates indicate that 88% of sexually active chronic pelvic pain
      patients report pain during or after intercourse (1).

      Treatment of chronic pelvic is challenging due to a poor understanding of pain processing and
      physiology. Each patient's experience of pain is unique and may be any combination of
      visceral, neuropathic, or even somatic in etiology. Persistent pain despite aggressive
      treatment of organic etiologies may imply a psychogenic overlay. A comprehensive and
      integrative approach is ideal and may include physical therapy, medications, or cognitive
      behavioral therapy.

      Pelvic floor physical therapy is an effective treatment. Pelvic floor rehabilitation
      addresses the pelvic floor dysfunction and may include manual therapy, transvaginal
      biofeedback and electrical stimulation. Reissing et al. performed a retrospective chart
      review and discovered that physical therapy, particularly internal manual techniques, is a
      successful technique in treating patients with vaginismus (5). Electrical stimulation (ES) to
      the pelvic floor is an effective treatment in vaginismus, vulvar vestibulitis, urinary
      urgency, and levator ani hypertonus (11-15). ES delivered specifically through a
      transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator (TENS) unit results in notable benefit in pain and
      dyspareunia (8,12,21-23). Murina et al. conducted a randomized controlled trial comparing use
      of a vaginal probe delivering electrical stimulation to a sham device. In this study, they
      used a TENS unit to treat vestibulodynia using a protocol of 15 min of 10 Hz followed by 15
      minutes of 50 Hz. These sessions were completed on a twice per week basis for 10 weeks. Pain
      scores, dyspareunia and overall sexual functioning were significantly improved in the active
      arm compared to placebo (8). Another study used a TENS unit to treat primary dysmenorrhea. In
      this protocol, the TENS unit was set to 100 Hz with 100ms pulse width for the first 8 hours
      of the menstrual cycle and then repeated for another menstrual cycle (9). A smaller study of
      12 women used electrical stimulation biofeedback and gradual desensitization in the treatment
      of vaginismus. After treatment, all 12 women were able to have vaginal intercourse (13).

      Electrical stimulation is used extensively for the treatment of various pain disorders. It is
      delivered through peripheral nerve stimulation, a TENS unit, or sacral neuromodulation using
      an implantable device. Electrical stimulation has three different programmable settings
      including the frequency, intensity and pulse duration. High frequency is considered as > 50
      Hz whereas low frequency is < 10 Hz. The intensity, also known as the power, of the unit can
      be set to a sensory or motor threshold with any frequency (2).

      There are several theories to explain the mechanism of action of electrical stimulation. TENS
      works by altering the ability to perceive pain signals. The gate theory is one proposed
      mechanism of action. Electrical stimulation of nerves via a specific dermatome results in a
      blocking or gating effect at the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. This inhibits the
      transmission of pain impulses to the upper nervous system. Also, low frequency stimulation of
      the dermatome can increase the level of endorphins, providing pain relief. (2) The sacral
      nerve roots 2-4 hold the autonomic and somatic innervation of the pelvic floor, bladder, and
      urethra. Therefore, stimulation of the sacral nerve roots 2-4 can provide a means to modulate
      impulses from the pelvic floor. Inhibition of afferent innervation from the pelvic floor or
      bladder is achieved with afferent activation of the sacral nerve roots using Interstim® or
      similar devices. In other words, stimulating the sacral nerve roots through neuromodulation
      has an inhibitory effect on pain pathways at the spinal cord level. (3) Treatment of chronic
      pelvic pain may include peripheral nerve stimulation via the posterior tibial nerve. This
      mixed nerve shares the same spinal origin as the innervation of the bladder and pelvic floor.
      Stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve travels retrograde to modulate the afferent input
      from the bladder or pelvic floor. (4) Therefore, it shares a similar mechanism of action to
      sacral neuromodulation but spares the patient the complications associated with surgical
      implantation of a device.

      Despite its efficacy and benefits, electrical stimulation is time intensive and dependent
      upon a health care provider's schedule. It often causes the patient social embarrassment
      resulting in its inaccessibility. Although electrical stimulation provides pain relief, even
      highly motivated patients report that anxiety prohibits them from participation in
      physiotherapy (6). The investigators propose a novel treatment using a non-implanted
      intra-vaginal electrical stimulation device to be used in the comfort and privacy of the
      patient's home. This addresses several barriers associated with in office, standard pelvic
      floor physical therapy. Furthermore, a personal device allows the patient a more active role
      in her treatment, which can be empowering and ultimately, therapeutic.

      InControl Medical created a line of products FDA approved for urinary incontinence and fecal
      incontinence (10). These devices are non-implanted, customizable, battery-operated vaginal
      probes made of medical grade silicon and provide electrical stimulation to the pelvic floor.
      One of the devices, ApexM™ provides electrical stimulation at frequencies alternating between
      13 Hz and 50 Hz and allows the clinician to adjust the intensity as well as the duration of
      the electrical stimulation. The investigators propose the use of low power electrical
      stimulation for the treatment of pain in patients diagnosed with CPP. The electrical
      stimulation is delivered using ApexM™, adjusting the power to a sensory threshold to prevent
      muscle contraction.

      The goal of the study is to evaluate the use of a personal intravaginal, non- implanted
      electrical stimulation device in the treatment of chronic pelvic pain. The investigators
      propose a randomized controlled trial comparing the investigated device to a sham device. The
      primary outcome is pain control using the visual analog scale and brief pain inventory (18).
      Hypothesis: Subjects will report increased pain relief with the electrical stimulation device
      compared to those using the sham device alone.

      Secondary goals:

      To evaluate the effect of ES on overall quality of life. Hypothesis: ES will improve quality
      of life as measured by the Short Form-36. (16) To evaluate the effect of ES on sexual
      function. Hypothesis: ES will improve sexual functioning as measured by Female Sexual
      Function Index (17) To evaluate the use of ES on use of pain medications. Hypothesis: ES will
      decrease dosage and frequency of pain medication use. This will be measured by use of a daily
      pain medication journal. Patients will complete a journal listing the type, amount and dosage
      of pain medications used on a daily basis.

      SIGNIFICANCE If a positive effect is seen, a personal vaginal device designed for home use
      can be offered to patients with chronic pelvic pain. Patients would be able to take pelvic
      floor rehabilitation from the physical therapy office into their home. Furthermore, it would
      justify a larger, multi-center, randomized controlled trial comparing the ApexM™ device to
      standard in office physical therapy.
    
  