
    
      Inhaled bronchodilators, such as beta 2 agonists and anticholinergics, and inhaled
      corticosteroids are the mainstays of therapy in patients diagnosed with COPD. Anticholinergic
      bronchodilators or long acting muscarinic receptor antagonists function by blocking
      endogenous airway smooth muscle cholinergic tone. Treatment with anticholinergics has been
      shown to significantly improve forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), resting and
      dynamic lung hyperinflation, symptoms, and exercise capacity in patients with COPD. Currently
      tiotropium is the only approved long acting muscarinic antagonist available for treatment of
      COPD.This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group
      study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of GSK573719 Inhalation Powder of 2 doses when
      administered once-daily via Novel DPI compared with placebo over a treatment period of 12
      weeks in subjects with COPD. There will be a total of 8 study clinic visits conducted on an
      outpatient basis. Subjects who meet the eligibility criteria at Screening (Visit 1) will
      complete a 5 to 9 days run-in period followed by a 12-week treatment period. There will be 8
      clinic visits during three of which serial spirometry will be performed . The total duration
      of subject participation in the study will be approximately 14 weeks.

      This is a Phase III multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group
      study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of GSK573719 Inhalation Powder 62.5 mcg and 125 mcg
      when administered once-daily via Novel DPI compared with placebo over a treatment period of
      12 weeks in subjects with COPD.

      Eligible subjects will be randomized 1:1:1 to receive either of the two doses of GSK573719
      Inhalation Powder doses or placebo for 12 weeks.

      There will be a total of 8 study clinic visits conducted on an outpatient basis. Subjects who
      meet the eligibility criteria at Screening (Visit 1) will complete a 5 to 9 days run-in
      period followed by a 12-week treatment period. Clinic visits will be at Screening,
      Randomization (Visit 2), Day 3 and Weeks 2, 4, 8, and 12, and 1 day after the Week 12 visit
      (Visits 1 to 8, respectively). A safety follow-up assessment will be conducted by telephone
      approximately 7 days after the end of the study treatment (FU Phone Contact). The total
      duration of subject participation, including the follow-up period will be approximately 14
      weeks. All subjects will be provided with albuterol/salbutamol for use on an "as-needed"
      basis throughout the run-in and treatment periods.

      Pre-dose spirometry will be conducted at each clinic visit. Six hour post-dose serial
      spirometry will be conducted at Visit 2 and at Visits 5 and 7. All subjects will be provided
      with a paper diary for completion everyday throughout the run-in period and 12-week treatment
      period. Subjects will use the diary to record their daily use of supplemental
      albuterol/salbutamol and to record any medical problems experienced and any medications used.

      At Visit 2 the Baseline Dyspnea Index (BDI) will be administered. The Transition Dyspnea
      Index (TDI) will be administered at Visits 5, 6, and 7.

      Disease specific health status will be evaluated using the St. George's Respiratory
      Questionnaire (SGRQ) at Visit 2 and Visits 5, 6 and 7. Vital signs (blood pressure and pulse
      rate), 12-lead ECGs and standard clinical laboratory tests (hematology and blood
      biochemistry) including pharmacokinetic samples will be obtained at selected clinic visits.

      Approximately 198 subjects will be randomized to ensure at least 168 subjects complete the
      treatment period.
    
  