
    
      The aim of the present study is to observe the use of the Forced Oscillation Technique (FOT)
      in the detection of the alterations of the respiratory mechanical in subjects with Sickle
      Cell Anemia. One group of patients with Sickle Cell Anemia was compared with a volunteers
      group without pulmonary alterations.

      The experimental phase of this research was developed from the University Hospital of the
      Pulmonology Department Pedro Ernesto (HUPE) and Laboratory Instrumentation Biomedical of Rio
      de Janeiro State University (UERJ) and was approved by the Committee for Ethics in the
      Hospital Survey. The Informed Consent was obtained from all volunteers and patients. The
      study protocol complies with the Helsinki Declaration and Resolution CNS 466/12.

      Patients were recruited from the Hematology clinic of the University Hospital Pedro Ernesto.
      After screening of the inclusion criteria, these individuals were referred to the following
      tests: Respiratory Function Support and Technical by Forced Oscillations.

      The Respiratory Function Test were performed in the Pulmonary Function Testing Laboratory at
      the University Hospital Pedro Ernesto and obeyed the standard protocol of the American
      Thoracic Society / European Respiratory Society (ATS / ERS).

      In clinical exams with the FOT, the volunteers remained seated, his head in the neutral
      position and used a nose clip. They were asked to maintain a basal respiration throughout the
      examination period through a silicone nozzle, with cheeks sustained by the hands in order to
      reduce the shunt effect. The system applies sinusoidal pressure signals emitting oscillatory
      waves in the frequency range 4-32 Hz. The results to be considered suitable, should apre sit
      coherence function ≥ 0.9. Three measurements were performed for 16 seconds, with rest
      interval between them. Finally, to analyze the parameters measured, obtained was the average
      of all the results. Among the parameters evaluated the resistive and reactive parameters of
      the respiratory system were studied, respectively.
    
  