
    
      Project Background: Veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan are smoking at high rates
      and are at elevated risk for the development of smoking related illness. Intensive speciality
      clinic-based tobacco cessation programs have high efficacy, are more cost effective than less
      intensive approaches, and are employed by most VA medical centers. These programs, however,
      are infrequently attended by veterans, limiting the impact on prevalence, disease burden, and
      economic costs of smoking. An internet-based smoking cessation intervention could be an
      effective, low-cost method to implement evidence based smoking cessation principles. The
      internet could significantly increase the impact of smoking cessation efforts over current
      approaches by avoiding barriers that limit utilization of existing clinic-based services.

      Project Objectives: The goal of the study is to evaluate the impact of an internet-based
      intervention in comparison to standard VA speciality clinic-based care in promoting smoking
      cessation in returning veterans. Accordingly, the specific aims and hypotheses are:

      AIM 1: To evaluate the impact of an internet-based smoking cessation intervention on rates of
      abstinence from cigarettes (self-reported 7-day point prevalent abstinence) at 3 months and
      12-month post-treatment follow-ups.

      Hypothesis 1: Abstinence rates will be significantly higher among veterans randomized to the
      web-based intervention than those randomized to VA specialty cessation care.

      AIM 2: To evaluate the impact of an internet-based smoking cessation intervention on reach of
      smoking cessation treatment.

      Hypothesis 2.1: Internet-based treatment will result in increased reach as measured by the
      proportion of patients who access care. Hypothesis 2.2: Internet-based treatment will result
      in engagement in treatment as measured by the proportion of patients that make at least one
      quit attempt.

      AIM 3: To evaluate the relative cost-effectiveness of the standard specialty care
      intervention to the web-based intervention.

      Project Methods: Proposed is a trial in which 410 OEF/OIF veteran smokers will be randomized
      to receive either an internet-based smoking cessation intervention and nicotine replacement
      therapy or referral to VA specialty smoking cessation care, which includes behavioral
      therapy, group counseling, telephone counseling, self-help materials, and choice of smoking
      cessation aid (pharmacotherapy).

      Participating patients will be surveyed at 3 months post-intervention and at 12 months. The
      primary outcome of the trial is a 7-day point prevalence abstinence at the 3-month post
      intervention follow-up, as measured by self-report and verified by cotinine assay.
    
  