
    
      Rectal cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors in western countries and its
      incidence and mortality rates have been ascending for several decades in our country.
      Surgical resection is the primary treatment method for resectable tumor. Post-operative
      chemo-radiotherapy can improve local control but can also lower the tolerance rate and
      increase the incidence of postoperative complications. It is generally not recommended as a
      regular treatment method excepting the patients who have high risk factors of recurrence
      after surgery. Preoperative radiotherapy followed by total mesorectal excision(TME) has been
      recommended as a preferred treatment regimen for locally advanced rectal cancer for it is
      more effective in local control compared with that of postoperative radiotherapy. The
      traditional long-course radiotherapy(LCRT) is 45-50.4 Gy in 25-28 daily fractions given with
      concurrent chemotherapy and delayed surgery(4-8 weeks after chemo-radiotherapy). Also
      considered an alternative treatment option is preoperative short-course radiotherapy(SCRT) of
      25 Gy in five daily fractions and followed by immediate surgery(1 week after SCRT). Similar
      rates of local control, survival and toxicity were observed in these two regimens. Although
      SCRT can reduce treatment interval and cut down costs, it's pathological complete
      response(pCR) rates are relatively low. Bujko et al. reported that the pCR rate for LCRT and
      SCRT are 16% and 0.7%, respectively. This difference may partially related to the interval
      between preoperative radiotherapy and surgery. The pCR rates are higher in patients who have
      the longer interval. In the latest multicenter, randomized, non-blinded, phase III,
      non-inferiority trial(Stockholm III), participants were randomly assigned to receive either
      5×5 Gy radiation dose with immediate surgery within 1 week(SCRT) or after 4-8 weeks(SCRT with
      delay) or 25×2 Gy radiation dose followed by surgery after 4-8 weeks(LCRT with delay). All
      these regimens show similar oncological results. However, LCRT with delay prolongs the
      treatment interval substantially. Although radiation-induced toxicity was observed after SCRT
      with delay, postoperative complications were significantly reduced compared with that of SCRT
      followed by immediate surgery. Thus, SCRT with delay to surgery is a useful alternative to
      conventional SCRT with immediate surgery.

      The optimal pattern of dose fractionation of preoperative radiotherapy still deserves to be
      explored. J Widder et al. reported that SCRT of 25 Gy administered within 1 week of 2.5 Gy
      twice daily for resectable rectal cancer generates a well-tolerated and simple way to
      increase local control. A prospective phase II study of SCRT for rectal cancer with twice
      daily fractions of 2.9 Gy to a total dose of 29 Gy also results in tolerable toxicity and
      favourable local control. Although both of the modifications of SCRT have acceptable toxicity
      and well local control, the improvement in overall survival is still limited. Investigators
      suppose that whether escalating single radiation dose of SCRT (6Gy,7Gy,8Gy...) may further
      improve local control and overall survival with tolerable toxicity. A prospective phase II
      study of SCRT that made a boost to the gross tumor volume(GTV) up to a total of 30 Gy in five
      fractions to investigate the feasibility and the rate of complete pathological response. The
      results demonstrated that acceptable toxicity and a better rate of pCR can be achieved.
      Studies have confirmed that high pCR rates were beneficial to survival. Hence, investigators
      consider that it is feasible to escalate single radiation dose of SCRT in treating rectal
      cancer. The theoretical basis of escalation of single radiation dose of SCRT may improve
      survival outcome are as follows:

        1. To improve the biological equivalent doses(BED) of the tumor Biological equivalent doses
           (BED) were used for comparison of various fractionations of radiotherapy and were
           calculated with the formula for late normal tissue toxicity BED (Gy) =nd[1 +(d /α / β)]
           n: number of fractions d: single fraction dose (Gy) α/β: take 3 Gy for normal tissues
           According to the formula, BED is determined by n, d and α/β. This suggests that
           escalation of fractional dose can significantly increase BED of tumor, thus can amount
           to the greater kill to tumor cells.

        2. To induce tumor immune response Several studies reported that radiotherapy can induce or
           regulate immune response, which can suppress tumor growth and generate inflammatory
           response. Field radiotherapy can motivate the radiation effects of local-regional and
           distant area of the body.

      The other one criticism in treating rectal cancer is distant metastasis that hinder the
      improve of overall survival. Preoperative chemotherapy can play a role in controlling the
      potential micrometastases. Previous studies have confirmed that SCRT followed by mFOLFOX6
      chemotherapy can improve the pCR rates. Therefore, in this Phase I Study, the safety and
      efficacy will be tested using a dose escalation mode of SCRT (5×6Gy/7Gy/8Gy) followed by four
      cycles of mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy when treating locally advanced rectal cancer.

      Dose Escalation Methods in Phase I Cancer Clinical Trials:

      Three patients receive the lowest level of radiation dose in a cohort and dose limited
      toxicity(DLT) is observed. If none of the patients show DLT, another cohort of three patients
      receive the next higher level of dose. If not, a further cohort of three patients will
      receive the same dose when one or more patients exhibit DLT. Of the six patients treated at
      this dose level, the trial continues at the next dose level if only one out the six patients
      appears DLT and stops at that dose level if at least two patients appear DLT. When the
      escalation stopped, additional three patients will be required at this dose level. The
      maximum sample size will depend on the dose level that is in progress.
    
  