
    
      Gingival recession defects (GRD), defined as displacement of the gingival margin apical to
      the cemento-enamel junction, are frequent clinical findings in the general population.

      The major indications for root coverage procedures are improved esthetics, reduction of root
      hypersensitivity and the increase of the dimensions of keratinized tissue in order to
      facilitate infection control and prevent further progression of gingival recession defects.
      Numerous surgical techniques for root coverage have been suggested, with different degrees of
      success as assessed by the proportion of complete root coverage. The scientific evidence has
      revealed that mandibular incisors were associated with the least favourable outcomes when
      compared to other teeth. The lower success rate and lower predictability of root coverage
      procedures at lower incisors, teeth with the highest frequency of GRDs, may be related to the
      unfavorable anatomic conditions including marginal frenum attachment, high muscle pull and a
      shallow vestibule. These features are frequently encountered in the anterior area of the
      mandible, while they are rare in the maxillary anterior region.

      The so-called "Free Gingival Graft" (FGG) was shown to be the most effective procedure for
      gingival augmentation at sites with minimal amount of keratinized tissue. Great variability
      in terms of proportion of root coverage (range: 11% to 87%; mean: 63%) has been reported when
      applying this technique, however. One of the challenges may be the inadequate blood supply to
      the portion of the FGG placed on the exposed root surface. A modified version of the FGG
      technique (mod-FGG) has been proposed, aiming to improve the vascularity of the recipient
      site over the denuded root surface. However, there is to date no scientific evidence whether
      the mod-FGG provides better clinical results than the conventional FGG.

      The hypothesis of the study is that the mod-FGG will improve predictability and treatment
      outcomes for root coverage at mandibular incisors.
    
  