
    
      Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), also known as chronic lung disease (CLD), is a major
      complication of premature birth and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality.
      Bronchopulmonary dysplasia most commonly affects preterm infants who have required prolonged
      aggressive mechanical ventilation and/or oxygen supplementation. Risk factors associated with
      BPD include degree of prematurity, infection, mechanical ventilation, oxygen concentration,
      and nutritional status. Despite significant advances in the care of preterm infants and
      improved survival, the incidence of BPD has been fairly static over the past decade.

      Diuretics and fluid restriction are considered a mainstay of therapy in the management of BPD
      to combat interstitial alveolar edema. Short courses of furosemide followed by long-term
      therapy using a thiazide diuretic with concurrent spironolactone have shown improvement in
      pulmonary function and better outcomes. Double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled trials
      have shown improvement in pulmonary compliance, airway resistance, infants alive at
      discharge, and a decrease in fraction of inspired oxygen and need for furosemide boluses.

      Spironolactone is a competitive aldosterone receptor antagonist that acts on the distal
      convoluted tubule and collecting duct to facilitate sodium excretion while conserving
      potassium and hydrogen ions. Since only a minimal amount of sodium filtered by the glomerulus
      reaches the distal tubule, spironolactone is considered a weak diuretic. Spironolactone is
      primarily used with chlorothiazide for its potassium-sparing effect to reduce the need for
      electrolyte supplementation. There has only been one prospective, randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study comparing chlorothiazide with or without the addition of
      spironolactone in premature infants with chronic lung disease. This study demonstrated no
      difference between the groups in the need for electrolyte supplementation, electrolyte
      balance, or pulmonary function. In addition, preterm infants' distal tubules may respond
      inadequately to aldosterone; thereby, limiting the role of spironolactone in this patient
      population.

      In the neonatal population, spironolactone is primarily used in addition with chlorothiazide
      for its potassium-sparing effects to reduce the need for electrolyte supplementation.
      However, evidence and current practice suggests the majority of patients still receive
      electrolyte supplementation. One study evaluated spironolactone's effect on the need for
      electrolyte supplementation, but there is no published data with a primary outcome evaluating
      spironolactone's effect on the quantity of electrolyte supplementation. We hypothesize there
      will be no difference in the amount of electrolyte supplementation between the two groups.
    
  