
    
      Background: The management of patients with suspected pulmonary embolism (PE) represents an
      important medical and economic issue. In French Emergency Departments, more than 100 000
      suspicions of PE are dealt with per year. In a previous work, we found that the routine
      diagnostic practice differs to a large extent from international guidelines and that
      excluding PE on the basis of inappropriate criteria exposes patients to a six-fold increased
      risk of venous thromboembolism during 3-months follow-up.1 Passive interventions to improve
      quality are generally ineffective but Computer-Assisted Decision Support and reminders appear
      as promising.2

      Interventions:

      At the end of the preliminary period, we will perform for all the investigators, an
      interactive oral presentation of the strategies considered as validated on the basis of a
      systematic review and meta-analysis.3 A strategy end up to exclude PE is considered as
      validated if the probability of PE is below 5% and a strategy end up to confirm PE is
      considered as validated if the probability of PE is upper than 85%. The strategies that do
      not achieve these criteria but considered as acceptable by international advisors will be
      presented too as well as the recommendations for the treatment of PE.4 In the group "written
      guidelines", emergency physicians will be provided with cards presenting the list of the
      validated and acceptable strategies as well as the Geneva diagnostic algorithm.5 The
      algorithm will be mention as a way to follow appropriate diagnostic criteria.

      In the "CADS" group, the recommendations will be integrated into the electronic form allowing
      calculation of the pre-test probability according to revised Geneva Score 6, calculation of
      the post-test probabilities according to the likelihood ratios of the tests 3 and
      contextualized reminders as which test perform or when stop investigations.

      In the groups "treatment help", reminders concerning the treatment (indications and
      contraindications, dosage) will be integrated into the electronic form on the PDA.

        1. Roy PM, Meyer G, Vielle B, Legall C, Verschuren F, Furber A. Inappropriateness of
           Diagnostic Management in Patients with Suspected Pulmonary Embolism: Frequency,
           Predictors and Association with Outcome. J Thromb Haemost 2005; 3:OR 304.

        2. Grimshaw JM, Shirran L, Thomas R, et al. Changing provider behavior: an overview of
           systematic reviews of interventions. Med Care 2001; 39:II2-45.

        3. Roy PM, Colombet I, Durieux P, Chatellier G, Sors H, Meyer G. Systematic review and
           meta-analysis of strategies for the diagnosis of suspected pulmonary embolism. Bmj 2005;
           331:259.

        4. Buller HR, Agnelli G, Hull RD, Hyers TM, Prins MH, Raskob GE. Antithrombotic therapy for
           venous thromboembolic disease: the Seventh ACCP Conference on Antithrombotic and
           Thrombolytic Therapy. Chest 2004; 126:401S-428S.

        5. Perrier A, Roy PM, Aujesky D, et al. Diagnosing pulmonary embolism in outpatients with
           clinical assessment, D-dimer measurement, venous ultrasound, and helical computed
           tomography: a multicenter management study. Am J Med 2004; 116:291-9.

        6. Le Gal G, Righini M, Roy PM, et al. Derivation and validation of a simple standardized
           clinical score to predict pulmonary embolism in emergency patients: the revised geneva
           score. Ann Intern Med 2005; In press.
    
  