
    
      This is a Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating dapansutrile
      versus placebo. Approximately 80 subjects randomized 1:1 (40 dapansutrile, 40 placebo) are
      planned to be enrolled.

      At the Screening/Baseline/Day 1 Visit, subjects will provide informed consent, be screened
      for eligibility, and be randomized/enrolled into the study. Subjects will also receive the
      first dose of study drug at this visit once study eligibility has been confirmed, and the
      second dose of study drug will be taken approximately 12 hours after the first dose. Study
      drug will be continued twice daily (morning and evening doses) through Day 14.

      The trial duration will be approximately 45 days for all subjects enrolled, with assessments
      as follows: Screening/Baseline/Day 1, Day 4 (±1 day), Day 8 (±1 day), Day 15 (±1 day), Day 29
      (±3 days), and Day 45 (± 3 days). The Day 29 and Day 45 follow-up visits will be conducted
      virtually via the institution's telehealth process.

      Each subject will be asked to maintain two paper diaries at home daily for the first 14 days:
      a dosing diary and a subject diary. The dosing diary will be used to record the number of
      capsules taken each morning and evening. The subject diary will be used to record
      temperature, oxygen levels, COVID-19 symptoms, and overall health (using the prior 24-hour
      period for parameters requiring subject recall). The set of questions used in the subject
      diary will also be administered to the subjects at the Screening/Baseline/Day 1 Visit
      (pre-dose), Day 15, Day 29, and Day 45 visits. Each subject will be provided a no-contact
      thermometer and a hand-held pulse oximeter at the Screening/Baseline/Day 1 Visit for home
      use.

      At Day 29 and Day 45, additional assessments of safety and clinical activity will occur. The
      Day 29 and Day 45 follow-up visits will be conducted virtually via the sites' telehealth
      process.
    
  