
    
      Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is an acute and critical illness characterized by
      progressive dyspnea and refractory hypoxemia caused by intrapulmonary or extrapulmonary
      factors. The mortality rate of ARDS is extremely high. ACP caused by pulmonary circulatory
      disorder is its main clinical feature, which is related to the severity of lung injury in
      ARDS patients. It has been recognized that the ACP is an independent risk factor for the
      prognosis of patients with ARDS. Positive pressure mechanical ventilation is an important
      ARDS treatment strategy for ARDS. Especially the lung protective ventilation strategy with
      "small tidal volume and increased PEEP" as the core content, which achieved a milestone of
      lower the mortality of ARDS. However, improper use of positive pressure mechanical
      ventilation can increase right ventricular load and increase mortality in ARDS patients.
      Therefore, understanding the effect of positive pressure mechanical ventilation on right
      heart function in patients with ARDS is important for prevention and treatment for the ACP of
      ARDS and reduction of ARDS mortality.

      The alveolar edema, alveolar collapse, and hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction loss caused by
      increased pulmonary vascular permeability and release of inflammatory mediators resulted in
      loss of ventilation/blood flow, severe hypoxemia, pulmonary vasospasm, pulmonary
      microthrombus formation, which increased pulmonary arterial pressure and even APC. Positive
      pressure mechanical ventilation maintains alveolar ventilation through positive airway
      pressure, prevents premature alveolar collapse by positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP),
      changes intrathoracic pressure and lung volume, and affects the right ventricle load.
      Different studies have found that the incidence of ACP in patients with ARDS is from 22% to
      60%. Jardin, et al found that patients with ARDS had a significant increase in ACP and
      mortality when the airway pressure was greater than 26 cmH2O, which revealed that the
      difference in positive pressure mechanical ventilation settings has a significant difference
      in the right heart function of ARDS patients. Mekontso, et al propose a simple clinical risk
      score for early identification of ACP included pneumonia as cause of ARDS, driving pressure
      ≥18cmH2O, PaO2/FiO2 ratio<150 mmHg, and PaCO2≥48mmHg. However, for the morbidity and
      mortality of ACP in ARDS, the related risk factors and criteria are different due to the
      influence of the different etiology of ARDS and the different study time. For these reasons,
      the investigators established a national cohort of Chinese ARDS with Acute CorPulmonale to
      enable prospective observational studies.
    
  