
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the efficacy of high-dose melphalan (200mg/m²) in combination with targeted
           radiotherapy delivered by yttrium Y 90 anti-CD66 monoclonal antibody BW250/183, in terms
           of disease response (complete remission rate and change in serum free light chain level
           before and after treatment with yttrium Y 90 anti-CD66 monoclonal antibody BW250/183),
           in patients undergoing autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for multiple
           myeloma.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the toxicity profile of yttrium Y 90 anti-CD66 monoclonal antibody
           BW250/183 in the context of autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

        -  To determine the effect of targeted radiotherapy on other parameters of disease
           response, in terms of proportion of patients with partial remission, stable disease, and
           progressive disease, remission duration (time to disease progression), and overall
           survival.

        -  To determine the effect of targeted radiotherapy on engraftment when used in combination
           with high-dose melphalan in patients undergoing autologous hematopoietic stem cell
           transplantation for multiple myeloma.

        -  To investigate the pharmacokinetic behavior of indium In 111 anti-CD66 monoclonal
           antibody BW250/183 (used for dosimetry).

        -  To continue to develop a dosimetry model based on single-photon emission computed
           tomography (SPECT) and whole body gamma camera imaging following administration of the
           radiolabeled anti-CD66 monoclonal antibody (in a subset of patients at the Southampton
           site only).

        -  To assess the proportion of patients who form human anti-murine antibodies (HAMA) after
           treatment with targeted radiotherapy in the context of an autologous hematopoietic stem
           cell transplantation.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease risk group
      (low risk [beta-2 microglobulin and C-reactive protein < 6 or either beta-2 microglobulin or
      C-reactive protein ≥ 6] vs high risk [both beta-2 microglobulin and C-reactive protein ≥ 6]).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive a dosimetry dose of indium In 111 anti-CD66 monoclonal antibody
           BW250/183 IV on day 1 and undergo gamma camera imaging and serial blood samples on days
           1-5. Patients then receive a therapeutic dose of yttrium Y 90 anti-CD66 monoclonal
           antibody BW250/183 IV once between days 9 and 16 and high-dose melphalan IV on day 28.
           Patients then undergo autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) on day
           30.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive high-dose melphalan IV on day 1. Patients then undergo
           autologous HSCT on day 3.

      Patients in arm I undergo blood sample collection periodically for pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacodynamic studies and analysis of human anti-murine antibody (HAMA) status.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  