
    
      Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is a condition, generally affecting premature infants, in
      which the intestines become ischemic (lack oxygen and/or blood flow). NEC occurs in up to
      5-15% of extremely low birth weight (ELBW) infants. Isolated or focal intestinal perforation
      (IP) is a less common condition, affecting an estimated 4% of ELBWs, in which a hole develops
      in the intestines leaking fluid into the abdomin. The outcomes for infants with NEC or IP are
      poor: 49% die and half of the surviving infants are neurodevelopmentally impaired.

      Surgical options for NEC and IP include two possible procedures: peritoneal drainage, in
      which a tube is placed in the abdominal cavity through a small incision for fluid to drain
      out; or laparotomy, in which an incision is made in the abdomen and diseased intestine is
      removed. Infants treated with an initial drainage sometimes go on to need a laparotomy. Most
      surgeons now believe that a diagnosis of the intestinal perforation (IP) may actually be
      either true NEC or a different and distinct pathology, termed isolated intestinal
      perforation. The ability to distinguish these 2 conditions preoperatively, based on perinatal
      characteristics, physical examination findings, and findings on abdominal plain film imaging,
      remains unknown. If these 2 entities can be distinguished preoperatively, the intervention
      chosen and outcomes may be different. From the two available surgical options, tt is not
      known whether initial laparotomy or peritoneal drain placement is more effective for either
      NEC or IP.

      This study was a prospective, multicenter observational study to describe the surgical
      outcomes (mortality, post-operative intestinal stricture, intra-abdominal abscess formation,
      etc.) in ELBW infants with either NEC or IP who underwent initial laparotomy or peritoneal
      drainage. We also evaluated the ability of surgeons to distinguish NEC and IP pre-operatively
      and the relevance of this distinction on outcome. Finally, an analysis of the impact of
      extent of intestinal involvement with NEC on outcome measures is reported.

      All ELBW infants born at participating NRN centers were screened for the presence of NEC or
      IP that was thought by the pediatric surgeon and neonatologist to require surgical
      intervention. Data were collected enrolled infants, including: intraoperative findings
      recorded by the surgeon and specific post-operative complications.

      Neurodevelopmental examinations were conducted on surviving infants at 18-22 months corrected
      age.
    
  