
    
      The InterGraft™ Venous Anastomotic Connector (VIG) was developed for minimally invasive
      venous anastomosis of a standard hemodialysis graft. This study will evaluate the safety and
      performance of the VIG for anastomosis of a commercially available, 6 mm diameter, ePTFE
      hemodialysis graft. Anastomoses with the VIG may potentially reduce venous vessel trauma,
      improve the local vessel wall shear stresses and promote laminar flow, thereby improving
      patency. The available InterGraft™ Arterial Anastomotic Connector (AIG) will also be used
      during the study in a subgroup of suitably qualified subjects for purposes of additional data
      collection.

      While recognizing that a native fistula is the recommended access for hemodialysis, AV grafts
      remain a frequently used access type. This study focuses on subjects who have a failed
      fistula, cannot have a fistula or are better suited for an AV graft, as determined by the
      physician. The graft implant procedural outcomes, the number and type of major adverse
      events, and patency throughout a six (6) month follow-up period will be evaluated. The
      6-month patency rate will be compared with a pre-specified patency performance goal that is
      drawn from prior surgical AV graft literature and published performance standards.10, 14-20

      The study will be conducted in compliance with the Investigational Plan, Investigational
      Device Exemption (IDE) regulations, Good Clinical Practice guidelines (GCP), and other
      applicable regulatory requirements.

      This is a pivotal multicenter, prospective, non-randomized adaptive design study. The planned
      study enrollment is 104 evaluable subjects who require AV graft placement for hemodialysis
      and who meet the entry criteria. The subjects will receive the VIG device and will have
      either a standard sutured arterial anastomosis or have received an AIG device for the
      arterial anastomosis (VIG-AIG subgroup). This number may be expanded following a planned
      interim analysis to up to 185 evaluable subjects for the primary study evaluation.

      The study will allow for a maximum enrollment of 227 subjects, including a provision for 12
      subjects lost to follow-up and up to 30 roll-in cases. Roll-in subjects will not be included
      in the primary analysis but will be analyzed separately.

      The study will include up to 15 participating clinical centers. Study site investigators will
      be physicians skilled in AV access graft placement and interventional techniques. Study data
      will be collected up to the point at which each subject has completed the 6-month endpoint.

      VIG-AIG Subgroup All study subjects will receive the VIG device. A subgroup of previously
      enrolled subjects receiving the VIG device will also have received an AIG device for the
      arterial anastomosis, rather than a sutured arterial anastomosis. This group is referred to
      as the "VIG-AIG Subgroup."
    
  