
    
      Social phobia, also known as social anxiety disorder, is a common, often debilitating
      condition. People with social phobia experience high levels of anxiety when they participate
      in social situations or perform in front of others. Approximately 80% of social phobia cases
      occur before the age of 18, and often precede other anxiety, mood, and substance abuse or
      dependence disorders. Physical symptoms typically accompany the intense anxiety caused by the
      disorder, and may include blushing, profuse sweating, trembling, nausea, and difficulty
      talking. Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) has been shown to be an effective treatment
      method for most people with social phobia. Approximately 30% of people with the disorder,
      however, do not respond to CBT treatment. A better understanding of the neural mechanisms
      underlying social phobia and CBT's effect on these mechanisms will help physicians to better
      predict the best treatment for different patients. This study will evaluate the effect of CBT
      on how the brain processes emotional and behavioral responses to social stimuli in people
      with social phobia.

      Participants in this open-label study will be randomly assigned to either immediate or
      delayed treatment with CBT. Participants who are assigned to immediate CBT will attend 16
      sessions of individual CBT immediately following baseline assessments. Participants assigned
      to the delayed treatment condition will begin attending CBT sessions approximately 5 months
      following baseline assessments. Outcomes will be assessed for all participants at baseline,
      immediately post-treatment, and at Months 5 and 10 post-treatment. An fMRI scan will be used
      to measure neural responses to social stimuli, and various questionnaires and scales will be
      used to assess anxiety symptom severity. Participants in the delayed treatment group will be
      assessed on one additional occasion before they begin treatment after the 5-month waiting
      period.
    
  