
    
      The primary objective of this study is to establish a dynamic implementation environment for
      HF management in Leuven. It is not a primary objective to study the effect of various best
      clinical practices on the defined outcomes. We focus on the evolution in quality of HF
      management through an evaluation of the implementation process. Specific research questions
      are as follows:

        1. Do HF education and a learning environment improve the GPs' self-efficacy?

        2. Does reimbursement of the NT-proBNP test lead to implementation?

        3. How do primary care professionals and patients experience the introduction of a primary
           care HF educator?

        4. What is the adoption rate of a HF discharge checklist in hospitals' EHR? How do care
           professionals adhere to a checklist-supported structured discharge protocol?

        5. What is the feasibility of implementing automated audits in GPs EHR?

        6. Does this implementation study affect regional levels of HF hospitalization and
           readmissions?

      Outcomes

      Measurements at baseline We will register contact data (telephone number and/or mail
      address), and sociodemographic variables (age, sex and type of HF ) for patients who receive
      a HF educator contact and give informed consent. If it is an education-session
      post-discharge, we will ask if the patient had a contact with his/her GP.

      We record patients' relevant risk criteria at discharge in the checklist.

      We will record all yearly HF hospitalizations of patients in Groot-Leuven in the regional
      hospitals of UZ Leuven and Heilig Hart as our primary outcome for effectiveness (aggregated
      data). Secondary outcomes will be the number of yearly emergency room visits for HF and HF
      readmissions within 30 days. We will also extract these data for the previous 5 years,
      starting from 01.01.2014 to establish a time-series trend.

      Process Evaluation

      We will investigate the intervention implementation in a process evaluation. On a population
      level, we will look at yearly echocardiographies and cardiology consultations as a process
      indicator. In participating practices, we will monitor the number of registered HF diagnoses
      in the GPs EHR (coded or free-text). Process evaluation for specific guideline-recommended
      practices is as follows:

      GP education GPs need to complete an online questionnaire before and after the web-based
      mandatory training session. The questionnaire assesses GP self-efficacy in the diagnosis and
      management of heart failure.

      NT-proBNP We will look at the number of tests conducted per participating physician and the
      total number of tests performed in the largest regional lab (MCH Leuven).

      HF educator We will register the number of conducted HF educator contacts and patient
      self-efficacy and quality of life at baseline and after 6 months as scored by the EHFScB-9
      and SF-12 questionnaires respectively. We will perform a qualitative analysis of primary care
      professions' (GP , HF nurse, HF educator) and patients' experience of the introduction of
      this new role through semi-structured interviews.

      Structured transitional protocol We will measure the total number of transitional contacts by
      proxy: the HF nurse in the hospital will fill in a standardized checklist in the EHR.
      Outcomes are the number of completed checklists and HF educator contacts after discharge. The
      HF educator verifies whether high-risk patients who gave informed consent saw their GP at the
      education session post-discharge.

      Automated EHR audits We will record the proportion of HF patients with a registered left
      ventricular ejection fraction in the EHR, as well as the proportion of HFrEF patients with
      guideline-recommended medication (RAAS-blockade/B-blocker/MRA). We will look at the
      proportion of HF patients who had at least one contact with their GP in the last six months.

      Data collection

      At the patient level We will collect individual patient data for patients referred for a
      primary care HF educator consultation (by the GP or as part of the structured transmural
      protocol). Inclusion requires informed consent. The HF nurse will fill out a registration
      form with level of referral (GP or HF nurse in the hospital), contact information,
      sociodemographic data and an EHFScB-9 questionnaire assessing self-efficacy. We will repeat
      the questionnaire after 6 months via telephone or mail. The HF educator will record whether
      high-risk patients who gave informed consent saw their GP at the education session
      post-discharge.

      At the care profession level We will collect the number of NT-proBNP tests at the
      participating lab. A yearly audit in the GPs EHR will record registered diagnoses and
      audit-specific outcomes.

      At the population level (Groot-Leuven) Data collection for the primary outcome occurs at the
      hospital level through data already collected as part of the mandatory Minimale
      Ziekenhuisgegevens (MZG) registration for the population of Groot-Leuven (i.e. postal codes
      3000, 3001, 3010, 3012, 3018, 3050). As part of the MZG registration, hospitals need to
      classify hospital stays according to diagnosis. Reimbursement of the hospital stay is
      dependent on the number of primary and secondary coded diagnoses. We define a HF
      hospitalization as a hospitalization with ICD-10 code I50 as the primary diagnosis. Data
      collection for echocardiographies and cardiology consultations occurs at the level of the
      Intermutual Agency (IMA). IMA is in charge of collecting administrative and medical data for
      all patients who have national health insurance.

      For the transitional contact, we will collect the aggregated number of checklists and number
      of HF educator contacts after discharge. The number of completed checklists can be collected
      in the hospital EHR. The participating nursing organizations will collect the number of HF
      education sessions.

      Data management

      The PI and an assisting DMP coordinator will collect and enter data. All patient data is
      coded and pseudonymized. In pseudonymized data, we replace identifying particulars by an
      artificial identifier (i.e. a pseudonym). The list with pseudonyms, along with all other data
      is password-protected and stored in a secure encrypted cloud-drive (KU Leuven J-Drive). All
      other authors will have full access to the coded data (including the statistical reports and
      tables) in the study and will be able to take responsibility for the integrity of the data
      and the accuracy of the data analysis.

      Data analysis

      We will perform descriptive statistics regarding the baseline sociodemographic variables of
      patients with a HF nurse consultation. We will longitudinally plot all other outcomes
      measured at population level during the study. We will use chi-square tests to compare
      self-efficacy outcomes for GPs and HF patients who have a HF nurse contact. This is a
      descriptive study, hence we provide no sample size analysis. As stated previously, the goal
      is to study the implementation process, not the effectiveness of various interventions.
      Because of its descriptive nature, we plan to cautiously interpret the results.

      Ethics

      Before the study start, we will present the participating GPs with an informed consent form
      that outlines the intervention and the purpose of the study. Additionally, the HF educator
      will inform all the patients who receive an education session about the study and ask for
      informed consent. It is impossible to collect informed consents at the regional level
      (hospitalizations, echocardiographies, specialist consultations …), although this is not an
      issue since the data are aggregated and anonymous. We received approval from the University
      Hospitals Leuven Ethics Committee in September 2019 (S62838).
    
  