
    
      BACKGROUND & SIGNIFICANCE Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disease with an estimated
      prevalence of 3% to 7%. It is characterized by recurrent episodes of partial or complete
      collapse of the upper airway during sleep, resulting in hypopneas or apneas, respectively.
      The collapse of upper airway during obstructed events result in intermittent hypoxia,
      recurrent arousals from sleep, metabolic disturbance and poor quality of life. Cardiac
      arrhythmias are reportedly more frequent in patients with OSA and increase with the number of
      apneic episodes and the severity of the associated hypoxemia. Recent data from the Sleep
      Heart Health Study suggested that those with severe sleep disorders had a 2- to 4-fold-higher
      risk of nocturnal complex arrhythmias. Even after adjustment for age, sex, BMI, and prevalent
      coronary artery disease, patients with sleep disorders had increased likelihoods of atrial
      fibrillation, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, and complex ventricular ectopy.

      Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the first-line treatment for patients with OSA
      and acts as a pneumatic splint to the upper airway during sleep and corrects the obstruction,
      improving daytime sleepiness and quality of life. Observational studies suggest that CPAP
      treatment reduces the incidence of cardiovascular events in patients with moderate and sever
      OSA.

      Sodium channel is an integral membrane protein that plays a central role in conduction of the
      cardiac impulse in myocytes and cells of the His-Purkinje system. It is a multimeric complex
      consisting of an α and an auxiliary β-subunit. The α subunit, SCN5A is sufficient to express
      a functional channel. However, β subunit co-expression increases the level of channel
      expression and alters the voltage dependence of inactivation. Mutations of the sodium channel
      result in type 3 long QT syndrome (LQT3), Brugada syndrome, atrial fibrillation, congenital
      sick sinus syndrome, multifocal premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), and dilated
      cardiomyopathy.

      Recently, the investigators have discovered abnormal sodium channel messenger RNA (mRNA)
      processing in congestive heart failure (CHF) that results in reduced sodium channel to a
      range known to be associated with sudden cardiac death. Three truncated SCN5A mRNA splicing
      variants were identified (denoted variant B (E28B), variant C (E28C), and variant D (E28D)).
      Among them, E28C and E28D abundances were increased 14.2 fold and 3.8 fold respectively in
      CHF patients compared to controls. The full length SCN5A mRNA (E28A) was decreased by 24.7%
      in patients with CHF compared to control. Moreover, a key transcriptional regulatory molecule
      in hypoxia, hypoxia-induced factor 1α (HIF-1α), and hypoxia-induced mRNA splicing factors,
      such as RBM25 and LUC7L3, were elevated in human CHF tissue and mediated in vitro truncation
      of SCN5A mRNA.

      Thus, this study is designed to test whether SCN5A mRNA processing is altered in OSA
      patients, which may contribute to their increased arrhythmic risk, and whether processing of
      SCN5A mRNA is modulated by CPAP treatment.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

        1. Compare sodium channel splicing variants in mild, moderate, or severe OSA patients at
           baseline to at 1 month after CPAP treatment. In addition, the baseline splicing variants
           of SCN5A in the OSA patients will be compared to an age-matched control group.

        2. Hypoxia-associated upstream regulators of SCN5a mRNA splicing, HIF-1α, RBM25 and LUC7L3,
           will be examined in OSA patients before and after 1 month of CPAP treatment.
    
  