
    
      Current therapy for septic shock includes antimicrobials, fluid resuscitation,
      catecholamines, and measures to improve tissue oxygen delivery. The use of corticosteroids as
      an adjunctive treatment in septic shock has been an area of intensive research over the past
      decade. A handful of studies suggest that patients in septic shock benefit from low-dose
      glucocorticoids.Low-dose corticosteroids may improve hemodynamics, decrease vasopressor
      requirements, and reduce 28-day mortality in patients with vasopressor-refractory septic
      shock. A meta-analysis from 2004 also suggested that the use of low-dose corticosteroids does
      not significantly increase the risk of superimposed infections, gastrointestinal bleeding, or
      hyperglycemia.

      The exact mechanism for this beneficial effect has not been completely established, although
      direct vascular effects and anti-inflammatory effects of corticosteroids have been proposed.
      While there is ongoing debate over which subpopulations of patients derive benefit from
      corticosteroids, there is as much controversy regarding the appropriate duration of therapy.
      The current Surviving Sepsis Campaign suggests that intravenous IV hydrocortisone
      200-300mg/day should be given to adult septic shock patients after it has been confirmed that
      their blood pressure is poorly responsive to fluid resuscitation and vasopressor therapy. The
      duration of therapy is not specified. There is also no clear evidence to suggest that
      patients benefit from tapering steroids as opposed to stopping them abruptly; both strategies
      have been employed. Annane showed both a mortality benefit and shorter duration of
      vasopressor therapy with an abrupt end to a 7-day course of hydrocortisone and
      fludrocortisone in patients with septic shock compared to placebo; while others showed a
      similar benefit with a taper.Keh demonstrated reversal of both hemodynamic and immunologic
      effects after a three-day treatment of "low-dose" hydrocortisone, suggesting that some of the
      beneficial effects of steroids disappear in less than 24 hours. Interestingly, 30% of
      patients had to restart vasopressor therapy after discontinuation of corticosteroids in one
      of the Keh's study arms.
    
  