
    
      Barrett's esophagus (BE) is defined by the replacement of normal stratified squamous
      epithelium in the distal third of esophagus by specialized intestinal metaplasia. It is
      related to gastro-esophageal reflux disease. Diagnosis is suspected during endoscopy and
      confirmed on biopsy. The classification of CM from Prague is validated to describe BE during
      endoscopy. The main complication of the BE is adenocarcinoma, according to
      metaplasia-dysplasia-cancer sequence. The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma is variable,
      ranging from 0.4 to 3 %. BE is found in 100% esophageal adenocarcinoma and in 42% junction
      adenocarcinoma. Among the unknown risk factors involved in the onset of dysplasia, viruses
      can't be excluded.

      It is well established that Human Papillomavirus (HPV) is strongly associated with squamous
      cell dysplasia of female uterine cervix and its progression to cervical carcinoma. HPV is
      also implicated in others invasive carcinomas including uterine cervix, vulvar, vaginal,
      anal, penile, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Several studies showed that HPV could be
      associated in head and neck cancers and that tumor HPV status in patients with oropharyngeal
      squamous cell carcinomas was an independent prognostic factor for survival. The association
      between HPV and esophageal squamous cell carcinomas is still controversed with
      epidemiological studies reporting prevalence of mucosal HPV DNA ranging from 0 to 70%.
      Studies that have investigated HPV and adenocarcinoma of esophagus or Barrett's esophagus
      (BE) are scarce and data are not clear. A recent prospective study showed that HPV was
      strongly associated with Barrett'dysplasia and esophageal adenocarcinoma.

      The aim of this study was to determine whether the prevalence of HPV was increased in
      patients with BE compared with controls in a prospective study. Secondary objective was to
      identify, if present, the type of HPV associated in BE.
    
  