
    
      Papillary and follicular thyroid cancers are low-grade endocrine malignancy, and most
      patients usually received thyroidectomy with ablative radioactive iodine therapy. These
      patients were followed with thyroid ultrasonography and serial serum thyroglobulin
      evaluation. Serum thyroglobulin is the pivotal biomarker in survey of possible residual tumor
      or recurrence of thyroid cancer. Generally, such patients appear to have the higher residual
      risk of isolated thyroglobulinemia, and postoperative serum thyroglobulin may suggest distant
      metastases. Low-risk patients with a non-stimulated postoperative serum thyroglobulin was
      usually defined of less than 0.4 ng/mL or with thyroid hormone withdrawal thyroglobulin of
      less than 1.0 ng/mL. However, expensive recombinant human TSH (rhTSH) is usually needed to
      stimulate serum thyroglobulin for detecting local recurrence or distant metastasis. The issue
      of earlier biological markers for predicting prognosis of thyroid cancer should be raised.

      Exosomes are nanovesicles secreted into extracellular environments. Cancer cell-derived
      exosomes could be found in plasma, saliva, urine and other body fluid of patients with
      cancer. A growing evidence suggests that exosomes could be used as biomarkers to be the
      diagnosis and prognosis of malignant tumors. Exosomes are 40-100 nm diameters, and correspond
      to the intraluminal vesicles of endosomal multivesicular bodies. Exosomes secreted by cells
      could micro-molecularly transfer messages between cells, and be the biological markers of
      cancer. In addition, exosomes could be collected in serum, tissue fluid and urine for
      diseases follow-up, and urine as the biosample is easier to repeatedly obtain and
      non-invasive. In this study, the investigators enroll patients with papillary, follicular,
      and collect the urine samples before operation, immediately after operation,
      post-operatively. The investigators try to analyze the urinary exosomal proteins to find the
      early prognostic biological markers in urine via this prospective study.

      This pilot study report will explore that urinary exosomal thyroglobulin could be a reliable
      biological marker to substitute for serum thyroglobulin in the future. Such patient do not
      need to withdraw thyroid hormone or receive rhTSH stimulation. For patients with thyroid
      cancer, if they received thyroidectomy with ablative radioactive I-131 therapy, serum
      thyroglobulin is defined to be cancer biomarker in the course of follow-up. If thyroglobulin
      cannot be detected in serum, then such patients were suggested to be biochemically complete
      treatment, independent of the interference of anti-thyroglobulin antibody. Usually, serum
      thyroglobulin cannot be detected even under expensive rhTSH stimulation in patients of
      biochemically complete treatment. Therefore, no serial biomarkers could be recorded for
      evaluation and prediction of cancer recurrence. In this pilot study, urinary exosomal
      thyroglobulin provides a non-invasive, reproducible, convenient, serial and correct follow-up
      for patients with thyroid cancer, because the investigators use peptide sequence to quantify
      the levels of thyroglobulin in urine exosome. Significant reduction in cost-spending in rhTSH
      consumption, and patients do not need to stop using thyroid hormone during the course of
      cancer follow-up. In recent years, the progress of peptides mass spectrometry provided a
      cost-effective, correct and new pathway for the discovery of biomarkers. Large profiling of
      proteomics of human urine reveled different follow-up manners. In the viewpoints of oncology,
      one option is to find new biomarkers for earlier diagnosis of various cancers, and the other
      is to make a breakthrough for follow-up residual tumor and cancer recurrence. The goal of our
      pilot study is trying to find the new pathway for tracking the biomarker in patients with
      thyroid cancer receiving ablative surgery and radioactive I-131 treatment.
    
  