
    
      Background: Continuous video-EEG monitoring (cEEG) is a non-invasive tool to monitor the
      electrical brain function; it significantly improves seizure or status epilepticus detection
      in comatose patients in intensive care units (ICUs), which often do not show any specific
      clinical correlates. Recently, the European Society of Intensive Care Medicine published
      guidelines regarding the use of cEEG in the ICUs, recommending it for most patients with
      consciousness disorders. cEEG is time- and resource consuming as compared to routine spot EEG
      (rEEG, typically lasting 20-30 minutes). While centers in North America have been using it
      increasingly, most European - and all Swiss - hospitals still do not have enough resources to
      comply with these guidelines. In addition, while the superiority of cEEG to detect
      non-convulsive seizures or status epilepticus is proven, only one population-based study
      based on discharge diagnoses suggested that cEEG may improve patients' outcome. Current
      guidelines are thus based upon weak evidence and expert opinions. If cEEG leads to improved
      patients' care remains elusive. Moreover, little attention has been drawn towards
      quantitative EEG information beyond visual analysis, and the impact of such information on
      diagnosis, treatment, and outcome remains unclear.

      Aim: To assess whether the use of cEEG in patients with consciousness impairment is related
      to an improvement of functional outcome, and to address the prognostic role of quantitative
      network EEG analyses in this cohort. Also, a cost analysis will be performed.

      Methods: In this multicenter randomized controlled trial, adults with a Glasgow Coma Score
      (GCS) inferior or equal to 11 or a FOUR score inferior or equal to 12, regardless of
      etiologies, will be randomized 1:1 to cEEG for 30-48 hours or two rEEG within 48 hours,
      interpreted in a standardized way. Patients with detected seizures in the last 36h or status
      epilepticus in the last 96h will be excluded, as cEEG may represent the standard of care.
      Demographics, etiology, Charlson Comorbidity Index, GCS, diagnosis leading to EEG, mechanical
      ventilation, and subsequent use of rEEG/cEEG will be collected. The primary outcome will be
      mortality at 6 months. Secondary outcomes will blindly assess functional outcome at 4 weeks
      and 6 months, as well as seizure/status epilepticus detection rate and time to detection,
      infections rate, duration of ICU stay, change in patient management (antiepileptic drug
      introduced, increased, or stopped, brain imaging), and reimbursement. Analyses will compare
      the two interventional groups (intention to diagnose) regarding outcome, as a whole and
      stratified according to etiological subgroups, and other variables of interest. Additionally,
      lope cross correlation and horizontal visibility graphs will be applied to compute a weighted
      adjacency matrix consisting of all the pairwise interdependences between EEG signals, in
      order to characterize the integrative and segregative characteristics of the underlying
      functional brain networks and compare their relationship with the primary outcome. According
      to a previous estimate, patients with consciousness disorders undergoing cEEG have a 75%
      survival rate; while patients w/o cEEG 61%. Using a power of 0.8, an α error of 0.05, and a
      2-side approach, 2x174 patients would be needed to detect this significant difference in
      survival.

      Expected impact: This study will clarify if cEEG monitoring has a significant impact on
      functional outcome and define its cost effectiveness, and if network EEG analysis has a role
      in outcome prognostication. The results of this study will have a considerable potential to
      influence clinical practice regarding EEG and treatment of patients with altered levels of
      consciousness. If results will indicate that cEEG contributes to improve outcome, this will
      lead to the urgent need for implementation of cEEG with consecutive substantial impact on
      health care and resource allocation in larger Swiss and European hospitals.
    
  