
    
      Among 2.500 IBD patients the investigators will consecutively from the Gastroenterology
      out-patient clinic at North Zealand University Hospital recruit in total 120 in the study.

      At the out-patient consultation IBD patients will be informed about the project and the IBD
      eHealth nurse ensures that no exclusion criteria met by the patient.

      Inclusion criteria: IBD patients in remission, SCCAI ≤ 2 (Simple Clinical Colitis Activity
      Index )) or HBI < 5 (Harvey & Bradshaw Activity Index ) or in mild to moderate disease
      activity ( SCCAI 3-4, HBI < 16) IBD patients who can read, speak and understand Danish IBD
      patients that can take advantage of the Internet and wireless network 18years or older.

      Exclusion criteria: IBD patients with severe disease activity HB > 16 SCCAI ≥ 5 ) IBD
      patients with social, medical or psychological issues of a more complex character IBD
      patients with particularly complex issues such as drug and alcohol problems, severe mental /
      psychiatric disorders and / or serious social impact. IBD patients who cannot attend due to
      language barrier or cognitive disorder and IBD patients less than 18 years old.

      When the patient has agreed to participate in this cohort study, they will measure their
      fecal calprotectin (FC) on any smart phone, rate their Disease activity (SCCAI or HBI) and
      send in a fecal sample for dysbiosis analysis/microbiome analysis. The Patients will do this
      every 3 month or on demand in an ehealth setting (see elaboration below).

      Patients log in at www.noh.constant-care.dk throughout the project period of 12 months. When
      the patient log in to the telemedicine platform following scoring must be filled out:

        -  Send in a fecal sample for microbiome analysis/ Dysbiosis index (DI)

        -  Disease activity, respectively SCCAI or HBI.

        -  Quality of life assessment, s - IBDQ

        -  FACIT (Fatigue score)

        -  MARS ( Medical Adherence Rating Scale)

        -  FC, fecal calprotectin mg / kg feces) with SMART phone, rapid home test. If the patients
           prefer to send the feces test, it will be tested in the Gastro unit lab. at the hospital
           with SMART phone.

      The results of the scoring systems will appear to the health professionals and patients in a
      traffic light manner turning into red, yellow and green.

      If the patient experiences a recurrence of the disease, it moves from green to either yellow
      or red area in the traffic graph, and patient will further be instructed to contact Gastro
      medical clinic project nurse for an early consultation and decision on further treatment
      initiative. This will also be indicated at the patient's website. If alarm symptoms occurs
      patients are instructed to contact the project nurse. Thus patients are treated in accordance
      to national and international guideline.
    
  