
    
      Shoulder pain is one of the common musculoskeletal disorders. A self- administered
      patient-based questionnaire has an important role for evaluate shoulder disabilities and also
      it is helpful for assess the treatment success.The purpose of this study is to determine the
      Turkish version of the Shoulder Rating Questionnaire (SRQ) and assign reliability and
      validity in Turkish patients.The Turkish version of the Shoulder Rating Questionnaire (SRQ-T)
      will be applied to patients after translation from English into Turkish. 122 patients will be
      participate to the study. Patients who were over 18 years with various shoulder pain
      complaints will be included into the study. The patients with mixed-type pain, cancer pain,
      headache, substance abuse, severe depression and fibromyalgia syndrome will be excluded. The
      musculoskeletal and neurological examinations of the patients will be performed. The Turkish
      version of the Shoulder Rating Questionnaire (SRQ-T) and Disabilities of arm, shoulder,
      hands-T (DASH-T) will be applied to all patients.

      SRQ-T and DASH-T will be collected in two sessions with at last three days between the
      sessions for pre-assessment and post-assessment. Reliability of SRQ-T questionnaire will be
      tested by internal consistency and test-retest reliability. Internal consistency will be
      evaluated by determining intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) with 95% confidence
      interval, ranged between 0 and 1.

      To determine the internal consistency of the five domains of SRQ-T, Cronbach's alfa
      coefficient will be computed for both pre- and post-assessment of the questionnaire. The
      test-retest method with Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test will be used to determine reliability of
      SRQ-T and its domains. Then, Spearman correlation coefficients will be used to assess the
      discriminant validity of SRQ-T for evaluation of shoulder pain. The Spearman correlation
      coefficient score more than 0.70 will be accepted for reliability
    
  