
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the event free survival of children with advanced stage large cell
      lymphoma treated with modified APO (doxorubicin/prednisone/vincristine/mercaptopurine) with
      or without intermediate-dose methotrexate/high dose cytarabine as maintenance therapy
      following induction therapy with APO. II. Characterize further the immunophenotypic and
      morphologic correlates of pediatric large cell lymphoma.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms, except for those with CNS disease. These patients are assigned to arm II and
      receive whole brain irradiation on Regimen B. Arm I: Induction (Modified APO): Patients
      receive vincristine IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29, doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes on days 1
      and 22, prednisone three times a day on days 1-28, and methotrexate intrathecally (IT) on
      days 1, 8, and 22. Patients in complete remission on day 43 proceed to maintenance, those in
      partial remission undergo biopsy then proceed to maintenance, and those with residual disease
      receive radiotherapy on regimen A concurrently with maintenance. Maintenance (day 1 is day 43
      of Induction): Courses of intermediate dose methotrexate/leucovorin calcium and high dose
      cytarabine (ID MTX/CF/HD ARA-C) and modified APO alternate every 3 weeks. Patients receive a
      total of 15 courses (8 of ID MTX/CF/HD ARA-C and 7 of Modified APO). ID MTX/CF/HD ARA-C:
      Patients receive methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 1, leucovorin calcium IV or orally
      every 6 hours on days 2 and 3, cytarabine IV over 48 hours on days 2 to 4, and methotrexate
      IT on day 1 of courses 1, 3, and 5. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered beginning on day 5 and
      continuing until blood counts recover. Modified APO: Patients receive vincristine IV on day
      1, oral mercaptopurine on days 1-5, doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes on day 1, and oral
      prednisone three times a day on days 1-5. Arm II: Induction: Patients receive treatment as in
      arm I except that patients with CNS disease also receive methotrexate IT on days 15, 29, and
      36. Maintenance (day 1 is day 43 of Induction): Modified APO: as in Arm I, with methotrexate
      administered on day 1 of courses 1, 3, and 5 (days 1-5 for patients with CNS disease).
      Courses repeat every 21 days for a total of 15 courses. Patients with CNS disease begin
      radiotherapy on Regimen B on week 2 of maintenance. Regimen A: Patients begin radiotherapy (5
      days a week for 4.5 weeks) to residual tumor on day 1 of maintenance. Regimen B: Patients
      receive whole brain irradiation (5 days a week for 3.1 weeks) beginning on day 1 of
      maintenance. Patients are followed monthly for 6 months, every 3 months for 18 months, every
      6 months for 3 years, and annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 242 patients will be accrued for this study over approximately
      5.4 years.
    
  