
    
      Background Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) enables non-invasive, continuous monitoring of
      oxygenation and perfusion in different tissues. In several studies NIRS has been described to
      have the potential to detect centralisation due to perfusion heterogeneity, arterio-venous
      shunting and impaired autoregulation. Thus, peripheral muscle NIRS measurement has the
      potential to provide information at early stages of inflammation also due to infection, due
      to microvascular dysfunction, when other routine vital parameters are still within normal
      ranges.

      Objectives

      Primary aim To assess, if pFTOE measured by five short NIRS (re-)applications within the
      first 6 hours after birth differs in neonates with early onset infection and neonates without
      infection.

      Secondary aims To assess, if cerebral fractional tissue oxygen extraction (cFTOE) and
      cFTOE/pFTOE measured by five short NIRS (re-)applications within the first 6 hours after
      birth differs in neonates with early onset infection and neonates without infection. To
      assess, if there is a difference in pFTOE, cFTOE and cFTOE/pFTOE between term and preterm
      neonates.

      Methods

      Study population: Term and preterm neonates ≥30+0 weeks of gestation with respiratory
      distress and risk factors for infection admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU)
      on the first day after vaginal delivery or caesarean section on the first day after birth
      will be eligible for this study. Inclusion criteria are signs of respiratory distress at
      time-point of inclusion, age <6h and decision to conduct full life support. There will be
      four groups consisted with term(1) and preterm(2) neonates with early onset infection and
      term(3) and preterm(4) neonates without.

      Procedure: Patients and maternal medical history, routinely sampled laboratory results and
      blood culture will be documented in each neonate.

      Measurement: The NIRS-measurement will take place once within 6 hours after birth. For NIRS
      measurements the NIRO 200NX will be used and the NIRS sensors will be applied by hand on the
      right forearm (pTOI) and on the left forehead (cTOI) until stable signals are obtained for
      approximately 30 seconds, respectively. Then the sensors will be removed for 10sec rest
      period. After that the sensors will be reapplied in approximately the same positions. This
      procedure will be repeated five times.

      Level of originality As many term and preterm neonates are admitted to the NICU after birth
      due to respiratory distress, there is growing interest in methods enabling to recognize
      subtle early signs like micro-vascular dysfunction due to infection. In the present study the
      investigators want to evaluate in neonates with respiratory distress if peripheral muscle and
      cerebral FTOE measured by short reapplications with NIRS in the first hours after birth
      enables to recognize early microvascular dysfunction and compromised oxygenation due to
      infections.
    
  