
    
      The fifth edition of the The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5)
      opted for a categorical approach that introduced the Specific Learning Difficulties.
      Accordingly, it is thought that specific learning difficulties include many characteristics
      such as genetic risk, environmental risk factors, developmental characteristics, comorbidity
      and cognitive weaknesses. According to DSM-5, Specific Learning Difficulties are difficulties
      in using learning and school skills, which last at least six months, and are characterized by
      the presence of at least one of the following symptoms, despite the necessary attempts:

        1. Slowness and mistakes in reading words

        2. Difficulties in reading comprehension

        3. Problems with spelling

        4. Written expression difficulties

        5. Number perception and calculation problems experienced

        6. Numerical reasoning problems. In the literature, there are explanations about many
           cognitive limitations in children with specific learning difficulties, such as
           information processing, perceptual motor skills, processing of visual stimuli,
           phonological approach and the theory of cerebellum disorder. All of these cognitive
           limitations can also affect the dual task performance of these children.

      In daily life, individuals perform dual or multitasks instead of single tasks naturally. Dual
      task is defined as the concurrent performance of two tasks that can be performed
      independently. Also dual tasks may be created from different tasks combinations such as a
      motor-motor dual task or motor-cognitive dual task.

      However, no study investigating the effect of specific learning difficulties on walking
      parameters in single and dual task conditions has been found. In the light of the information
      is obtained from the literature, the gait parameters of children diagnosed with specific
      learning difficulties in single and dual task conditions may differ from the healthy control
      group. Therefore, this study's primary goal is to compare gait parameters in single and dual
      task conditions in children with Special Learning Disabilities with healthy controls.
    
  