
    
      The investigators will integrate the paper-based Medtable into the electronic medical record
      (EMR) system at the two research sites and evaluate whether this EMR-based tool improves
      patient/provider communication, patients' medication knowledge, and health outcomes. The EMR
      will produce Medtables that summarize patients' complex medication schedules with simple,
      direct language. The Medtable will be used interactively by providers and patients with
      complex self-care needs in order to create patient-specific adherence plans. Thus, the
      EMR-based Medtable will help integrate patient-centered communication practices into the
      prescribing and counseling phases of the medication use process. The Medtable will be used by
      nurses as part of medication reconciliation and counseling at general internal medicine
      clinics in Chicago and Peoria that provide routine care to outpatients with complex health
      care needs. The researchers seek to investigate adults who take complex medication regimens
      to treat their chronic illness and struggle with self-care (patients with diabetes or other
      metabolic disorders who have glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels higher than 7.0).
      Patients varying in age, education, and literacy/cognitive abilities will be recruited in
      order to explore whether the Medtable especially benefits those with lower health literacy,
      reducing literacy-related differences in medication knowledge, adherence, and outcomes.

      In Phase I, the investigators develop the EMR-based Medtable (Year 1). To collect initial
      feasibility data, the Medtable will be integrated into the EMR-supported practice of several
      physicians at general internal medicine clinics serving diverse patient populations at
      Northwestern Medical Foundation (Chicago) and OSF Medical Group (Peoria). Both sites use the
      Epic EMR system (Epic Systems Corp, Verona, WI). Through interviews and questionnaires the
      researchers will assess ease of using the Medtable as part of routine clinical practice.
      Preliminary data about physician adoption (e.g., frequency of generating Medtables for
      patients) will be collected. Patients of these physicians will be interviewed about ease of
      using the Medtable and whether it improves satisfaction with patient/provider communication,
      knowledge, and ability to take their medications. Medtable interface and protocol will be
      iteratively refined in response to provider and patient feedback.

      In Phase II, the researchers will use a randomized trial to evaluate the efficacy of the
      EMR-based Medtable as a provider/patient collaboration tool for improving patient knowledge
      and outcomes (Years 2-3).

      The researchers will use a random process to assign patients at each clinic site to the
      Medtable intervention or to usual care condition. For the intervention, the Medtable will be
      integrated into routine patient activities during office visits: a) during intake,
      intervention nurses generate the Medtable via the EMR and reconcile medication lists by
      working with patients; b) at the end of the visit, the nurses and patients use the Medtable
      to develop easy to understand and implement patient-specific plans for taking the
      medications. Patients take home a hardcopy of their Medtable-based schedule to guide
      adherence, and the electronic copy is integrated with the patient EMR.

      Outcome measures (for both intervention and usual care patients) are medication knowledge
      (immediately, 3, and 6 months after the Medtable intervention is introduced), adherence
      (baseline, 3 and 6 months), and HbA1c level (baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months). Finally, data
      about how the Medtable is used will be collected, including frequency of generating the
      Medtable during patient visits, and time required to generate and use the Medtable during
      routine office visits.
    
  