
    
      After patients have been selected and consented for this study, they will fill out a series
      of questionnaires. These surveys are used to stratify the patient's disease activity, assess
      perception of disease limitations including quality of life, fatigue and pain. We intend to
      use the Systemic Lupus Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI) to quantify disease activity and the
      SLICC to characterize the study population.

      Pain, fatigue and depression will be assessed with the Pain Visual analogue scale, Fatigue
      Severity Score (FSS), Patient Global Assessment and BECK depression scale. Other initial data
      to be collected include patient's prednisone dose and resting heart rate. No specific
      laboratory data will be collected for this study. Patients will continue with standard of
      care monitoring based on their disease activity and medications.

      The 100 patients will be randomized approximately 50 in the exercise group and 50 in the
      relaxation therapy group. The relaxation group will serve as the control arm of the study.
      The patients in the relaxation therapy group will then undergo a training session on
      biofeedback as well as receive further materials on relaxation techniques and a relaxation
      tape. The relaxation tape will request subjects to systematically contract and relax eleven
      isolated muscle groups. These muscle groups include; hands and wrists, biceps and triceps,
      shoulders alone, neck, tongue and mouth, eyes, nose and forehead, back alone, abdominal area
      alone, thighs alone, calves and feet and finally toes alone. This group of subjects will be
      asked to perform relaxation exercises at home a minimum of three times a week.

      The subjects in the exercise group will have visits about 2 times per week for a total of 8
      weeks, for a total of 16 visits. The first visit will include a general evaluation (strength,
      range of motion, standing balance, gait assessment, baseline vitals), determination of heart
      rate range for exercise and explanation of exercise portion of the study and home exercise
      program. Visits 2 through 16 you will participate in simple, supervised exercise at the
      physical therapy center at the University of Chicago. Heart rates will be measured several
      times throughout your exercise visits. Additionally, subjects will be asked to rate your
      level of pain, your blood pressure will be taken before and after and you will be advised
      regarding at home exercises.

      Each subject will be seen for 16 visits total, unless a he/she stops attending PT sessions on
      their own.
    
  