
    
      Hypertension is still one of the major preventable risk factor for cardiovascular as well as
      cerebrovascular diseases globally, including ischaemic heart disease, heart failure, and
      renal impairment. Despite knowledge on hypertension and the availability of effective
      antihypertensive medications have progressed dramatically in recent years, the rate of
      uncontrolled hypertension ( reached 90%) remains high in China[1]. Among those with
      uncontrolled hypertension，it has been reported that 8.9% in all individuals with
      hypertension, and 12.8% in the hypertensive drug-treated population[2] are attributed to
      resistant hypertension. Resistant hypertension has been defined by AHA as high blood pressure
      (BP) in spite of appropriate lifestyle interventions and treatment of three or more different
      types of antihypertensive drugs at optimal dose, including at least one diuretics[3,4] or
      achieving adequate BP control with optimal doses of 4 or more antihypertensive drugs.

      At present, not many specifically designed prospective researches concerning resistant
      hypertension are available. The prevalence of resistant hypertension is not well established
      and most knowledge about resistant hypertension derives from cross-sectional analyses and
      clinical trials. The patients with resistant hypertension have been expected to have server
      target damage, and worse prognosis than those who are non-resistant, but not well established
      either in the literature[2].

      The purpose of this study is to determine the prevalence of resistant hypertension
      ascertained with systemic investigation and optimal treatment with antihypertensive drugs in
      community populations and clinic as well as the prognosis among patients with resistant
      hypertension compared with those who are non-resistant.

      Subjects：Total 9638 patients with hypertension were recruited on December 31 2015，50% from 5
      communities screening, 50% from consecutive clinic hypertensive patients. The expected rate
      of resistant hypertension is 6% in hypertensive population.

      Objectives:

        1. True prevalence of resistant hypertension In order to obtain the true burden of
           resistant hypertension, a uniform definition of resistant hypertension were applied, AHA
           definition[4], "high blood pressure (BP) remained in spite of appropriate lifestyle
           interventions and treatment of three or more different types of antihypertensive drugs
           at optimal dose, including at least one diuretics or achieving adequate BP control with
           optimal doses of 4 or more antihypertensive drugs.

             1. To exclude pseudoresistant hypertension

             2. To avoid inaccurate measurement of blood pressure

             3. To make sure that both the patients and the physicians are adherent to therapeutic
                plans and to lifestyle interventions.The physicians comply with guidelines and
                actively pursue adequate blood pressure for their patients. Ninety per cent of the
                patients take recommended optimal daily doses of their antihypertensive medications
                at follow-up for 6 months as well as more than 85% for 2 years(less than 50% at
                present) Incidence of resistant hypertension TREATMENT RECOMMENDATIONS This is a
                practical clinical trial,no specific antihypertensive drugs are going to be tested
                in the trial.The antihypertensive drugs are selected according to guidelines.

                Treatment duration: six months of intensive treatment(optimal dose and type of
                drugs),blood pressure does not reach goal.

                The treatment of secondary causes of hypertension are referred to pertinent
                specialists.

                Appropriate lifestyle interventions are always encouraged:

                Nonpharmacological therapy:

                Reversal of lifestyle factors contributing to treatment resistance,

                  -  DASH diet is encouraged to follow, lower salt diet (ideal goal< 100 mEq of
                     sodium/24 h,evaluated with 24h urine collection), low fat and high fibre diet,

                  -  weight loss if obese or overweight,

                  -  moderation of alcohol intake to no more than two drinks per day for men and
                     one drink for women or lighter-weight persons,

                  -  smoking cessation,

                  -  regular physical activity.

                Optimal pharmacological therapy

                Drug treatment of resistant hypertension:

                  -  Diuretics: Usually taking thiazide, among patients with an estimated
                     glomerular filtration < 40 mL/min per m2(body surface area), thiazide
                     diuretics become less effective and loop diuretics should be used instead,
                     such as furosemide, which needs at least twice daily dosing due to its short
                     half-life.

                  -  Aldosterone antagonists, add-on therapy to use in resistant hypertension:
                     spironolactone 25 mg once a day.

                  -  In order to get better adherence to antihypertensive drug therapy, and better
                     antihypertensive effects and less side effects, combination medicine is
                     encouraged to use and the use of which class combinations follows guidelines
                     and ASH recommendation(2011),but this is the choice of patients and
                     physicians.

                  -  Renal denervation with catheter-based radiofrequency ablation is not performed
                     in this trial.

             4. To rule out white-coat effect：It has been reported that 20%-30% of patients with
                apparent resistant hypertension referred for ambulatory BP monitoring in fact have
                normal BP readings[5].When patients have higher BP levels than 140 over 90 mmHg
                when measured by the physician than when assessed at home or with AMBP( ambulatory
                monitoring blood pressure) which is called white-coat hypertension. The patients
                with white-coat hypertension have less severe target organ damage and
                cardiovascular risk than those with persistent elevated blood pressure in
                ambulatory monitoring.

             5. Reversing of contributing lifestyle factors for high blood pressure.

                  -  Obesity

                  -  High dietary salt intake (controlled at 6 grams daily as possible as we can).

                  -  The recognition and avoid of other common contributing factors such as
                     non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use, oral contraceptive hormones

                  -  The recognition and treatment of progressive renal impairment.

             6. To rule out carefully the potential reversible causes of hypertension by medical
                history, physical examination, biochemical evaluation, and/ or non-invasive
                imaging. If diagnosed， pertinent therapy is given to the secondary hypertension:

                  -  Sleep apnoea

                  -  Primary aldosteronism , reported prevalence of approximately 20% in resistant
                     hypertension[6]

                  -  Renal parenchymal disease and renal artery stenosis

                  -  Aortic coarctation

                  -  Cushing syndrome

                  -  Pheochromocytoma

             7. Biochemical evaluation, including serum sodium, potassium, glucose, and creatinine
                (creatinine clearance); plasma aldosterone and renin activity.

             8. 24-h urine collection to estimate dietary sodium, potassium, and aldosterone
                excretion. Testing for urinary or plasma metanephrines/catecholamines is indicated
                only when pheochromocytoma is suspected

             9. Non-invasive imaging is mandatory when there is a suspicion of renal artery
                stenosis, adrenal adenoma/tumour, parenchymal renal disease or aortic coarctation

        2. Target damage of resistant hypertension:

             1. left ventricular hypertrophy: ECG and echocardiography

             2. periphery artery disease: ABI,carotid

             3. kidney function: urinary microalbumin,cystatin C,creatinine eGFR

             4. coronary heart disease

             5. Stroke

        3. Prognosis: hard endpoints: acute coronary syndrome (including unstable angina, fatal and
           non-fatal myocardial infarction), stroke,all cause death, cardiovascular death

      Major modifications as follows:

        1. Recruitment status: total 9638 patients with hypertension were recruited on July
           31，2015. In order to observe the treatment resistance, more than 6 month-treatment
           period needed, so the recruiting was postponed to December 31, 2015, and
           treated-resistant hypertensives were diagnosed after full-dose antihypertensive
           treattment for 6 months or more(to December 31,2015).

        2. Target Follow-Up Duration: according to the modified protocol by PI and scientific
           committee of the study, and approved by ethic committee, this study has been divided as
           two stages:

           Stage-1: study the prevalence of treated-resistant hypertension, to December 31 2015.

           Stage-2: follow up was extended for 3 years to investigate the association of genetic
           risk factors as well as pharmacoepigenomic changes in antihypertensive drug-related
           metabolism enzymes and drug receptors with clinical phenotypes, including primary
           clinical endpoints, total death, cardiovascular death, acute myocardial infarction,
           stroke; secondary clinical events: rate of resistant hypertension, target organ damage,
           left ventricular hypertrophy, chronic kidney disease.Financial funding was supported by
           Qingdao HuangHai pharmaceutical.co., LTD.

        3. Intervention

      Since this is practical clinical trial, patients were allowed to receive any following
      antihypertensive drugs and dosage adjustment was based on JNC-cited clinical trials and also
      the recommendation in JAMA[7].

        -  Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors: Captopril, Benazepril, Enalapril, Perindopril,
           Lisinopril

        -  Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: Candesartan Cilexetil, Valsartan, Telmisartan,
           Irbesartan, and Olmesartan

        -  β-blockers：Atenolol, Metoprolol，Bisolol

        -  Calcium channel blockers: Nifedipine, Amlodipine

        -  Diuretics: Hydrochlorothiazide, Indapamide

      Treatment-Resistant Hypertension was defined as that blood pressure was still over 140/or
      over 90 mm Hg after taking 3 different classes of antihypertensive drugs for 6 months or more
      than 6 months, including one diuretics such as hydrochlorothiazide or indapamide or taking 4
      or more than 4 different classes of antihypertensive drugs.

      At stage-1 study, we investigated the prevalence of treated-resistant hypertension. But, the
      mechanism of treated-resistant hypertension has not been clarified. Previous study showed
      that a total of 248 drug metabolism pathways with known CYP involvement. Of 57 putatively
      functional human CYPs only about a dozen enzymes, belonging to the CYP1, 2, and 3 families,
      are responsible for the biotransformation of most foreign substances including 70%-80% of all
      drugs in clinical use[8]. We hypothesized that the resistance results from the either
      epigenomical modifications of the gene encoding the enzymes related to drug metabolism and
      the gene encoding drug receptors or genomic variants for cardiovascular disease (GWAS studies
      provided).

      To test our hypothesis, we proposed the epigenomic-modified targets as DNA methylation of the
      gene encoding metabolism enzymes and receptors of antihypertensive drugs. Target-1 is CYP2D6,
      involved in quarter of total clinical used drug metabolism，40% of them are used to treat
      cardiovascular disease. Other important CYP 450 enzymes targets involved in cardiovascular
      drug metabolism are CYP3A family, CYP2C family[8].

      For epigenomic study, patients were allowed to receive any one of the follow antihypertensive
      drugs and dosage adjustment was based on the JNC-7 cited clinical trials and the
      recommendation in JAMA[7]. The following antihypertensive therapy was used.

        -  Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors: Captopril, Benazepril, Enalapril, Perindopril,
           Lisinopril.

        -  Angiotensin II receptor antagonists: Candesartan Cilexetil, Valsartan, Telmisartan,
           Irbesartan, and Olmesartan.

        -  β-blockers：Atenolol, Metoprolol，Bisolol.

        -  Calcium channel blockers: Nifedipine, Amlodipine.

        -  Diuretics: Hydrochlorothiazide, Indapamide.

      Sample：Peripheral white blood cells.

      Sample collection：Before antihypertensive drugs, as well as year 1, 2, 3 on antihypertensive
      drug therapy (Time series with non-equivalent control group designs（multiple time series
      design).
    
  