
    
      Background: Recent advances in understanding the neurobiology underlying schizophrenia have
      underscored a pivotal role for a specific receptor for the neurotransmitter glutamate, the
      NMDA receptor, whose function may be impaired in the disorder. Enhancing transmission at the
      NMDA receptor may therefore provide a novel mechanism for treating schizophrenia. Over the
      past decade clinical trials that included supplementation with different compounds enhancing
      transmission at the NMDA receptor have provided positive results, particularly with D-serine.
      However, none of these trials focused specifically on young patients with recent onset
      schizophrenia. In addition, the optimal D-serine dose was not determined, although a
      preliminary report suggested that higher doses than those used in most studies may provide
      additional benefit, without significant safety concerns or side effects. Also, the
      pro-cognitive effects of D-serine were not systematically analyzed, although preliminary data
      supports a potential role for D-serine in ameliorating the cognitive deficits found in
      schizophrenia.

      Research Design: Over a two year period, 54 patients, male or female, aged 18-30 years who
      fulfill DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, will be entered into a
      12 week, parallel group, double blind, randomized controlled trial assessing the efficacy of
      placebo vs. DSR (up to 6000 mg/day) augmentation to standard antipsychotic therapy. First
      episode patients, and patients treated with clozapine, will be randomized separately.
      Patients will be entered into the trial in accordance with strict inclusion and exclusion
      criteria after the nature of the study has been explained to them and they have given written
      informed consent. Clinical evaluations will be performed at baseline and then at regular
      intervals during the trial. In addition, neurocognitive evaluations, electrophysiological
      assessments and determination of amino acids levels will be conducted at the beginning and
      end of the study. Treatment emergent adverse effects will be monitored.
    
  