
    
      The present study focuses on adult persons living with HIV who are not highly adherent to HIV
      medication and who do not evidence undetectable HIV viral load (the ultimate goal of HIV
      treatment). The study uses technology, is grounded in principles of behavioral economics, and
      uses the multiphase optimization strategy (MOST) to examine the acceptability, feasibility,
      and evidence of efficacy of three intervention components. The components are intended to
      increase rates of HIV viral suppression in the sample. All participants receive a core
      intervention comprised of referrals to care and case management. The three components are:
      compensation for viral suppression (fixed compensation or lottery-type prizes), weekly text
      messages and quiz questions (TMQQ) for 21 weeks that generate points to earn compensation (to
      foster engagement), and three counseling sessions grounded in the motivational interviewing
      (MI) approach to help participants articulate goals with respect to health and viral
      suppression, identify and resolve barriers to HIV medication use, and build motivation for
      viral suppression. We have previously tested variations of these components together as a
      "packaged" intervention and found high acceptability, feasibility, and evidence of efficacy.
      We now seek to understand this approach with more precision by testing the effects of
      individual components using MOST. The components will be tested in a factorial design with 8
      intervention conditions. Consistent with the factorial design, each condition will comprise a
      unique combination of components. Each condition includes at least one component.
      Participants will be recruited by a proven hybrid strategy that includes peer recruitment,
      ads placed in a free newspaper, and direct recruitment from an NYU Recruitment Registry
      managed by Dr. Gwadz. Participants will be screened for eligibility and a total of 80 adult
      persons living with HIV and with detectable HIV viral load will be enrolled in the study and
      randomly assigned to an intervention condition. Participants will be assessed at baseline and
      5- and 8-months post-baseline with a structured assessment battery. A subset will receive
      in-depth interviews. The primary outcome is viral suppression. This is a pilot study. It is
      not powered for efficacy but we will examine evidence of efficacy. All study activities can
      be carried out in a virtual format, and we can switch to in-person contact for screening,
      assessment, and some components when appropriate. In-person activities would be conducted at
      the New York University Silver field site in Manhattan. The study is funded through the
      Constance and Martin Silver Artificial Intelligence and Social Impact Fund at the New York
      University Silver School of Social Work.
    
  