
    
      The disease severity instruments for pemphigus and BP, the Pemphigus Disease Area Index
      (PDAI) and the Bullous Pemphigoid Disease Area Index (BPDAI), respectively, have the
      potential to capture changes in all grades of disease activity, including mild disease, and
      therefore represent a substantial improvement over simple lesion counts or measurements of
      affected body surface area. However, full validation of the PDAI and BPDAI for use in
      clinical trials will require additional and more extensive measurements that will enable us
      to classify patients correctly by disease severity and define the minimal change in score
      that is clinically significant.

      This database study will compare the Pemphigus Disease Area and Severity Index (PDAI) and the
      Bullous Pemphigoid Disease Area Index (BPDAI) against other disease severity measures,
      including the Autoimmune Bullous Skin Disorder Intensity Score (ABSIS) and a physician's
      global assessment. Additionally, patients will be asked to rate their overall disease
      severity using a visual analogue scale, the patient's global assessment. Participants will
      also have the option to donate blood samples to our AIBD blood bank for immunologic and
      pathophysiologic studies.

      The purpose of this database study will also be to evaluate quality of life (QoL) measures
      and correlate these QoL measures with disease severity in patients with pemphigus and BP. QoL
      is an important and independent component of disease impact on patients. This database study
      will use the following QoL measures: the SF-36, which is a nonspecific QoL measure; the
      Skindez-29 and the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), which are dermatology-specific
      instruments; the Autoimmune Bullous Disease Quality of Life (ABQOL) and Treatment of
      Autoimmune Bullous Disease Quality of Life (TABQOL) questionnaires, which are AIBD-specific
      tools. The results will be utilized in planning future clinical studies.

      The AIBD study will be conducted only at Penn at this time. Data from the study will be
      entered into a password protected, web-based database that is used only at Penn.
    
  