
    
      The prevalence rate of myopia is rising rapidly in several Asian countries. A prevalence
      survey conducted in 1995 of 11178 school children in Taiwan were 12 percent for six year old
      and 84 percent for teenagers 16 o 18 years. Among them, twenty percent were high myopes.
      While in the United States and Europe the prevalence rate in older adults is 20% to 50%. The
      rate of progression of myopia is highest in young children, and the average age of
      stabilization of myopia is approximately 16 years.The onset of myopia may occur at a
      relatively young age, leading to higher risks of high myopia (myopia at least 6.0 diopters )
      in adulthood. High myopia is associated with potentially blinding complications. Therefore,
      prevention of myopia progression is important in Taiwan, especially in young children.

      There is some evidence that atropine eyedrops retard myopia progression in three randomized
      clinical trials. It is believed that atropine act on muscarinic receptor located in the
      sclera and through some unknown mechanism retard the elongation rate of axial length.
      However, the possible long-term side effects such as cataract formation and retinal toxicity,
      are largely unknown. Photophobia in daily life, accommodation difficulty both decrease the
      acceptance of atropine usage and compliance.

      There are some evidence that the rate of axial elongation of eyeball are different between
      pre-myopic stage and myopic stage. Therefore, if we can use low concentration of atropine
      eyedrops before myopia development. Maybe we can prevent abnormal axial length elongation
      with lower dosage of atropine eyedrops compared with daily use of atropine eyedrops in true
      myopia stage.

      Clinical study was conducted by randomized control trial. 60 school-aged children were
      recruited ( Age 7 to 12 years ). All with pre-myopia ( spherical equivalent between +0.50 and
      -0.75 ) after cycloplegic refraction. Visual acuity of naked eyes are above 0.6. None of them
      had tropia, amblyopia, eyelid disease, ocular problems. The astigmatism was less than -1.0D
      and anisometropia was less than 1.0D. The children were randomly assigned into two groups by
      using randomized consent design. The first group use 0.25% atropine once a week. The second
      group keep traditional treatment using 0.5% tropicamide eyedrop every day. All children had
      complete ophthalmologic examination before enrollment. Follow-up examinations were performed
      every 3 months for 12 months duration. These examinations included visual acuity of naked
      eye. Intraocular pressure, refractive status. The cycloplegic refraction and axial length
      were measured every 6 months.
    
  