
    
      1. To determine gender differences, a questionnaire was mailed to a random sample of 800
           members with asthma in Kaiser Permanente Northwest (KPNW) and 800 in KP Colorado (KPC)
           Regions, which are large, group-model health maintenance organizations. Results were
           combined with information from administrative databases on health care utilization..

        2. The telephone intervention study was conducted within KPNW. 6,948 eligible HMO members
           were identified from the electronic medical record (EMR). Individuals 18 or older were
           eligible for the study if they were either (1) on the KPNW high risk asthma registry or
           (2) had at least 180 days of anti-asthma medication dispensings and at least one medical
           contact for asthma during a specified two-year period. Excluded were 850 individuals who
           had COPD listed in the electronic medical record.

      Eligible individuals were randomly assigned to either usual care (n=3,367) or telephone
      outreach (n=3,581); 192 members of the telephone outreach group were randomly selected to
      receive calls from a real person, while the remaining 3,389 received automated calls.

      The intervention consisted of three rounds of calling, spaced ~five months apart. Calls
      consisted of a brief series of questions to assess (1) recent emergency department or
      hospital care without a follow-up visit, (2) current level of asthma control, (3) current
      patterns of asthma medication use, and (4) whether the member could identify a primary
      provider for asthma care. (Sel-identified COPD patients received an abbreviated intervention
      but were kept on the call list unless a diagnosis of COPD was subsequently added in thier
      EMR.)

      Based on the responses to these initial questions, members were offered tailored feedback
      regarding their overall level of asthma control and use of asthma medications. Feedback was
      designed to convey a positive message and not be prescriptive. The call concluded with an
      offer to receive information about additional Kaiser Permanente (KP) resources (a toll-free
      health line and KP's online website for members), followed by an offer to call again in five
      months.

      The calls were brief and lasted less than 10 minutes. Participants could refuse the tailored
      feedback. To maximize participation, calls were made using speech recognition (or speech
      enabled) technology, rather than requiring the respondent to respond by pushing buttons.

      Automated and live person calls used identical scripts. Responses to the questions were
      computerized and used to generate different text messages that were entered into the
      electronic medical record and logged as telephone encounters. Members identified as being at
      high risk of a future acute exacerbation were brought to the attention of the system,
      ensuring that a clinician would have to physically review the encounter and initiate a
      follow-up contact with the patient.

      Consistent with a standard intention to treat analysis, all randomized individuals were
      included in the analysis, even if they opted not to participate in the calls.

      Primary outcomes of the study related to health care utilization, medication use, and quality
      of life. A secondary outcome was the extent to which the intervention could be successfully
      implemented, and the reaction to the intervention by patients and providers. Extensive
      process data was collected, including a survey of providers whose patients were enrolled in
      the intervention, mailed surveys to members, feedback from members obtained immediately
      following the third intervention call, and an audit of those charts where the encounter was
      left open to determine what, if any, follow-up occurred. Participation at each round of
      calling was also tracked.

      Follow-up data was obtained from a survey of 1,583 randomly selected KPNW members one month
      following the final calling period and from an analysis of health care utilization data from
      the start of the initial calling until one month following the last round of calling. The
      response rate for the follow-up survey was 65% for both intervention participants and control
      participants.
    
  