
    
      The Head Start Family and Child Experiences Survey 2014-2018, or FACES 2014, is the sixth in
      a series of national studies of Head Start, with earlier studies conducted in 1997, 2000,
      2003, 2006, and 2009. It includes nationally representative samples of Head Start programs
      and centers, classrooms, children and their families. Data from surveys of Head Start program
      and center directors, classroom teachers, and parents provide descriptive information about
      program policies and practices, classroom activities, and the background and experiences of
      Head Start staff and families. Classroom observations are used to assess the quality of Head
      Start classrooms. Children in the study participate in a direct assessment that provides a
      rich picture of their school readiness skills at different time points.

      FACES 2014 uses a new study design that differs from earlier rounds of FACES in several
      important ways: (1) it includes larger program and classroom samples, (2) all data are
      collected in a single program year, (3) the baseline sample of children includes both
      children enrolled in their first and second year of Head Start, and (4) several special
      studies are conducted along with the main or Core study to collect more detailed information
      about a given topic, to study new populations of Head Start programs and participants, and to
      evaluate measures for possible use in future rounds of FACES. For example, the Family
      Engagement Plus study in spring 2015 collected information from parents and staff (teachers
      and family services staff) on family engagement efforts and service provision in Head Start
      programs. Additional Plus topic modules in spring 2017 gathered information on program
      functioning from teachers and directors.

      The Office of Head Start, the Administration for Children and Families, other federal
      agencies, local programs, and the public have depended on FACES for valid and reliable
      national information on (1) the skills and abilities of Head Start children, (2) how Head
      Start children's skills and abilities compare with preschool children nationally, (3) Head
      Start children's readiness for and subsequent performance in kindergarten, and (4) the
      characteristics of the children's home and classroom environments. The FACES study is
      designed to enable researchers to answer a wide range of research questions that are crucial
      for aiding program managers and policymakers. Some of the questions that are central to FACES
      include:

        1. What are the demographic characteristics of the population of children and families
           served by Head Start? How has the population served by Head Start changed?

        2. What are the experiences of families and children in the Head Start program? How have
           they changed?

        3. What are the cognitive and social skills of Head Start children at the beginning and end
           of the program year?

        4. Has Head Start program performance improved over time?

        5. What are the qualifications of Head Start teachers in terms of education, experience,
           and credentials?

        6. What is the observed quality of Head Start classrooms as early learning environments,
           including the level and range of teaching and interactions, provisions for learning,
           emotional and instructional support, and classroom organization? How has quality changed
           over time? What program- and classroom-level factors are related to observed classroom
           quality? How is observed quality related to children's outcomes and developmental gains?
    
  