
    
      This is an observational study of the routine clinical practice with no specific additional
      interventions required.

      Data acquisition (TEE patients)

        1. After screening for eligible patients, protocol and study details will be thoroughly
           explained to them.

        2. Strict fasting protocols were followed. A 22-gauge intravenous catheter was secured for
           drug administration. Each patient received standard anesthetic care monitors comprised
           of ECG (electrocardiography), oxygenation saturation (SpO2) and NIBP (non-invasive blood
           pressure). ECG and SpO2 (oxygenation saturation) were monitored continuously and NIBP
           were measured every 5 minutes. Supplemental oxygen (3~5 L/m) was given via nasal
           cannula, and SpO2 (oxygenation saturation) maintained above 90%. Intravenous bolus
           midazolam, alfentanil and propofol were given according to the anesthesiologist's
           preferences. Reference dosage range for midazolam is 0~5mg, alfentanil 0~1000mcg and
           propofol 0~60mg. Anesthetic depth was monitored with BIS and analgesia nociception index
           (ANI). BIS and ANI (analgesia nociception index) were for monitoring purposes only.

        3. Instrumentation began after loss of response as evaluated by the anesthesiologist with
           the modified observer's assessment/alertness scale (MOAA/S). Intolerable desaturation
           was managed with mask ventilation or insertion of a nasal airway. An MOAA/S score lesser
           than 2 was considered loss of response (LOR) and fit for instrumentation. MOAA/S score
           would be recorded at induction, instrumentation, and emergence phase. Recordings will be
           added if patient had a MOAA/S score greater than 2. ANI (analgesia nociception index)
           and forehead BIS monitors will be used as an adjunct to assess anesthetic depth.
           Additional drug boluses were given if the patient expresses pain or excessive movements
           observed.

        4. At the end of the procedure, the patient was observed until return of consciousness
           (MOAA/S > 5). The patients will be randomly divided into a model training group and a
           validation group after data acquisition by computer randomization using computer clock
           as seed.

      Data acquisition (Laryngeal mask patients)

        1. After screening for eligible patients, protocol and study details will be thoroughly
           explained to them.

        2. Strict fasting protocols were followed. A 22 or 20-gauge intravenous catheter was
           secured for drug administration. Each patient received standard anesthetic care monitors
           comprised of electrocardiography (ECG), SpO2 (oxygen saturation) and non-invasive blood
           pressure (NIBP). ECG and SpO2 (oxygen saturation) were monitored continuously and NIBP
           were measured every 5 minutes. Intravenous fentanyl and propofol were given according to
           the anesthesiologist's preferences. Reference dosage range for fentanyl 0~150mcg and
           propofol 0~200mg. Anesthetic depth was monitored with BIS and ANI (analgesia nociception
           index). BIS and ANI were for monitoring purposes only.

        3. Instrumentation began after loss of response as evaluated by the anesthesiologist with
           the MOAA/S score. A MOAA/S score lesser than 2 was considered LOR (loss of response) and
           fit for instrumentation. After LMA placement, sevoflurane was started at 2~3% with a
           fresh gas flow at 1~6 L/m. The end-tidal sevoflurane concentration would be maintained
           above 0.7 minimal alveolar concentration to avoid awareness. MOAA/S score would be
           recorded at induction, instrumentation, during skin incision/closure and emergence
           phase. Recordings would be added if patient had a MOAA/S score greater than 2. ANI
           (analgesia nociception index) and forehead BIS monitors would be used as an adjunct to
           assess anesthetic depth. Additional drug boluses were given if the patient expresses
           pain or excessive movements observed.

        4. At the end of the procedure, LMA was removed if the patient was breathing smoothly. The
           patient was observed until return of consciousness (MOAA/S > 5). The patients will be
           randomly divided into a model training group and a validation group after data
           acquisition by computer randomization using computer clock as seed.

      Model building, assessment and validation (both groups)

        1. Collected data were fed to a pharmacokinetic simulation software (TIVA trainer Version
           9.1) to calculate second-by-second plasma and effect-site drug concentration changes for
           all three drugs. The training patient group is used for model training. The bootstrap
           technique is used with 2000 iterations. Model fit was optimized using -2 Log likelihood
           (-2LL).

        2. MOAA/S, BIS and ANI (analgesia nociception index) models would be constructed.

        3. The results are validated with the validation patient data to confirm its clinical
           utility. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis is used to assess the
           quality of model prediction. ROC and area under the curve (AUC) will be compared between
           the training and validation group.
    
  