
    
      Prospective

      Patients will be recruited from clinics at University Hospital Southampton and Spire
      Southampton Hospital. If they agree in principle to participate they will be provided with
      the Patient Information Sheet (PIS) and consent forms. Having completed the consent forms
      (one for participant to keep and one for the site file) participants are assigned an
      alphanumeric study number, which will be written at the top of all questionnaires and
      research paperwork completed. A form detailing demographic information will be filled out on
      recruitment to provide data for comparative quantitative analysis.

      Prior to their operation, whether in hospital or by post (patient preference), they will
      complete a pre-operative ASFQ and FSFI questionnaire. These will be returned to the research
      team either in person (if completed by an inpatient) or returned in a pre-stamped addressed
      envelope. Copies of the National Joint Registry (NJR) data and PROMs will also be made and
      kept for evaluation alongside the questionnaire data. Patients will then complete the
      post-operative questionnaires and FSFI validated questionnaire at 6 and 12 months after their
      surgery. Questionnaires will be distributed to the patients in clinic at 6 months and sent to
      their home address at 12 months post-operatively (returned with stamped and addressed
      envelope).

      Retrospective

      Potential participant will be highlighted from previous inpatient list of patients eligible
      for participation. These patients will be contacted via telephone by a Good Clinical Practice
      (GCP) trained member of the research team member and invited to participate in the trial. If
      keen a PIS will be sent out to the patient's home address. The research team member will then
      follow-up with a phone-call to gain implied consent and complete an additional form detailing
      demographic information (the same information as the prospective cohort). The post-operative
      questionnaire, FSFI questionnaire and consent forms (one for participant to keep and one for
      the site file) with a stamped address envelope, will then be sent out to the participant to
      complete. Once documents are completed they will be returned to the research team.
      Questionnaires will be sent out at 6 and 12 months post-op where possible. Maximum time
      retrospective recruitment will be 12 months. The patient's NJR and PROMs will also be
      accessed for evaluation alongside the questionnaire data.
    
  