
    
      It is widely appreciated that almost all proteins and other biological macromolecular in vivo
      exist, at least transiently, as components of structural and functional complexes. This
      transient interaction in simple component solutions have been studied using well established
      daylight light scattering (LS) method which reflects molecular oscillation (7-12). Protein
      association, protein unfolding, protein aggregation and cellular crowding are known to affect
      the normal function of cellular system (13-19). In many cases, the resulting small changes in
      normal protein-protein intra- and intermolecular interactions are thought to lead to a
      variety of human diseases (20, 21). Based on these and the acquired knowledge on LS, the
      cutting edge technology, PIMS has been developed. PIMS is a label free technology that is
      able to study protein-protein and protein-solvent interactions in multi-component solutions.
      It provides individual real time dynamic fingerprint of total physiological macromolecular
      assemblies in a tissue in presence and absence of exogenous molecules (drug or drug
      candidate, peptide or protein).

      This technology is based on dynamic molecular resonance of proteins and macromolecules.
      Cellular extracts in physiological conditions are frozen at -37°C. Macromolecular spectra are
      registered as the temperature within the sample raises from -37 to 37°C. This provides,
      within the organ of interest, dynamic fingerprint of an individual entire macromolecular
      assemblies. The present technology can therefore rapidly and specifically determine the
      response of a tissue or cell when an exogenous molecule is administrated. It reflects patient
      molecular capacity to respond to the drugs effect and allows to identifying different
      subpopulations within a group in response to a specific treatment. It highlights the
      responders from non-responders to a given treatment.
    
  