
    
      Gingival recession is defined as apical displacement of gingival margin beyond the
      cementoenamel junction leading to the exposure of root surface. There are various etiologic
      factors for gingival recession like trauma, infection and other anatomical factors.

      Nowadays, periodontal plastic surgeries for treatment of gingival recession have become an
      important array due to increase in patient's esthetic demands and other conditions such as
      dentin hypersensitivity, root caries or abrasion, keratinized tissue augmentation and
      gingival margin discrepancy.

      Subepithelial connective tissue grafts (SCTG) are considered the gold standard to obtain
      maximum root coverage due to its characteristics of quick keratinization and periodontal
      connective tissue adherence, in addition to its good blood supply to the graft and high
      degree of gingival color match and esthetics. However, the application of this technique is
      limited by the thickness of the donor tissue, anatomical factors, limited quantity
      compromising their use in multiple recession, tissue morbidity, and technique sensitive with
      postoperative pain, bleeding and swelling.

      Accordingly, alternative membranes and new biomaterials have been introduced to overcome the
      limitations of SCTG.

      Platelet rich fibrin (PRF) was introduced; a second generation platelet concentrate. PRF
      contains growth factors that play an essential role in soft and hard tissue regeneration;
      they promote fibroblastic proliferation, increase tissue vascularization, enhance soft tissue
      healing potential and accelerate bone regeneration. These growth factors include (PDGFs),
      epidermal growth factor (EGF), transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β), vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF).

      Vestibular incision subperiosteal tunnel access (VISTA), a novel minimal invasive technique
      for achieving root coverage that overcome the limitation of the previous intrasulcular
      tunneling techniques.

      Hence this study will performed to evaluate the use of PRF in conjunction with VISTA
      technique in management of patients with multiple gingival recessions
    
  