
    
      Older adults who maintain their cognitive skills and abilities are able to live more
      independently than those whose skills have deteriorated. The costs (money, time, personnel)
      associated with providing cognitive stimulation programs to residents in long-term care homes
      often prohibit the delivery of these programs. The present study explored the efficacy of
      using volunteers to administer a stimulation program in two long-term care homes. The program
      focused on stimulating reasoning, attention, and memory abilities using uncomplicated,
      pen-and-paper exercises. Thirty-six resident participants and 16 volunteer participants were
      randomly assigned to one of two parallel groups, either the control or stimulation group.

      For eight weeks, three times each week, control group participants met for standard "friendly
      visits" (casual conversation between a resident and volunteer) and stimulation group
      participants met to work through a variety of exercises meant to stimulate the cognitive
      abilities of residents. Results were analyzed using a 2-way ANOVA and indicated statistically
      significant Group x Time interactions for Verbal Memory (F(1, 33) = 7.92, p = .008),
      Non-Verbal Memory (F(1, 33) = 6.8, p = .014), Learning (F(1, 33) = 5.27, p = .028), and
      Verbal Fluency (F (1, 33) = 5.56, p = .024).

      Volunteers completed a post-study questionnaire which indicated that the volunteers in the
      stimulation group found their skills-based interactions more stimulating for residents. Given
      this showing of improved resident abilities, it is reasonable to assert that the study does
      demonstrate that a volunteer-administered, cognitive stimulation program can provide
      measurable gains in the cognitive abilities of older adults. Further studies concerning the
      role of volunteers in the maintenance of the cognitive abilities of older adults are
      recommended.
    
  