
    
      In this proposed study, the objective is to further demonstrate the reliability of this
      printed electrochemical gas sensor in the form of a wearable device. This demonstration of
      reliability among human subjects is an essential part of product development. The monitor
      will be in a wristband or watch form, similar to a smart watch. This device will be modern,
      attractive and comfortable. It will also have smart watch features including measuring key
      physiological parameters (e.g., pulse) and eventually will have connectivity to apps on smart
      phones and other devices. The aim of the work is to provide a new, noninvasive transdermal
      alcohol monitor into the market. The transdermal alcohol monitoring market has few wearable
      products available and innovation has been lacking in this field. This new product will take
      advantage of current trends in wearable technology. As the public becomes more comfortable
      with wearable sensors, the blood alcohol monitor will become popular with people interested
      in health and fitness who want to track their alcohol intake. The product will provide a new,
      highly reliable and sensitive method for tracking blood alcohol level. This may be
      particularly beneficial to individuals who seek to reduce the risk of alcohol use by limiting
      peak blood alcohol level. If successful, this technology could be adopted in many areas
      including clinical and medical treatment, employee wellness programs, alcohol clinical
      trials, and as part of brief interventions that target at-risk drinkers.

      The specific objective of this study is to determine whether the printed electrochemical gas
      sensor designed to measure blood alcohol level will be sensitive and reliable when compared
      to a standard measure of blood alcohol level taken by a breathalyzer. If this sensor proves
      sensitive to changes in blood alcohol level and can reliably measure blood alcohol level
      relative to a "gold standard" method, there are significant opportunities to use this
      technology in consumer health applications and clinical research.
    
  