
    
      The five components of the study include the following:

      Expanded HIV Testing: The purpose of this part of the study is to increase the number of
      people being tested for HIV. In select study sites in the Bronx, NY, and Washington, D.C.,
      HIV testing will be expanded in emergency departments (EDs) and upon hospital admission. The
      study will provide additional resources to expand outreach and marketing efforts in these
      communities. This part of the study will take place over 36 months.

      Linkage-to-Care: This part of the study will take place over a 24-month period. The purpose
      is to compare the effectiveness of a financial incentive (FI) program to link HIV-infected
      people from HIV test sites to HIV care sites versus standard of care (SOC). Each HIV test
      site will be randomly assigned to either the FI program or SOC. At the FI sites, people who
      receive an HIV positive test result will receive a coupon that can be redeemed for gift cards
      at participating HIV care sites.

      Viral Suppression: This part of the study will assess the effectiveness of an FI program at
      helping HIV-infected people achieve and maintain a viral load of less than 400 copies/mL
      compared to SOC. Each HIV care site will be randomly assigned to either the FI program or
      SOC. At the FI sites, HIV-infected people will receive gift cards if their viral load remains
      below 400 copies/mL. People are eligible to receive FIs once every 3 months throughout the
      24-month study period.

      Prevention for Positives: The purpose of this component of the study is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of a computer-delivered counseling program that focuses on HIV risk reduction
      behaviors for HIV-infected people. Participants will be randomly assigned to the counseling
      program and SOC or SOC alone. All participants will answer questions on the computer about
      HIV testing and care at baseline and Months 3, 6, 9, 12, and 18. Study researchers will
      review participants' medical records at study entry and every 3 months up to Month 18.

      Survey of Patients and Providers: Participants in the Prevention for Positives component of
      the study will complete a computerized survey at the baseline and Month 12 visit, which will
      assess knowledge and attitudes about ART. Health care providers at the HIV care sites will
      complete Web-based surveys before and after the Viral Suppression component of the study.
    
  