
    
      liver flukes are disease affecting herbivorous animals and caused by Fasciola hepatica and
      Fasciola gigantica In Egypt, donkeys and camels as well, are hosts for Fasciola gigantica.
      Fascioliasis also affects man . number of humans infected with Fasciola spp. has been
      estimated at 2.6 million . Globally, fascioliasis due to both fluke species is conservatively
      thought to cause production losses of over US$3 billion per annum .

      These infection sources include foods, water and combinations of both. Ingestion of
      freshwater wild plants is the main source, with watercress and secondarily other vegetables
      involved. . Drinking of contaminated water, beverages and juices, ingestion of dishes and
      soups and washing of vegetables, fruits, tubercles and kitchen utensils with contaminated
      water are increasingly involved .

      . Two clinical stages are recognized in humam fascioliasis: An acute stage coincides with the
      larval migration and worm maturation in the hepatic tissue, and a chronic stage coincides
      with the persistence of Fasciola worms in the bile ducts

        -  the acute phase of fascioliasis is characterized by fever, abdominal pain,
           hepatosplenomegaly, gastrointestinal disturbances, skin rashes, high leukocyte count,
           eosinophilia, anemia, and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR); abnormal liver
           function tests have also been reported .

        -  The latent phase is characterized by nonspecific symptoms, including vague
           gastrointestinal disturbances, and intermittent eosinophilia.

        -  The chronic phase is characterized by regular and constant biliary obstruction; symptoms
           include biliary colic pain, intermittent jaundice, eosinophilia, and right
           upper-quadrant abdominal tenderness. However, the percentage of asymptomatic infections
           is high .

      Triclabendazole (TCBZ) is a benzimidazole derivative and is the current drug of choice for
      treating fascioliasis. What sets TCBZ aside from the other available fasciolicides is its
      ability to target flukes from as early as 3 days old right through to the fully mature stages
      ,. Due to the high prevalence of TCBZ resistance (TCBZ-R), effective management of drug
      resistance is now critical for sustainable livestock production Wich highlights the
      importance of plant essential oils as novel anti-parasitic agents; Some plant oils have
      immunomodulatory effects that could modify host- parasite immunobiology In addition, the
      safety and use of plant essential oils in drug resistant cases are considered the most
      advantages.

      Allium sativum commonly called garlic belongs to the family Alliaceae. It has been used for
      centuries to fight infections as an antioxidant ,antibacterial, antiviral, antifungal ,
      anti-parasitic , antihypertensive , anthelmintic, and anti- diabetic agent .

      Lately, the anthelmintic effect of garlic has been a matter of interest of researchers .

      It's Potentially Active Chemical Constituents are :

        -  Sulfur compounds: aliin, allicin, ajoene, allylpropyl disulfide, diallyl trisulfide, s-
           allylcysteine, vinyldithiines, S-allylmercaptocystein, and others .

        -  Enzymes: allinase, peroxidases, myrosinase, and others .

        -  Amino acids and their glycosides: arginine and others .

        -  Selenium, germanium, tellurium and other trace minerals . Cloves (Syzygium aromaticum)
           Are the dried flower buds of an aromatic tree that is used as a spice. It mainly
           contains volatile oil, i.e. eugenol 81.1%, caryophyllin, tannins and gum.Clove oil has
           been used as analgesic, antibacterial, anticonvulsant, anticoagulant, antifungal,
           anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antiseptic, antitumor, antiviral, disinfectant, immune
           stimulant as well as insecticidal .

      Nanotechnology has a wide range of action in sciences like medicine, electronics, food and
      agriculture. Its application has strengthen systems to control diseases in animals, water
      disinfection, safety in systems of food supply, energy conversion, plague localization
      technology, advances in fast detection of morphological changes in the physicochemical
      properties of food, increment in nutrient value, quality control, food security, development
      of novel products and packing design .

      It is the current trend in research field, using small size of materials with wide range of
      application . In nanotechnology there is treatment of atom, molecules or compounds to produce
      nanoparticle with different properties .The size and structure of nanoparticle is similar to
      most biological molecules, therefore nano particle can be useful for in research .

      There are many types of nanoparticles: organic, inorganic, nanocrystals, nanotubes, polymeric
      structures such as dendrimers, etc. They are used primarily in research and drug delivery
      systems .

      In that research garlic and cloves will be used in vitro to detect their fasciolicidal
      effects on adult Worm obtained from locally slaughtered animals .
    
  