
    
      In the last decade, structural and functional synaptic alterations, collectively known as
      synaptopathy, have come up as a determinant pathological process contributing to the
      neurodegenerative damage in multiple sclerosis (MS) and its mouse model, the experimental
      autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Since synaptic alteration and loss are reversible, unlike
      loss of neurons, an early detection could permit a precocious clinical intervention with
      potentially better therapeutic outcomes but reliable biomarkers are not available yet.

      MicroRNAs (miRs) circulating in the cerebrospinal fluids (CSF) are good candidates as
      possible sensitive biomarkers for MS synaptopathy-driven disease progression. They represent
      a new class of modulators of gene expression with stable presence in the body fluids and with
      a critical role in many physiological and pathological processes, especially in the central
      nervous system. Accordingly, it has been recently demonstrated that miR-142-3p is a crucial
      component in a detrimental regulatory axis of EAE/MS excitotoxic synaptic dysfunctions, by
      reducing the level of the glial glutamate aspartate transporter/excitatory amino acid
      transporter 1 (GLAST/EAAT1) protein. Moreover, miR-142-3p levels are increased in both EAE
      brains and CSFs of patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) and correlate with disease
      progression. Preliminary data also reveal that miR-142-3p is direct target of different
      pharmacological treatments for MS, while the action of non-pharmacological treatments, as
      therapeutic transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to ameliorate MS spasticity, is still
      unknown.

      Based on these considerations, a prospective and retrospective cohort study of about six
      years will be performed to assess whether miR-142-3p is a possible biomarker for MS
      synaptopathy-driven disease progression (AIM1) and for the efficacy of disease-modifying
      treatments (DMTs) currently used in MS therapy (AIM2a). Moreover, a genetic screening from
      peripheral blood will be conducted in order to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms
      (SNPs) in coding and/or regulating regions of miR-142-3p and GLAST/EAAT1 genes, associated
      with MS synaptopathy (AIM2b). Finally, a repetitive TMS stimulation protocol (iTBS) will be
      performed in a subgroup of screened MS patients with lower limb spasticity (interventional
      substudy) to evaluate the patient responsiveness to the treatment linked to the identified
      SNPs (AIM2c).

      Given the heterogeneity and complexity of MS disease, multivariable approach will permit to
      dissect miR-142-3p contribution to MS course influenced by synaptopathy (AIM1).

      Firstly, miR-142-3p levels in MS CSF (the day of recruitment, T0) will be correlated with
      other possible variables relevant to disease progression, such as:

        -  clinical (disease duration, estimated as the number of years from onset to the most
           recent assessment of disability; disability, evaluated using EDSS = Expanded Disability
           Status Scale; Progression Index, PI = EDSS/disease duration; change in ARR = Annualized
           Relapse Rate) and neuroradiological parameters (dual-echo proton density; FLAIR =
           fluid-attenuated inversion recovery; T2-WI = T2-weighted spin-echo images and T1-WI =
           pre-contrast and post-contrast T1-weighted spin-echo images after intravenous gadolinium
           (Gd) infusion) at T0 and once per year during a 6-year-follow-up if no relapse occurs
           (T12, T24, T36, T48, T60 , T72);

        -  levels of inflammatory and potential excitotoxic protein factors (as IL-1β, TNF and
           RANTES-CCL5) in the CSF (T0);

        -  levels of neurofilaments, beta amyloid, tau proteins and growth factors (like NGF, PDGF
           and BDNF) in the CSF, as possible indicators of neurodegenerative and regenerative
           processes occurring at the CSF withdrawal (T0).

      To reduce the variable dimension, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) will be applied taking
      into account the contribution of miR-142-3p to disease progression as part of a complex
      network of molecules circulating in the CSF, and univariable and multivariable correlations
      will be repeated.

      In multivariable analysis (based on multivariable generalized linear models, GLM), miR-142-3p
      levels in the CSF (or PCA components including miR-142-3p as part of the component) will be
      considered as the independent variable adjusting for demographical, clinical and
      neuroradiological values as well as different DMT treatments. A further analysis based on
      treatment stratifications of the patients will be attempted (AIM2a).

      Lastly, the CSF levels of miR-142-3p (or PCA components including miR-142-3p) identified to
      associate with disease progression variables will be correlated with neurophysiological
      parameters, recorded by means of TMS to evaluate cortical excitability and plasticity (SICI =
      short interval intracortical inhibition; ICF = intracortical facilitation; LICI = long
      interval intracortical inhibition; PAS = Paired Associative Stimulation) in MS patients at
      T0. Thus, miR-142-3p circulating in the CSF will be validated as possible biomarkers of
      synaptopathy-driven disease progression (as single molecules or as part of a PCA component).

      To identify genetic variants of miR-142-3p and GLAST/EAAT1 coding genes relevant to MS
      synaptopathy (AIM2b) SNPs will be analyzed at T0 and will be correlated with miR-142-3p
      levels in the CSF and with other possible variables relevant to disease progression as in
      AIM1. PCA and GLM models will be applied as in AIM1.

      To evaluate treatment responsiveness in the subgroup of screened MS patients included in the
      interventional substudy based on a two-week protocol of iTBS for reducing lower limb
      spasticity, the H/M amplitude ratio of the Soleus H reflex and the Modified Ashworth Scale
      (MAS) will be considered before (W0) and after (W2) the stimulation protocol. Possible
      association between patient responsiveness to the iTBS stimulation protocol and specific SNPs
      will be assessed (AIM2c).

      Statistical analysis will be performed using Prism GraphPad 6.0, IBM SPSS Statistics 15.0, R
      software and T-MEV 4.4.1. Data will be tested for normality distribution through the
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov and Shapiro-Wilk tests. The k-means method will be used to divide MS
      patients into homogeneous clusters, based on miR-142-3p levels in the CSF and other relevant
      parameters. Differences between two groups will be analyzed using Student's t-test,
      Mann-Whitney test, Fisher exact test or log-rank test, as appropriate; multiple comparisons
      will be performed by ANOVA followed by Tukey HSD or by Kruskal-Wallis. Pearson or
      nonparametric Spearman correlation coefficients will be performed to evaluate the association
      of miR-142-3p levels in the CSF or specific genetic variants of MIR142 and SLC1A3 (or the
      correspondent PCA component, see next) with continuous demographic, clinical and
      neuroradiological parameters (e.g Age, changes in EDSS, Number of T2 lesions, etc.). For the
      multiple comparisons it will be controlled the False Discovery Rate (FDR) applying the method
      proposed by Benjamini and Hochberg.

      PCA will be applied to represent sets of potentially correlated variables (CSF levels of
      miR-142-3p or specific genetic variants of MIR142 and SLC1A3, inflammatory and potential
      excitotoxic protein factors and levels of neurofilaments, beta amyloid, tau protein and
      growth factors) with principal components (PC) that are linearly uncorrelated obtained using
      orthogonal transformation. PCs are ordered so that the first PC has the largest possible
      variance and only some components are selected to represent the correlated variables. As a
      result, the dimension of the variables is reduced.

      To validate miR-142-3p as biomarker of synaptopathy-driven disease progression (measured in
      terms of clinical or radiological changes and TMS variables) or specific SNPs of MIR142 and
      SLC1A3 linked to MS synaptopathy, GLM models will be applied considering, respectively, the
      miR-142-3p level in the CSF (or the identified PCA components including miRs) or the genetic
      variants as an independent variable adjusting for demographical, clinical, neuroradiological,
      neurophysiological, biochemical factors and treatments.

      Data will be presented as the mean (standard deviation, sd) or median (25th- 75th
      percentile). The significance level is established at p<0.05.
    
  