
    
      We conducted a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial on a cohort of delivering
      women who were admitted to the Childbirth center at the George Washington University
      Hospital. This study has been approved by the Institutional Review Board of the George
      Washington University and consents were obtained from all subjects before enrollment. All of
      the enrolled subjects met the following criteria: a) uncomplicated pregnancy, b) term
      gestational age from completed 37 weeks to 42 weeks, and c) normal spontaneous vaginal
      delivery (NSVD) or elective caesarean section. Pregnant women were excluded from this study
      if they had any of the following: a) hypertension, or eclampsia, b) pregnancy induced
      diabetes, c) anemia, d) other medical or surgical complications during the current pregnancy,
      e) rupture of amniotic membranes for more than 18 hours, f) history of infants with invasive
      group B Streptococcal disease in previous pregnancies, g) fetal distress before delivery and
      h) suspected chromosomal, and structural anomalies or congenital infections. We collected
      data on maternal history (age, race, parity and type of anesthesia) and birth history
      (anthropometric measurements, gestational age, sex, and Apgar scores).

      Randomization: Once enrolled in the study, all of the subjects were randomly assigned to one
      of two groups using the sealed opaque envelopes technique. A nasal cannula was attached to
      all subjects and was connected to a flowmeter covered by a metal foil so that the managing
      obstetricians were not aware which group the particular subject belongs to. The Oxygen Group
      participants received 100% oxygen at 2 litters/minute starting at least 30 minutes before
      delivery. The Control Group participants had their nasal cannula still attached to a
      flowmeter that was turned off. Nasal cannula was disconnected from participants after
      delivery.

      Monitoring procedure: Pregnant women were monitored continuously for heart rate, respiratory
      rate and oxygen saturation. If oxygen saturation decreased < 93% for at least 60 seconds,
      and/or when considered necessary by the obstetrician at any time, therapeutic oxygen was
      administered and the participant was excluded from the study.

      Laboratory investigation: We obtained three samples of three mls of whole blood from each
      mother-infant pair in both groups. The first blood sample was obtained from the participants'
      peripheral vein at the time of enrollment before randomization (Baseline). The second blood
      sample was obtained from the placental side of umbilical cord after delivery. The third
      sample was obtained from the partcipants' peripheral vein within 4 hours after delivery.

      We measured blood gases in each sample at the bedside using an iSTAT analyzer (Abbott, IL).
      The rest of the sample was used for SOD assays. It was collected in an iced-tube containing
      EDTA, and centrifuged at 4 ºC. Plasma was discarded and the erythrocyte suspension was washed
      with normal saline and centrifuged again twice. Washed erythrocyte suspensions were stored at
      -70 ºC until the time of assay.

      SOD concentration was measured by an indirect colorimetric method using the highly
      water-soluble tetrazolium salt WST-1, which produces a water-soluble formazan dye upon
      reduction with a superoxide anion. The Cayman Chemical SOD assay kit was used for the
      measurement of SOD activity in erythrocyte lysate. SOD activity was assessed by measuring the
      dismutation of superoxide radicals generated by xanthine oxidize and hypoxanthine in a
      convenient 96 well format. This technique included a quality-controlled SOD standard. The
      standard curve, which was generated using this enzyme, provides a means to accurately
      quantify the activity of all three types of SOD (Cu/Zn-, Mn-, and Fe-SOD). SOD concentration
      expressed in IU per gram of hemoglobin content. Results of SOD concentration, pH, pCO2, pO2,
      base deficit, Ht and Na concentration were recorded.
    
  