
    
      The myelodysplastic syndromes (MDSs) are clonal hematopoietic stem cell disorders
      characterized by progressive peripheral cytopenia due to ineffective hematopoiesis and a
      variable risk of transformation into acute myeloid leukemia (AML) .

      Clinically, they can range from variable grade of cytopenia to forms not different from AML.

      World Health Organization (WHO) MDS classifications from 2002:

      included refractory anemia (RA), refractory anemia with ring sideroblasts (RARS), refractory
      cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia (RCMD), RCMD and ring sideroblasts (RCMDRS), refractory
      anemia with excess blasts (RAEB), and MDS associated with isolated del(5q) The most recent
      2016 WHO MDS classifications are slightly different and include MDS with single lineage or
      multilineage dysplasia, MDS with ring sideroblasts and single or multilineage dysplasia, MDS
      with excess blasts, and MDS with isolated del(5q) .

      A key first-line treatment option for many patients with symptomatic anemia associated with
      lower-risk MDS is erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) (e.g., epoetin alpha
      ordarbepoetinalpha),whichmayalsobecombinedwithgranulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF At
      least, four mechanisms are recognized to underlie pancytopenia in myelodysplastic syndromes.
      Based on ferrokinetic studies two distinct mechanisms can be distinguished: (1)
      hypoproliferative suppressed erythropoiesis and (2) hypoproliferative/ineffective
      erythropoiesis,The predictive variables for ESAs response in MDS should be divided into
      biological and clinical variables. Biological variables include: endogenous erythropoietin
      levels < 500 U/L and marrow blasts < 10%, IPSS low INT-1, diagnosis of refractory anemia, and
      normal karyotype. On clinical plane, transfusion independence and short duration of disease
      are positive prognostic factors of response to ESAS .

      sEPO levels have not only been correlated with response to ESAs. Various studies have also
      examined whether sEPO levels affect duration of response and overall survival among patients
      treated with ESAs. Other studies have examined whether sEPO levels can affect response to
      non-ESA treatments According to International Working Group criteria, erythroid response is
      considered an increase in hemoglobin level to at least 115 g/L without transfusion need. An
      increase in hemoglobin level of 15 g/L for patients with non-transfused anemia, or an
      abolished transfusion need, defines the criteria for partial response. To date, there is only
      a study assessing that Binocrit (Biosimilar epoetin alfa) is promising for the treatment of
      anemia of MDS patients. ER positively correlates with improvements in patients' cognitive
      status and positive changes in QOL after a median time of 2 years, 50% of patients may lose
      responsivenes to ESAs. Many factors, including depletion of iron, progression to acute
      myeloid leukemia, may be the underlying cause of loss responsiveness to ESAs. The first study
      evaluating the duration of response to erythropoietin in MDS patients Serum ferritin (SF)
      level represents a well-known indicator of the body's iron stores and inflammation. SF is
      commonly used as a marker of iron overload (defined as SF1000 ng/ mL) but this role has been
      often questioned, as SF value can be affected by acute infections, inflammations, and even
      malignant conditions, so that it is also considered as an acute phase protein. Several
      studies have evaluated tests other than the evaluation of SF level to estimate iron overload,
      such as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Superconducting Quantum Interference Device
      (SQUID) biomagnetic liver susceptometry Elevated SF levels represent a common condition among
      patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and appears to be largely related to red blood
      cell (RBC) transfusion-dependence. However, iron overload is also present among many patients
      after MDS diagnosis and before RBC transfusion Fibrinogen is a protein produced following
      inflammation,and hyperfibrinogenemia is known as a poor prognostic factor in various tumors.
      In recent years, it has also been reported that hyperfibrinogenemia is a poor prognostic
      factor in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

      However, whether hyperfibrinogenemia is a prognostic factor in patients with lower-risk
      myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) remains unclear
    
  