
    
      This 4.5-year community-based study is a randomized field experiment that uses a two-group
      design. Participants are randomized into either an Educational intervention group or a
      Motivational intervention group. We are comparing the effectiveness of the Motivational
      intervention with the Educational intervention. We are also estimating the costs and
      evaluating the cost-effectiveness of the Motivational intervention relative to the
      Educational intervention.

      We have the following aims and related hypotheses:

      Aim 1: To compare the effectiveness of a 6-session personalized motivational intervention to
      a 6-session educational intervention in terms of injection risk, sexual behavior, alcohol
      use, and knowledge and perception related to HBV and HCV; H1. Relative to the Educational
      intervention group, a greater proportion of the Motivational intervention group will report
      no injection risk at 6- and 12-month follow-up interviews. No injection risk is operationally
      defined as either no injections in the past 30 days, or no direct or indirect sharing of
      syringes and other injection equipment in the past 30 days.

      H2. Relative to the Educational intervention group, a greater proportion of the Motivational
      intervention group will report no sexual risk at 6- and 12-month follow-up interviews. No
      sexual risk is operationally defined as either no sex (oral, vaginal, or anal) in the past 30
      days, or no unprotected oral, vaginal, or anal sex in the past 30 days.

      H3. Relative to the Educational intervention group, the Motivational intervention group will
      report greater decreases in frequency of alcohol consumption and quantity of alcohol
      consumed. Frequency of alcohol consumption is defined as "number of days drank alcohol in the
      past 30 days," and quantity of alcohol consumed is defined as "the average number of drinks
      per drinking day during the past 30 days." H4. Relative to the Educational intervention
      group, participants in the Motivational intervention group will report greater increases in
      knowledge and more accurate perceptions of severity of disease and efficacy of protective
      actions regarding hepatitis B and C at Session 3.

      Aim 2: To estimate the cost and cost-effectiveness of a 6-session personalized motivational
      intervention relative to a 6-session educational intervention.

      H5. The Motivational Intervention will cost more than the Educational Intervention, but will
      be cost-effective at eliminating injection risk behavior and sexual risk behavior and at
      reducing alcohol use
    
  