
    
      Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) occur with an incidence of 12% after cardiac
      surgery with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass (CBP). Using one-lung ventilation (OLV) in
      addition, as it is common practice in minimally invasive cardiac surgery (MICS), one can
      hypothesize that the risk for ARDS increases.

      The objective of this prospective, observational study is to measure extravascular lung water
      index (EVLWI) and pulmonary vascular permeability index (PVPI) as parameters of lung edema
      through alteration in the pulmonary permeability by comparing three groups of surgery
      patients: I) patients with CPB, II) patients with OLV and III) patients with both CPB and
      OLV.

      MICS allows coronary artery bypass grafting and cardiac valve surgery through small
      incisions, does not appear to be inferior to conventional surgery, but likely reduces
      postoperative pain, accelerates postoperative recovery and improves the cosmetic result.
      However, based on the available data, respiratory failure after MICS occurs at the same rate
      as after conventional cardiac surgery. In addition, unilateral re-expansion pulmonary edema,
      rarely seen after conventional cardiac surgery, has been described after MICS with CPB and
      OLV.

      The pathophysiology of ARDS is characterized by massive inflammation that leads to a diffuse
      damage of both the alveolar epithelium and pulmonary vascular endothelium. Although the
      etiology of ARDS is multifactorial, the uniform result is an acute, nonhydrostatic,
      high-permeability lung injury with interstitial and alveolar protein-rich edema, epithelial
      damage and rapid onset of pulmonary fibrosis. This leads to the vast reduction of the
      pulmonary gas exchange and to hypoxemia.

      Extravascular lung water (EVLW) comprises all fluids of the extravascular compartment of the
      lung, ie, intracellular water, lymphatic fluid, surfactant and extravasated plasma. Increased
      EVLW may be caused by an increased hydrostatic intravascular pressure, as it occurs in
      cardiogenic pulmonary edema, and/or by an increase of lung endothelial and epithelial
      permeability, as in ARDS. The EVLWI estimates the EVLW by using the transpulmonary
      thermodilution technique.The pulmonary vascular permeability index (PVPI) is the ratio
      between the EVLWI and the pulmonary blood volume, which is also measured by the
      transpulmonary thermodilution technique. The PVPI is thought to reflect the permeability of
      the alveolar-capillary barrier.

      The combination of CPB and OLV permitted the development of MICS. CPB is an extracorporeal
      circulation, where a heart-lung machine takes over temporarily the pump function of the heart
      and the oxygenation and ventilation function of the lungs, thereby, allowing various heart
      and vascular surgical procedures. During CPB, blood from the right side of the heart is
      drained into the heart-lung machine and returned into the arterial system. This leads to a
      hypoperfusion of the lung, while blood flow is maintained only through the bronchial artery.
      OLV allows the surgeon to access the thorax cavity for the operation, while contralateral
      lung is ventilated.

      It was originally thought that the lung is relatively resistant to ischemia due to its dual
      circulation. However, re-perfusion of the lung after CPB and/or OLV can trigger a fatal
      cascade, summarized as lung ischemia reperfusion injury (LIRI). LIRI involves intracellular
      injury and pertinent inflammatory responses, which result in apoptosis of the endothelium,
      alveolar capillary interstitial edema, hyaline membranization, and infiltration by
      neutrophils and macrophages. In addition, during CPB, the contact of blood components with
      the artificial surface of the bypass circuit contribute to the postoperative systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). Through these mechanisms, lung compliance and
      resistance as well as pulmonary permeability are affected, which contributes to the
      development of ARDS. During OLV, a combination of LIRI as well as surgical trauma and lung
      hyperinflation may lead to the release of inflammatory mediators which can alter endovascular
      permeability. Additionally, after thoracic surgery the pulmonary vascular permeability
      increases and re-expansion of the collapsed lungs may result in the so called re-expansion
      pulmonary edema.

      To the best of the investigators knowledge, no study primarily aimed at examining the
      relationship between MICS and lung injury, although it is of high clinical interest whether
      the combination of CPB and OLV during MICS leads to increased EVLW and pulmonary permeability
      and ARDS.
    
  