
    
      This is a Phase I/II clinical trial. A Phase I clinical trial tests the safety of an
      investigational intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the
      investigational intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the
      intervention is being studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved LY3022855 as a treatment for
      any disease.

      The FDA has approved vemurafenib and cobimetinib as treatment options for this disease.

      LY3022855 is a colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor (CSF-1R) inhibitor. It is a human
      monoclonal antibody. A monoclonal antibody is a type of protein made in the laboratory that
      can locate and bind to substances in the body, including tumor cells. By binding to the tumor
      cells, the antibody might prevent the tumor cell from growing and spreading. LY3022855 is
      being developed as a treatment for patients with advanced cancer.

      Vemurafenib and cobimetinib attack different proteins that promote the growth of cancerous
      cells. Vemurafenib is a BRAF inhibitor that works by blocking altered BRAF proteins from
      stimulating the growth of melanoma cancer cells. Cobimetinib works by blocking a protein
      called MEK that has been known to promote melanoma growth. In order to participate in the
      study, participant's disease needs to be tested positive for a mutation (a permanent change
      in the DNA sequence of a gene) of the BRAF gene that belongs to a class of genes known as
      oncogenes. When mutated, oncogenes have the potential to cause normal cells to become
      cancerous. Once the BRAF gene is mutated, the normal functioning of the BRAF protein may be
      changed.

      In this research study, the investigators are combining LY3022855 with vemurafenib and
      cobimetinib in the hopes that the LY3022855 will enhance how your cancer responds to
      vemurafenib and cobimetinib.
    
  