
    
      The trial is a randomised, clinical, multicenter trial including 6 Danish SPC-centres. The
      basic principle is that patients with palliative needs (see inclusion criteria) are
      identified at oncological departments and randomised to either (i) standard treatment plus
      SPC (intervention group) or (ii) standard treatment (control group).

      Patients will be identified by the following procedure: A) Each week a research nurse reviews
      the medical records of consecutive patients seen in oncological out-patients clinic. B)
      Eligible patients are asked to fill out a questionnaire (the screening) that investigates
      symptoms and problems. The patients are told that their questionnaire will be evaluated and
      that the research nurse will contact some of the patients later on with information about a
      RCT. C) Those patients who report at least one palliative need in the questionnaire (see
      inclusion criteria) and have four additional symptoms are contacted by the research nurse who
      provide the patients with written and verbal information about the RCT. D) Patients who give
      informed consent are randomised.

      Detailed statistical analysis plan:

      Analysis of the primary outcome The primary outcome analysis will be a modified ITT analysis.
      Patients who withdrew consent after randomisation, who were randomised by mistake and did not
      fulfil our inclusion criteria, or who were not alive at the time of the follow-ups, will be
      excluded from the primary analysis. All exclusions will be shown in the CONSORT flow-chart of
      patient participation.

      In the primary outcome analysis we will use multiple imputation for non-responders if there
      are more than 5% missing outcomes. In total, we will make 20 different data-sets with
      imputation based on a regression model using predictive-mean-matching using the MI and the MI
      ANALYSIS procedures in SAS. The primary outcome analysis will be made as a multiple
      regressions adjusted for the stratification variable if it is normally distributed.

      Sensitivity analyses of the primary outcome We will make five sensitivity analyses: 1) a
      fully adjusted analysis including all relevant covariates, 2) a complete case analysis, 3) an
      analysis including a model for repeated measurement, 4) a per protocol analysis, 5) an
      analysis including imputations for those who died.

      Analysis of secondary outcomes The analyses of the seven scales from EORTC QLQ-C30 (physical
      function, role function, emotional function, nausea and vomiting, pain, dyspnoea, or lack of
      appetite) will be made using the same principles as described for the primary outcome
      including the sensitivity analyses. Survival will be analysed using Kaplan-Meier plot.
      Patients who are alive three months after the end of data-collection will be censured on this
      date. A Cox regression will be made adjusted for the stratification variable. A sensitivity
      analysis will be made adjusting for all relevant covariates.

      Exploratory outcomes and subgroup analyses For serious adverse events we report the number of
      hospitalisations, the number of acute hospitalisations and the number of deaths in the eight
      week trial period. The analyses of the other exploratory outcomes will not be dealt with in
      detail here. The overall principles regarding questionnaire data (the remaining scales from
      EORTC QLQ-C30, HADS and FAMCARE-P16) are that they will be analysed as complete case
      analyses.

      Significance levels All tests will be two-tailed. For the primary outcome the risk of type I
      error is set to 5% (i.e., a significance level of P<0.05). As we have 8 secondary outcomes,
      we adjust the significance levels to P<0.01 to control the familywise (or cumulative) type I
      error due to multiplicity. The P-values of the exploratory outcomes will be provided, but it
      will be made clear that the analyses are exploratory.

      Register-data, data-management and analyses Survival will be retrieved from the Danish Civil
      Registration System (CPR), and serious adverse events and contacts from The Danish Patient
      Registry (Landspatientregistret).

      Data management will be done by project manager Anna Thit Johnsen. Analyses will be made by
      statistician Morten Aa. Petersen, who is blinded to the identity of the two intervention
      groups, which will be denoted Y and X. Results will be presented blinded in the same way for
      the investigators, and conclusions regarding the results will be drawn by the investigators
      and written down while the interventions are still blinded. The blinding will not be broken
      before all analyses of primary and secondary outcomes have been conducted.
    
  