
    
      Though several epidemiological studies have demonstrated that working night shift schedules
      are a risk factor for developing metabolic and cardiovascular diseases, the mechanisms
      through which this is conferred is not yet understood. Shift-work schedules alter employee's
      patterns of activity, light exposure and dietary intake in a manner incongruent with the
      endogenous clock. This circadian clock ensures that our metabolic activity occurs at
      maximally beneficial times of the day, but is largely unable to adapt to rapidly shifting
      schedules or sustained night-work. In mice, the investigators' lab has previously shown that
      genes relevant to all aspects of the metabolic syndrome are subject to circadian oscillation
      and that the gut microbiome is also subject to control by the host molecular clock. Despite
      the large contribution of our microbiome to host metabolism, the microbiome has been scarcely
      studied in the shift-working population. The investigators hypothesize that disruptions to
      the microbiome of shift-workers represent a hitherto unexamined factor contributing to
      disease risk. The investigators will therefore define time-of-day dependent fluctuations of
      the microbiome in night shift workers and matched daytime workers deeply phenotyped for
      behavioral, clinical, and metabolomic outputs using integrated remote sensing. The
      investigators will assess core body temperature, sleep/activity cycles, cortisol and
      melatonin as outputs determined by the host clock, and postprandial glucose and insulin
      levels as well as nocturnal blood pressure dipping as risk-related outputs. Through
      antibiotic-induced suppression, The investigators will determine the microbiome's specific
      contribution to these outputs. This has major implications for refining shift-work schedules
      and exploring therapeutic strategies in this population.
    
  