
    
      We will: 1) compare performance of healthy volunteers and ambulatory adults with traumatic
      brain injury (TBI) on a range of motor, neurobehavioral and brain imaging outcomes; and 2)
      evaluate effects of rapid, reciprocal arm and leg exercise with an elliptical trainer on
      high-level motor coordination and balance, and neurobehavioral and cognitive functioning in
      persons with TBI. Brain connectivity and changes in connectivity in response to intervention
      will be quantified. We hypothesize even highly functional adults with TBI will have poorer
      scores on all measures than controls; exercise will lead to significant improvements in motor
      performance and balance,and neurobehavioral and cognitive functioncompared to an equivalent
      length of time during which they were not participating in training . We further hypothesize
      that improvements in cortical connectivity and representation will relate directly to
      functional ones.

      Study Population: 80 adults (50 with TBI) will be recruited so that 20 with TBI and 20
      healthy volunteers complete the study. Only the TBI group will receive intervention.

      Design: Healthy controls with have a single assessment that includes motor,
      neuropsychological and brain imaging tests. Participants with TBI will have 3 visits with the
      same motor, neuropsychological and brain imaging tests as the healthy controls. They will
      perform 2 months of fast elliptical training. . Assessments will occur at 0, 2, and 4 months.
      The exercise device will be an elliptical trainer that exercises the legs and arms with the
      emphasis on maintaining a fast speed. Mild resistance will be provided initially and
      progressively increased once speed is optimized. . The training will be performed in the home
      5 days per week for 30 minutes.

      Outcome Measures: Performance on complex motor and balance tasks will be assessed with 3D
      motion capture & EMG, the Smart Balance Measurement System and the High Level Mobility
      Assessment Tool (Hi-MAT). Primary outcomes are Hi-MAT score, reaction time during balance
      testing and the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (Ham-D). Secondary outcomes will include
      measures of motor speed and reaction time, dual task performance, memory, anxiety, sleep
      quality, and responses to stress. Cortical connectivity will be quantified using resting
      state functional connectivity magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and Diffusion Tensor Imaging
      (DTI), which evaluates white matter tracts. Cortical activation patterns during imagined
      walking will be quantified with fMRI.
    
  