
    
      This K08 focuses on the preparation phase, which consists of compiling information from
      various sources, including behavioral theory, scientific literature, secondary analyses of
      existing data, and formative research to inform a theoretical model. This model guides
      intervention-related decisions, such as the selection of intervention components. Piloting of
      intervention components and the identification and operationalization of an optimization
      criterion also occur in this phase. The investigators will first use social network analyses
      to elucidate network characteristics that influence ALWHs' retention and adherence (Aim 1),
      then use participatory methods to inform intervention development (Aim 2), and lastly assess
      intervention acceptability, feasibility, safety and evidence of efficacy (Aim 3). Aim 3 is
      the clinical trial component and described in detail below. Aim 1 will determine how ALWHs'
      social networks influence their retention in HIV care and ART adherence and Aim 2 will then
      focus on the development of a network-based, social support intervention to improve ALWH
      retention in HIV care and ART adherence informed by Aim 1 and other relevant information.

      The goal of aim 3 is to assess intervention acceptability, feasibility, safety and evidence
      of efficacy through open piloting. The investigators will assess intervention acceptability,
      feasibility, safety, and evidence of efficacy using an iterative process enabling feedback
      and continuing quality improvement over the course of implementation. This approach involves
      the piloting of the network intervention developed in Aim 2. The rationale is that the best
      interventions for ALWH will consider their unique needs and include tailored components. The
      outcome of this Aim will be a feasible and acceptable social network intervention that will
      be tested in an adaptive intervention using future grant funding. The hypothesis for aim 3 is
      that the intervention will be acceptable, feasible, and safe, with trends towards improved
      ALWH retention in HIV care and ART adherence.
    
  