
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine whether the incidence of neutrophil engraftment is acceptable in high-risk
           patients with Fanconi's anemia treated with busulfan, cyclophosphamide, fludarabine, and
           antithymocyte globulin followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the tolerability of mycophenolate mofetil in these patients.

        -  Determine the incidence of acute and chronic graft-vs-host disease in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of major infections in patients with a history of major
           infections treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of relapse in patients with refractory anemia with excess
           blasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation, or acute myeloid
           leukemia treated with this regimen

        -  Determine the probability of 1-year survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to donor/recipient HLA type (identical vs other).

        -  Cytoreductive combination chemotherapy: Patients receive busulfan intravenously (IV)
           over 2 hours twice daily on days -7 and -6 and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours and
           fludarabine IV over 30 minutes once daily on days -5 to -2.

        -  Graft failure prophylaxis: Patients receive methylprednisolone IV twice daily on days -5
           to 30 and anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4-6 hours twice daily on days -5 to -1.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2 hours twice
           daily on days -3 to 100 (if patient has a matched sibling donor) or days -3 to 180 (if
           patient has another donor type). Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil orally or
           IV twice daily on days -3 to 45.

        -  Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT): Patients undergo allogeneic
           HSCT (using bone marrow or umbilical cord blood) on day 0. Patients receive filgrastim
           (G-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 3 years.
    
  