
    
      This pilot study is designed as a multi-centre prospective, patient and observer blind,
      randomised controlled trial, recruiting patients from two clinical centres across the East
      Midlands; Derby Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (DHFT) and Nottingham University
      Hospitals NHS Trust (NUH).

      Eligible patients will be approached within diabetic foot clinics by their usual clinical
      carers to determine whether they are interested in participating in the study. They will be
      provided with written information about the study and the researcher will explain the study
      verbally to them and address any questions and concerns the patient may have. Patents will be
      given at least 24 hours to consider taking part in the trial before signing a consent form.

      After informed consent has been given, baseline information will be collected. This will
      include demographic information, medical history and concomitant medication. eGFR and HbA1c
      will also be collected if not done within previous 3 months as part of standard care. The
      baseline wound status, assessment of ulcer infection according to Infectious Diseases Society
      of America (IDSA) criteria, peripheral pulses, neuropathy and ankle brachial pressure index
      will also be taken.

      Participants will then be randomised to receive either standard of care or Omnigen graft with
      standard of care. Staff administering the Omnigen product will be aware of which treatment
      the participant is receiving however the participant and the research staff conducting the
      healing assessments will be blinded to their treatment allocation. Therefore the participant
      and the assessors will be blinded to the treatment given in order to minimize any bias in the
      collection of healing outcome data. For those randomized into the control arm, 'Dummy
      Packaging' will be used to ensure the blind is maintained.

      Patients will be seen two weekly from their baseline visit until healing for up to 12 weeks
      and at 2 weeks post healing in those that heal. If a participant's foot ulcer heals before
      the final 12 weeks visit, they will attend a healing confirmation visit two weeks post the
      original heal date, however will not be required to attend any further fortnightly visits
      until the final blinded assessment visit at week 12 . If the participant's foot ulcer has not
      healed at 12 weeks then a blinded assessment should still be conducted at this time point.

      Data is collected using the Dacima Clinical Suite Electronic Data Capture (EDC) software
      (Dacima Software Inc.)
    
  