
    
      Introduction:

      As a person ages their chance of developing certain diseases such as hardening of the
      arteries (atherosclerosis), diabetes, depression, osteoporosis and memory loss (Alzheimer's
      disease) increases. One of the theories that might explain why age increases the risk of
      developing these diseases involves a concept called oxidative stress. Oxidative stress is a
      process that occurs inside the cells in our body. All the cells in our body are constantly
      undergoing various biochemical reactions, which are important to the cell's life cycle.
      Byproducts of these biochemical reactions are molecules called free radicals or pro-oxidants.
      Pro-oxidants can be very damaging to the cell and lead to cell death. Cells also have
      molecules called antioxidants, which neutralize the pro-oxidants and protect the cell so it
      can continue functioning normally. Oxidative stress occurs when there is an imbalance in the
      pro-oxidants as compared with the antioxidants. Other studies have shown that diseases such
      as hardening of the arteries, depression, osteoporosis and Alzheimer's are associated with
      elevated levels of free radicals or pro-oxidants inside the cells. It is now possible to
      measure the levels of pro-oxidants in the cells using blood tests.

      Objectives:

      The purpose of this study is to determine how reliable and reproducible these measurements
      are and also to define a "normal" value or range of values in healthy people. It is our hope
      that after we are able to define the normal range of values for oxidative stress we can then
      look at people with the aforementioned diseases and measure their levels of oxidative stress
      looking for a correlation between the two. If we can show a direct correlation between level
      of oxidative stress and these diseases we can begin trying to develop medicines that can
      target this area and hopefully prevent or lessen the degree of these diseases.

      Tests and Evaluations

      In this study we are looking for healthy participants age 30 and older who will undergo blood
      tests that will allow us to measure markers of oxidative stress. Participants will also
      undergo tests specifically designed to look for evidence of early multi-organ disease. These
      exams will include an evaluation of lung function (spirometry test), exercise capacity (using
      a stationary bike), bone density scan looking for osteoporosis, ultrasound of the artery of
      the neck (carotid) and artery of the arm (brachial), nerve conduction study, bio-impedance
      (Body fact composition) and several questionnaires to assess memory and mood. The
      participants require one screening visit and a follow up visit to undergo the tests.

      For more information or patient referral call Johnson Periera 404-275-0034, Muhammad Amer
      404-805-4771 or Salman Sher 404-587-2667
    
  