
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide and associated with high disease
      burden, symptoms and poor health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Lung cancer is the most
      commonly diagnosed type of cancer in China (with rates rising due to the smoking incidence)
      and is the leading cause of cancer-related death. The burden is on patients, families, the
      healthcare system and society, and will continue to rise into the future. The full impact of
      this in China has not yet occurred. New strategies are urgently required to improve
      survivorship. This multi-site, assessor blinded, two-arm superiority randomized controlled
      trial, conducted at two hospitals in China, aims to test the effect of exercise
      rehabilitation, compared to usual care (no exercise rehabilitation) on HRQoL and outcomes
      including physical function in 150 patients treated for lung cancer. The primary hypothesis
      is that exercise rehabilitation will be superior to usual care, in improving HRQoL at
      12-weeks (post program). Secondary aims include include measuring the effectiveness of
      exercise rehabilitation, compared to usual care on function, physical activity, symptoms,
      mood, sleep and program costs.

      One hundred and fifty patients with stage I-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 4-12
      weeks following completion of treatment (including surgery with or without adjuvant therapy)
      and life expectancy greater than 6 months will be recruited from the affiliated hospital of
      Nantong University and the first affiliated hospital of Nanjing Medical University. At
      recruitment participants provide written informed consent, complete baseline assessment and
      to ensure concealment of allocation participants will be randomly allocated off-site to one
      of two arms (1:1 ratio). The intervention programs start following randomization and will
      continue for 12 weeks duration. Trained physiotherapists will provide the intervention.
      Patients in both arms will receive usual medical, physiotherapy and nursing care according to
      usual protocols. This does not involve exercise rehabilitation or advice. Additionally
      patients in intervention group (exercise rehabilitation) will receive a multimodal program
      which includes a 90 minute program at the hospital gymnasium in a supervised environment a
      minimum of once but up to twice per week. Rehabilitation will include aerobic (brisk walking)
      and resistance training and 30 minutes of 8 style Tai Chi). Participants will be advised to
      walk on days of non-attendance - this will be individualized with the aim to have
      participants increase to 30 minutes walking per day. Assessments will be conducted at
      baseline and then by blinded assessors at 12 weeks and 6 months post-baseline. Survival will
      be followed-up and censored at 1 year. This important study brings together a strong
      collaborative research team spanning China and Australia, involving medical doctors,
      physiotherapists and academics. The topic is important, novel and will generate clinically
      meaningful research for an international audience, aiming to improve the survivorship quality
      of patients with lung cancer.

      The gut microbiome is a source of potentially disease-modifying bioactive metabolites and has
      recently been suggested to contribute to the pathogenesis of a variety of disorders.
      Therefore, we will study the gut microbiota and metabolites of the participants in order to
      identify potential the biomarkers for the clinical outcomes. Fresh faecal samples will be
      collected from all individuals before group assignment and after the completion of the
      program. The written informed consent will be provided by the participants.

      Specifically, faecal samples (500mg) will be collected from participants who are free from
      gastrointestinal conditions, with no antibiotic exposure in the 28 days prior to sample
      collection. 'Snap' frozen samples will be stored at -80°C until the time of DNA extractions,
      16S rDNA sequencing, and mass spectrometry analysis of the faecal metabolites. The
      distribution of gut microbiota before and after exercise will be compared and analyzed to
      obtain the species of bacterial flora that changed significantly after exercise. Moreover,
      the gut metabolites that changed significantly before and after exercise will be used to
      explore the biomarkers for the curative effect of rehabilitation exercise, as well as their
      relationships with the differentially distributed gut microbiota.
    
  