
    
      Liver cancer is the sixth most commonly diagnosed cancer and the fourth leading cause of
      cancer death worldwide. The main disease burden is found in East Asia, in which the
      age-standardized incidence is 26.8 and 8.7 per 100,000 in men and women respectively. In
      2017, among the top 10 most common cancers in Hong Kong, liver cancer had the highest case
      fatality rate of 84.6%. The five-year survival rates of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) differ
      greatly with disease staging, ranging from 91.5% in <2 cm with surgical resection to 11% in
      >5 cm with adjacent organ involvement. The early and accurate diagnosis of HCC is paramount
      in improving cancer survival.

      Unlike other common cancers, HCC is diagnosed by highly characteristic dynamic patterns on
      contrast-enhanced cross sectional imaging, without the need of pathological confirmation. The
      Liver Imaging Reporting and Data System (LI-RADS) was established to standardize the lexicon,
      interpretation and communication of radiological findings related to HCC. However, up to 49%
      of nodules identified in computed tomography (CT) in the at-risk population are categorized
      by LI-RADS as indeterminate, further delaying the establishment of diagnosis.

      There are currently studies pioneering the application of artificial intelligence (AI) in the
      field of medical imaging. A interdisciplinary research team of clinicians, radiologists and
      statistical scientists, based on the clinical and radiological database of over 4,000 liver
      images, and have developed an AI algorithm to accurately diagnose liver cancer on CT. Based
      on retrospective data, an interim analysis found the AI algorithm able to achieve a
      diagnostic accuracy of >97% and a negative predictive value of >99%.

      Can this novel prototype AI algorithm achieve a better performance in diagnosing HCC in the
      at-risk population when compared to LI-RADS? This question is especially relevant when the
      key to improved survival is early diagnosis, of which AI can potentially improve. Currently,
      errors in radiologist reporting are estimated to be 3-5% on a day-to-basis, equating to 40
      million errors per annum worldwide. This prototype algorithm can be a solution to reduce
      human misinterpretation of radiological findings.
    
  