
    
      A metric analysis and comparative efficacy research will be conducted. Eighty-four pre-frail
      elderly will receive dual-task walking assessments twice at pretreatment with a 1-week
      interval for test-retest assessment and investigation of the reliability and validity of
      outcome measures. The primary outcome measure of the dual-task walking assessments will
      include walking at preferred speed and fast speed and simultaneously perform serial three
      subtractions and the Stroop task. Concurrent validity will be studied to validate the
      dual-task walking measures with each other and with the item 14 of the mini-Balance
      Evaluation Systems test (Mini-BESTest), dual-task Timed-up-and-Go test (dual-TUG), and 6-min
      walk test obtain concurrently for assessing dual-task ability. A comparative efficacy
      research is a single-blind, randomized controlled trial, which will be conducted at medical
      centers. Pre-frail elderly will be randomized to combined motor and cognitive training, motor
      training alone, cognitive training alone, or no intervention control group. All three
      training groups will receive interventions 3 times a week for 4 weeks. The combined motor and
      cognitive training group will undertake physical fitness training under sitting and standing,
      walking training while sequentially or simultaneously perform cognitive training. The motor
      training alone group will train the same set of physical fitness training while sitting,
      standing, and walking as the combined motor and cognitive training group. The cognitive
      training alone group will train the same set of cognitive training while sitting as the
      combined motor and cognitive training group. No intervention control group will maintain
      habit and daily activity. A blinded assessor will administer three assessments. All
      participants will be examined physical fitness and brain fitness at baseline twice, and post
      intervention. The primary outcome measures will be components of physical fitness
      (cardiopulmonary fitness, muscle fitness, flexibility, body composition, and balance)and
      brain fitness (information processing speed, working memory, response inhibition, spatial
      memory, and selective attention). The secondary outcome measures will be gait and cognitive
      performance under dual-task conditions, dual-Timed Up and Go test, the Mini-BESTest,
      Functional Gait Assessment, and 6-minute Walk Test, Repeated measure ANOVA will be used to
      compare measurements at baseline and after training among the groups.
    
  