
    
      Increased shear stress during mechanical circulatory support (MCS) by extracorporeal membrane
      oxygenation (ECMO) and ventricular assist devices (VAD) can provoke premature degradation of
      high molecular weight (HMW) of von Willebrand factor (vWF) multimers. In patients with
      intractable cardiac and/or respiratory failure requiring emergency ECMO support, the
      investigators recently demonstrated an essential decrease in high molecular weight (HMW) vWF
      multimer bands 24 and 48 hours after initiation of ECMO compared to baseline. Blood loss and
      transfusion requirement during and shortly after ECMO support may be strengthened by loss of
      HMW vWF multimers.

      Administration of vWF concentrates may support restoration of primary hemostasis in patients
      during ECMO support. Consequently the need for packed red blood cells (PRBCs) during ECMO
      support may be reduced thus positively influencing morbidity and mortality of ECMO patients.
      The investigators hypothesize, that treatment with vWF concentrate reduces the need for PRBCs
      during ECMO support. Therefore the primary aim of this clinical trial is to find out if the
      need of PRBCs differs in the group receiving a von Willebrand factor concentrate (vWFC), or
      the placebo group (saline).

      This clinical trial is planned as a randomized, double-blind, prospective, controlled,
      two-arm, two-center study. Patients with intractable cardiac and/or respiratory failure
      requiring emergency ECMO support undergoing surgery (Department of Anaesthesiology and
      Intensive Care Medicine) or treated at the General and Surgical Intensive Care Unit (ACI),
      Traumatologic Intensive Care Unit (TICU), Cardiologic Intensive Care Unit (CCU) or the ICU of
      the Department of Visceral, Transplant and Thoracic Surgery at the Hospital Innsbruck (Tirol
      Kliniken GmbH), Austria will be enrolled in the study when meeting the inclusion- and
      exclusion criteria. If a patient meets the inclusion criteria and is recruited for the study,
      the patient will be randomized either to the group receiving vWFC or placebo S. Before the
      implementation of the ECMO the Baseline investigations need to be conducted. As soon as they
      are completed the ECMO cannula can be inserted.

      The administration of the Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) will be start within 24h
      after ECMO installation. Directly before IMP-start blood samples (Visit 2) will be drawn.
      After 24h (Visit 3), 60h (Visit 4) and on day 5 (Visit 5) of the start of the study
      medication visits will be conducted, whereas on day 5 (Visit 5) no special laboratory
      (measurement of HMW vWF) will be analyzed. If ECMO can be terminated, a visit (Visit 6)
      directly before the stop of the ECMO will be conducted. 36 h after the termination of the
      ECMO Visit 7 (termination) will be performed. If the ECMO is needed longer than 7 days, the
      administration of the IMP will be stopped on day 7 and a visit after 36 hours of IMP-stop
      will be done for safety reasons but without special laboratory. After 30 days an interview
      will be performed with the treating physician.
    
  