
    
      Anticipated Impacts on Veteran's Healthcare: Designing and implementing a training program
      for informal caregivers of functionally impaired Veterans (HI-FIVES) will enhance Veterans'
      ability to remain in their homes and satisfaction with care, as well as lower VA costs.
      Caregiver training can also improve caregiver wellbeing by alleviating feelings of depression
      and burden, which can also improve the care they provide to veterans. The investigators'
      caregiver training program is consistent with features of two recent national policy changes
      aimed to improve quality of care for veterans. First, providing training to informal
      caregivers of functionally impaired veterans is consistent with the 2000 Millennium Health
      Care Act, which mandated an unprecedented expansion in long-term care benefits to Veterans,
      and stipulated that, whenever possible, care be provided in the least restrictive environment
      possible-the home. Second, The Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010
      mandated unprecedented support for informal caregivers of severely injured Operation Enduring
      Freedom/Operation Iraqi Freedom(OEF/OIF) Veterans, including providing caregiver training to
      informal caregivers of any era veteran. Achieving higher quality informal care supports both
      of these mandates. By partnering with VA providers, HI-FIVES will improve the skill of
      caregivers, thereby improving veteran health care quality and the ability for veterans to
      remain at home.

      Project Background: Caregiver burnout, strain and burden are associated with caregiver
      depression and patient institutionalization. Furthermore, lack of skills among caregivers can
      lead to depression and anxiety as well as patient institutionalization. The investigators
      propose to evaluate an innovative program that supports and trains informal caregivers when
      veterans are referred to Veterans Health Administration (VHA) home and community-based care
      (HCBC), a critical moment in a veteran's VHA health care use trajectory. Referral to HCBC is
      a time when caregivers may face personal strain and uncertainty about demands involved in
      caregiving. As such, it presents a teachable moment to train caregivers to better meet the
      demands imposed by caregiving.

      Project Objectives: To evaluate whether over 12 months, veterans with caregivers in the skill
      training program have clinically significant increases in days at home than veterans in usual
      care (e.g. days not in emergency department, hospital, or nursing home). In addition, the
      investigators will evaluate whether veterans in the skill training program have significantly
      lower VA costs of medical care or higher satisfaction with VHA over 6 and 12 months than
      veterans in usual care. Finally, the investigators will evaluate whether caregivers in the
      skill training program have clinically significant reductions in depressive symptoms,
      subjective burden, or increased satisfaction with VA healthcare at 6 and12 months than
      caregivers in usual care.

      Project Methods: The study is a randomized controlled trial with data collection from
      caregiver-patient dyads before and after training, and at 6 and 12 months after program
      completion. Piloted in early 2012, the setting is the Social Work Service at the Durham VA
      Medical Center (VAMC). Patient inclusion criteria are patient referred to home and
      community-based services in the past 3 months, not eligible for hospice, residing at home,
      has an informal caregiver, and willing to let investigators contact the caregiver. Caregivers
      must be cognitively and physically capable to participate, understand English, not be treated
      for a substance abuse disorder, not be in another caregiver interventional study, and willing
      to participate in 3 phone call trainings and attend five group sessions at the VA. Caregivers
      in the control group will receive the training and support usually provided by HCBC and VA
      medical providers. To be referred successfully to HCBC, patients will have a minimum of 2
      activity of daily living limitations, and are likely to have multimorbidity, including high
      rates of cognitive impairment (44% in the pilot). The target sample size will be 146
      caregivers in each arm. Patient involvement will be limited to four short phone assessments
      (with mechanisms established for proxy respondents). Caregivers in the treatment arm will
      take part in three phone training sessions and five group sessions, and in both arms
      caregivers will be asked to provide four phone assessments. Descriptive statistics will be
      used to summarize all study variables. Of primary importance will be to examine the
      distribution of patient days spent at home during the first 3 months, the first 6 months, and
      over the entire 12 months of the post-intervention period (e.g. days not in ED, inpatient, or
      nursing home setting). Investigators will use the count-data regression model which best fits
      the investigators' data (Poisson, Negative Binomial or zero-inflated versions of Poisson or
      Negative Binomial) to test the primary hypothesis that veterans with caregivers in the skill
      training program will have significantly more days spent at home than veterans in usual care.
    
  