
    
      PURPOSE: This prospective study aims to analyze the treatment efficacy of LNG-IUS plus MPA in
      Young Women with Early Stage Endometrial Cancer and to analyze the diagnostic accuracy of
      office endometrial aspiration biopsy with LNG-IUS in place compared with dilatation and
      curettage after removal of LNG-IUS.

      ENDPOINTS: The primary endpoints of this study is response rate. Secondary endpoint is to
      estimate the consistency of the results between office endometrial aspiration biopsy and
      dilatation and curettage (D&C) procedure.

      STUDY SETTING AND PROTOCOL REVIEW: This study is a single arm, prospective
      multi-institutional study. Its protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of
      each clinical trial institution.

      PLANNED CLINICAL TRIAL PERIOD: Patient Selection and Enrollment: 24 month after IRB approval
      of clinical trial Institution.

      TREATMENT METHODS: Patients with histologically confirmed grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma
      that is presumably confined to the endometrium went through LNG-IUS insertion and were
      administered MPA at a dosage of 500 mg/day concurrently. Follow-up and treatment response
      assessment were implemented at a 3-month interval with transvaginal ultrasonography,
      endometrial aspiration biopsy with LNG-IUS in place and D&C after removal of LNG-IUS. The
      biopsy findings are compared.

      INVESTIGATIONAL PRODUCT

        1. General Name/Brand name: Mirena - SCHERING

           Active ingredient: levonorgestrel 52mg

           Description: Mirena is a hormone-releasing T-shaped intrauterine system. A removal
           thread is attached to a loop at the end of the vertical stem of the T-body.

        2. General Name/Brand name:Farlutal tab. 500mg/ Pfizer

      Active ingredient: Medroxyprogesterone Acetate

      PLANNED NUMBER OF SUBJECT 39 patients with biopsy proven grade 1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma
      that is presumably confined to the endometrium.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS The primary objective of this study is to estimate the treatment
      efficacy of the oral MPA in combination with LNG-IUS in early stage endometrial cancer in
      terms of their response rate. The sample size needed for this estimation would be 39 patients
      after considering 10% of follow-up loss. The Secondary objective is to estimate the
      consistency of the office endometrial aspiration biopsy and D&C. Kappa statistics will be
      used
    
  