
    
      Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a widely used method in dermatology clinics for treatment of
      superficial skin cancers and premalignant lesions. Actinic keratoses (AKs) are premalignant
      skin lesions which develop due to long-lasting sun exposure and in time can progress into
      squamocellular skin cancer if left untreated. The incidence of AKs and skin cancers is
      rapidly booming as the elderly population increases in western countries. It is crucial to
      treat AKs early and effectively considering their tendency to progress into malign cancer.
      The current general consensus for treating AKs is to treat large sun-damaged skin areas
      simultaneously instead of separate AK lesions. Term "skin field cancerization" refers to
      presence of different degrees of visible and invisible dysplastic changes in widely
      sun-damaged skin. Natural daylight mediated photodynamic therapy (NDL-PDT) is a well-suited
      method for treating large field-cancerized skin areas.

      In PDT a photosensitizing cream is applied on the skin and let to absorb. After absorption to
      the skin cells the photosensitizer changes into protoporphyrin IX (PpIX). PpIX reacts with
      visible light causing a phototoxic reaction which destroys cancer cells targetedly. After
      absorption the skin can be illuminated using a red lamp (conventional PDT) or natural
      daylight (NDL-PDT) as the absorption spectrum peaks of PpIX are within the visual spectrum of
      light.

      In Finland the approved photosensitizers for PDT are methyl 5-aminolevulinate cream (MAL,
      Metvix®, Galderma) and aminolevulinic acid gel (BF-200 ALA, Ameluz®, Biofrontera AG). They
      both have been clinically studied and proved effective in conventional PDT but in NDL-PDT
      mainly MAL has been in focus of studies. To our knowledge there is only research report
      concerning the use of BF-200 ALA in NDL-PDT (Neittaanmaki-Perttu et al 2014) which is a study
      of our own research group. In this study BF-200 ALA appeared to be more effective than MAL.
    
  