
    
      Frequent falls in people with cerebellar ataxia (CA) is a significant problem because it
      increases the burden of disease to both the individual and the healthcare system. Therefore,
      an intervention that could improve balance and reduce the number of falls is of paramount
      importance from the patients' perspective. Although the incidence of CA in the population is
      not as high as the other neurological disorders such as stroke and Parkinson's disease, the
      disability and its negative impact on quality of life are significant for those suffering
      from CA. Moreover, research that results in more knowledge regarding the factors that
      contribute to falls and the efficacy of treatments that reduce falls in this population could
      inform research into fall prevention in other populations of individuals at risk for falls,
      including otherwise healthy elderly adults. Individuals with CA have poor coordination,
      balance and postural control; all of these contribute to them having frequent falls. People
      with CA also present with varying degrees of cognitive impairments making it difficult for
      them to perform dual-tasks in daily activities. Dual tasking has been found to deteriorate
      the performance of either or both tasks in people with CA. The deficiency in dual-task
      performance relative to single-task performance referred to as dual-task cost is high in CA.
      Falls incidence in people with CA increases during daily activities that involve dual
      tasking. Tai-Chi is a form of dual-task training. Previous study of the Tai-Chi to improve
      balance and prevent falls in people with CA found some beneficial effects of Tai-Chi on
      improving balance, but it did not reduce falls incidence. The investigaotrs speculate the
      lack of beneficial effects of Tai-Chi on falls incidence was due to the Tai-Chi intervention
      being inadequately intense, especially with respect to its cognitive demand. Other available
      interventions to improve balance and reduce falls do not address the dual-task cost of
      balance performance in this population. However, dual-task training is found to reduce
      dual-task cost and reduce falls in people other neurological disorders and therefore has the
      potential to reduce falls in CA. To evaluate this possibility, the investigators developed
      and piloted the Cognitive-coupled Intensive Balance Training (CIBT) that combines cognitive
      demand to intensive balance and coordination training for reducing the dual-task cost of
      balance and cognitive performance, improve balance and consequently reduce the number of
      falls. The pilot study found that CIBT is safe, feasible and potentially effective in
      reducing the dual-task cost of balance performance, improving functional balance and reducing
      falls in people with CA. Evaluating the efficacy of this program in a fully powered clinical
      trial and understanding the mechanisms underlying the effectiveness of the CIBT on balance
      and falls are important next steps of our research program. Here the investigators propose a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) to compare the treatment benefits of the dual-task
      (experimental: CIBT) training against the single-task (active control: conventional balance,
      coordination and cognition) training for reducing dual-task cost, improving balance and
      reduce the number of falls in participants with CA, evaluating both the efficacy and the
      mechanisms of dual-task training. In addition, the investigators propose to conduct an
      economic evaluation alongside the RCT at a healthcare perspective of Hong Kong to compare the
      cost-effectiveness of dual-task training against single-task training, in preparation for the
      development of any future trials. This study finding will have important clinical
      implications by clarifying if adding a cognitive demand to routine balance and coordination
      training will result in additional benefits on improving balance and reducing falls in
      comparison with usual care in people with CA. The findings will also have important
      implications for increasing the efficacy of falls prevention programs in other populations
      with neurological deficits who are at risk for falls. Our specific objectives are:

      Objective 1: To evaluate the effectiveness of the dual-task (CIBT- experimental) training
      compared with single task (conventional intensive balance, coordination and cognitive- active
      control) training on functional balance and number of falls.

      Hypothesis 1: Both dual-task and single-task training will improve functional balance,
      however, the dual-task training will be more effective in reducing the number of falls.

      Objective 2: To identify the mechanism underlying the effectiveness of the dual-task training
      on functional balance and the number of falls; that is, to evaluate the extent to which
      treatment-related changes in the functional balance and dual-task cost of balance and
      cognitive performance mediate the reduction in the number of falls.

      Hypothesis 2: Improvement in functional balance resulting in the reduction of number of falls
      will be mediated by the reduction in the dual-task cost of balance and cognitive
      performances.

      Objective 3: Compare the cost-effectiveness of the dual-task and single-task training for
      preventing falls.

      Hypothesis 3: Dual-task training will be superior in terms of cost-effectiveness than the
      single-task from a health-care perspective of Hong Kong
    
  