
    
      Pectus excavatum deformity is a common condition in a pediatric surgical practice. While
      MIRPE provides excellent cosmetic results and is associated with shorter operative time and
      lower intraoperative blood loss, the immediate correction of the concave deformity with a
      metal bar places patients in a difficult pain control situation. While multiple postoperative
      analgesia modalities have been studied, there is still a need for a large, prospective,
      randomized trial that is appropriately powered to evaluate the best pain control modality
      after MIRPE. Of the clinically appropriate interventions, ESB and INC have been shown to have
      comparable LOS after the operation, especially when employed as part of an enhanced recovery
      pathway (ERP) bundle. Comparing these newer analgesia modalities to the more established PCA
      approach may help identify the most effective postoperative pain control approach that
      maximizes the safety profile while minimizing the use of narcotic pain medications after
      MIRPE.

      The investigators propose a prospective randomized trial evaluating the effectiveness of INC,
      PCA and ESB with continuous local anesthetic infusion via a pain pump delivery system. All
      groups will follow a multimodal enhanced recovery pathway. Groups will different only in the
      use of INC, PCA, or ESB.

      Since previous studies have reported similarly short LOS for both ESB and INC, but no
      prospective, direct comparisons of these techniques have been done, we believe comparing
      these two groups to the more established PCA modality will further advance the field of post
      MIRPE pain management by providing precise estimates of length of stay (LOS), hospital
      resource utilization, and other important outcomes that have not received sufficient
      attention including pain, quality of life, resumption of activities of daily living, and a
      rigorous survey for potential adverse outcomes. The investigators specifically hypothesize
      that because of the long-term analgesia of up to 2-3 months, the INC group may experience not
      only shorter LOS but decreased narcotic use than the ESB and PCA groups, and also improved
      quality of life, with fewer encounters in the postoperative period (30 days) for pain related
      concerns.
    
  