
    
      One of the side effects of using high dose corticosteroids for the treatment of ALL is
      osteoporosis. Risedronate is a medication that was designed to help prevent osteoporosis
      (brittle and weak bones).

      Before treatment you will receive a complete physical exam. You will have around 1 tablespoon
      of blood drawn for blood tests (these tests are in addition to the routine blood tests you
      will have as part of the treatment for leukemia). You will have a urine sample collected for
      routine tests. You will also have a bone mineral density test. This test measures the density
      of the bones in your spine, hip, and total body. The test is similar to having x-rays of your
      bones taken.

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups.
      Participants in the first group will be given risedronate (once per week), vitamin D (once
      per day), and calcium (once per day). All three medications are pills and will be taken by
      mouth. Participants in the second group will be given placebo (once per week), vitamin D
      (once per day), and calcium (once per day). All three medications are pills and will be taken
      by mouth. A placebo is a substance that looks like the study drug but has no active
      ingredients. Neither you nor your doctor will know to which group you are assigned. However,
      if it is needed for your care, the information will be given to your doctor.

      Participants in both groups will continue to receive chemotherapy during this study as
      scheduled. During chemotherapy, you will have around 1 tablespoon of blood drawn every 1-2
      weeks for routine blood tests (as part of the standard of care for your treatment of
      leukemia).

      For this study, you will have urine samples collected and repeat bone mineral density tests 6
      months, 12 months, 18 months, and 24 months after starting the study drug (or placebo).

      If you develop intolerable side effects from the risedronate you will be taken off the study.

      This is an investigational study. Risedronate is FDA approved and commercially available. Up
      to 80 eligible patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  