
    
      To be included in this study, the eligible patients must meet all criteria below:

      IC signature; The research subject must agree about following all instructions and perform
      the procedures and study visits; Men and women over the age of 18 and below the age of 75;
      History of angina of rest with a minimum duration of 20 minutes in the last 24 hours at the
      beginning and at least for 10 days.

      Patient Randomization up to 6 hours after the arrival at the emergency sector.

      Evidence of NSTEMI or unstable angina due to one or more of the following criteria:

      1. Dynamic alterations on the T-wave (ST-segment depression or elevation > 1 mm, and/or
      T-wave inversions which are solved at least partially when the symptoms are relieved) or 2.
      Unevenly ST-segment (depression or elevation) in a transitional way under continuous
      derivations (V1+V2 or V3+V4 or V5+V6 or D1+AVL or D2+D3+AVF) or 3. Biochemical alteration on
      the myocardial necrosis markers (CKMB mass, troponin T or I and CPK), with the appearance of
      enzymatic curve, characterizing myocardial injury or 5. Pulmonary Edema; or 6. Angina
      associated to murmur of mitral regurgitation; or 7. Angina with heart sound to cardiac
      auscultation or throes; or 8. Angina with hypotension;

      The patients who meet anyone of the criteria below will not be eligible for the study:

      12-derivation-ECG with persistent ST-segment elevation; Diagnosis of angina by secondary
      cause (e.g., anemia, fever, hypovolemia, dehydration, use of cocaine); Use of
      non-fractionated heparin or low-molecular weight heparin in the prior 48 to the
      randomization; Concomitant diseases, such as severe renal failure (creatinine clearance lower
      than 30ml/min.) and hepatic, or other significant comorbidities under investigator judgment;
      Recent hemorrhagic cerebrovascular accident (last 12 months); Patient scheduled for cardiac
      surgery of myocardial revascularization; Use of drugs, alcohol abuse; Pregnancy or lactation;
      Recent neurosurgery or ophthalmic surgery (last 3 months); History or diagnosis of
      coagulopathy; Medical record containing allergy, hypersensibility or intolerance to any of
      the drug components to be used on this study, which is judged as clinically significant in
      the main investigator's opinion; Recent participation (last 12 months) in a clinical study.
    
  