
    
      Radiocontrast agents (contrast) are widely used in coronary and peripheral vascular
      catheterization procedures. Although the use of these iodine-containing agents is vital for
      these procedures, it can be associated with adverse side effects. CIN is one of the most
      important adverse effects of contrast agents, and can cause substantial morbidity and
      mortality.

      Although the exact mechanisms remain unknown, intravenous hydration before the
      catheterization procedure is the only current treatment that has been shown to reduce the
      incidence of CIN. However, in patients with baseline impairments in renal function, hydration
      is commonly performed at a rate significantly lower than that shown to provide protection due
      to the fear of overhydration and pulmonary edema. Previous studies have used diuretics to
      increase urine output and prevent overhydration. In addition to the benefit of increased
      urine flow, loop diuretics, such as furosemide, should be expected to provide additive
      benefit against another potential mechanism of CIN, medullary ischemia, as they reduce sodium
      reabsorption, and consequentially oxygen consumption, of the kidney. While the results of
      their use have been mixed, it appears that furosemide was deleterious in patients who became
      dehydrated, i.e. those in whom the urine output was substantially greater than the rate of
      hydration they received.

      This problem may be overcome by a device, which is now available on the market, called the
      RenalGuard System. The System is capable of delivering saline solution to a patient in an
      amount matched to the volume of urine produced by the patient. The purpose of this matched
      fluid replacement is to prevent hypovolemia that may lead to hypotension or fluid
      overload.The aim of the study is to compare furosemide-induced diuresis with matched
      hydration therapy compared to standard hydration.
    
  