
    
      In the last few years, state of the art Patient Blood Management (PBM programs have been
      gaining worldwide attention. This may be attributed to the significant improvements in
      patient outcomes that follow adequate preoperative preparation and intraoperative
      optimization of the circulating red cell mass.

      The first pillar of PBM (pre-, intra-, and postoperative optimization of red cell mass by
      means other than red cell transfusions including intravenous iron and erythropoietin
      stimulating agents) can meet significant barriers and might be difficult to implement. In
      daily clinical practice, timely identification and treatment of preoperative anemia is
      difficult to organize due to structural and behavioral constraints. Therefore, today, there
      are still a striking number of patients who are admitted for surgery without adequate
      preoperative treatment of anemia regardless of its causes. Notably, even for this patient
      population, it has been demonstrated by experimental and larger observational data that
      postoperative application of intravenous iron could help to reduce perioperative transfusions
      by restoring red cell mass. The complete potential of perioperative intravenous iron therapy
      has yet to identified, including improvements such as early mobility and other improved
      outcomes. Furthermore, a substantial number of patients are not included in preoperative red
      cell mass optimization, since the preoperative hemoglobin concentration is either high enough
      in terms of the thresholds of the World Health Organization (♂ 13 g/dl and ♀ 12 g/dl), or
      borderline (mild) anemia is diagnosed and no treatment is offered. These patients may be
      prone to substantial intraoperative blood losses, and as a consequence might suffer from
      postoperative iron restricted anemia. In fact, there are a remarkable number of patients that
      have adequate hemoglobin concentrations preoperatively, but ultimately develop anemia with
      iron deficiency postoperatively due to significant intraoperative bleeding. Data from ICU
      patients' with postoperative iron deficiency has significant impact on outcome including
      postoperative fatigue, and consequently a prolonged healing process.

      Although this problem is common, current PBM strategies are in need of validation of one of
      the PBM guidelines: postoperative replacement of blood loss with resultant iron losses in
      patients without preoperative anemia thus avoiding exposure to allogeneic transfusions in
      this population. The untested hypothesis is that this approach could improve postoperative
      outcomes including mobilization. Based on a recent publication one might surmise that it is
      not (only) postoperative anemia, but rather untreated iron deficiency, that is responsible
      for a delay in postoperative mobilization and recovery. It is therefore the aim of the
      proposal presented to describe an additional approach, in which perioperative, surgical blood
      loss iron losses are replaced immediately following the surgical procedure in patients that
      did not receive iron preoperatively due to normal or minor reduction in hemoglobin
      concentrations (red cell mass). This replacement may take place in either the postoperative
      anesthesia care unit or in the ICU, Although preoperative treatment of iron deficiency anemia
      is widely considered the most important domain of perioperative iron therapy, the additional
      post-operative replacement is as useful as preoperative preparation and seems to be more
      convenient to implement.
    
  