
    
      The World Health Organization's (WHO) 2018 World Malaria Report estimates that in 2017, 219
      million cases of malaria occurred worldwide resulting in 435,000 deaths, 93% of which
      occurred in Africa. While this represents a remarkable improvement in comparison with 2000,
      with malaria deaths having fallen by 40% in Africa, the downward trends in incidence and
      mortality stalled between 2015 and 2017. This recent failure to maintain the hard-won
      progress, let alone accelerate progress towards elimination, over the past three years has
      caused WHO to describe the global fight against malaria as being at a cross roads, calling
      for increased funding and highlighting the need to develop, optimize, and implement new tools
      to combat malaria.

      Universal coverage of populations at risk with malaria vector control interventions-primarily
      insecticide treated nets (ITNs) and indoor residual spraying (IRS)-in malaria-endemic
      countries is a global and national priority because of its fundamental importance for malaria
      control and elimination. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of these tools is threatened by the
      emergence and spread of pyrethroid resistance in key mosquito populations, which is now
      reported in more than 85% of all malaria endemic countries and poses significant risk to the
      future impact of these tools. Emerging evidence suggests, however, that increasing mosquito
      mortality-and thereby continuing to reduce malaria transmission-is possible in areas with
      pyrethroid resistance by introducing new insecticide formulations for IRS and ITNs. For
      example, Protopopoff et al. showed in Tanzania that the distribution of LLINs with piperonyl
      butoxide (PBO) plus pyrethroid reduced malaria prevalence by 13% compared to standard
      pyrethroid-only LLIN distribution (42% vs. 29%; p=0.0011), and Tiono et al., working in
      Burkina Faso, showed that the distribution of a dual active-ingredient ITN reduced clinical
      malaria incidence by 22% (Incidence Rate Ratio = 0.88; p=0.04) and potentially infective
      mosquito bites by 51% (entomological inoculation rate ratio = 0.49; p<0.0001) compared to the
      distribution of a standard pyrethroid-only LLIN.

      While there is evidence that standard LLINs can continue to provide effective personal
      protection to regular net users in regions with resistant vector populations, new classes of
      ITNs developed to perform against pyrethroid-resistant mosquitoes have been developed, with
      early trials and modelling suggesting that they may provide superior protective efficacy
      against malaria in areas with pyrethroid-resistant vectors. Access to these new
      resistance-breaking ITNs is restricted by need for efficacy data for continuing policy
      recommendations, high prices, lack of evidence of cost effectiveness compared to
      pyrethroid-only LLINs, and consequent poor demand in an uncertain market. Interceptor® G2
      (IG2) (BASF), a new type of ITN consisting of two active ingredients including a mixture of a
      pyrethroid (alpha-cypermethrin) and a pyrrole (chlorfenapyr) insecticide, recently achieved
      WHO prequalification listing demonstrating that it performs to the thresholds required of
      pyrethroid-only LLINs and has no known specific side effects. While the IG2 ITN has been
      subsequently registered and approved for use in Burkina Faso based on this WHO listing the
      Roll Back Malaria Vector Control Advisory Group guidance indicates that dual active
      ingredient ITNs will require further epidemiological evidence before policy recommendations
      are made for their use in preference to pyrethroid-only LLINs in certain settings.

      The Global Fund and Unitaid have developed a market shaping program for IG2 and other ITNs
      with novel insecticide formulations. Evidence on the efficacy of IG2s will be generated by
      the project through two randomized control trials taking place in Benin and Tanzania. In
      addition, through this program, these next-generation ITNs will be made available to
      countries for incorporation into their national distribution programs as pilot distributions
      with the aim of determining real-world effectiveness and cost-effectiveness in different
      contexts. In addition to the pilot distribution of IG2s taking place in Burkina Faso, three
      other countries will be piloting IG2s as part of the New Nets project: Mali, Mozambique, and
      Rwanda. This research will utilize these pilot distributions to understand the
      cost-effectiveness of the new ITNs in the chosen settings. The NMCP in Burkina Faso, in
      discussion with the Global Fund, chose to incorporate IG2 ITNs into the upcoming 2019 mass
      distribution campaign. This study covers gathering information to determine the public health
      impact of the IG2 ITNs in Burkina Faso, in comparison to sites that will receive standard
      pyrethroid-only LLINs or PBO LLINs during the mass campaign. The aim of this research is to
      better understand the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of IG2 ITNs in Burkina Faso and to
      collect data on community uptake of the ITNs. During the upcoming pilot implementation,
      entomological, epidemiological, and anthropological data will be collected in up to three
      study districts, one that will receive IG2 ITNs, one comparator district that will receive
      standard LLINs, and one additional comparator district that will receive PBO LLINs. Data will
      be analyzed, and results disseminated to support the NMCP, donors, policymakers, and other
      national and regional stakeholders in their ITN decision-making and planning processes.

      As part of the New Nets Project initiative to catalyze the market introduction of
      next-generation ITNs, Burkina Faso will be piloting the deployment of next-generation ITNs in
      selected districts where enhanced surveillance activities will be used to support
      observational impact analyses. This study aims to provide National Malaria Control Programs
      (NMCP), international donors and other key stake holders with evidence on the impact
      next-generation ITNs on malaria burden. The decision on which type of ITNs to be distributed
      and where to distribute them were all made by the national control program with the support
      of international donors. These ITNs have gone through the country's appropriate registration
      process prior to their purchase and delivery in-country. This observational study is
      opportunistic in the sense that it is taking advantage of the decision of the national
      program to distribute the different ITNs (standard and next-generation) in different
      districts to evaluate their impact on malaria burden.

      In these districts, epidemiological, entomological, and anthropological data will be
      collected with the primary goal of evaluating the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of
      deploying next-generation ITNs. Each component specifically aims to:

        -  Epidemiological component - measure the epidemiological impact of the new IG2 ITNs,
           standard LLINs, and PBO LLINs in real deployment scenarios through observational
           studies. These studies will compare trends in (1) malaria case incidence rates passively
           reported to the national health system (passive case detection, PCD) and (2) malaria
           infection prevalence, measured through Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDTs), in children 6 to
           59 months of age from annual cross-sectional surveys during peak transmission periods.

        -  Entomological component - evaluate the impact of IG2 ITNs on vector populations and
           biting rates, compared to standard and PBO LLINs, through national mosquito surveillance
           data that will measure trends in species- specific (1) adult vector densities (2) indoor
           and outdoor human landing rates (3) estimated entomological inoculation rates and (4)
           insecticide resistance patterns.

        -  Anthropological component - map the social determinants of impact for IG2 LLINs and
           determine transmission risk defined as the intersection between time at risk of mosquito
           blood feeding and human activities not under protection of an ITN, through gathering
           evidence on LLIN uptake and usage. The collection of reliable data on such patterns,
           both indoors and outdoors, becomes thus an essential component of the evaluation of the
           ITN pilots for both modeling and contextual analysis of impact.

        -  Costing and cost-effectiveness component - estimate the cost and cost-effectiveness of
           IG2 ITNs in southwest Burkina Faso through data on the price of the product, delivery
           and deployment costs, and product effectiveness based on case incidence rates measured
           during the epidemiological component of this study. Additionally, mean costs per case
           averted that might occur in other contexts will be modeled and incorporated into the
           cost-effectiveness evaluations.
    
  