
    
      Uterine factor infertility (UFI) is one of the few irreversible causes of female infertility.
      Until recently, no medical or surgical options have been available for women with this
      diagnosis. UFI is defined by the lack of a functional uterus; this condition can either be
      congenital (e.g. Rokitansky syndrome, where a woman is born without an intact uterus) or
      acquired (e.g. resulting from hysterectomy or damage to the uterus from procedures or
      infections).

      Uterine infertility affects 3-5% of the female population. It is estimated that there are at
      least 50,000 women of reproductive age with uterine infertility in the United States.
      Existing options for women affected by UFI are limited to adoption or maternal surrogacy.
      Surrogacy involves harvesting eggs from the UFI patient and fertilizing these eggs in a lab
      with the intention of implanting fertilized embryos into a third party who will carry the
      pregnancy. Adoption and surrogacy are considered acceptable options for many women with UFI.
      For others, due to social, ethical, cultural and/or religious reasons, these options are not
      permissible. In many countries around the world, maternal surrogacy is illegal, leaving no
      option for UFI patients to conceive a biological child.

      Recently, uterine transplantation has been proposed as an alternative method of treating UFI.
      Uterine transplantation is intended as a life enhancing procedure, not a life saving
      procedure, and is considered to be similar to transplants of the face, extremities and
      pancreas. Interestingly, uterine transplantation is considered an "ephemeral" transplant, and
      is not intended to last for the duration of the life of the recipient. The transplant is
      maintained for only as long as is necessary to produce one or two offspring for the patient.

      The need for novel approaches to UFI is clear and exciting work from a team of investigators
      in Sweden has finally demonstrated this year that uterine transplantation can result in the
      successful delivery of healthy infants with minimal risk to the mother. After careful
      collaboration with this Swedish group, we now aim to bring the first uterine transplantation
      protocol to the United States using a multidisciplinary team of investigators from within the
      Cleveland Clinic.

      There have been 11 uterine transplants performed in humans worldwide. The first uterine
      transplant was performed in Saudi Arabia in 2000. The living-donor graft survived for 3
      months and was subsequently removed due to graft failure. The failure of the graft was
      attributed to thrombosis (blood clots affecting the circulation to the organ). Pregnancy was
      never attempted using the transplanted uterus prior to it being removed.

      This year, Brännström M. et al. published their experience with the first clinical trial of
      human uterine transplantation in a series of 9 women. The clinical trial, based in Sweden,
      began in 2012 under Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval from the University of
      Gothenburg. The nine women in the study group received uteri from living donors and the
      report, published in Fertility and Sterility in May 2014, described that seven out of the
      nine transplants were viable after six months of follow up. Nonviability of the two grafts
      was reportedly due to uterine artery thrombosis. In most cases, donors were the recipient's
      mother. Eight of the recipients had Rokitansky syndrome. One recipient had undergone a
      hysterectomy for cervical cancer. There were no immediate perioperative complications and all
      patients with successful grafts began to have spontaneous menstrual periods within a few
      months of transplantation. Mild rejection appeared to be treatable with steroids. All
      recipients had 10 viable embryos produced by in vitro fertilization performed prior to
      uterine transplantation. Those embryos were then transferred into the transplanted uterus to
      achieve pregnancy. This research has now resulted in the first published report of a human
      live birth from uterine transplantation.

      In the Gothenburg experience, the donor operation consisted of a hysterectomy including the
      uterine arteries and veins with the branches of the internal iliac artery and vein and vault
      of vagina. The first segment of the ovarian veins caudad to the ovaries (in order to protect
      their outflow) was also included. The explanted uterus was perfused with chilled University
      of Wisconsin (UW) solution and prepared for implantation. The implantation was achieved by
      anastomosis into the iliac vessels bilaterally, in some cases the donor ovarian veins where
      included. The vault of the donor vagina was anastomosed into the existing vagina or
      neovagina. Immunosuppression following uterine transplantation included induction with
      thymoglobulin and maintenance with tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil and oral steroids.
      Mycophenolate mofetil was discontinued before pregnancy attempts as it is contraindicated in
      pregnancy. This immunosuppression regimen is similar to the regimen proven effective in
      kidney transplantation, another solid organ graft.

      Dr. Andreas Tzakis has been working closely with the Gothenburg group through both early
      animal models as well as the recent clinical trial in humans. Below is a summary of this
      group's published relevant findings:

        1. Two grafts were lost (one soon after transplant and the other 4 months later) due to
           uterine artery thrombosis.

        2. One donor had a surgical complication, her ureter was injured during removal of the
           uterus, and she required a late ureteral reimplantation due to ischemic damage of her
           ureter

        3. Five recipients developed mild rejection of the graft. This was detected by cervical
           biopsy and was treated successfully with steroids in all cases.

        4. Menstruation occurred regularly in all seven subjects with a successful transplant
           within a few months of transplantation.

        5. One documented subject had one live birth by Cesarean section; this pregnancy was
           complicated by preeclampsia (high blood pressure of pregnancy) at 31.5 weeks gestation

      4. Pregnancy after Solid Organ Transplantation

      Since only one live birth in human uterine transplant recipients has been reported, the
      pregnancy risks are not firmly established; however pregnancies and deliveries after uterine
      transplantation of healthy offspring have been accomplished in small and large animals (mice,
      rats, sheep, nonhuman primates). In addition, pregnancy after other solid organ transplants
      in humans is well documented.

      The use of immunosuppressive medication is well studied in pregnancy after solid organ
      transplantation as well as in women with certain rheumatologic conditions and inflammatory
      bowel disease. Tacrolimus and cyclosporine are among the most widely used in pregnancy. Birth
      defects with cyclosporine or tacrolimus occur at an incidence of 4-5% which is no different
      than the general population. Cyclosporine is associated with low birth weight but does not
      appear to impact long term outcomes including intelligence quotient (IQ). Mycophenolate
      mofetil (MMF) is associated with a specific pattern of birth defects including facial
      malformations, finger abnormalities and heart defects. This medication should not be used in
      the first trimester of pregnancy. Azathioprine does not cause birth defects. Corticosteroids
      are considered safe however high doses can increase the risk of premature rupture of
      membranes. Immunosuppression is also noticed in infants exposed to these medications during
      pregnancy including low immunoglobulin levels and lymphocyte counts. Most of these deficits
      seem to normalize by the sixth month of life, with no noted impact on the infants' health.

      Renal transplant is the most common solid organ transplant after which pregnancy has been
      reported. In these women over 90% achieve successful pregnancy outcomes after the first
      trimester. Pregnancy risks include low birth weight, preterm delivery and preeclampsia. It
      has consistently been shown that pregnancy does not adversely affect the graft function or
      survival.

      The most frequent maternal complication in this patient population is pregnancy induced
      hypertension. Management of such pregnancy complications uterine transplant recipients should
      follow standard obstetric guidelines.

      Prematurity is the main fetal complication, which affects nearly 40% of live births. The mean
      reported gestational age at delivery is 36.5 weeks, while the mean birth weight is
      approximately 14% less than general population (6 lb 5 oz vs 7 lb 4 oz). Other fetal
      complications that have been observed include intrauterine growth restriction (approximately
      20%), prenatal infections, and birth defects.

      Over 400 pregnancies after liver transplantation have been reported. Similar risks are
      reported in these women including preeclampsia preterm birth and low birth weight. Less data
      is available from women who have undergone less common transplants. Kidney-pancreas
      transplant is associated with a higher complication rates. Hypertension is reported and 75%
      in addition there is a 55% risk of infection and 68% risk of low birth weight. These studies
      are limited by lack of consideration of the original disease of the organ recipient or the
      functional status of the transplanted organ. Women undergoing uterine transplantation will
      have no significant preexisting medical conditions unlike women undergoing other solid organ
      transplantations. Both these elements are likely to have an influence on the incidence of
      complications of the pregnancy and have not been included in previous large analyses.

      According to The American Society of Transplantation, pregnancy is allowable in renal organ
      transplantation one year after transplantation if there has been no signs of rejection, the
      transplanted organ has adequate function, there is no active infection (particularly
      cytomegalovirus infection) and the immunosuppression dose has been stable.

      Waiting one year after the transplantation prior to conception decreases the risk of acute
      rejection and infection. During the pregnancy it is important to monitor blood pressure and
      treat hypertension diligently, maintain strict glycemic control, monitor for signs of
      infection, and assess maternal levels of immunosuppressive medications more frequently.
    
  