
    
      The inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) shows the highest incidence among people of childbearing
      age. Indeed, it is not uncommon that pregnant or lactating women with IBD require drug
      therapy, including monoclonal antibodies against Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNFα). However,
      these patients face challenges, because information on pregnancy and breastfeeding safety of
      these new medications is lacking due to exclusion of pregnant and breastfeeding women from
      drug development processes. Whereas the data necessary for fetal safety assessment is
      accumulating gradually, significant gaps in the research efforts and the understanding on
      excretion of TNFα inhibitors into milk remain. Experts generally consider it acceptable to
      use the TNFα inhibitors during breastfeeding, because the previous studies found relatively
      low levels of these drugs in milk. However, the existing data on milk levels of these drugs
      are highly inconsistent, probably because previous reports gave no consideration to potential
      interference from high levels of endogenous TNFα in milk. As a result, a comprehensive
      picture of TNFα inhibitors in breast milk remains obscure. Moreover, in a recent mouse study,
      transfer of TNFα-dependent chemokines through milk has been shown to play a role in shaping
      the postnatal programming of brain development, implying that altered disposition of
      endogenous TNFα and other chemokines in milk during anti-TNFα therapy has an impact on brain
      development of the offspring.

      This is an observational cohort study with comparison group, which describes the first step
      to address the issue by uncovering the TNFα-dependent 'lactocrine' pathway and disposition of
      TNFα inhibitors in milk. The study will also investigate the pharmacokinetics of TNFα
      inhibitors in breast milk (as a sub-study), using the population pharmacokinetic (popPK)
      approach.
    
  