
    
      This study will be an open label, single-dose study to evaluate product design clinical
      performance of a to-be-marketed drug-device combination product (sc2WearTM Furosemide
      Combination Product) in up to 70 adult male and female Subjects previously diagnosed with
      mild to advanced heart failure (NYHA Class II-IV). The study was designed and powered to
      achieve "95/95" performance testing. Methodology: Each Subject will complete Screening,
      Treatment, and Follow-Up Phases on an outpatient basis. During the Screening Phase, all
      Subjects who sign the informed consent form and satisfy the inclusion/exclusion criteria will
      be enrolled into the trial. Drug administration may start on the day of enrollment or be
      scheduled within 3 days of completion of Screening assessments. However, if the treatment
      visit doesn't occur within 3 days of initial screening, subjects may be rescreened and
      treated within 3 days of rescreening. The Treatment Phase comprises a preprogrammed bi-phasic
      5 hour drug administration. Treatment Day observations will commence with pre-placement
      assessments and continue until after device removal. Device preparation, placement and
      removal will be performed by study staff in accordance with product instructions of use.
      Removal will occur within 3 hours of completion of drug delivery (8 hours of start of
      administration). Subjects will return 5-7 days after the Treatment Day for a post treatment
      follow-up and photography.

      Blood samples will be obtained for the measurement of plasma furosemide levels prior to start
      of the administration and once during the plateau phase (1-5 hours following activation).
      After preparation of the skin the device will be placed on the upper abdominal area by
      clinical study staff. Subjects are advised to avoid strenuous physical activity or activities
      that could expose the device to moisture such as swimming, bathing or showering. Participants
      will be informed that marked diuresis may ensue after activation, and that they should avoid
      travel, operating a vehicle or other situations without immediate access to bathroom
      facilities. For this study, up to 70 unique reusable components (Activator) will be used.
      Likewise, up to 70 single-use units (Cartridge) will be used. Following removal from the
      skin, the assembled device will be inspected and photographed by the site staff. The used
      device (assembled Cartridge and Activator) will be placed in a sealed container and returned
      for further inspection and measurement of residual volume in the device reservoir by a
      qualified laboratory.
    
  