
    
      Despite of marked improvements in management, early postpartum hemorrhage(PPH)remains a
      significant contributor to maternal morbidity and mortality both in developing countries and
      in hospitals equipped with all that modern medicine has to offer. This complication is
      amongst the most challenging that a clinician will face in Obstetrics. Prevention, early
      recognition and prompt appropriate intervention are the keys to minimizing the impact of PPH
      on women's health.

      Prophylactic oxytocin, commonly administered after fetal and placental delivery, has been
      shown to reduce the incidence of PPH. The main advantages of this drug are its rapid onset of
      action and the fact that it does not cause elevations of blood pressure or tetanic
      contractions like ergonovine. The effect of oxytocin is limited by the number and status of
      the oxytocin receptors. Increases in the dose of oxytocin will not necessarily improve
      uterine contraction, if receptors are not adequate in quantity and quality.This is the cause
      of patients exposed to oxytocin for labor augmentation, in whom oxytocin receptors are known
      to reduce both number and response to oxytocin. Therefore, a different uterotonic agent,
      involving a different mechanism of action should be used instead. Alternative drugs include
      ergot derivatives and prostaglandins (carboprost and misoprostol). Although protection from
      PPH with ergot derivatives and prostaglandin appear to be similar, prostaglandins are
      associated with more side effects.

      Patients undergoing Cesarean sections following failure to progress in labor are at great
      risk for PPH and should theoretically benefit from an additional uterotonic agent. This study
      will be conducted to define whether the addition of ergonovine maleate to oxytocin,
      administered in a prophylactic way, reduces blood loss during Cesarean section for failure to
      progress in labor.
    
  