
    
      It is a monocentric case-control study (1: 1). The inclusion of cases and witnesses will be
      prospective. For each case, a witness will be included with matching on parity (0, at least
      one child). Concerning the age, they will be matched according to the following age groups:
      18-39 years old, 40-44 years old, 45-49 years old, 50-54 years old, over 55 years old.

      For cases and controls, before the intervention, a questioning (age, weight, height, parity,
      mode of delivery, hormonal status), clinical symptoms of POPs and urinary incontinence, a
      detailed clinical examination, and an urodynamic assessment (in case of POPs) will be noted.

      All cases and controls will have an ultrasound guided MEA biopsy. A fine needle will be used.
      The biopsy (5mm) will interest the medial part located between the vagina and the rectum.

      Patients will be seen on post-operative visits between 15 days and 2 months after surgery for
      an examination and clinical examination.

      From the biopsy, it will be performed a classic staining (Masson's trichrome) and specific
      immuno-markings to detect all the nerves, and to differentiate parasympathetic autonomic,
      sympathetic autonomic, erectile, and somatic nerves. Immunostaining for smooth muscle,
      striated muscle and relaxin system will also be performed. An immunofluorescence technique
      will be associated. Thus, some additional slides will be reserved for an actomyosin ATPase
      enzymatic reaction to differentiate muscle fiber types. Treated sections will be digitized
      with a Hamamatsu slide scanner for subsequent image analysis and analysis. The size of the
      different types of striated muscle fibers (1, 2a, 2b) will be measured using the NDPview
      (Hamamatsu) software. The labeling surface of the different antibodies will be quantified
      objectively by the NIS-Elements Viewer software.

      Benefits are collective :

        1. Clinical impact: Find new medical therapeutic targets and improve rehabilitation
           techniques.

        2. Repercussion in research:

             -  To set up a PHRC with a randomized controlled multicenter study on the comparison
                of electrical stimulation and voluntary muscular contraction in postpartum with
                measurement of pelvic floor muscle strength and pelvic-perineal evaluation (search
                for pelvic prolapse , urinary incontinence).

             -  To improve knowledge of anatomy and physiology of pelvic floor muscles by mapping
                neurotransmitters in LAM in adult patients with POPs and asymptomatic patients.
    
  