
    
      Primary emergency and elective general surgery procedures at St Mary's Hospital, Imperial
      College Healthcare Trust, Chelsea and Westminster University Hospital Trusts and University
      College London University Hospital, under the care of participating surgical teams shall be
      considered.

      The study will be set up as a sequential cohort study, comparing the performance of surgical
      teams, before and after the introduction of GoSurgeryTM software.

      We will include three Bariatric teams from St Mary's, University Hospital and Chelsea and
      Westminster Hospitals.

      In the three cohorts, videocameras and microphones will be positioned in the operating
      theatre in order to capture all events and conversations taking place from the beginning to
      the end of each case.

      As is routine surgical practice, once the patient has been prepared for surgery, the keyhole
      (laparoscopic) camera will be connected to the laparoscopic stack to be projected onto the
      operating room screens. Recording will be started at the time of inserting the camera into
      the patient's abdomen, as is protocol.

      in the intervention phase, GoSurgeryTM workflows will be made available to the intervention
      group for preparation before the cases and will be displayed within the operating theatre
      during the operation.

      They will be controlled though pedals that allow to move backwards and forwards through the
      workflow.

      When using GoSurgeryTM with visual recognition software, the keyhole video footage shall be
      directly extracted using local transfer over a closed wired network.

      This video shall be fed into the visual recognition software algorithm. The software shall
      then recognise the specific part of the procedure being performed and display the relevant
      information on dedicated screens showing different views for different members of the team,
      eg surgeon view or scrub nurse view. Videos will be used to train the machine learning
      software to recognise the different steps of different operations so that it may then replace
      the pedal controls.

      Members of the surgical team shall be asked to complete questionnaires before and/or after
      the cases.
    
  