
    
      Participants will be asked to report to the laboratory at 7:00 am following an overnight
      fast. Upon arrival, a Teflon catheter will be inserted in an antecubital vein of one arm for
      arterialized blood sampling and a baseline blood sample will be drawn. Arterialized blood
      samples will be obtained by wrapping the subjects' forearm in a heating blanket (45 °C) for
      10 min prior to each blood collection time point. A second Teflon catheter will be inserted
      in an antecubital vein of the opposite arm, and participants will receive a priming dose of
      L-[ring- 13C6]phenylalanine (2.0 µmol∙kg) prior to initiating a continuous infusion of
      L-[ring-13C6]phenylalanine (0.05 µmol∙kg∙min) (t=-240). The prime and continuous tracer
      infusion will be passed through a 0.2 μm filter. Blood will be collected every 1 hour and
      biopsies of the vastus lateralis will be collected at t=-180 and t=-15 min using a 5 mm
      Bergström needle (modified for manual suction) under 2% xylocaine local anesthesia for the
      measurement of postabsorptive muscle protein synthesis rates. The second biopsy (t=-15 min)
      will be used to determine baseline levels of phosphorylated and total proteins involved in
      nutrient sensing and muscle anabolic signaling. Subsequently, the participants will ingest 6
      oz of fresh ground center cut pork loin. This cut of meat was selected due to its low lipid
      content (2.5-3%) and it is uniform in shape, size and composition. Along with the ingested
      pork, the participants will consume 300 mL of water. The water will be enriched to 5% with
      tracer according to the phenylalanine content of ~4% in the pork. This approach is required
      to minimize disturbances in isotopic steady state and provide appropriate conditions for the
      calculation of postprandial muscle protein synthesis rates. The time required to consume the
      pork will be recorded. The completion of the pork meal and water will mark the start of the
      postprandial phase (t=0). During this period, arterialized blood samples will be collected
      into evacuated chilled heparinized tubes at t=30, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240, and 300 min.
      Additional muscle biopsies will be collected at t=120 and 300 min of the experimental
      infusion for the measurement of postprandial muscle protein synthetic and muscle anabolic
      signaling protein responses. The muscle biopsy samples will be freed from any visible blood,
      fat, and connective tissue, rapidly frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -80˚C until
      analysis. Blood samples will be centrifuged at 1,000×g at 4˚C for 10 min and separated plasma
      will be transferred to 2.0 ml cryovials. The plasma samples will be stored at -20˚C until
      further analysis.
    
  