
    
      The primary hypothesis to be tested is that 17B-estradiol (estrogen) will reduce the
      progression of early atherosclerosis if initiated soon after menopause when the vascular
      endothelium (lining of blood vessels) is relatively healthy versus later when the endothelium
      has lost its responsiveness to estrogen. Ultrasonography will be used to measure the rate of
      change in the thickness of the carotid artery and cardiac computed tomography (CT) will be
      used to measure coronary artery calcium and coronary artery lesions. The second hypothesis to
      be tested is that 17B-estradiol (estrogen) will reduce the progression of cognitive decline
      if initiated soon after menopause when healthy brain tissue remains responsive to estrogen
      versus later when brain tissue has lost its responsiveness to estrogen.

      A total of 643 (actual)(504, initially proposed) postmenopausal women were randomized
      according to their number of years since menopause, less than 6 years or 10 years or more, to
      receive either oral 17B-estradiol 1 mg daily or a placebo. Women with a uterus will also use
      vaginal progesterone gel 4% (or a placebo gel) the last ten days of each month. The vaginal
      progesterone will be distributed in a double-blind fashion along with the randomized
      treatment so that only women exposed to active treatment will receive active progesterone. As
      initially proposed, participants will undergo ultrasonography at baseline and every 6 months
      throughout the 2 to 5 years (average 3 years) of randomized treatment. Participants will also
      undergo cognitive testing at baseline and after 3 years of randomized treatment. The trial
      has been extended for an additional 2 to 2.5 years of randomized treatment (overall average
      randomized treatment of 5 years and range of 2 to 8.5 years). Ultrasonography will continue
      to be collected every 6 months and upon completion of randomized treatment, participants will
      undergo cardiac CT for coronary artery calcium and coronary artery lesion measurements.
      Participants will also undergo a third cognitive testing at the completion of randomized
      treatment.
    
  