
    
      Injecting drug users (IDUs) are among the most vulnerable populations at risk to contract
      human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV). Among Canadian cities,
      Montreal holds one of the higher HIV and HCV contraction rates in the IDU population. Results
      from SurvUDI, a population survey among IDUs conducted in the province of Quebec (Canada),
      show that in Montreal 18% of IDUs are infected with HIV and 67% are infected with HCV. The
      cornerstone of HIV and HCV prevention strategies is to give information on safe injection
      practices and to make available sterile syringes and other injection equipment. However, the
      SurvUDI survey reveals that a large proportion of IDUs recruited in community programs
      offering sterile injection equipment and information on safe injection practices are still
      sharing needles with other IDUs. Indeed, it seems that information dissemination and
      distribution of sterile injection equipment are not sufficient in order to control the HIV
      and HCV epidemic among IDUs. As a matter of fact, it is obvious that complementary
      interventions such as behavioural interventions are required. Motivational interviewing is an
      intervention technique centered on the individual. It aims to enhance intrinsic motivation to
      change behavior by helping the individual to resolve ambivalence. The scientific literature
      indicates that brief motivational intervention is a significantly effective intervention in
      order to reduce drug use problems and other related health problems. Furthermore,
      motivational intervention is well adapted for IDUs' resistance to change and their
      difficulties related with involvement in long-term therapeutic process. The present study's
      hypothesis is that IDUs assigned to the experimental group (brief motivational intervention)
      will present a greater diminution of their risky injection practices in comparison with IDUs
      assigned to the control group (educational intervention).
    
  