
    
      -  This trial can be divided into three phases: 1) Pre-transplant phase; 2) Reduced
           intensity transplant phase; 3) Vaccination phase.

        -  Pre-transplant phase: Once a suitable donor has been identified, the participant will
           undergo a battery of standard pre-transplant tests and procedure to collect their
           leukemia cells for vaccine generation. Blood tests, heart function test, pulmonary
           function test, tuberculosis test, bone marrow aspirate and biopsy, and leukemia cell
           collection through leukapheresis.

        -  Allogeneic reduced intensity stem cell transplant phase: The transplant phase of the
           study will begin when the participant is admitted to the hospital to receive the
           chemotherapy and stem cell transplant. The minimum duration of hospitalization for the
           procedure is approximately 8 days. In the week before the participant receives the stem
           cells, they will be treated with chemotherapy through a central line. The goal of
           chemotherapy is to both control the cancer and suppress the immune system so that the
           body will not reject the donor stem cells.

        -  Just prior to and immediately following the infusion of stem cells, participants will
           receive medications to help prevent graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), a common
           complication of transplant where the donor's immune cells attack the body. After the
           transplant, participants will also take antibiotic medication to help prevent possible
           infections.

        -  Sargramostim (GM-CSF, leukine), a white blood cell growth factor, will be given daily
           subcutaneously starting the day after the stem cell transplant until blood counts have
           recovered.

        -  After the stem cell infusion, participants will be examined and have blood tests weekly
           for 1 month. Between 30-45 days after the transplant, a bone marrow biopsy will be
           performed to assess the status of the disease and to look for evidence of the donor's
           cells in the bone marrow.

        -  Vaccination Phase: After the bone marrow biopsy 30-45 days after the transplant, the
           participant will begin to receive the vaccinations. The vaccine will be administered
           subcutaneously and intradermally on the arm, leg, or abdomen 6 times over a period of 9
           weeks. The first 3 vaccinations will occur once a week for 3 consecutive weeks, and the
           last 3 vaccines will be given once every other week over 6 weeks. All vaccinations may
           be given as an outpatient in the clinic. During this period of time, participants will
           be closely monitored on a weekly basis to monitor for side effects. Before the first and
           after the fifth and sixth vaccinations, a small amount of the participants leukemia
           cells will be injected under the skin to see if the immune system will react against it
           and cause redness and swelling.

        -  About 4 weeks after the last vaccination (6th), a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy will
           be performed to assess the status of the disease.

        -  After the 1st and 5th vaccinations, a skin biopsy will be performed to assess for
           response at the vaccine site. These biopsies are relatively simple outpatient
           procedures.
    
  