
    
      There are two research strata: Stratum A1 and Stratum A2. All subjects will receive standard
      RT no later than 14 days after study enrollment and no later than 42 days after the date of
      radiographic diagnosis or surgery, whichever date is the later. Four to 12 weeks after the
      completion of standard RT, subjects without radiographic evidence of progression will receive
      single-agent oral GDC-0084 once daily in cycles of 28 days. Treatment may be continued for up
      to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Subjects enrolled on Stratum A1 will be enrolled on the dose-escalation phase of the study.
      Up to 4 different dose levels will be evaluated: Dose level 0, 21 mg/m2; Dose level 1, 27
      mg/m2; Dose level 2, 35 mg/m2; and Dose level 3, 45 mg/m2. The Rolling 6 design will be used
      to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase 2 dosage (RP2D) of GDC-0084.

      Subjects enrolled on Stratum A1 must be able to swallow capsules during the first cycle of
      therapy (the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) evaluation period). Subjects who complete the DLT
      evaluation period and are no longer able to swallow the whole capsule may take GDC-0084
      opened, sprinkled in purée. Additionally, subjects who gain the ability to swallow whole
      capsules after initially receiving the opened formulation and have completed the DLT
      evaluation period may transition to the whole capsule formulation. Subjects who change
      administration methods after course 1 will have mandatory intrapatient pharmacokinetic
      studies performed. Subjects enrolled on Stratum A1 who are no longer able to swallow whole
      capsules of GDC-0084 during the DLT evaluation period (cycle 1) will be taken off treatment.

      Once the MTD has been established in Stratum A1, the Stratum A1 expansion cohort and Stratum
      A2 will open simultaneously. Subjects enrolled on the Stratum A1 expansion cohort will be
      required to swallow capsules. Subjects enrolled on Stratum A2 will be restricted to subjects
      who are unable to swallow capsules until the Stratum A1 expansion cohort is filled. Once the
      Stratum A1 expansion cohort has been filled, both subjects who are able to swallow capsules
      and those unable to swallow capsules may be enrolled on Stratum A2. Subjects enrolled on
      Stratum A2 who are unable to swallow capsules will take GDC-0084 as an open capsule sprinkled
      in purée and will undergo mandatory interpatient pharmacokinetic studies.
    
  