
    
      The management of trismus and its side effects is essentially based on a re-education of
      maxillary constrictions to limit or reduce the loss of mouth opening in patients. Exercise
      protocols are in place and have been evaluated in the literature with discordant results. The
      beneficial effect of a rehabilitation program on the prevalence of trismus, oral opening and
      quality of life of patients is not yet clearly demonstrated.

      Three studies did not show any significant beneficial effect of rehabilitation programs nor
      on the prevalence of trismus or the quality of life of patients. A 2014 randomized trial
      showed no benefit from a passive exercise program on trismus prevention and oral opening.
      Another 2011 study compared 374 patients, a control group and an intervention group following
      language mobility exercises, rehabilitation supervised by a physiotherapist and specific
      trismus prevention exercises with the help of a doctor. specific tool (Jaw Trainer) during
      and after radiotherapy. A third, more recent, randomized study evaluated the effect of a very
      comprehensive rehabilitation program consisting of a 45-minute session per week of
      rehabilitation with a physiotherapist, 7 exercises to be performed 5 times a day at home
      supplemented by chewing. chewing gum 5 times a day. These last two studies nonetheless
      concluded the importance of carrying out other work on the subject by working on the
      objectives of the studies, on the tools used, and on the implementation of the exercise
      program.

      Also, an other study cited above does not show a significant difference in mouth opening
      between the two rehabilitation groups, but analyzes the adhesion and shows that it is
      significantly higher (59 versus 41 days) in the standard rehabilitation group, less
      burdensome for patients. Thus, the issue of patient adherence to active rehabilitation is
      real and essential to take into account in studies assessing the effect of a rehabilitation
      program on oral opening.

      The prevalence of trismus as well as its management in physiotherapy and the effectiveness of
      a rehabilitation program are not clearly documented in France. Our hypothesis is that
      currently at least 30% of patients treated by radiochemotherapy are affected by a trismus.
      According to national oncology nutrition guidelines, the patients most at risk for
      locoregional complications are those who receive oropharyngeal ≥ 54 Gray radiotherapy doses,
      plus concomitant chemotherapy.

      It seems essential to offer these patients early and preventive management of this symptom
      and its consequences, throughout the duration of treatment.

      This study is all the more relevant as the progress of treatment of upper aero-digestive
      tract cancers have allowed an improvement in survival rates, with an increase in the number
      of patients living with sequelae related to treatments.

      The major benefit for patients will be a decrease in the loss of mouth opening during and
      after treatment, with the consequent improvement of the criteria of well-being and quality of
      life: the resumption of a normal diet, a decrease the duration of artificial nutrition,
      better oral hygiene, improved speech and the recovery of mimicry. All this in order to
      accelerate the return to the most normal social and professional life possible.
    
  