
    
      History & Significance:

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a syndrome of sleep related airway obstruction (snoring) and
      reduction in blood oxygen levels affecting between 2% and 24% of the general population1. In
      other words, a person stops breathing repeatedly during sleep when they have OSA. Breathing
      stops because the airway collapses and prevents air from getting into the lungs. The impact
      of OSA on systemic heart and lung disease is slow and progressive over a course of years.
      Exposure to anesthesia increases the tendency for postoperative airway obstruction and
      reduction in oxygen levels2, both of which could have significant impact on patient
      well-being.

      Recent advances in general anesthetics, opioid analgesic drugs and surgical techniques have
      made outpatient surgery common for a significant proportion of patients. It is estimated that
      approximately 50% of procedures currently performed in the University of Michigan Health
      System are day-case procedures, the vast majority of which require deep sedation or general
      anesthesia. The reduction in postoperative hospital based care has placed considerable
      emphasis on the efficient delivery of pain relief and has resulted in an increased usage of
      peripheral nerve blocks to reduce the need for intravenous sedative opioid analgesics and
      deep levels of anesthesia.

      Shoulder surgery is a particularly good example where a nerve block in the neck region
      (typically an inter-scalene brachial plexus block) placed before anesthesia provides good
      pain relief with early recovery and less side effects directly related to opioid analgesics.
      Nevertheless, one of the side effects of the interscalene nerve block is temporary (12-18
      hours) weakness of the diaphragm muscle on the same side as the block, due to phrenic nerve
      blockade. As a result, there is a change in the patient's breathing pattern which is
      typically compensated by increased work by other muscles in the respiratory system3. However,
      it is important to note that shoulder joint disease is more common in middle-aged patients
      who are typically at greater risk of OSA. The baseline abnormalities in respiration in OSA
      patients put them at increased risk of breathing abnormalities after the inter-scalene nerve
      block. As a result, this surgery presents unique challenges to the anesthesiologist looking
      to balance the benefit and risks of inter-scalene nerve blocks. Unfortunately, there are no
      studies that look at the effect of anesthesia and inter-scalene blocks on breathing patterns
      and oxygen saturation levels after discharge from outpatient surgery, as measured by
      spirometry, sleep studies and pulse oximetry. We therefore propose to study the changes in
      lung function tests and blood oxygen levels after an inter-scalene block and general
      anesthesia for outpatient shoulder surgery.

      It is possible that future screening for out-patient shoulder surgery includes preoperative
      overnight oxygen saturation measurement to identify patients at high-risk of changes in
      oxygen levels. These patients may benefit from hospital admission after surgery for close
      observation. Thus, this study could have significant implications for patient safety and
      resource utilization.

      Sample Size Estimation:

      We hypothesize that all patients undergoing inter-scalene block and general anesthesia for
      shoulder surgery will develop a doubling of significant oximetric changes based on standard
      measures used in sleep studies. At least 8 patients are required for a study with 5% type-I
      and 20% type-II error to prove this hypothesis. We plan to recruit 10 patients for the study,
      with each patient doubling as their own control, to allow for a 20% (2 subjects) withdrawal
      rate. We anticipate having 50 screen failures.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measure for this study is the incidence of postoperative sleep disordered
      breathing (apnea-hypopnea index) defined as ≥5 episodes per hour of >50% reduction of
      expiratory air flow associated with a ≥4% reduction in oxygen saturation (referred to as ODI4
      or oxygen desaturation index > or = to 4 points drop in SpO2) that lasts for at least 10
      seconds each as measured by the pulse oximeter. Secondary outcome measures include changes in
      lung function tests and lowest and mean oxygen saturation levels during sleep.

      Study Design:

      This is an observational longitudinal study, wherein each patient acts as their own control.
      10 patients with high risk prediction factors of OSA, as screened by the Perioperative- Sleep
      Apnea Prediction Score(P-SAP) of ≥6, presenting for outpatient shoulder surgery, will be
      approached for participation in this study.The P-SAP score consists of three demographic
      variables (age> 43 years, male gender and obesity), three medical history variables (history
      of snoring, type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension) and three airway measures (thick neck,
      modified Mallampati class of 3 or 4 and reduced thyromental distance) and the number of
      significant variables present in a given patient is the P-SAP score. The respiratory effects
      of the anesthetic and block will be assessed by using pulse oximetry, spirometry, and
      overnight sleep studies. Preoperative and postoperative values will be compared for
      significant differences.

      Standard monitoring will be employed during anesthesia including continuous
      electrocardiography, non-invasive blood pressure measurement every 3 minutes, continuous
      pulse oximetry, continuous capnography, continuous respiratory gas measurements,
      neuromuscular function monitoring and continuous body temperature. Anesthesia technique will
      include the preoperative interscalene block, followed by induction of anesthesia with
      midazolam, fentanyl, propofol and muscle relaxation with succinylcholine and/or vecuronium as
      indicated. This will be followed by tracheal intubation to protect the airway and ensure
      conduit for adequate intraoperative controlled ventilation. Anesthesia will be maintained
      with total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA), oxygen and air, titrated to ensure adequate depth
      of anesthesia. Additional analgesia will be provided with bolus or continuous infusion
      remifentanil as needed. Institutional protocols for prevention of nausea and vomiting will be
      employed. At the end of the surgical procedure, full recovery of neuromuscular function will
      be facilitated by use of neostigmine and glycopyrrolate, before removal of the endotracheal
      tube. On arrival to the post anesthesia care unit, the patient will be monitored and managed
      to ensure safe and comfortable recovery from the surgical procedure. Additional fentanyl will
      be used for pain relief if needed and standard postoperative protocols for management of care
      will be followed. Discharge from the PACU will be done on full recovery to satisfy
      institutional PACU discharge criteria. Prior to discharge from PACU a second set of pulmonary
      function tests will be performed by the research assistant. Patients will be discharged home
      on standard postoperative analgesia including acetaminophen and hydrocodone or at surgical
      resident's discretion.

      Study Design Rationale The American Society of Anesthesiologists' practice guideline on
      obstructive sleep apnea (Anesthesiology 2006) clearly supports the use of regional anesthesia
      and analgesia as a way to reduce perioperative opioid usage. The technique described in our
      proposal is essentially a "single intervention" as the anesthetic always includes a general
      anesthesia. As this is the standard of care, we would not be able to employ a randomized
      control design that denies this "better care" randomly to some patients.

      A non-random selection of cases to study the effects of general anesthesia vs. block would be
      difficult because in the absence of the block, the patients get higher doses of opioids and
      general anesthetics. This makes it impossible to compare perioperative sleep disturbances
      with patients who get the additional inter-scalene block (as both opioids and general
      anesthetic agents directly impact the severity of sleep related breathing disturbances) Also,
      since these patients have medical or personal reasons to avoid the block, this would
      negatively impact our likelihood of recruiting comparable study populations We will use a
      longitudinal study design and pre-block and postoperative spirometry, as a way to account for
      inter-individual differences in the effects of scalene block on lung volumes. At lower lung
      volumes, patients are more likely to develop airway obstruction. As a first step, we would
      like to test the influence of this lung volume change on the outcomes, rather than identify
      which part of the anesthetic is causing the lung volume change. We therefore, will not
      include a control group.

      Research Procedures:

        1. Pre-Operative Clinic Visit Patients will be approached based on the inclusion criteria
           stated above. Patients will be screened and consented for the study during their visit
           to the Dominos Preoperative Clinic. The subject will receive a phone call two days
           before their scheduled surgery to answer any questions they may still have, to remind
           them to use the portable sleep study machine (Compumedics Somte System Ambulatory
           Cardio-respiratory system) at night, and to remind them to bring the Somte sleep device
           with them on the day of their scheduled surgery. Once patients are consented for the
           study, study measurements will begin the day prior to surgery.

        2. Pre-Operative At Home The study team will call the subject and arrange a convenient time
           to come to the subject's house to teach them how to use a portable sleep study machine
           that has an elastic band that fits around their chest and a pulse oximeter, which
           records the level of oxygen in their blood. The subject will keep the portable sleep
           study machine and pulse oximeter in their home and wear these two nights before the
           scheduled shoulder surgery.

        3. Pre-Operative Day Of Surgery On the morning of the scheduled surgery after the subject
           arrives at the outpatient surgical center, the subject will be given a baseline lung
           function test. After this procedure is completed, an interscalene nerve block will be
           placed by the anesthesiologist before the subject goes to the operating room. An
           interscalene nerve block is a procedure done to make the shoulder and arm numb for the
           first hours after surgery to help with pain after an operation. It is an injection of a
           numbing medication, similar to what a dentist would use, around or near the nerves in
           the area that is being operated on to temporarily control pain.

           Most shoulder surgeons, recommend having this nerve block placed by the anesthesiologist
           as part of the normal standard of care before surgery. Before the block is placed, the
           subject will have an IV put in and monitors hooked up, including heart rate, blood
           pressure, breathing rate, and a pulse oximeter. These procedures are all part of normal
           pre-operative care. Sedation or general anesthesia is used for the nerve block, as
           decided by the anesthesiologist, but the subject is not completely asleep for the
           procedure. An ultrasound machine and a nerve stimulating device are used to find the
           correct nerves and help with accurate placement of the block at the base of the neck.
           After the block is placed, the subject will go to the operating room and general
           anesthesia for the shoulder surgery per normal standard of care will be administered.

        4. Post-Operative Day of Surgery After the surgery another spirometry lung function test
           will be performed. The subject will use the Somte device the night of surgery as well.

        5. After Going Home The subject will wear the portable sleep study elastic band and pulse
           oximeter at home for the first night after surgery. We will arrange for a convenient
           time to have someone pick up these two items from the subjects home. The patient's
           involvement in the study ends the day after surgery.
    
  