
    
      Arterial stiffness occurs where the vessel wall lacks elasticity. It is known to be
      independently associated with both cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, such that it can
      act as a surrogate end point for studies of cardiovascular disease. Pulse wave velocity (PWV)
      is an index of this stiffness and has been described as its 'gold standard' measurement.

      A number of other clinical factors have been found to show meaningful association with PWV,
      including heart rate and mean arterial pressure. These findings have highlighted the need for
      studies of new potential determinants of PWV to account for the potentially confounding
      influence of these known factors. Additional demographic and lifestyle characteristics have
      also been shown to act as moderators of PWV. In particular, research has demonstrated that
      PWV increases with age, and this stiffness is consequently deemed an indicator of vascular
      ageing.

      Alcohol intake is another lifestyle characteristic that has been considered as a potential
      factor in the loss of arterial elasticity. Evidence to date suggests that a J-shaped
      association may exist between such intake and PWV, but this work has mostly relied on
      cross-sectional data or looked at short-term intake patterns only. By adopting a longitudinal
      perspective, further insight may be garnered into this important epidemiological issue.
      Consequently, the new study herein proposed will address this research need and investigate
      how different patterns of alcohol consumption relate to arterial stiffness and to the
      progression of this stiffness over time. The primary objectives of this study are to (1)
      examine whether long-term patterns of alcohol consumption are independently associated with a
      baseline assessment of carotid-femoral PWV and (2) whether alcohol intake is likewise
      associated with longitudinal changes in this important cardiovascular marker.

      Longitudinal alcohol exposure will be determined from reported consumption at phases 1
      (1985-1988) through 9 (2007-2009) of the Whitehall II Cohort Study and categorised according
      to the latest UK recommendations on alcohol intake limits. These guidelines define moderate
      consumption as weekly ethanol intake volumes of 112g or under for both males and females. As
      alcohol consumption is recorded in UK units in the Whitehall II database, conversion will be
      performed using the standard ratio of 1 unit to 8 grams of ethanol prior to categorisation.
      The subsequent categorisation will draw distinctions between non-drinkers and former
      drinkers, as well as between moderate and heavy consumers. Those with unstable patterns of
      consumption will also be identified as there is emerging evidence that such consumers may
      have a different cardiovascular risk profile compared to consumers with more longitudinally
      consistent intake patterns.

      Demographic and clinical characteristics will be investigated to provide context for the
      subsequent inferential analyses. As research has also suggested that participant sex can
      moderate the relationship between alcohol and PWV, this will be tested in the current
      analysis (through preliminary modelling that includes sex as part of an interaction term with
      level of alcohol consumption). If this moderation effect is replicated, then our core result
      reporting will be stratified according to sex.

      Linear mixed effects models will then be used to examine the effect of long-term alcohol
      consumption on PWV and its effect on subsequent longitudinal changes in this cardiovascular
      marker. This modelling approach is particularly suited to analysing the complex data
      structure under investigation, including the correlation across individual participants'
      paired measurements. A detailed analytic protocol is available upon request.

      Supplementary linear mixed effects modelling will also be performed to look at the
      association between short-term alcohol consumption patterns and PWV. This will employ the
      same modelling strategy as used in the primary analysis above, with the categorisation of
      consumption utilising reported intake at the most recent assessment phase only. This
      supplementary analysis will offer additional context for the findings of the primary analysis
      and provide further detail on the relationship that different forms of alcohol consumption
      have with arterial stiffness.

      Through this comprehensive and detailed analysis, it is hoped that new insights on this
      important issue of cardiovascular health will be obtained.
    
  