
    
      This was a cross-sectional study was carried out in the Hacettepe University Hospital,
      Department of Ophthalmology, between July 2018 and February 2019.

      While benefiting from the results of the previous studies, the sample size of the research
      was type 1 error level α = 0.05 and type 2 level β = 0.20. The power analysis was
      statistically calculated using NCCS PAS 11 program. The present study was conducted with 90
      patients: 50 case-patients (DM with DME) and 40 control patients (DM without DME). Excluded
      from the study were those under the age of 18 years, with no diagnosis of Type 2 DM, without
      any anti-diabetic agent, with any disease other than DME and DR that may affect the retina,
      with any disease that may affect the retina for the control group, with corneal, lens or
      vitreous opacification preventing Optical coherence tomography (OCT) withdrawal, with any
      systemic disease other than DM and hypertension, with a history of eye surgery, and with
      blindness or infection in the eye, along with those recently diagnosed with diabetes (<1
      year) and those with special diets.

      This the study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki Ethical
      Principles.

      OCT withdrawals and CFT evaluations of those included in the study were made by the doctor
      and directed to the dietician (researcher). Demographic data and the dietary habits were
      collected through standardized face-to-face interviewer-assisted questionnaires. The
      bodyweight and height of patients were measured using a calibrated body composition analyser
      and weight scales by researcher. BMI was evaluated based on the WHO classification. Waist and
      hip circumference was also measured and evaluated in terms of high risk of developing chronic
      diseases. Hypothesis: If the waist/hip ratio is ≥0.85 for women and ≥0.90 for men, the risk
      of developing chronic diseases increases.

      Diabetic macular edema (DME) Examination After a detailed systemic and ophthalmological
      history was taken from all subjects by the doctor, the best-corrected visual acuity level was
      measured using an ETDRS chart. A fundus examination was performed with a 90 D lens after
      anterior segment examination and pupil dilation with a biomicroscope. A spectral-domain OCT
      (Spectralis OCT, Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg, Germany) was applied for the evaluation
      of CFT. After a minimum of eight hours of fasting, approximately 5 ml of peripheral venous
      blood was collected from the antecubital region in the HÜTF Ophthalmology Clinic between
      08:00 and 10:00.

      Assessment of dietary intake and dietary AGEs The dietary intake of participants was assessed
      using a validated quantitative food frequency questionnaire (QFFQ) (including about 110 food
      items take 20-25 minutes to complete). Foods were classified into eight categories: dairy
      products, meat products, fruits, vegetables, bread and cereals, beverages, and desserts.
      Also, questions were asked to patients about traditional cooking methods to calculate dietary
      AGE intakes. Such as what cooking methods do they cook the foods? How long do they cook the
      food? Standardized food recipes for Turkey and the Nutrition Information System (BEBIS)
      program were used to calculate the average daily energy and nutrient intake for each
      participant. Meanwhile, to assess dietary AGEs from the QFFQ, each food's contribution to
      dAGEs intake was calculated based on the Advance Glycation End Products in Foods Table
      published by the Uribarri et al., which comprises data on 549 food items.

      Sample Collection and Analysis The serum samples collected during the research were delivered
      to the laboratory while preserving the cold chain. The enzyme-labeled immune "Enzyme-Linked
      Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA)" test was performed with biologists of the company using a Biotek
      800TS device. While analyzing the samples, Human CML Elisa Kit 96 tests for serum AGE and
      Human RAGE Elisa Kit 96 test kits for serum RAGE were used. Carboxymethyl lysine (CML) was
      considered as the AGE parameter, being the most easily detected and the most abundant type of
      AGE in humans. The minimum detectable dose of CML in humans is typically less than 15.6
      pg/ml.
    
  