
    
      In pathological worry, the tendency to assess situations and experiences in a very negative
      way even when it is possible the situation may turn out to be neutral or even positive is
      suggested to fuel worry. This type of "mental habit" can maintain worry and cause people a
      lot of distress. Cognitive bias modification of interpretations (CBM-I) involves repeatedly
      and actively listening to descriptions of ambiguous scenarios that resolve in a benign
      fashion. CBM-I has shown promise at reducing the tendency to make negative interpretations
      when presented with ambiguous information as well as improving worry and low mood. However,
      further research is needed to optimize the protocol for individuals who engage in
      pathological worry. One such way to improve the task is using imagery. In this
      proof-of-concept experiment, the investigators are looking at whether having participants use
      imagery while practicing CBM-I for one week leads to greater improvements in worry and
      worry-related processes compared to the standard protocol without imagery instructions and
      compared to a neutral control condition. This study will also investigate dosage effects of
      CBM-I training by investigating changes in worry over the intervention period using a daily
      diary assessment.

      Potential participants will be asked to complete a telephone screen. Those who meet
      eligibility criteria will be invited to our laboratory at Ryerson University. After
      completing pre-intervention outcome measures, participants will be randomly assigned to one
      of three conditions: (1) a condition where people imagine themselves in scenarios they listen
      to; (2) a condition where people listen to the scenarios without instruction to use imagery;
      and (3) a condition in which people listen to passages of non-emotional situations.
      Participants will be asked to complete their respective training for 7 days (60
      scenarios/day). There will be two follow-up visits; one after participants complete their
      training and another two weeks following completion of the training. All of the outcome
      measures will be assessed pre-intervention, post-intervention and at the 2-week follow-up.
      Past week worry will also be assessed at a 1-week follow-up via a link that will be emailed.
      During the 1-week intervention period participants will also track their worry 3 times per
      day via a link that will be emailed to them.

      The present experiment will provide answers to important questions about the therapeutic
      potential of imagery enhanced CBM compared to standard CBM for pathological worry. Moreover,
      this study will shed light on dosing effects of the intervention.
    
  