
    
      Although the potential negative impact of head and neck cancer (HNC) and its treatment on
      eating ability and quality of life is well documented there is no evidence based and
      standardized rehabilitation program available for Danish patients affected by HNC while going
      through radiotherapy (with or without concurrent chemotherapy). This study proposal is based
      on a thorough literature review on HNC treatment and late effects, and interventions
      targeting dysphagia and physical functioning.

      Traditionally, rehabilitation is initiated when loss of function is already established.
      Emerging evidence suggests, however, that it can be of benefit to the patient to initiate an
      early rehabilitation process (prehabilitation) starting before initiation of treatment and
      during treatment. Prehabilitation aims to enhance pre-treatment functional capacity for
      better tolerance of treatment, facilitate general recovery, and prevent development of
      functional impairment or reduce the extent of these problems in a long-term perspective. HNC
      patients have a unique set of functional challenges such as pre- and post-treatment
      dysphagia, pain, and weight loss and often also high baseline levels of alcohol and tobacco
      consumption. In addition, studies have shown that only 31 % and 9 % of HNC patients are
      meeting public health guidelines for physical activity before and after diagnosis,
      respectively, and that weight loss in HNC patients treated with chemoradiation begin after
      only 1 week of therapy. Most of the weight loss was lean body mass (LBM) rather than fat
      loss. Loss of LBM is significantly associated with physical performance and increased
      functional dependence. The level of physical activity typically decreases significantly
      during treatment.

      Dysphagia is considered the most prominent complication to HNC and its treatment, affecting
      physical function and quality of life. Post treatment dysphagia occurs in a significant
      proportion of patients and results from multiple factors such as xerostomia, taste loss,
      decreased sensory function, fibrosis and trismus. Disuse of swallowing muscles due to acute
      radiation effects or tube feeding can contribute to decline in swallowing function. Often,
      difficulties in swallowing and mouth opening are presenting features of HNC even at the time
      of diagnosis. To reduce these problems, patients may do a series of exercises before and
      during treatment to promote strength, mobility, and endurance of base of tongue, pharyngeal
      constrictors, and suprahyoid strap muscles. Although no definitive trials have yet been
      carried out, small randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and observational studies
      investigating pre-treatment swallowing and/or mouth opening exercise programs show promising
      benefits. Further, the few studies of resistance and cardio training on functional capacity
      in HNC patients are generally promising with medium to large effects on fatigue and physical
      function measures. For weight loss it seems as if progressive resistance training (PRT) is
      able to almost reverse the loss of LBM in HNC patients.

      Generally studies on swallowing therapy for HNC patients have relied greatly on
      self-practice, and thus report low compliance. In view of this knowledge the investigators
      determine that there is a need for studies that include patients with HNC undergoing
      (chemo)radiation therapy focusing on i) prevention of dysphagia and loss of muscle strength
      and ii) improvement of compliance to mouth opening and swallowing exercises.

      The purpose of the SYNK study is a randomized design to test the effect of theory based
      intervention on eating dysfunctions secondary to radiation treatment for HNC. The SYNK
      intervention consists of: i) individual instructions in swallowing and mouth opening
      exercises 3 days per week by occupational therapist throughout radiotherapy, ii) progressive
      resistance training twice weekly by physiotherapist, either individually or group based,
      throughout radiotherapy, iii) daily home-based swallowing and mouth opening exercises from
      beginning of treatment until 2 months after end-of-treatment (self-practice), and iv) weekly
      follow-up phone contacts with occupational therapists from end-of-treatment and 2 months
      onwards.

      The investigators will enroll patients from the Oncological Department Rigshospitalet and
      randomize 240 patients. Patients will be randomized (1:1) to standard care plus the SYNK
      intervention and to standard care (control group).

      The proposed study has the potential to support the general health status of HNC patients as
      well as to minimize adverse late effects of treatment (i.e. swallowing and mouth opening
      difficulties, general physical deterioration due to physical inactivity and problems with
      eating, and reduced QoL). The design of the intervention, being early, intensive and bimodal
      adds a new dimension to research in the prevention of devastating late effects in this
      particularly vulnerable patient group.

      The investigators hypothesize that the SYNK intervention will:

        -  Improve swallowing function

        -  Improve physical function to stop the loss of muscle strength

        -  Improve quality of life and lessen the symptoms of anxiety and depression
    
  