
    
      The CDC reports that approximately 10-20% of patients treated for Lyme disease with the
      IDSA-recommended 2-4 week course of antibiotics will continue to have symptoms of fatigue,
      pain, or joint and muscle aches despite prior antibiotic treatment. The symptoms can last
      months or even years after treatment. The medical community officially calls this condition
      "Post-treatment Lyme disease Syndrome" (PTLDS) but some have called it "chronic Lyme
      disease." Because some patients with PTLDS continue to have ongoing symptoms despite many
      additional courses of antibiotics beyond the standard course, alternative non-antibiotic
      treatment programs need to be explored. The proposed study seeks to evaluate the efficacy of
      meditation among those patients that have been previously treated for Lyme disease but are
      still continuing to experience prominent symptoms of fatigue and/or pain.

      During this study, patients will be screened initially over the telephone to assess
      eligibility, sign consent with the study treating psychiatrist, and complete self-report
      questionnaires. Forty patients will be enrolled. Of these, 20 will be randomly assigned to
      meditation group therapy and 20 will be assigned to a wait-list. Assessments will be
      conducted prior to treatment, at 4 weeks and at 8 weeks. There will also be a 6 month
      follow-up by questionnaire and telephone interview. Study participants randomized to the
      wait-list control group will then be offered, after 8 weeks, the option of joining a
      meditation group for 8 weeks. Each meditation group will be composed of 6-8 subjects.

      Should this study find evidence suggesting that meditation therapy is helpful in reducing the
      symptoms of PTLDS, this would be a valuable finding that would lead to a larger study as it
      has important public health implications for many individuals now quite disabled with these
      chronic symptoms.
    
  