
    
      Cardiac surgery is a major blood consumer. Current evidence shows there is no benefit from
      transfusion for haematocrits as low as 21% and the risk of death within 30 days of surgery is
      almost 6 times higher for patients who receive blood. In addition, transfused patients are
      more likely to experience increased infections and ischaemic complications like myocardial
      infarction, stroke and renal compromise. While it is agreed to avoid blood transfusion when
      feasible, there is no current consensus on the best strategy to maintain an acceptable
      haemocrit and minimise the need for allogenic blood transfusion. Two of the many strategies
      that have been employed are Retrograde Autologous Prime (RAP) of the bypass circuit and cell
      salvage (CS) with reinfusion of shed blood.

      This study is a prospective, randomised controlled trial with 240 patients undergoing a
      single procedure adult cardiac surgery that will be randomised to either full crystalloid
      prime volume or RAP, with or without cell salvage. There will be four study arms;

        1. RAP alone

        2. Cell Salvage alone

        3. RAP plus cell salvage

        4. Control group

      Results will follow analyse of the data using a logistic regression using a design matric
      with blood transfused as a key explanatory variable with scope to add in patient covariables.
      It is expected that date will be analysed after 100 patients and if significance is achieved
      then the study can be terminated.

      The study will aim to identify those patients that receive a blood transfusion intra or
      post-operatively. Symptomatology from anaemia is subjective and hard to measure. The studies
      linking transfusion to cardiac surgery outcomes are retrospective; despite careful risk
      adjustment, it is possible that these associations reflect a tendency amongst clinicians to
      transfuse the most critically ill patients or miss another important confounder.

      In 2001, Spiess referred to current transfusion practice as a 'silent epidemic'. His
      description is still accurate. In 2006, almost half of all patients undergoing coronary
      artery bypass grafting in the united states received blood transfusion and the probability of
      receiving blood is greater when procedures are more complex. Although the infectious risk of
      blood transfusion have been successfully minimised the weight of evidence increasingly
      suggests that transfusing less in stable patients could prevent a significant amount of
      morbidity and mortality. This study will help guide management in those in whom transfusion
      is avoidable.
    
  