
    
      Dementia is an important geriatric syndrome. The prevalence of dementia increases with age.
      According to the data of the Taiwan Alzheimer Disease Association, one out of 13 elderly
      people over 65 and one out of 5 elderly over 80 had dementia. Almost 20% of the elderly
      people have the mild cognitive impairment (MCI), an intermediate stage between normal
      cognition and dementia. The results from the Nutrition and Health Survey in Taiwan (NAHSIT),
      2013-2016 found that magnesium average intake was much lower than the daily recommended
      intake level in MCI elders over 65. Since magnesium, an abundant essential mineral in human
      body plays important roles in energy provision, anti-inflammation, and preventing post-stroke
      NMDA toxicity; our previous study trialed and showed that a moderate level of daily magnesium
      supplementation could improve stroke recovery for discharged stroke patients in a 6-month
      clinical trial. Due to its effect on neuroprotection, this study intends to evaluate the
      short-term effect of magnesium supplement at a DRI level on cognitive function and on certain
      hemodynamic parameters.

      MCI participants aged 60 and over are eligible for recruitment. The Mini-Mental State
      Examination (MMSE) will be used to determine the MCI status. A score of 25 or lower is
      indicative of cognitive impairment. The exclusion criteria include: regularly taking
      magnesium supplements, having a severe illness (e.g. cancer), bed-ridden, inability to speak,
      with visual or hearing impairment, and living in elderly homes.

      The investigators designed a double-blind randomized controlled trial. Participants will be
      divided into magnesium intervention group and placebo group. Participants of the placebo
      group will receive 30cc solution containing 100 mg of citrate acid and flavored by 1g of
      Splenda. The magnesium citrate pure powder from NOW FOODS containing 300mg magnesium will be
      dissolved in 30cc of the above solution.

      Before and after two hours of intervention, participants will be interviewed and assessed for
      the following: questionnaires, cognitive function, carotid artery flow velocity,
      ankle-brachial blood pressure ratio, and urinary magnesium. Questionnaires include Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and working memory test - digit span test. Philips iE33
      Ultrasound System and OMRON Non-invasive Vascular Screening Device VP1000 plus will be used
      to measure carotid artery flow velocity and ankle-brachial blood pressure ratio.

      This intervention will be carried out after the informed consent form is signed, roughly from
      8 AM in the morning to 12:30 PM. Participants have to take their breakfast before the trial
      and allowed to eat lunch after the process finishes.
    
  