
    
      Cognitive behavioral treatments tend to be the most highly efficacious treatments for
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) is one such
      treatment that has garnered a significant amount of empirical support, with a recent
      metaanalysis showing it was among the most effective treatments for PTSD (Watts et al.,
      2013). Despite its efficacy, many military personnel and veterans with PTSD will not receive
      CPT (or other recommended treatments) for a variety of reasons. It is possible that adapting
      CPT from its traditional weekly or biweekly format might both enhance the provision of CPT
      and reduce barriers to treatment. Specifically, treatment that is compressed into a
      relatively shorter window may be easier for service members and veterans to complete.

      In light of these possibilities, the National Center for Veterans Studies (NCVS) at The
      University of Utah created the R&R program, an intensive, two-week treatment program for
      service members and veterans diagnosed with PTSD in partnership with the National Ability
      Center (NAC), a nonprofit recreational and adaptive sports center located in Park City, Utah.
      The R&R Program provides CPT in a format designed to circumvent logistical barriers to care
      and to maximize treatment completion. Preliminary results from 20 service members or veterans
      who have completed the program show that approximately 70% no longer met criteria for PTSD
      after completing the program, and suicide ideation decreased significantly (Bryan et al.,
      2018). Treatment gains during R&R were superior to those found in CPT randomized trials.

      The present study seeks to build and broaden current research on CPT. First, it will directly
      compare the effectiveness of traditional 12-session weekly outpatient CPT against intensive,
      daily delivery of CPT over 12 days. Second, it will test whether the use of recreational
      activities improves intensive care by comparing intensive treatment at the NAC with
      recreational activities against intensive treatment in Salt Lake City without recreational
      activities. Finally, it will provide important data on the long-term effects of treatment, by
      assessing PTSD, depression, and suicidal thoughts and behaviors at posttreatment, and 6, 12,
      and 24 months posttreatment.
    
  