
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the immunogenicity of AGS-003-BLD in subjects with muscle invasive bladder
      cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess 1-year disease-free survival rate of patients with muscle-invasive bladder
      cancer who receive cisplatin/gemcitabine chemotherapy plus AGS-003-BLD.

      II. To determine the time to first metastatic lesion. III. To explore the disease-free and
      overall survival of patients treated with this treatment combination.

      IV. To evaluate the pathologic complete response (pCR) rate and identify any activity of this
      treatment combination.

      V. To evaluate toxicities and tolerability associated with this treatment combination.

      VI. To assess the success rate of tumor procurement and AGS-003-BLD production of >= 5 doses.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the relationships between pathologic complete response with the change in
      CD28+ T cell levels.

      II. To evaluate the change in frequency of CD11a highPD-1+ CD8+ T cells (and their expression
      of Bim) in peripheral blood.

      OUTLINE:

      NEOADJUVANT PHASE: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) on days 1
      and 8, AGS-003-BLD intradermally (ID) on day 1, and cisplatin IV on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients then receive AGS-003-BLD ID on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for
      up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      SURGERY: Patients undergo cystectomy during course 8.

      ADJUVANT PHASE: Patients continue AGS-003-BLD ID on day 1 of course 9. Treatment repeats
      every 12 weeks for up to 9 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.
    
  