
    
      Background and Rationale The global impact of SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 is unprecedented, and it is
      the greatest pandemic of a respiratory virus since the 1918 Influenza. With high
      infectiousness, important morbidity, and relatively high fatality in specific groups of the
      population, an attack rate of approximately 80%, and no vaccine available yet, the pandemic
      will exceed the capacity of the health care systems in many settings(1). The health care
      personnel represent the most valuable resource to respond to the challenges imposed by this
      pandemic. As health care professionals are in the frontline of response and at a high risk of
      infection, it is extremely important to establish effective prevention strategies that
      protect them from becoming infected (2). It is critical that these interventions be
      rigorously evaluated with designs such as RCT that provide the highest level of evidence, to
      make recommendations that effectively protect health care professionals and contribute to
      control the epidemic.

      Both hand hygiene and the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) are considered key
      strategies for the prevention of infection in health care professionals (3). However, there
      are few studies estimating the probability of infection with their use. Moreover, several
      pharmacological agents have been considered for a prophylactic use in SARS-CoV-2 infection.

      As of today, there is preclinical evidence, principally in vitro, indicating antiviral effect
      of Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate / Emtiricitabine (TDF/FTC) on the SARS-CoV-2 RNA depended
      RNA polymerase. TDF/FTC is an approved drug for HIV treatment in combination with other
      antiretroviral drugs. It is widely used as HIV pre and post exposure prophylaxis, and it is
      the election therapy for Hepatitis B infection (4-7).

      Knowing that TDF/FTC is a drug with a known security profile, has low frequency of short-term
      adverse events, and is capable of inhibiting SARS-CoV-2 replication in vitro, it is an
      interesting alternative to evaluate as prophylaxis for SARS-CoV-2 infection. Furthermore,
      recently, in a clinical cohort of 77590 persons living with HIV, it was documented that those
      receiving TDF/FTC had a risk of COVID 19 and related hospitalization between 37 a 57% lower
      than those who were taking other antiretroviral medications (8) Consequently, we consider
      relevant and justified to evaluate the use of TDF/FTC for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2
      infection in a high-risk population, such as health care professionals providing clinical
      care to confirmed or suspected cases of COVID-19.

      Tenofovir/Emtricitabine as prophylaxis for SARS-CoV-2 Infection SARS-CoV-2 is a single strand
      positive-sense RNA virus similar to Hepatitis C Virus, West Nile Virus, Marburg, HIV, Ebola,
      Dengue virus, and Rhinovirus among others. The RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) is one of
      the structural proteins of SARS-CoV-2(9). The active site of RdRp is configured by two
      successive aspartate residues which protrude from a beta turn structure, making accessible to
      the surface through the nucleotide canal (10). The homology between SARS-CoV-2 RdRp and
      SARS-CoV-1 is higher than 97%, thus facilitating in silico studies (11).

      In silico studies have identified antiretroviral drugs with potential capability of binding
      the catalytic center of RdRp such as Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors. This
      information has been confirmed in vitro studies for TDF, which acts as analogue of a
      nucleotide that early finishes the replication of the RNA strand (12) Elfiky et al. made an
      RdRp SARS-CoV-2 model based on different available structures in protein banks. Using it and
      through simulation, they documented the theoretical effectiveness of several antiviral agents
      such as IDX-184, Sofosbuvir, Ribavirina y Remdisivir,and TDF/FTC for the inhibition of RdRp
      (10,13).

      Furthermore, Park, et al. developed an animal model of SARS-CoV-2 in ferrets in which the
      pathogenicity, transmissibility, and lung damage caused by the virus were demonstrated. In an
      experiment using this model, the virus was inoculated by the intranasal route, and a day
      after, numerous molecules with potential antiviral effect were administrated. These molecules
      were: Lopinavir/Ritonavir, Hydroxychloroquine, TDF/FTC. The duration of the intervention was
      14 days and the ferret group given TDF/FTC presented lower temperature compared to the
      control group, and also an earlier recovery from signs including cough, rhinorrhea, and
      reduction of activity. Moreover, a lower load of virus was detected in the nasal samples from
      ferrets in the intervention group. From the drugs studied TDF/FTC showed the best results in
      reducing clinical signs and clearing nasal viral shedding (9).

      Furthermore, recently, in a clinical cohort of 77590 persons living with HIV, it was
      documented that those receiving TDF/FTC had a risk of COVID 19 and related hospitalization
      between 37 a 57% lower than those who were taking other antiretroviral medications (8)

      Research question What are the effectiveness and safety of Tenofovir/ Emtricitabine in
      addition to the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2
      infection in health care personnel who provide clinical care to confirmed or suspected cases
      of COVID-19 in the emergency room, COVID wards and ICU? General Objective To evaluate the
      effectiveness and safety of Tenofovir/ Emtricitabine in addition to the use of Personal
      Protective Equipment (PPE) for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection in health care
      personnel who provide clinical care to confirmed or suspected cases of COVID-19 in the
      emergency room, COVID wards and ICU.

      Specific Objectives

        -  To determine the effectiveness of Tenofovir Emtricitabine in addition to the use of
           Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2 infection in health
           care personnel caring for patients with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 in the emergency
           room, general ward and ICU.

        -  To evaluate the safety (adverse events frequency) of Tenofovir Emtricitabine in addition
           to the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for the prevention of SARS-CoV-2
           infection in health care personnel caring for patients with confirmed or suspected
           COVID-19 in the emergency room, general ward and ICU.

        -  To evaluate the adherence to Tenofovir Emtricitabine of health care personnel caring for
           patients with confirmed or suspected COVID-19in the emergency room, general ward and
           ICU.

        -  To determine the frequency of discontinuation for any reason of Tenofovir Emtricitabine
           in health care personnel caring for patients with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 in the
           emergency room, general ward, and ICU.

        -  To describe and compare the clinical course and severity of participants who develop
           COVID-19 in the intervention and control groups.

      Study design

      Randomized triple-blinded multicentric clinical trial, conducted in parallel, with to arms:

      Arm 1- Intervention: Tenofovir/ Emtricitabine ( 300 mg / 200 mg daily during 60 days) +
      Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Arm 2- Control: Placebo (1 tablet daily during 60 days) +
      Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) The study will recruit 950 healthcare workers who provide
      clinical care to confirmed or suspected cases of COVID-19 in the emergency room, COVID wards
      and ICU. They will be randomized 1 to 1 to the intervention group (Tenofovir Emtricitabine +
      PPE), or to the control group (Placebo + PPE), with 475 participants in each group.

      The randomization scheme will be computed-generated and conducted centrally. Once a potential
      participant agree to participate, is evaluated for eligibility and fulfill the eligibility
      criteria, his allocation to the masked study arms is informed to the recruiting center. The
      allocation and the corresponding intervention given to the participant will be identified
      with a random number code. Only the central pharmacist of the study will know the
      correspondence between this random number code and the intervention (TDF/FTC or placebo). The
      clinical investigators, the participants, the data managers, the analysts, and other support
      personnel of the study are masked to the intervention assigned to the participant.

      Primary Outcome

      SARS-CoV-2 infection defined as:

        -  Detection of SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid using RT-PCR in any of the specimens collected
           during the study-follow-up

        -  Positive IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in any of the specimens collected during the
           study-follow-up Secondary outcomes

        -  Serious and non-serious adverse events

        -  Discontinuation of using the intervention (TDF/FTC or placebo) for any reason

        -  Adherence to TDF/FTC defined as: number of tablets taken/total number of dispensed
           tablets

        -  Severity of SARS-CoV-2 infections according to the following categories:

      Asymptomatic infection Mild symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection with no need for hospitalization
      Moderate symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection that requires hospitalization, but no ICU Severe
      SARS-CoV-2 infection: dyspnea with other SARS-CoV-2 symptoms requiring ICU hospitalization
      Evaluation of eligibility For the assessment of eligibility, the study will perform a
      clinical evaluation, RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2, IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, Complete blood
      count, creatinine levels, phosphorus levels, AST, ALT, Bilirubin, betaHCG (women), anti
      HBsAg, and HIV testing.

      Follow-Up

      Following randomization, the participants will have four follow-up visits:

      Visit 1: At 20 days, consisting in a clinical evaluation, assessment of adherence and of any
      adverse events.

      Visit 2: At 40 days, consisting in a clinical evaluation, assessment of adherence and of any
      adverse events. Laboratory assessment consisting of IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, and
      creatinine levels.

      Visit 3: At 60 days, consisting in a clinical evaluation, assessment of adherence and of any
      adverse events. Laboratory assessment consisting of RT-PCR for SARS-CoV-2, Complete blood
      count, creatinine levels, AST, ALT, betaHCG.

      Visit 4: At 75 days, consisting in a clinical evaluation and laboratory assessment consisting
      of IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2.

      Criteria for withdrawal of the study

      The presence of any of the following conditions at any time during the follow-up determine
      the withdrawal of the participant from the study:

        -  Grade 2 or higher abnormalities in the measured parameters of renal function.

        -  A clinical indication to initiate a drug with significant interactions with TDF/FTC

        -  The occurrence of any serious adverse event related with the intervention, according to
           the evaluation of the clinical investigators.

        -  The occurrence of any adverse event that determine that the participant want to
           interrupt the intervention.

        -  The decision of the participant to withdraw from the study for any reason Statistical
           Analysis Analysis by intention to treat, with estimation of a Hazard Ratio with 95%
           confidence interval, using a univariate Cox Model. In case of imbalance between the arms
           in relevant predictors of the outcome with will adjust them using a multivariable Cox
           Model.

      References

        1. Daihai H, Daozhou G, Zhuang Z, Peihua C, Yijun L, Lin Y. The attack rate of the COVID-19
           in a year. :3-5.

        2. Ferguson N, Laydon D, Nedjati Gilani G, Imai N, Ainslie K, Baguelin M, et al. Report 9:
           Impact of non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) to reduce COVID19 mortality and
           healthcare demand [Internet]. 2020 mar [citado 27 de marzo de 2020]. Disponible en:
           http://spiral.imperial.ac.uk/handle/10044/1/77482

        3. Centers for Diasease Control and Prevention. Interim U.S. Guidance for Risk Assessment
           and Public Health Management of Healthcare Personnel with Potential Exposure in a
           Healthcare Setting to Patients with Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19).

        4. OMS. THE USE OF ANTIRETROVIRAL DRUGS FOR TREATING AND PREVENTING HIV INFECTION.
           2016;480.

        5. Krakower DS, Mayer KH. Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis to Prevent HIV Infection: Current
           Status, Future Opportunities and Challenges. Drugs. 2015;75(3):243-51.

        6. AIDSinfo. Panel on Antiretroviral Guidelines for Adults and Adolescents. Guidelines for
           the Use of Antiretroviral Agents in Adults and Adolescents with HIV. Dep Heal Hum Serv
           [Internet].2018;298.

        7. Lampertico P, Agarwal K, Berg T, Buti M, Janssen HLA, Papatheodoridis G, et al. EASL
           2017 Clinical Practice Guidelines on the management of hepatitis B virus infection. J
           Hepatol. 2017;67(2):370-98.

        8. del Amo J, Polo R, Moreno S, Díaz A, Martínez E, Arribas JR, et al. Incidence and
           Severity of COVID-19 in HIV-Positive Persons Receiving Antiretroviral Therapy. Ann
           Intern Med. 2020.

        9. Ju J, Kumar S, Li X, Jockusch S, Russo JJ. Nucleotide Analogues as Inhibitors of Viral
           Polymerases. bioRxiv [Internet]. 2020;1:2020.01.30.927574. Available from:
           https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.18.997585%0Ahttps://www.biorxiv.org/content/biorxiv/earl
           y/2020/01/31/2020.01.30.927574.full.pdf

       10. Elfiky AA. Anti-HCV, nucleotide inhibitors, repurposing against COVID-19. Life Sci.
           2020;248(January).

       11. Parang K, El-Sayed NS, Kazeminy AJ, Tiwari RK. Comparative Antiviral Activity of
           Remdesivir and Anti-HIV Nucleoside Analogs Against Human Coronavirus 229E (HCoV-229E).
           Mol 2020, Vol 25, Page 2343. 2020;25(10):2343.

       12. Jockusch S, Tao C, Li X, Anderson TK, Chien M, Kumar S, et al. Triphosphates of the two
           components in DESCOVY and TRUVADA are inhibitors of the SARS-CoV-2 polymerase. bioRxiv.
           2020;1-8.

       13. Elfiky AA. SARS-CoV-2 ARN dependent ARN polymerase (RdRp) targeting: an in silico
           perspective. J Biomol Struct Dyn [Internet]. 2020;0(0):1-9. Available from:
           https://doi.org/10.1080/07391102.2020.1761882
    
  