
    
      I/R injury remains a major clinical problem during liver transplantation. In addition to the
      implanted liver graft suffering from significant I/R injury due to the transplant process
      itself, other organs such as the kidneys frequently demonstrate significant I/R injury
      associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. Among liver transplant patients,
      especially those who have suffered significant blood loss and prolonged hypotension requiring
      multiple vasopressors, the rate of acute kidney injury (AKI) is reported to be >50%.

      VPA is an anticonvulsant drug that was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in
      1978. VPA was developed for use as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy for the treatment of
      seizure disorders, mania associated with bipolar disorder, and migraine. Both oral and
      intravenous (IV) formulations are available. Doses up to 60 milligram (mg)/kilogram (kg)/day
      for up to 14 days have been demonstrated to be safe and effective. More recently, a study has
      shown that a single dose of intravenous VPA at up to 140 mg/kg is safe in healthy volunteers.
      VPA has been recognized as an HDAC inhibitor (HDACI) shown to reduce the inflammatory
      response and oxidative stress in septic mice, thereby protecting against renal injury. The
      molecular mechanisms conferring anticonvulsant properties associated with VPA have not been
      clearly elucidated to date but likely include increasing levels of γ-aminobutyric acid in the
      central nervous system (CNS), reduction in N-Methyl-D-Aspartate-mediated excitation, and
      blockade of voltage gated sodium and L-type calcium channels. More recently, VPA has shown
      HDACI potential, specifically targeting class I (subclasses Ia and Ib) and class II (subclass
      IIa) HDAC proteins. Given that VPA modulates multiple pathways involved in AKI, it
      theoretically could prevent kidney dysfunction and inflammation that is induced by I/R
      injury.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of VPA on reducing I/R injury related to
      organ damage in the kidneys in liver transplant patients with moderate-to-severe hemorrhage.
      The primary objective is to evaluate the effect of VPA on reducing AKI compared with placebo
      in liver transplant patients with expected moderated-to-severe hemorrhage at risk for I/R
      injury. The two secondary objectives are: 1) To assess the perioperative pharmacokinetics
      (PK) of VPA in liver transplant patients with moderate-to-severe hemorrhage, and 2) To
      evaluate the safety of VPA administered as IV infusion in liver transplant patients with
      moderate-to-severe hemorrhage at risk of I/R injury.

      This is a phase 2, single-dose, multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled
      study. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive a single dose of 140 mg/kg of
      VPA plus standard of care (SOC) or the placebo plus SOC, administered via IV infusion in the
      OR within 45 min after induction of anesthesia (administration of hypnotic). Clinical
      evaluations such as physical examination, vital signs, electrocardiogram, and laboratory
      results will be collected. AKI will be used to assess VPA efficacy. Myocardial injury and
      laboratory measurements (hematology, chemistry, coagulation profile, and urinalysis) will be
      used to monitor subject safety. Outcome measures including in-hospital mortality, length of
      intensive care unit (ICU) and/or stepdown unit (SDU) stay, length of hospital stay, number of
      alive and ventilator free days (aVFD), and incidence of renal replacement therapy (RRT) will
      also be collected. Blood samples will be collected for PK analysis. The PK analysis will
      correlate study drug exposures with safety profiles. Specimens (plasma, peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and urine) will be stored for future undetermined study-related
      analyses, including pharmacodynamics (PD) and VPA responsiveness studies. These studies may
      correlate PK profiles to molecular changes related to beneficial properties of VPA.

      Male and non-pregnant, non-breastfeeding female liver transplant patients between 18 and 80
      years old will be recruited for the study. Patients will be those scheduled to undergo liver
      transplant surgery and expected to require transfusion of 3 or more units of red cell
      product. Only patients who can provide consent or for whom a Legally Authorized
      Representative (LAR) can provide consent, will be enrolled. Approximately 50 subjects will be
      recruited from across four major medical centers for participation in this study.

      Based on the available safety profile data from multi-dose clinical trials of VPA, the
      product safety information sheet, as well as the VPA Phase 1 study which evaluated the safety
      of single ascending doses of VPA, it has been determined that a dose of 140 mg/kg is safe and
      well-tolerated with minimal adverse reactions. However, given that patients studied at the
      140 mg/kg dose in the phase 1 study were relatively healthy compared to the proposed patient
      population in this study and unanticipated Adverse Events (AEs) may occur, the study team
      will monitor all study subjects closely for AEs throughout the study. All AEs will be
      evaluated for duration, seriousness, severity, and relationship to the study drug, and
      reported accordingly.

      This study will be monitored according to the data and safety monitoring plan which will
      outline the different levels of monitoring and the responsible parties. A Safety Review
      Committee (SRC) will review and monitor all safety information and compliance data as well as
      the overall study progress on a regular basis. A Medical Monitor (MM) with relevant clinical
      and research expertise will oversee the clinical study and provide ongoing medical
      monitoring. The clinical site Principal Investigators (PIs) will be responsible for ensuring
      that all AEs that occur in subjects during the AE reporting period are managed and reported
      in accordance with the protocol, Sponsor requirements, and any applicable regulations and
      institutional policies. A Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will monitor implementation and
      progress of the study and review the accumulating endpoint and safety data by treatment arm
      to detect evidence of early significant benefit or harm for subjects while the study is in
      progress.

      As the main purpose of this study is to evaluate safety of VPA in the study population and to
      investigate efficacy signal, this is a proof-of-concept (PoC) study. Because it is a PoC
      study rather than a confirmatory one, it has been assumed that a total sample size of 50
      subjects (25 in each treatment arm) will be sufficient to provide adequate clinical evidence
      of safety and potential efficacy, and to support decision-making on whether a larger pivotal
      confirmatory Phase 3 study would be justified.

      A statistical analysis plan (SAP) that details the analytical principles and statistical
      techniques to be employed in order to address the primary and secondary objectives will be
      developed. Demographic and relevant baseline characteristics will be presented and summarized
      descriptively by treatment for the randomized, modified intent-to-treat (mITT), and
      per-protocol (PP) populations. The primary endpoint of KDIGO stages will be measured in
      ordinal scale as 0, 1, 2, or 3, where 0 indicates normal renal function and the progressively
      higher values indicate worsening renal function. The ordinal scale measurements will be
      analyzed using the proportional odds ordinal logistic regression model. The KDIGO stages will
      be the dependent variable and drug treatment will be used as the independent variable. The
      common odds ratio across the KDIGO stages and its 95% confidence interval will be calculated.
      Binary endpoints (e.g., incidence of AKI) will be analyzed by Fisher's exact test or logistic
      regression with treatment as an independent variable. The odds ratio and its 95% confidence
      interval will be calculated. Continuous outcomes will be analyzed by missed effects models
      with treatment and baseline value of the outcome (if applicable) as independent variables.
      Un-ordered categorical variables with more than two levels of outcome will be analyzed by a
      chi-square test. Ordered categorical variables with more than two levels of outcome will be
      analyzed in the same way as for the primary endpoint. Safety endpoints will be analyzed and
      summarized descriptively. Categorical variables will be summarized by count and percentage.
      Odds ratios and relative risks may be calculated to compare study drug with placebo in
      incidence of certain safety events. Continuous variables will be summarized by mean, SD,
      median, minimum, and maximum. Shift tables may be used to describe changes in certain
      laboratory values. The plan for the PK analysis is two-fold. First, a standard
      noncompartmental analysis will be performed to obtain descriptors of VPA exposure to explore
      potential relationships to the primary outcome), secondary outcomes, or any observed adverse
      effects. A population PK analysis will be performed to examine and, perhaps, explain the
      anticipated differing PK of VPA in the trial. Specifically, low protein binding of VPA and
      massive blood loss are expected to affect the elimination clearance and, perhaps, the volume
      of distribution of VPA. Characterizing the degree to which the PK are perturbed as well as
      the parameter variability in this population will be important for analyzing the relationship
      of VPA exposure to primary and secondary outcomes and determining the effects, if any, of
      factors related to disease or perioperative conditions to the PK of VPA.

      No interim analyses will be performed for this study. This study does not have a formal
      stopping rule based on statistical testing. See Section 3.9 for more information on stopping
      rules. Missing data can occur in clinical studies, and they may have an impact on the results
      of statistical analyses. Every effort will be made to ensure that the amount of missing data
      is kept at a minimum.
    
  