
    
      Objectives. The primary objective of the current proposal is to identify teacher-related
      factors that can be feasibly measured and shown to predict mindfulness-based intervention
      (MBI) participant outcomes. The secondary objective of this R34 proposal is to lay the
      groundwork for a large-scale R01-funded study in which the investigators anticipate studying
      participants in Mindfulness-Based Stress reduction (MBSR) courses provided by 50 or more
      teachers in a range of university- and community-based settings. Design and Outcomes. This is
      an observational study of MBSR participants, teachers, and raters. Student participants will
      receive recruitment videos of different lengths and varying compensation schedules; The study
      will examine these to optimize participation and retention in the future R01 study.

      Interventions and Duration. There is no study intervention per se, but participants will be
      teaching or enrolled in public 8-week MBSR classes. Outcome data will be collected from
      participants using internet-administered questionnaires at baseline, 2 months (immediate
      post-MBSR) and 4 months (post-MBSR follow-up). Rater study: The investigators will invite
      experience meditation teachers to be trained to use a the Mindfulness-Based Interventions
      Teaching Assessment Criteria (MBI-TAC) tool as a standardized approach to rating MBSR teacher
      competency. As part of the training, the study will be collecting data on how the training
      works. Thus, those who join the training will be asked to sign a consent form and complete a
      brief questionnaire about their teaching and meditation experience, as well as demographics;
      the study will also collect data on the ratings they do as part of the training. The goal of
      this part of the study is to assess the rater-training process.

      Sample Size and Population. The study aims to enroll about 19 MBSR teachers and 200 MBSR
      participants, along with about 30 raters to be trained in the MBI-TAC system.
    
  