
    
      Obesity is a major public health problem, responsible for an increased risk of hypertension,
      obesity, dyslipidemia, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, some types of cancer,
      psychiatric diseases and mortality.

      Bariatric surgery has proven to be the most effective method for reducing weight and related
      comorbidities in patients with morbid obesity. However, pre-surgical weight loss reduces
      postsurgical complications. In addition, weight loss before surgery seems to be the only
      factor positively associated with post-surgical weight loss, and this effect seems to be more
      pronounced in patients with BMI> 45 kg / m2.

      Pre-operative physical conditioning (prehabilitation) can improve the patient's functional
      capacity before major surgery. Most studies showing this have been conducted in orthopedic
      surgery and abdominal cancer surgery. There are very few studies that evaluate
      prehabilitation in patients undergoing bariatric surgery.

      Objective

      Comparison of a multidisciplinary group intervention with another one to which specific
      training focused on increasing physical activity is added, in patients on the surgical
      waiting list for bariatric surgery in a randomized controlled trial.

      Methods

      Design Randomized, controlled parallel group, clinical trial.

      Intervention Duration: 4-month intervention, with biweekly 2,5-hour group sessions, followed
      by a monthly reinforcement session of 1h until surgery.

      Intervention A: Educational program and cognitive-behavioral intervention (control group)

      Intervention B: Educational program and cognitive-behavioral intervention, with specific
      training aimed at increasing physical activity, functional capacity and conditioning of the
      respiratory muscles (intervention group).

      Study population The recruitment of the participants will be made from the waiting list of
      bariatric surgery (obesity II-IV), selecting patients with estimated waiting time above 4
      months. Patients will be excluded if any reason for inadequate follow-up is identified,
      according to the investigators criteria.

      Ethical aspects The design and execution of this study will be done in accordance with the
      Declaration of Helsinki and the homogenized European guidelines of good clinical practice.
      Before their participation, the patients will sign an informed consent form. The protocol has
      been approved by the local ethics committee

      Sample size Based on the size of the waiting list for bariatric surgery, with a mean duration
      of 17 months, and that the intervention is considered feasible on two groups of 10 people, in
      parallel, in each branch, (a weekly session of 2h per nutrition nurse, with support from
      additional professional). Starting with a pilot group of each intervention and taking into
      account an overlap between them, in 18 months about 60-80 patients could be included in
      total.

      With 80 patients included, without losses, and assuming a standard deviation of weight of
      11Kg, and for a bilateral p <0.05 a difference between groups of 7 and 8Kg, with a
      statistical power of 80 and 90%, respectively. If we assume a standard deviation of 6Kg, as
      shown by other studies, the detectable difference would be reduced to about 4Kg.

      Statistical analysis A descriptive analysis of the baseline situation will be made. The
      qualitative variables are expressed as a percentage, quantitative, as mean (SD) or median,
      according to if its distribution is normal or not, respectively. Comparisons will be made
      between treatment groups, using chi squared for qualitative variables and Student's t or Mann
      Whitney's U for quantitative variables. The analysis of results will be done by intention to
      treat analysis. That is, all patients who have baseline data and have been randomized, will
      be included, regardless of their subsequent attendance to the Program.
    
  