
    
      Sample size calculation:

      Sample size is calculated on the basis of primary efficacy variables. From our previous
      study, the global assessment of improvement (GAI) were 52% in herbal medicine group and 32%
      in western medicine group, respectively. According to the references (Corazziari E, Bytzer P,
      Delvaux M, et al. Clinical trial guidelines for pharmacological treatment of irritable bowel
      syndrome. Alimentary pharmacology & therapeutics 2003; 18 (6): 569-580), the investigational
      drug is more effective than placebo (the overall improvement rate of symptoms is 15%), using
      StudySize2.0 software to calculate the sample size, assuming the improvement in the treatment
      group is 52%. In order to detect a difference with a two-side p value <0.05 and 80%
      statistical power, we will need to recruit 166 patients per arm. Further assuming a 15%
      dropout rate, we conclude that a total of 392 patients (196 per arm) will be recruited to
      ensure statistically significant results.For the number of cases distribution between
      centers, according to the references (Lai D,Chang KC, Rahbar MH, Moye LA. Optimal Allocation
      of Sample Sizes to Multicenter Clinical Trials. Journal of biopharmaceutical statistics 2013;
      23 (4): 818-828) , from the following equation, we will consider the center about the patient
      flow, traffic, treatment,costs and other possible factors, we will use the formula below to
      estimate the number of cases that will be recruited in each center.

      Research medical record and Electronic Database:

      All patients should be observed and assessed based on clinical trial protocol and the
      investigators need to document in the medical record accurately and clearly. Research medical
      record is the source document which cannot be altered. Any correction should not change the
      original record and can only be added in a way of narration with reasons. The doctor
      participated in the clinical trial needs to sign and date the record. An electronic database
      will be created. Each study site will input their own data and be responsible for its
      accuracy. A chief statistician will be responsible for data cleaning and data analysis.

      Analysis parameters:

      All parameters and study elements will be analyzed. The statistical analysis will be
      performed using SAS 9.1 and SPSS software.

      Analysis sets:

      Full analysis set (FAS): The analysis will be conducted according to the intention-to-treat
      (ITT) principle which means to eliminate the participants with a minimum and reasonable
      method. ITT population refers to all participants who go through randomization, enter
      double-blind treatment period, and receive IMP at least one time. Missing values of efficacy
      will be imputed by the last-observation-carried forward (LOCF) method. Per-protocol set (PP):
      PP population refers to all participants who complete relative observation according to
      protocol requirement and are confirmed to meet following conditions: ① compliance between 80%
      and 120%; ② not taking probihited medications during the process of trial; ③ meeting
      inclusion criteria and not fitting any exclusion items; ④ completing all planned visits and
      necessary items of CRF. Missing values of this set will still be processed as missing data
      and not be imputed. Safety analysis set: Population for safety analysis refers to all
      participants who enter the trial, receive medication at least one time and have suitable
      follow-up data for safety analysis. All safety data including AEs and laboratory results from
      participants will be assessed.16.3 Statistical analysis technique Baseline data (gender, age,
      race, weight, height, vital signs, course of IBS, history of smoking and alcohol) will be
      descriptively summarized. Differences of measurement data between the groups will be assessed
      with the use of t-test for normally distributed continuous variables and Wilcoxon signed rank
      test for non-normally distributed. Differences of enumeration data between the groups will be
      assessed with the use of chi-square test or CMH test when considering multicenter character.
      Measurement data of different groups in each visit will be reported as mean ± standard
      deviation (SD). Intra-group comparisons between baseline and each visit will be conducted by
      using paired t-test (or Wilcoxon signed rank test). Comparisons between groups will be
      conducted by using an analysis of variance (ANOVA), with other confounding factors like
      multicenter character conducting the covariate analysis. Statistical analysis for the data
      which do not meet above conditions (e.g. non-normal) will be conducted with the use of
      non-parametric test. Enumeration data of different groups in each visit will be reported as
      frequency (proportion). Comparisons between groups will be assessed with the use of X2 test
      (CMH test) or non-parametric test. Dropout analysis: Dropout analysis will be conducted with
      the use of chi-square test. If the data do not conform to chi-square test (data include 0, or
      theoretical frequency is below 1), Fisher's exact test will be used. Compliance analysis:
      Compliance analysis will be conducted with the use of chi-square test. If the data do not
      conform to chi-square test (data include 0, or theoretical frequency is below 1), Fisher's
      exact test will be used.

      Hypothesis testing:

      This trial will conduct superiority analysis firstly. Other difference test will be conduct
      by two-sided test. The statistical significance will be defined as two-sided P-value of ≤0.05
      without any special explanation.

      Efficacy analysis:

      The efficacy analysis will be conducted with the use of PP analysis and ITT analysis in the
      meantime. Comparisons of measurement data will be conducted by using analysis of covariance
      (ANCOVA), with treatment group and trial center as a factor in the model and baseline as the
      covariate. Comparisons of measurement data will be conducted by using chi-square test or CMH
      chi-square test when considering multicenter character. Meanwhile, superiority analysis
      between experimental group and control group will be conducted based on primary efficacy
      variables. Superiority test depends on interval method.

      Safety analysis:

      Extent of exposure: Descriptive statistics will be conducted according to the exposure dose
      and time of medication in different groups. AEs analysis: Comparisons of incidence rate of
      AEs between groups will be conducted with the use of X2 test. And investigators need to list
      and describe the AEs happened in this trial. If the data do not conform to X2 test (data
      include 0, or theoretical frequency is below 5), Fisher's exact test will be used.

      Data management:

      CRFs are filled in by investigators and study coordinators, other assessment forms by every
      participant (including dropout cases). Data processing will be conducted in accordance with
      the following protocol:

        1. Verification of CRFs: Study coordinators need to verify CRFs before inputting.

        2. Data verification needs to be conducted successively in the following two steps:

             1. Verify the consistency and logicality of data: Review contents of data range and
                logicality are determined by the range of each indexes and the interrelation.
                Corresponding software will also be written to correct the incorrect data.

             2. Compare database and CRFs by manual testing. Selectively counter check 10% CRFs
                with participants' medical notes to know the quality of inputting and analyze and
                handle the existing problems.

        3. Data inspection and closure of database: After verifying the validity of established
           database and statistical protocol, principal investigators, will lock the data. The
           locked data are not allowed to change. Confirmed problems found after locking will be
           handled in the process of statistical analysis. All mistakes and modification should be
           recorded and kept properly.
    
  