
    
      Introduction

      Prescription opioid overdoses have quadrupled in the last 15 years, and are now the leading
      cause of accidental death, surpassing motor vehicle accidents. The drastic rise in opioid
      prescription rates in Canada and the US could be the driving force behind this higher
      mortality. It was shown that 71% of opioid misusers (i.e., intentional users for nonmedical
      purposes) received their drugs through the diversion of unused prescribed opioids (transfer
      of opioids to someone other than the holder of the initial prescription). Emergency
      department (ED) physicians are among the top opioid prescribers for patients under 40, and
      there are currently no prospective studies on how many opioid pills should be prescribed to
      patients discharged from the ED with common pain conditions in order to limit unused pills.
      Preliminary results from our group revealed that two-thirds of the total prescribed opioids
      were not consumed and remained available for misuse.

      Objectives

      The ultimate goal of this research program is to decrease opioid misuse by lowering the
      quantity of unused medications. The primary objective of this project is to determine the
      quantity of opioids consumed during the acute pain phase (2 weeks) by ED-discharged patients
      treated for an acute pain condition. The secondary objectives are to inventory the quantity
      of opioids prescribed and unused after ED visits, use of co-analgesics, pain intensity,
      health services revisits during the 2-week follow-up, and chronic pain prevalence at 3
      months.

      Methods

      The investigators propose a multicentre prospective observational cohort study in 2,580
      consecutive ED patients recruited from 6 Canadian hospitals. The study will include patients
      aged ≥18 years, treated for an acute pain condition present for less than 2 weeks (usual
      acute pain definition), and discharged from the ED with an opioid prescription. Pain at
      triage and at ED discharged, diagnosis, and complete pain medication prescription will be
      initially listed. Patients will complete a 14-day electronic diary using the REDCap web-based
      system to document their daily pain medication consumption, pain intensity, new opioid
      prescriptions, and health services revisits. Patients will also answer questionnaires at 2
      weeks and 3 months for our various secondary objectives. To validate the patient self-report
      opioid consumption, a randomized subset of patients will come back to the emergency for a
      follow-up visit and a manual count of the remaining opioids. As mitigation strategies
      (validated in our pilot study), non-responders to the diary will be contacted by phone at 2
      weeks to answered questions summing diary information, and paper versions will be available
      for patients without Internet access.

      Feasibility

      The investigators demonstrated the study feasibility in a successful pilot study with 627
      patients at our academic ED. Additionally, our project brings together a committed,
      multidisciplinary research team, and all proposed study sites have collaborated previously on
      large multicentre studies. Finally, all instruments have been successfully tested, allowing
      rapid study implementation.

      Impact

      Our results will determine the quantity of opioids consumed during the acute pain phase (2
      weeks) to ED-discharged patients treated for acute pain conditions. Our team members from
      relevant provincial and national stakeholders and patient associations, our strong evidence,
      and our extensive knowledge transfer strategy have the potential to impact physicians' opioid
      prescription practices. Consequently, fewer unused prescription opioids should lead to a
      substantial decrease in the currently high rate of opioid misuse.
    
  