
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The investigators hypothesized that increased platelet activation and coronary artery
      vasoconstriction exist in African Americans, due to greater vascular endothelial dysfunction,
      heightened adrenergic drive, and greater vascular reactivity, resulting in excess sudden
      death and the occurrence of myocardial infarction in people with less severe angiographic
      coronary disease.

      The study was one of eight grants awarded as part of the Request for Applications "Mechanisms
      Underlying Coronary Heart Disease in Blacks". The initiative was released in October 1991 and
      awarded in September 1992.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Previous studies had demonstrated high prevalences of coronary disease risk factors and
      occult coronary disease in this sibling population. Subjects were recruited to come for a one
      day screening, with measurement of coronary disease risk factors (blood pressure, smoking,
      lipid profile, apolipoproteins B and A1, lipoprotein(a), blood glucose, insulin, and
      fibrinogen), and a maximal treadmill test with tomographic thallium imaging to identify
      occult coronary disease. Platelet function was assessed by spontaneous in-vitro aggregation,
      activated IIa/IIIb receptor density, and serum thromboxane B2 concentration. Factors
      contributing to sudden cardiac death were assessed by an echocardiogram for left ventricular
      mass, electrocardiogram (ECG) for QRS late potentials, and 24 hour ECG monitoring for
      ventricular arrhythmias, episodes of silent ischemia, and heart rate variability (to assess
      adrenergic drive). Vascular reactivity was characterized by heart rate and blood pressure
      changes during Stroop color card and cold pressor testing. Siblings with an abnormal exercise
      ECG and/or thallium scan were offered coronary arteriography to assess the severity of
      angiographic coronary disease and the vasomotor responses to isometric handgrip and
      intracoronary acetylcholine, an endothelium-dependent vasodilator. In coronary arteries with
      minimal angiographic disease, changes in coronary vascular resistance during handgrip and
      acetylcholine were also measured with a doppler flow velocity catheter and the proximal
      arteries were imaged with intravascular ultrasound.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  