
    
      Study Objective: The principle aim of this work is to determine whether foam swabs or
      toothbrushes offer the most effective method of removing dental plaque in orally intubated
      mechanically ventilated patients.

      The secondary objective is to profile the microbiological flora in dental plaque,
      endotracheal tube and lung. In addition, collection of both plaque samples, used endotracheal
      tubes (ETTs) and non-directed bronchoalveolar lavage (NBL) will allow us to determine whether
      oral microorganisms contribute to biofilm formation within the ETT and potentially promote
      VAP. The findings of this study will not only enhance our knowledge on the organisms involved
      in promoting biofilms on ETT, but may also highlight potential management strategies to
      reduce their formation.

      Study Population: Critically ill adult patients admitted to the intensive care unit at the
      University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff in whom mechanical ventilation has been initiated.

      Recruitment: All patients satisfying inclusion and exclusion criteria, admitted to the adult
      ICU at the University Hospital of Wales from the start date of the study will be considered
      eligible for recruitment. Patients identified by the duty consultant will be notified to the
      research team. Consent will be obtained and in total 50 patients will be recruited.

      Interventions: This is a split mouth design study whereby the intervention (cleaning with a
      foam swab or toothbrush) is performed on one side of the mouth. For example foam swab left
      side of mouth and toothbrush right side of mouth. Cleaning will be performed daily for a
      minimum of 24-hours or until extubation or up to seven days after recruitment, whichever is
      the shorter.

      Non-directed bronchoalveolar lavages (NBLs) will be taken on a Monday and Thursday and when
      clinically indicated (for example a suspected VAP). This involves the insertion of a sterile
      suction catheter into the lung, 10-20ml of sterile saline is instilled and drawn back, and
      placed in a sterile universal. The sample will be split into two when there is a suspected
      infection, one half going to the UHW microbiology laboratory as usual, the other half will be
      profiled as part of the study. If there is no suspected infection all of the sample will be
      profiled as part of the study.

      Methods: Following recruitment, patients will have their teeth cleaned twice a day with
      sterile water for 2 minutes using a 'baby toothbrush' and foam swab, the side to which the
      cleaning method is allocated will be randomised. One minute of cleaning assigned to each side
      of the mouth.

      A modified Silness and Loe plaque score (Scannapieco et al 1992) and gingival index (Loe and
      Silness 1963) will be recorded prior to cleaning and then each morning following cleaning
      throughout the duration of the study. The plaque index will be recorded on the upper and
      lower first molars, first bicuspid and central incisors on each side of the mouth from the
      buccal surface. The plaque index score will be an average of the six teeth on each side. For
      patients with missing index teeth, the remaining teeth in closest proximity will be scored.
      The gingival index will be scored on the same teeth.

      Following recording of the plaque and gingival index plaque samples will be collected on the
      same teeth as used for the plaque score. Samples of supragingival plaque will then be
      collected from the gingival third portion of the targeted teeth using a sterile curette prior
      to initiation of oral care and then once a day before cleaning. Plaque will immediately be
      inoculated into 1ml of microbiological transport medium. The transport medium will be diluted
      in a serial decimal manner in phosphate buffered saline prior to inoculation of agar plates
      using a spiral plating system (Don Whitley Scientific). The following agars will be used to
      culture the microorganisms: Blood Agar (aerobic bacteria), Fastidious Anaerobe Agar
      (anaerobic bacteria) and CHROMagar Candida (Candida and yeast species). Differential counts
      of lactose fermenting enteric bacteria will be through the use of MacConkey Agar, whilst
      Staphylococcus species (coagulase positive and coagulase negative) will be detected using
      Mannitol Salt Agar (MSA). The inoculated media will be incubated under appropriate gaseous
      environments at 37°C for 48 h (aerobes) or 7 d (anaerobes). A total aerobic microbial count
      from each side will be obtained from the blood agars and expressed as total colony forming
      units (CFUs).

      Identification of each distinct colony morphotype will be through extensive phenotypic
      investigation. Tests will involve Gram staining, oxidase and catalase activity and
      biochemical profiling through a range of test systems. The biochemical test systems will
      include the APICoryne system (Gram-positive bacilli), APIStrep system (catalase-negative
      Gram-positive cocci), APIStaph and ID32Staph (catalase-positive Gram-positive cocci).
      Oxidase-negative, Gram-negative bacilli will be profiled using the API20E test whilst,
      oxidase-positive Gram-negative bacilli will be profiled using the API NE. Fungal organisms
      (Candida and yeast species) will be identified based on colony colour and appearance on the
      differential medium, CHROMagar and by biochemical profiling with the Auxocolour 2 system
      (biorad).

      NBLs collected as outlined in the section on interventions above. Identification of the
      organisms present within the NBL samples will be done using the cultural methods outlined
      above.

      If patients are extubated during the study then the endotracheal tube will be collected and
      transferred to the laboratory. Processing of ETT will involve dividing each tube into
      sections for either quantitative identification of organisms by microbial culture, molecular
      analysis or microscopical imaging.

      Sections of each ETT will initially be placed in 2 ml of phosphate buffered saline and vortex
      mixed for 30 s with sterilised glass beads to disrupt biofilm aggregates. The PBS solution
      will then be removed and diluted serial decimally, 106-fold.

      Identification of the organisms present within the biofilms will be done using the cultural
      methods outlined above, together with supplemental molecular analysis (outlined below).

      16S ribosomal RNA gene-defined bacterial contamination of endotracheal tubes Sections from
      each region of recovered endotracheal tubes will be analysed using molecular procedures. The
      method will involve the extraction of total DNA from 500 µl of the specimens using a
      Puregeneâ bacterial DNA isolation kit (Gentra Systems). Universal bacterial primer pairs, d88
      and e94 (Paster et al, 2001) and primers specific for target organisms (Porphyromonas
      gingivalis, Streptococcus mutans, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus) will then
      be used to amplify the 16S rRNA gene targets within the extracted samples using standard PCR
      and reaction conditions. Negative controls will include a reagent control (sterile water as
      PCR template) and a sample preparation control (sterile water used in place of the original
      sample and exposed to the entire extraction protocol). Positive controls of template DNA from
      known species of P. gingivalis, S. aureus and mutans will also be included.

      Confocal laser scanning microscopy Sections of the used ETT will also be analysed using
      fluorescent in situ hybridization using organism specific Peptide Nucleic Acid (PNA) probes.
      Each specific probe will be conjugated with a distinct fluorescent label to allow for spatial
      location and distribution of target organisms (S. aureus, P. aeruginosa, Candida albicans, S.
      mutans) within the ETT biofilm.

      Collection of other data: Baseline demographics of patients will be recorded, including age,
      sex, APACHE II score, co-morbidities, days from hospital admission, and recent antibiotic
      administration.

      A Zsigmondy and DMFT (decayed, missing, filled teeth) score will be recorded by a dental
      hygienist during the study to assess the baseline dental status of patients enrolled.

      Outcome measures: Primary outcome: Daily plaque and gingival scores following mechanical
      cleaning, with identification and quantification of bacteria within plaque. Quantitative
      comparisons will be ascertained from the total log transformed CFU counts and plaque and
      gingival scores from the two cleaning methods.
    
  