
    
      Human development across the lifespan is a process of continual change, adaptation and
      growth. Throughout this process, key transitional events, such as career choice and marriage,
      mark important points in time when an individual's life course is significantly altered.
      These transitional events may be instigated by age, historical or idiosyncratic factors. Of
      particular interest in the present study are patients' perceptions of transitional events
      brought about or altered by chronic illness and disability. Additionally, factors (i.e.
      social support, communication, family) that help facilitate progression through these events
      will be investigated. The actual or potential role of health care providers during
      transitional events will also be explored with a specific emphasis on genetic counseling.
      These themes will be examined through the administration of a one-time, semi-structured,
      in-person or telephone interview of patients with Friedreich's ataxia: a progressive,
      debilitating, neurodegenerative condition. The interviews will be approximately 45-60 minutes
      in length and will include open-ended questions to elicit qualitative data. Approximately 40
      subjects will be recruited from Friedreich's ataxia support groups, a research organization
      and a clinical setting.

      It is anticipated that data elicited from the study will lead to recommendations regarding
      the process and content of genetic counseling for individuals with Friedreich's ataxia. These
      considerations, coupled with qualitative data obtained from participants, may also have
      implications for the evolving role of the genetic counselor. Specifically, consideration of
      developmental counseling approaches, which emphasize key transitional events, may be
      particularly useful as genetic counselors become increasingly involved in subspecialties
      (i.e. cardiology, pediatrics, neurology) that provide continuing follow-up care to patients.
    
  