
    
      The human body has four parathyroid glands. These are located in the neck at the backside of
      the thyroid gland. The four glands produce parathyroid hormone which regulates the amount of
      calcium in the blood. If one or more of the thyroid glands becomes hyperactive, too much
      parathyroid hormone is secreted into the blood. This condition is called hyperparathyroidism
      and results in elevated serum calcium levels. If left untreated, hyperparathyroidism may
      result in weak bones (osteoporosis), bone fractures, kidney stones and a myriad of unspecific
      symptoms.

      In the vast majority of cases, only one of the four parathyroid glands is responsible for the
      disease, and the cure is surgical excision of the hyperactive gland. Such a surgery has
      traditionally involved a dissection of both sides of the neck, allowing the surgeon to
      visually inspect all four parathyroid glands to determine which gland(s) were hyperactive.
      Nowadays, if the hyperactive gland can be identified by parathyroid imaging prior to surgery,
      the surgeon can perform a minimally invasive procedure, focusing on the removal of a single
      gland. Such a focused procedure minimizes surgical risks and results in a shorter duration of
      surgery.

      The parathyroid imaging regimen currently requires two out-patient visits on two separate
      days. The patient first visits the Department of Nuclear Medicine where a scan involving two
      radioactive tracers (a subtraction scintigraphy) and a 3D-examination (a SPECT/CT scan) are
      performed. The second visit takes place at the department of Head and Neck Surgery, where a
      head and neck surgeon performs an ultrasound examination of the neck.

      The scans at the Department of Nuclear Medicine require the patient to lie completely still
      for a long time, expose the patient to some degree of radiation, and are relatively
      expensive. The ultrasound examination is fast and inexpensive, but isn't as sensitive as the
      scintigraphy (76% versus 70-92%).

      Our project attempts to increase the sensitivity of the ultrasound examination by adding on
      an intravenous contrast agent. The contrast agent stays solely within the blood vessels,
      where it enhances the ultrasound signal. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) does not expose
      the patient to radiation, is fast to carry out, and the patient can be informed about the
      result of the scan immediately.

      We hope that by introducing CEUS, we can change the order in which patients are examined
      prior to surgery, meaning that ultrasound - with or without an added contrast agent - will be
      the primary parathyroid imaging modality, and that patients will only continue to the
      Department of Nuclear Medicine if the result of the CEUS examination is uncertain.

      Purpose

      The purpose of this project is to examine, in a non-inferiority study, whether the
      combination of conventional ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) can replace
      the radiation-based imaging modalities that are currently used to localize pathological
      parathyroid glands prior to surgical removal in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism.

      Method

      This will take the form of a prospective paired cohort study where patients receive a
      contrast-enhanced ultrasound examination in addition to the standard preoperative imaging
      regimen (subtraction scintigraphy with SPECT/CT and conventional ultrasound). The CEUS
      examiner will be blinded to the results of the subtraction scintigraphy and SPECT/CT. The
      surgeon will have access to the results of all the preoperative imaging procedures, including
      CEUS. Correct localization of a hyperactive parathyroid gland on preoperative imaging is
      confirmed by a histological examination of the surgical specimen.
    
  