
    
      PLAN: Women who present for prenatal care are routinely screened for gestational diabetes
      (GDM) with a one-hour 50gm oral glucose challenge test (GCT). This screening occurs at the
      first prenatal visit if risk factors (marked obesity, prior pregnancy affected by GDM, prior
      macrosomic infant, glycosuria, strong family history of diabetes) for GDM are identified on
      intake history. If no risk factors for GDM are identified or if initial screening is
      negative, the GCT is administered between 24-28 weeks gestation. At our institution, the GCT
      is considered positive if, one hour after ingestion of a 50gm oral glucose solution, the
      serum glucose is greater than or equal to 135mg/dl. This screening cutoff varies among
      medical treatment facilities. Positive screening tests are followed by a diagnostic oral
      glucose tolerance test (GTT). A positive diagnosis requires that two or more thresholds be
      met or exceeded. Women with the diagnosis of gestational diabetes will receive dietary
      counseling and instruction on the performing capillary glucose from a by a nurse educator. If
      > 20% of recorded home glucose values are in excess of target range following initiation of
      appropriate diet, women will be offered enrollment into the study.

      All women who agree to participate in the study will have an ultrasound performed to confirm
      gestational age and rule out fetal anomalies, a serum glycosylated hemoglobin A1C to assist
      in excluding preexisting diabetes and a fasting insulin level to assist in determining degree
      of insulin resistance. A serum glycosylated hemoglobin A1C will be repeated upon admission
      for delivery. Subjects randomized into standard therapy insulin arm will have their insulin
      dose calculated by established standards. Dosing is based upon a 2 shot combined dose with
      long acting and short acting insulin given prior to breakfast and dinner. If the fasting
      glucose values remain elevated the dinner NPH will be moved to bedtime. Subcutaneous
      administration is recommended in a consistent anatomic region, preferably the abdomen.

      Insulin will be adjusted on a weekly basis in order to maintain optimal glucose control.
      Women assigned to receive glyburide will begin with 2.5mg orally with the morning meal.
      Glyburide dosage will be increased weekly as indicated to a maximum daily dose of 20mg to
      achieve glucose control. If the patient continues to have elevated fasting glucose the may be
      split to 12 hr intervals. If maximum daily dose of glyburide does not result in reaching the
      threshold values, patients will be administered insulin however data will be analyzed on an
      intent-to-treat basis.

      Upon admission for delivery additional maternal blood will be collected for hemoglobin A1C,
      and glyburide levels. These values will be utilized to determine efficacy of treatment and
      for comparison to fetal umbilical cord values.

      At delivery fetal blood from the umbilical cord will be collected for glucose, hematocrit,
      insulin level and, in a representative sample, glyburide level. These values will be utilized
      to determine whether insulin or glyburide provides superior efficacy in maintaining these
      values within normal limits. Cord blood glyburide levels will be obtained in a representative
      sample of exposed subjects.

      When clinically indicated labs are performed by the pediatrician on the newborn, such as heel
      stick glucose for hypoglycemia, bilirubin levels for neonatal jaundice, calcium levels for
      suspected hypocalcemia, these values will be obtained by review of the newborn record.

      In all gestational diabetics, post partum assessment of diabetic status will be assessed with
      either a fasting glucose determination or a 2hr glucose tolerance test .
    
  