
    
      After informed consent, a baseline neurological exam, medical records review, MRI of the
      brain, TMS, questionnaires, cognitive testing, robot evaluations, and arm function testing
      will occur. Baseline testing will occur in the first 4-6 weeks of participation including two
      separate sessions approximately 1 week a part to examine arm strength, range of motion, and
      ability to perform functional tasks, with one additional session if needed to verify
      stability between results. Additionally, one robot evaluation, one MRI, and one TMS session
      will be completed. We will also collect genetic data using blood and saliva samples to
      examine potential RNA expression and genetic polymorphisms that might influence response to
      therapy.

      The intervention phase consists of 12 weeks of robot and transition to task arm exercise
      training (TTT). Interventions will occur approximately 3 times per week for 12 weeks for a
      total of 36 visits. Additional time and visits will be allowed with visits occurring 4 times
      per week or up to 6 additional weeks (not to exceed 18 weeks) if scheduling conflicts arise.
      The intervention sessions will be one hour in duration.

      During the hour-long intervention, 45 minutes of robotic intervention will be followed by 15
      minutes of TTT. Two separate robots targeting different movements will be used for the 3
      phases of the robot training. The training will be sequential with 12 sessions completed on
      the wrist robot, followed by 12 sessions on the shoulder-elbow robot and the final 12
      sessions alternating between the wrist and elbow-shoulder robot.

      After the final training session, subjects will return after a 12 week retention period. At
      various time points during and after the intervention phase there will be additional arm
      function testing, robot evaluations, questionnaires, blood draws, and TMS sessions to
      re-assess ability.
    
  