
    
      Single lung ventilation is frequently carried out to facilitate surgery on the lungs and
      pleura. In most instances this is achieved by insertion of a double-lumen endotracheal tube
      and then selectively ventilating one lung or both. Precise positioning of these tubes is
      essential for optimal performance. It has become the standard of care to perform bronchoscopy
      to confirm tube position.

      A new double lumen endotracheal tube (Vivasight DL) has recently been developed. It has all
      the features of a standard double lumen endotracheal tube but also incorporates an internal
      camera which, when connected to an external screen, allows continuous confirmation of tube
      position.

      This is randomized, single blinded controlled trial. The participants will be allocated to
      two study groups (Vivasight DL or standard DLT), in which the primary airway management
      device will be respectively Vivasight DL double lumen tube or a standard double lumen
      endotracheal tube.

      Clinical Research Ethics Committee approval has been obtained. Suitable participants will be
      recruited after written informed consent.

      Standard anesthetic preassessment and anesthesia will be provided.

      Consenting patients passing the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomly allocated
      to either of the 2 study groups.

      Protocol for attempts at placement and tube position confirmation will be followed.

      The investigators will monitor a number of parameters, including time and ease of tube
      insertion, ability to verify tube position with the primary imaging modality for each group,
      need to perform tube position adjustment maneuvers, need to use fiberoptic bronchoscope
      during the case, quality of lung collapse, problems with ventilation and other.

      The primary hypothesis is that the new Vivasight DL tube system will provide a comparable
      optical view to the fiberoptic scope view obtained via standard double lumen endotracheal
      tube in order to confirm optimal position.
    
  