
    
      Objective

      Currently, there is no cure for focal hand dystonia (FHD). FHD research has focused
      predominantly on the motor execution abnormality in the primary motor cortex, while the
      task-specific nature of FHD has received less attention. Task-specificity suggests that the
      underlying task-to-motor output relationship is intact for many activities and dysfunctional
      for an important minority of tasks. The premotor cortex plays a key role in this relationship
      in health and, likely, plays an equally important role in disordered movement. The goal for
      this research proposal is to understand the underlying physiology and contribution of the
      premotor cortex in FHD.

      Study population

      We intend to study adult patients with FHD and healthy volunteers on an outpatient basis. In
      a task-specific dystonia of the hand known as writer's cramp, handwriting is abnormal due to
      posturing and muscle spasm, whereas other tasks done with the affected hand are normal. The
      disordered relationship between task-to-motor output in FHD is potentially modifiable if the
      correct target and therapeutic modality are identified.

      Design

      In a series of three experiments, we propose to use transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)
      to examine the circuitry of the premotor to motor cortex connections in FHD, to interrupt
      motor planning in FHD, and to define premotor cortex somatotopy. In Experiment 1, TMS will be
      used to test the hypothesis that there is deficient inhibition from premotor to motor cortex
      in patients with FHD at rest, during voluntary movement and while maintaining a task-specific
      position. In Experiment 2, TMS will be used to identify whether there is a somatotopic
      organization relevant to the inhibitory premotor-motor cortex interaction in healthy
      volunteers. In Experiment 3, to address the role of motor planning dysfunction in the
      task-specific nature of FHD, we will use TMS to evaluate the premotor-motor cortex inhibition
      during a reaction time task.

      Outcome measures

      The primary outcome measure of Experiment 1 will be change in MEP peak-to-peak amplitude
      between patients and healthy volunteers at rest and in two motor conditions. In Experiment 2,
      the primary outcome measure will be the location of the TMS coil for optimizing inhibition
      from leg premotor cortex to motor cortex compared to the coil location from arm premotor
      cortex to motor cortex. Finally, in Experiment 3, the primary outcome measure will be the
      change in reaction time from baseline to the test condition with transient TMS-induced
      interruption in premotor cortex function.
    
  