
    
      The TensorTip (previously named Soft Touch) is a novel non invasive Finger tip device that.
      The Tensor Tip is a non-invasive device which was designed and aimed to measure a wide range
      of physiological and bio-parameters such as blood glucose, hemoglobin and hematocrit, blood
      PH, oxygen saturation SpO2, blood carbon dioxide, blood pressure, peripheral pulse and more
      based on the temporarily color distribution of the tissue under consideration. The Tensor Tip
      is based on real time color image sensor, real time photographing the fingertip tissue. A
      color image sensor of the type used in the Tensor Tip enables a wide range of information in
      the spectral, resolution, dynamic range and time domains enabling further investigation of
      the blood chromatic changes as a function body physiology. The concept behind this
      investigation reflects the idea that a change in human physiology condition would temporarily
      change the blood pigmentation.

      The present study is aimed to assess the accuracy of the novel device in measuring all the
      above mentioned parameters by recording AS IS the change of the fingertip color tissue while
      simultaneous recording the standard invasive measured parameters on daily or periodic routine
      in the hospitalized patients.

      This vast data recordings (tissue and references) enable the Tensor tip to analyze a
      particular bio parameter. The tensor tip is calibrated to a certain bio parameter based on
      the vast data set collected.

      The bio parameter under consideration are: Arterial Systolic and Diastolic, MAP, PA systolic,
      PA Diastolic, CO, Heart rate, Stroke volume, WBC, RBC, Hgb, HCT ,Iron, PLT, PH, PCO2, PO2,
      HCO3, SaO2 , Na, K, Cl, CO2, Bun, Cr, Gluc, HGB (A1C),TBiLi, LDL, HDL.

      This study hopes to demonstrate the connection between blood color pigmentation and certain
      bio parameters for simplifying monitoring procedure and particular home monitoring.
    
  