
    
      Dengue infection have resurged and disseminated globally since late 1970s after successful
      eradication programs of the dengue vector Aedes mosquitoes in Latin America in the 1940s. It
      has been identified as the fastest spreading mosquito-borne viral disease by World Health
      Organization (WHO), which affects more than 2.5 billion people living in the subtropical and
      tropical regions. Approximately 75% of the current global dengue disease burden comes from
      the population residing at Southeast Asia and Western Pacific regions, which subsequently
      lead to the formation of the Asia Pacific Dengue Strategic Plan (2008-2015) and the recent
      Global Strategy for Prevention and Control (2012-2020) to reduce the dengue burden.

      Malaysia is hyper-endemic with all four dengue virus serotypes circulating and responsible
      for the escalating number of cases over the years. The number of reported dengue cases in
      Malaysia has increased fourfold from 44.3 per 100,000 population in 1999 to 181 per 100,000
      in 2007; with increased in dengue deaths in the adult populations since 2002. Worst still, as
      of 28 February 2015, there are 62 deaths secondary to dengue infection being reported in
      Malaysia; and the total number of dengue cases reported in the same period was 23,966 which
      is 46% higher than the same reporting period of 2014.

      The WHO has revised the dengue classification in 2009, which were shown to be more sensitive
      than the WHO 1997 classification system in predicting severity of dengue. According to this
      WHO 2009 classification, dengue infection is now categorized into dengue, dengue with warning
      signs, and severe dengue. The proposed warning signs include abdominal pain or tenderness,
      persistent vomiting, clinical fluid accumulation, mucosal bleed, lethargy or restlessness,
      liver enlargement > 2cm, increase in hematocrit concurrent with rapid decrease in platelet
      count. Severe dengue is then defined as dengue infection with severe plasma leakage with
      shock, severe bleeding or severe organ involvement.

      Although a large number of patients may recover from this self-limiting disease, a small
      proportion may progress to develop severe dengue manifestations, which requires admission to
      intensive care unit (ICU) for closer monitoring and intervention. However, the progression to
      severe clinical manifestations is usually unpredictable. Early identification of signs that
      can predict severe dengue may save lives by facilitating early initiation of interventions
      and frequent monitoring. Dengue epidemics in Malaysia lead to a strong demand for hospital
      beds and manpower, and inflicting large public and private hospitalization costs. Hence, it
      is crucial to determine a predictive tools which can help to triage patients into those that
      are least and most likely to develop complications in order for a better allocation of
      limited healthcare resources.

      A few studies have been done to validate the utility of the proposed warning signs by WHO
      2009 dengue classification, but the results vary and none of these studies are conducted in
      our local setting. Although dengue virus has been identified for so many years and plenty of
      research work has been carried out, it was proven that there are still many aspects that we
      are not too sure about the disease. It got more confused with the sudden surge of dengue
      cases and dengue mortality cases since last year. Therefore, this study aims to look into the
      clinical course of the hospitalized dengue cases in Malaysia. It will then allow us to zoom
      in to the specific area for more future research work.

      General Objective:

      To study the clinical course of hospitalized dengue cases in Malaysia in from year 2009 till
      2015.

      Specific Objectives are to:

        1. Describe the characteristics of patients hospitalized for dengue

        2. Describe the clinical presentation of patients hospitalized for dengue

        3. Verify the diagnosis of reported dengue cases

        4. Describe the spectrum of disease severity among patients hospitalized for dengue

        5. Describe the management of patients hospitalized for dengue including ICU care

        6. Describe the prognosis of patients hospitalized for dengue

        7. Estimate the resource utilization and cost of care of patients hospitalized for dengue

        8. Estimate the mortality outcome of patients hospitalized for dengue

      This will be a multi-center, observational cohort study designed to investigate the clinical
      course of patients hospitalized for dengue infection in Malaysia. This study will be
      conducted in 2 stages for the duration of 6 months. Data will be retrieved retrospectively in
      both stages.

      In Stage 1, a sample of dengue cases who visited general practitioner or who were
      hospitalized in from year 2009 until 2015 will be sampled using PIK and Health insurance
      claims database as sampling frame. Each hospital will be given a list of the dengue cases and
      the local coordinator from respective hospital Clinical Research Centre (CRC) will trace the
      medical records of all these dengue cases. Once the case notes of all the dengue cases are
      traced, two trained research assistants will travel to the hospital to extract the basic
      clinical data on social demographics, presentation and discharge status by using case report
      form A. All the data collected in phase 1 will be categorized as basic clinical set.

      In Stage 2, a subset of the basic clinical set will be sampled conveniently. Only the cases
      that were tested positive by dengue non-structural protein 1 (NS1), immunoglobulin-M (IgM) or
      high-titre immunoglobulin-G (IgG) will be included in the Stage 2 study. A more detailed
      clinical subset data will be collected by research assistants at site. All co-morbidity,
      serial clinical and laboratory data, in-hospital course and treatment data and Intensive Care
      Unit (ICU) admission data will be extracted from medical records with case report form B. All
      variables/data in the case report form is defined in Appendix I. All data collected in Stage
      1 and 2 will then be compiled and analyzed with software Stata Version 10.0.

      WHO 2009 classification will be adopted in this study. According to the WHO 2009 criteria,
      probable dengue is defined as fever and two of the following: nausea or vomiting, rash, aches
      and pain, leucopenia, and any warning signs. Warning signs are abdominal pain or tenderness,
      persistent vomiting, clinical fluid accumulation, mucosal bleed, lethargy or restlessness,
      hepatomegaly and hematocrit changes ≥20% concurrent with platelet <50,000 on the same day.
      Severe dengue is present if any of the following criteria fulfilled:

      I) Plasma leakage evidenced by hematocrit change of ≥20%, pleural effusion or ascites, or
      hypoproteinemia, leading to:

        -  Dengue shock syndrome (tachycardia, cold and clammy extremities, capillary refill time
           greater than 3 seconds, weak or undetectable pulse, narrow pulse pressure ≤20 mmHg, or
           systolic blood pressure <90 millimetre mercury (mmHg) or unrecordable blood pressure);
           or

        -  Fluid accumulation with respiratory distress (respiratory rate ≥30/minute, oxygen
           saturation ≤92% on room air, or mechanical ventilation) II) Severe bleeding manifesting
           as gastrointestinal bleeding or menorrhagia, or requirement for transfusion of packed
           red blood cells or whole blood.

      III) Severe organ involvement as follows:

        -  Serum alanine or aspartate transaminase ≥1000 units/L;

        -  Impaired consciousness;

        -  Acute renal impairment defined as serum creatinine > two times upper limit of normal;

        -  Myocarditis or encephalopathy/encephalitis
    
  