
    
      Objective:

      Human T lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) was first discovered in the search for
      retroviruses causing cancer in 1981. Shortly afterwards, HTLV-2 was also isolated. Although
      HTLV-1 and HTLV-2 share similar genome structure, routes of transmission, and replication
      pattern, they differ in epidemiology and disease associations. Human T-lymphotropic virus
      type-I-associated myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) is a rare neurologic
      disorder that affects less than 5% of patients infected with the HTLV-I virus.

      Recently, a large body of literature supports other inflammatory manifestations, some
      neurological such as myositis, due to HTLV-1 infection. Studies of HLTV-2 clinical
      manifestations have largely been confounded by concomitant HIV-1 infection or IV drug abuse
      making the establishment of clear relationship with other manifestations such as neurological
      disease difficult. majority of patients infected with HTLV remain asymptomatic throughout
      their lifetime. The purpose of this protocol is to study the natural history of HTLV
      infection by monitoring participants longitudinally. Additionally, we will attempt to define
      the virological and immunological changes of viral infections. In addition, this protocol may
      be used to screen for other VIS protocols.

      Study Population:

      Individuals sero-positive for HTLV, individualas with indeterminate HTLV sero-status, and
      healthy volunteers are eligible to participate in this protocol. Some individuals
      sero-positive for HTLV may have associated diseases including but not limited to HTLV-1
      associated myelopathy/tro astic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) and HTLV associated inflammatory
      myositis.

      Design and Outcome Measures:

      A longitudinal assessment of clinical, virological and immunological progression in HTLV
      related disease will be accomplished through periodic testing and evaluation. Asymptomatic
      seropositive individuals, those with seroindeterminate HTLV serology and healthy volunteers
      may serve as controls. Longitudinal standardized neurological examinations will be performed.
      Longitudinal samples of serum, plasma, and lymphocytes may be obtained from participants.
      Lumbar punctures may be performed on all participants. These samples will be used for
      virological and immunological assays. A focus is on the relationships between the
      characteristics of viral infection, the immune response, and the genetic makeup.
    
  