
    
      Orotracheal intubation is a core competence in anesthesia and emergency medicine. Failure in
      securing an airway can result in hypoxemia, aspiration, neurologic damage, cardiovascular
      complications, and death. Difficult anatomic structures, upper airway abnormalities, or
      airway trauma bear the risk of failed intubation inability to ventilate the lungs that
      furthermore results in oxygenation failure.

      Literature tells that the rate of unexpected difficult intubations ranges from 5 to 10%,
      mostly corresponding to a Cormack/Lehane grade (C&L) 3 or 4.

      Beside the classic laryngoscopes and fibreoptic scopes, devices with high-resolution video
      cameras placed in the tip of the devices, were developed and attained in daily routines.
      Studies and case reports reveal them to be superior in both normal and difficult intubation,
      especially improving the first-attempt success rate.

      Rigid fiber-optic scopes may reduce intubation time and their use may result in a higher
      success rate. A study with 216 Patients using the Bonfils fiberscope for airway management,
      showed a success rate up to 98,4. Looking at the complication rates, upper airway trauma in
      normal patients after direct laryngoscopy with a Macintosh blade has been reported up to 6.9%
      and can be reduced by using a video laryngoscope.

      Latest advancements of the Bonfils fiberscope resulted in the C-MAC VS, which combines rigid
      and semi-rigid abilities to a rigid video stylet with a flexible tip. Because of its front
      positioned high-resolution camera resulting in an indirect visualization, it may also have
      the benefits of video laryngoscopes.

      But data about this new tool is rare, because this device is recently licensed. Very little
      data is available on larger numbers of use and the investigators do not know about rare side
      effects and complications with the use of the device, such as esophageal intubations.

      Due to its direct view and positioning on vocal cord level, the investigators expect a
      similar or even lower rate of endotracheal intubation using the C-MAC VS.

      The investigators therefore plan to analyze the use of the C-MAC VS regarding its efficiency
      and safety during airway management in everyday clinical practice. This prospective
      observational trial should provide the evidence about safe use, possible risk factors, rare
      complications and adverse events, as well as the preferred clinical airway situations to use
      the C-MAC VS.

      The investigators will check for given general research consent. All airway management
      procedures and the recorded data are daily clinical routine. No experimental intervention
      will take place, there is no change in usual clinical practice and therefore patient's safety
      will not be altered by participating in the study.

      The study will end when the tracheal tube is placed properly and the airway is secured. On
      the day after surgery the investigators will visit the patient as usually after each
      anesthesia to obtain follow up data. In case of a complication the patient will be followed
      up until the problem is cured or solved.
    
  