
    
      Primary objective of study:

      "OPTIMAL>60 Less Favourable" Patients with less favourable prognosis: To test whether
      progression-free survival (PFS) can be improved by substituting conventional by liposomal
      vincristine; To test whether PFS can be improved by 12 optimised applications instead of 8
      2-week applications of rituximab.

      "OPTIMAL>60 Favourable": Patients with favourable prognosis: Comparison of neurotoxicity of
      conventional and liposomal vincristine; Determination of PFS for the treatment strategy of
      reducing treatment in patients with negative FDG-PET after 4 x R-CHOP/CHLIP-14 (PET-4) and
      comparison with the corresponding patient population in RICOVER-60.

      Secondary objectives: "OPTIMAL>60 Favourable" and "OPTIMAL>60 Less Favourable":

      Comparison of the prognostic value of a pre-treatment FDG-PET (PET-0) with conventional
      CT/MRT.

      Prospective evaluation on the role of (metabolic) tumor volume to confirm or refuse the
      hypothesis that optimized rituximab should improve the outcome of patients with a high
      (metabolic) tumor volume more than that of patients with low MTV and to analyse the
      substitution of conventional vincristine by liposomal. • Estimation of the
      vincristine-related neurotoxicity ("OPTIMAL>60 Less Favourable only, since vincristine
      related neurotoxicity is primary objective of the study in favourable patients") and other
      toxicities (all patients).

      Determination of the therapeutic efficacy of a vitamin D substitution.

      Comparison of the FDG-PET-based individualised treatment strategy in OPTIMAL>60 with the
      fixed (pre-defined) treatment strategy in RICOVER>60.

      Investigation of the prognostic value of different FDG-PET derived imaging biomarkers for
      lymphoma load (SUV, MTV, TLG).

      Comparison of the vincristine related neurotoxicity before and after amendment 4.

      Comparison of CNS events before and after amendment 4. Comparison of the Cheson, Lugano and
      RECIL response criteria. Prospective evaluation of the improvement of the prognostic value of
      ECOG performance status during prephase treatment.

      Prospective evaluation of reference pathology biomarkes. Prospective evaluation of
      circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), correlation and comparison with PET.

      Prospective evaluation of the role of 2 additional cycles of CHOP/CHLIP-14 and involved node
      radiotherapy in PET-positive patients after 4xR-CHOP/CHLIP-14 in favourable patients.

      Evaluation of the role of radiotherapy to PET-positive bulky disease patients after
      6xR-CHOP/CHLIP-14 in less favourable patients.
    
  