
    
      Each consented provider will be randomized to 1 of 8 cells in a factorial design with equal
      probability. If results of retrospective data analysis imply that design will be improved by
      stratification, randomization will be stratified by factors that could influence outcomes.

      Data will be collected from Northwestern University's Enterprise Data Warehouse which houses
      copies of data recorded in the Epic electronic health record. Data elements from qualifying
      office visits will be collected from coded portions of the electronic health record.

      An encounter is eligible for intervention if the patient's diagnosis is in the selected group
      of acute respiratory infections. The intervention EHR functions will be triggered when
      clinicians initiate an antibiotic prescription or enter a diagnosis for an acute respiratory
      infection that has a defined Order Set. If an antibiotic from a list of frequently
      misprescribed antibiotics is ordered and a diagnosis has not yet been entered, providers will
      be prompted to enter a diagnosis. If the diagnosis entered is acute nasopharyngitis; acute
      laryngeopharyngitis/acute upper respiratory infection; acute bronchitis; bronchitis not
      specified as acute or chronic; or flu; the interventions will be triggered. The
      diagnosis-appropriate order set will pop-up for providers in the Suggested Alternatives (SA)
      arm, while clinicians randomized to the Accountable Justification (AJ) arm will receive an
      alert and be required to enter a brief statement justifying their antibiotic prescription if
      antibiotics are not indicated for the diagnosis entered. This note will then be added to the
      patient's medical record.

      Clinicians randomized to the Peer Comparison (PC) condition will receive monthly updates
      about their antibiotic prescribing practices relative to other clinicians in their practice.
    
  