
    
      Every year, approximately 800,000 people have a stroke in the United States alone. Among
      these individuals, roughly 100,000 are diagnosed with aphasia-a disorder characterized by
      profound challenges in daily communication with their families and peers. Notably, many
      individuals with aphasia can sing despite their speech difficulties, an observation which led
      to the development of melodic-intonation therapy (MIT) in the 1970s. Although MIT has since
      been accepted as a viable aphasia therapy by the American Academy of Neurology, the
      underlying neurological mechanisms that enable speech recovery remain poorly understood.
      Here, we propose a highly interdisciplinary approach to study the neural mechanisms of
      language recovery in aphasia through a novel rhythm-based language intervention.

      Our ultimate goal is to help clinicians and therapists optimize aphasia treatment by
      elucidating the neural basis underlying music-induced language recovery through multimodal
      neuroimaging and novel statistical analysis. In particular, we will test a hypothesis that
      rhythm alone is sufficient to facilitate language recovery, without melody To explore this
      hypothesis, we recently devised a novel framework for music-based language therapy that
      solely leverages rhythm to facilitate language production at the phrase or sentence level.
      Our therapy was used in a case study with a patient with chronic aphasia who had severely
      impaired speech fluency due to a large unilateral stroke in the left hemisphere. Following
      eight weeks of rhythm therapy, she exhibited remarkable improvement in speech production
      (i.e., from 1-2 spontaneous words to 16 sentences made from 42 words), and increased
      functional and structural connectivity within key regions of interest associated with the
      right sensorimotor network. While compelling, these preliminary data warrant further
      validation using proper active controls and a larger sample size, a goal to be achieved
      through the proposed research. We have since translated the rhythm therapy into a fun and
      engaging game termed "TheraBeat" that can be installed on a tablet PC or smartphone. In the
      proposed research, we will use TheraBeat as a home-based aphasia therapeutic intervention to
      minimize the burden of patient travel and increase accessibility to therapy. The proposed
      study will be accomplished by pursuing the following specific aims:. This prediction is based
      upon the theoretical and neuroscientific framework that demonstrates how language heavily
      relies on rhythm processes mediated by the bilateral sensorimotor network.

      Aim 1. Determine the therapeutic role of rhythm in speech recovery for people with aphasia.
      Based on recent evidence garnered by our group as well as others, we expect that rhythm-based
      rehabilitation will enhance speech fluency in people with chronic aphasia, i.e., our target
      patients who are beyond six months after the onset of stroke. This hypothesis will be tested
      by directly comparing post-therapy outcomes of the treatment group, who will practice speech
      production daily through rhythmic activity, to an active control group who will receive
      conventional speech production therapy without the use of rhythmic activities.

      Aim 2. Characterize the neural plasticity promoted by rhythm-based intervention. We
      hypothesize that daily participation in our new therapy program will promote neuroplasticity
      along the sensorimotor network, especially within the intact perilesional left or right
      fronto-striatal circuits that are known to play a key role in speech production and fluency.
      To determine structural neuroplasticity following the intervention, we will utilize patented
      myelin-based MRI in combination with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). To explore functional
      neuroplasticity, we will use both resting-state fMRI and functional near-infrared
      spectroscopy (fNIRS). These structural and functional data will be analyzed via a novel
      statistical shape analysis that captures morphological changes, which cannot be detected by
      simple statistical approaches.

      By using an innovative rhythm-based therapeutic intervention and cutting-edge neuroimaging
      techniques, we will address hitherto unknown questions regarding how and why music works as a
      therapeutic regimen for aphasia rehabilitation. With expertise in aphasia rehabilitation,
      neuroimaging, computer science, and data analytics, our interdisciplinary research team is
      well poised to undertake this investigation. The proposed research will serve as a critical
      stepping stone toward understanding the therapeutic role of music in neurological disorders.
      Our results will lay the foundations for future studies on music-induced language recovery.
    
  