
    
      Objective: The goal of this project is to characterize the computer-assisted
      self-administration of ethanol (CASE) paradigm by assessing intravenous (IV) alcohol
      self-administration behavior and the resulting breath alcohol concentration (BrAC) exposure
      and pharmacologic responses in humans. The study will also evaluate the test-retest
      reliability of alcohol self-administration and examine the influence of sex and recent
      drinking history, as well as the effect of acute stress cues on alcohol self-administration.
      Additionally, this study will test whether a novel experimental paradigm can be used to
      evaluate impaired control in

      heavy drinkers.

      Study population: Participants will be 21-60 year-old male and female social drinkers and
      binge drinkers in good health, as determined by medical history, physical exam, ECG and lab
      tests. Participants with Axis-I psychiatric illness (other than alcohol use disorder for
      Group 6) will be excluded.

      Design: The CASE system utilizes a model-based algorithm based on previously published
      methods to achieve and maintain pre-determined BrACs using IV alcohol infusions. The CASE
      system provides flexibility to participants in choosing when to push a button to receive
      alcohol, as well as flexibility to investigators in controlling the subsequent BrAC exposure.
      The CASE system allows the investigator to specify and assure the same BrAC increment across
      all participants, and is set up to prevent the BrAC from exceeding any pre-set upper limit
      (e.g., 120 mg%).

      Following screening, participants will undergo IV ethanol self-administration sessions.
      Participants will be enrolled in four groups: Group 1 will consist of the first 10
      participants who will participate in 3 self-administration sessions (a training session
      followed by 2 test sessions) to assess the test-retest reliability of alcohol
      self-administration behavior. Group 2 will consist of 50 participants, who will each
      participate in 2 self-administration sessions (a training session followed by a test
      session). During each session, participants will first undergo a directed priming period,
      lasting 25 min, where they will be prompted to push a button to receive small standardized
      alcohol infusions. This will be followed by an ad-lib period, lasting up to 2 hrs, where they
      will have free access to standardized IV alcohol infusions. During the session, BrAC will be
      measured, heart-rate and skin blood flow will be continuously recorded, and subjective
      perceptions of alcohol effects and urges will be assessed. Group 3 will consist of 15
      participants, who will undergo two identical progressive work self-administration sessions
      for evaluation of test-retest reliability. During each progressive ratio (PR) schedule
      session, participants will be required to push the button progressively higher number of
      times for each subsequent alcohol infusion over a 2.5 hr period. Group 4 will consist of 100
      participants, who will each participate in 2 sessions: one ad lib self-administration session
      and one PR schedule self-administration session. Group 5 will consist of 40 participants, who
      will undergo a baseline self-administration session followed by an interview session for
      construction of guided imagery scripts. Following this, participants will undergo three
      alcohol self-administration sessions, following exposure to personalized stress-, alcohol- or
      neutral-condition associated scripts, presented in randomized order on separate days. Group
      6a will consist of a maximum of 15 participants who will undergo a baseline
      self-administration session followed by an experimental session in which they will be given
      the opportunity to resist receiving self-infusions of alcohol in return for monetary
      reinforcers. Group 6b will consist of 37 participants who will complete a baseline
      self-administration session followed by two experimental sessions, with and without a priming
      dose of alcohol, and two follow up visits. Group 6 participants will also be given an
      ecological momentary assessment (EMA) device and will complete random assessments of
      real-world measures of impaired control and alcohol consumption per day for the duration of
      the study.

      Outcome measures: The primary endpoint is the BrAC exposure (highest BrAC, average BrAC,
      area-under-the-BrAC-time-curve) achieved during the self-administration session.
      Additionally, changes in subjective perceptions of alcohol effects, as well as changes in
      heart rate will be evaluated. The influence of sex and recent drinking history as well as
      genetic polymorphisms on the self-administration of alcohol will also be examined.
      Furthermore, individual-specific cellular responses to alcohol exposure will be examined
      using induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from participants selected based on genotypic
      and phenotypic variation in self-administration measures. Outcome measures for group 5 will
      include stress and alcohol cue-induced craving and self-administration. Human laboratory
      outcome

      measures for Group 6 will include time to lapse during the delay phase, number of infusions,

      peak BrAC, and average BrAC during the ad-libitum phase. EMA outcomes will include

      total alcohol consumption, number of impaired control episodes, and severity of impaired

      control episodes. The CASE paradigm can be a valuable tool for evaluating determinants that
      may underlie self-administration behavior in humans. The effect of pharmacological agents on
      alcohol self-administration can be evaluated as a marker of the clinical effectiveness of
      these agents in the treatment of alcohol-dependence.
    
  