
    
      Gout is a chronic disease that affects over 9 million Americans. It is characterized by
      intermittent flares associated with severe pain. The prevalence of gout has been steadily
      increasing over several decades and it correlates with the rising burden of obesity, chronic
      cardiac and renal disease, all conditions overrepresented in the Southeastern U.S. -
      particularly in African Americans. In addition, many gout patients are not adherent with
      their follow-up visits due to a lack of awareness of the consequences of untreated gout
      and/or poor access to health care. As a result, US emergency departments (EDs) are delivering
      an increasing amount of gout care for underserved populations.

      To address this significant public health problems teams at Vanderbilt University Medical
      Center (VUMC) and the University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) are collaborating on a novel
      emergency department-led intervention aimed at improving the gout care patients receive,
      during periods of acute flare and long-term. Investigators hypothesize that the use of
      educational material including cultural appropriate stories about what it is like to live
      with gout and the use of navigators who will help patients better coordinate their care, will
      be associated with improved rates of patients that have a follow-up visit addressing gout
      after the ED visit. A secondary goal is to enhance participation of underrepresented
      minorities in biomedical research in the Deep South as part of an NIH funded gout center at
      UAB.

      Investigators will recruit and enroll 280 adults (at least 18 years of age) that have
      confirmed gout. Participants will include men and women of all races/ethnicities. Recruitment
      will occur in the EDs at UAB and VUMC. Qualifying patients will be assigned by chance to get
      either 1) our enhanced educational materials coupled (at UAB) with a lay person who can help
      them coordinate their care or 2) to receive the current usual standard of care for their
      gout. After a gout diagnosis is confirmed by a research assistant, informed consent will be
      obtained. Following enrollment, participants will complete questionnaires at 3 and 6 months.
      Beyond follow-up visits, Investigators will also measure differences in the groups between
      the use of medication for gout treatment, other healthcare visits, changes in weight,
      satisfaction, and overall health during study follow-up. Leveraging the resources of UAB,
      including the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS)
      funded Center of Research Translation (CORT) in gout and hyperuricemia and ongoing
      collaborations between these two medical schools, Investigators have assembled a
      multidisciplinary scientific team, uniquely prepared to execute the proposed study to help
      medically underserved gout patients and enhance research diversity in the Southeast.
    
  