
    
      Background:

        -  An estimated 28,000 cases of gastric adenocarcinoma are diagnosed annually in the U.S.

        -  Peritoneal metastasis is a common finding at diagnosis, making curative surgical
           resection possible in an estimated 25% of patients.

        -  Systemic chemotherapy is the recommended treatment for patients with metastatic gastric
           cancer to the peritoneal cavity, however selective use of cytoreductive surgery and
           intraperitoneal chemotherapy has been associated with improved overall survival.

        -  Multiple chemotherapeutic agents and delivery systems have been described for
           intraperitoneal therapy, but no standard regimen exists.

      Objective:

      -Determine the progression free survival (PFS) in patients with peritoneal metastases from
      gastric cancer after repeated intraperitoneal chemotherapeutic infusion (IPC) and systemic
      paclitaxel administration with concomitant capecitabine therapy.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the stomach.

        -  Radiographic evidence of peritoneal carcinomatosis and/or sub-radiographic evidence of
           peritoneal carcinomatosis found at staging laparoscopy.

        -  Medically fit for systemic chemotherapy and intraperitoneal chemotherapy.

        -  Men and women agegreater than or equal to 18 years.

      Design:

        -  Phase II, nonrandomized, open label study.

        -  Patients will enroll in two cohorts: those with prior systemic chemotherapy and those
           who are treatment naive.

        -  Patients will undergo staging laparoscopy and placement of peritoneal access port.

        -  Intraperitoneal paclitaxel (60 mg/m^2 weekly), intravenous paclitaxel (80 mg/m2 weekly),
           and capecitabine (825 mg/m^2 twice daily for 14 days of each cycle) for 12 weeks.

        -  Treatment response will be assessed with imaging and laparoscopy.

        -  It is expected that 16-20 patients per year for total 4 years will be enrolled. The
           accrual ceiling is set at 74 patients.
    
  