
    
      We will recruit adolescents(age 12-18 years old) with a diagnosis of major depressive
      disorder, dysthymia and depressive disorder NOS in outpatient clinic of child and adolescent
      psychiatry and we will advertise for recruitment of subjects in community. The study protocol
      will be approved by the Institutional Review Board of the Hallym university sacred heart
      hospital. Well- trained interviewers will conduct the assessments of participants and their
      parents or guardians. The assessment included the diagnostic interview, demographic
      characteristics, depressive symptom severity scale , Columbia suicide severity rating scale,
      questionnaire about abuse histories.

      We decided the number of participants of 164, because in previous studies, web- based
      cognitive behavioral therapy showed mild to moderate effect size (effect size = 0.43). So for
      examining the hypothesis, we will recruit 164 adolescents by calculating the number of
      participants using G power program version 3.1.3. (level of significance = 5%, power of a
      hypothesis test = 80%, drop out rate = 20%)

      And we will conduct randomized controlled trial for examining the efficacy of web- based
      cognitive behavioral therapy. Our hypothesis is web- based cognitive behavioral is more
      effective than supportive psychotherapy, so we will deliver web- based cognitive behavioral
      therapy program to cognitive behavioral therapy group for 8 weeks(once in a week), and
      supportive psychotherapy to supportive psychotherapy group for 8 weeks(once in a week) We
      will exclude the participant if the participant has severe depressive symptoms, definite
      suicidal idea, plan and attempt, psychotic symptoms, bipolar disorders, sexual abuse
      histories, other neurological diseases or received cognitive behavioral therapy,
      pharmacotherapy or interpersonal psychotherapy.

      We will analyze the intent- to- treat population. For each individual, missing values are
      replaced by the last observed value of that variable. And we will use Chi square test or
      repeated measure-ANOVA.
    
  