
    
      Post-partum haemorrhage (PPH) still remains one of leading causes of morbidity in the
      obstetric population and a recent report from the United Kingdom revealed that hemorrhage is
      the sixth most important direct cause of maternal mortality. During labor, the blood flow in
      the uterus increases and obstetric hemorrhage may quickly turn to massive bleeding requiring
      massive transfusion of allogeneic blood products. Although introduction of massive
      transfusion protocols (MTP) may have improved survival in trauma patients, administration of
      allogeneic blood products, although life-saving, is also associated with considerable side
      effects. That is why a stepwise progressive approach and implementation of treatment
      protocols describing the timely use of different pharmacological agents and surgical or
      radiological interventions are called for. Risk factors for blood transfusion (as a surrogate
      marker for PPH) at delivery in Finland have been recently studied , and the results seem to
      be in consonance with reports from several developed countries, which demonstrate a marked
      increase in incidence of PPH. However, the causes for the increase in postpartum hemorrhage
      remain at least partly unclear. Also, complication rates of blood transfusion and other
      adverse outcomes in the treatment of an obstetric patient with severe bleeding are not very
      recently studied (19). Identification of PPH risk factors, change in transfusion strategies
      and surgical techniques and implementation of holistic treatment protocols may have had an
      effect on the complication rate, costs and total amount of blood product usage and bleeding,
      but to investigators' knowledge, these are underreported in current studies.That is why it
      seems justified to examine a cohort of parturients with severe PPH under a long time span to
      find out whether the change in practice is reflected in patients' outcome.

      From 2009 to December 2015, all patients having a marked post-partum hemorrhage (estimated
      blood loss 1500ml) will be tracked from Tampere University hospital's computerized perinatal
      database (iPana). Approximate number of patients is 900: according to the database, the
      incidence of severe PPH in our hospital is 130-160/year. General patient characteristics will
      be recorded: age, weight, height, parity, gestational age, previous deliveries and cesarean
      sections, chronic diseases, complications and medication during pregnancy. The mode of
      delivery, labour characteristics (duration, interval between PROM and delivery,
      chorioamnionitis), use of uterotonic agents and diagnoses of obstetric disease will be
      recorded (e.g. placental abnormalities). Laboratory parameters during treatment of PPH will
      be collected: a baseline aPTT, PT (INR), Fibrinogen concentration, ATIII, Hb, platelet count
      and respective (lowest) values during treatment of PPH and blood gas analysis information,
      especially lowest base excess and lactate and lowest ca-ion. Other possible factors affecting
      hemostasis such as body temperature, hemodynamic parameters during resuscitation and surgical
      treatment will be searched from medical records. Total amount of bleeding and allogeneic
      blood products, fibrinogen concentrate, prothrombin complex concentrate, FXIII and
      recombinant factor VII consumption will be recorded as primary end points. As secondary
      endpoints, the number of emergency hysterectomies, intensive care admissions,
      transfusion-related side effects and thromboembolic complications will be studied and
      recorded up to 30 days after delivery.

      The investigators' aim is to identify risk factors for severe PPH (ie. estimated blood loss
      more than 1500ml during delivery) and examine the possible change in blood transfusion
      strategies and its effect on bleeding (for example, implementation of massive transfusion
      protocol, amount of blood products used, effect of red blood cell:fresh-frozen plasma ratio,
      use of pharmacological agents for coagulation management, introduction of new angiological
      and surgical techniques etc.) and complications, laboratory parameters and patient outcome.
    
  