
    
      This project will study the efficacy and safety of the pharmacologic blockade of urease in
      the nitrogen salvage pathway of intestinal microbes in subjects with partial urea cycle
      disorders. Additional trapping of ammonia as excretable urea may result in improved nitrogen
      excretion and reduced ammonia levels.

      Urea cycle disorders (UCDs) are a group of disorders resulting from a complete or partial
      deficiency of one of the 6 enzymes or 2 transporters that comprise the urea cycle, the
      essential biochemical pathway which converts toxic ammonia into urea. These disorders have as
      a common feature, a reduced or complete inability to convert ammonia into urea, thereby
      resulting in high ammonia levels, or hyperammonemia. If untreated, hyperammonemia may result
      acutely in lethargy and coma, and chronically in intellectual disability. Current treatment
      for hyperammonemia is suboptimal, thus the search for new treatments is critical.

      The urease inhibitor, acetohydroxamic acid (AHA, Lithostat®, Mission Pharmacal), is an
      FDA-approved product for another indication- the treatment of struvite nephrolithiasis in
      chronic urinary tract infections in both adults and children.

      It is known that many urea-splitting bacteria also exist in the gut, and that in healthy
      individuals, approximately 15-30% of blood urea is degraded via gut bacteria into ammonia3,
      which returns to the liver via the portal vein, only to be recycled into urea. This
      percentage of degraded urea may even be greater in patients with urea cycle disorders, who
      are on a low protein-diet4 and whose gastrointestinal contents thus likely have lower
      nitrogen content, promoting bacterial recycling of nitrogen from available urea.
      Additionally, urea hydrolysis has been shown to be greatest in infants5, precisely the age at
      which hyperammonemic episodes are the most frequent in UCD patients.

      We intend to study if AHA can inhibit gut bacteria degradation of urea, thereby reducing the
      quantity of ammonia returning to the liver. We intend to investigate this by studying
      subjects on two occasions at least 3 days apart:

      On the first occasion, subjects will receive an intravenous dose of 13C-urea. Following the
      intravenous bolus of 13C-urea, over the subsequent 4 hours, we will collect several
      sequential measurements of blood and urine biomarkers from an IV catheter placed in the other
      arm. The intent is to obtain baseline 13CO2 kinetics in the subject.

      On the second occasion, subjects will first receive an oral dose of AHA approximately 1 hour
      prior to the intravenous 13C-urea dose. Similar sequential measurements of blood and urine
      biomarkers will be performed. The intent is to observe a reduction in 13CO2 when AHA is
      administered.

      We intend to initially study a cohort of unaffected adult subjects. If successful, we will
      study adults with partial urea cycle disorders.

      This study will be conducted in the Clinical Research Center (CRC) of the Clinical and
      Translational Research Institute (CTSI) of Children's National Medical Center (CNMC).
    
  