
    
      Osteoarthritis is a degenerative condition that causes pain, impaired function and affects
      daily activities. In knee osteoarthritis, there is destruction of cartilage and subchondral
      bone, with the consequent narrowing of articular space. Besides the biomechanical factors,
      trauma and obesity; it is believed that inflammation plays an important role. Treatment
      options for painful knee osteoarthritis are often unsatisfactory, as represented by 40% of
      patients reporting persisting postoperative pain following total knee arthroplasty . There
      are no currently approved knee osteoarthritis treatments capable of slowing OA-related
      structural progression, so the main goals of the conservative treatment are to provide
      symptomatic relief, improve joint function, and delay surgical intervention. One of the main
      actions of intra-articular treatments, ranging from corticosteroids to hyaluronic acid (HA)
      and biologic products is to reduce inflammatory distress within the joint. In recent years,
      there has been a growing interest in the effects of ozone, which can be safely delivered
      intra-articularly and whose use is in constant increase in an outpatient setting due to the
      ease of preparation methods. From the literature, it is widely accepted that ozone has the
      biological properties of inducing analgesia, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant effects
      mediated by activating the cellular metabolism and inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis, reduce
      edema and inflammation, and therefore reduce pain and improves function in knee
      osteoarthritis. Intra-articular oxygen-ozone has been used in the medical domain for several
      decades. Although some articles have reported promising results on the effectiveness of
      oxygen-ozone in knee osteoarthritis, the evidence is however low . Currently, few RCTs have
      compared the efficacy and safety of ozone therapy versus HA intra-articular injections in
      patients affected by knee osteoarthritis. This study will compare the efficacy of OOT
      injection to HA in patients with symptomatic OA in one knee, who have failed at least one
      prior conservative OA therapy (e.g. physiotherapy, simple analgesics). This will be done
      using a double blind, randomized controlled trial with study subjects receiving a cycle of
      three injection of OOT or HA. The primary efficacy measure will be pain measured by the WOMAC
      LK 3.1 scale; other measures of efficacy will include function, stiffness, and quality of
      life. In addition to clinical efficacy measures, safety will be assessed by tracking adverse
      events. During screening, potential subjects who provide informed consent will be assessed
      for eligibility. Screening will consist in checking the presence of inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, including a WOMAC LK 3.1 pain subscale score ≥ 9 and ≤ 19 and by providing
      objective physiological evidence of OA using the Kellgren-Lawrence scale (assessed from
      radiographs). Subjects will also provide demographic and medication use information. Baseline
      X-ray and MRI will be collected.
    
  