
    
      Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is one of the most commonly performed procedures in adult
      surgery. A rare but serious complication of laparoscopic cholecystectomy is bile duct injury,
      with a reported incidence of 0.3-1.5 %. Bile duct injury is often caused by misinterpretation
      of the anatomical structures rather than by insufficient technical skills. Generally, bile
      duct injury leads to bile leakage, causing abdominal sepsis. It can also lead to obstruction,
      with obstructive jaundice, eventually potentially leading to a need for liver transplantation
      in the worst case. Late recognition is common in bile duct injuries, resulting in significant
      morbidity and mortality, a lower quality of life and extra costs. A recent expert consensus
      report identified establishment of the critical view of safety as the single most important
      factor for overall safety during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. However, evidence suggests
      that surgeons may actually achieve this view far less often than they believe.

      Numerous intraoperative visualization techniques and technologies have been developed to
      enhance the safety of laparoscopic cholecystectomy. There are mainly two intraoperative
      imaging techniques to consider: first, the historical X-ray-based intraoperative
      cholangiography, and secondly the emerging fluorescence-based intraoperative near-infrared
      cholangiography. Large retrospective and prospective studies have looked at the benefit of
      routine intraoperative radiographic cholangiography for detection of common bile duct stones
      and to identify or prevent bile duct injury. Whether this procedure should be performed
      routinely is still an active subject of debate as systematic reviews are inconclusive;
      however, several of the larger retrospective studies observed a decrease in frequency and
      severity of bile duct injury when intraoperative cholangiography is performed. Limiting
      factors for performing radiographic laparoscopic cholangiography include: it requires
      specific expertise in the technique and its interpretation; it involves the use of ionizing
      radiation; it is time-consuming; and it creates a risk for bile leakage and duct injury
      itself, since puncturing and cannulation of the cystic duct is required. These limitations
      justify the quest for alternative, less complicated techniques to visualize biliary anatomy
      during cholecystectomy. Fluorescence-based intraoperative near-infrared cholangiography
      during laparoscopic cholecystectomy has been introduced by Ishizawa et al. in recent years as
      a non-invasive, radiation-free, low-cost alternative for realtime visualization of the
      biliary anatomy. This technique requires near-infrared laparoscopic imaging systems, as well
      as the intravenous injection of a fluorophore, i.e., indocyanine green, which is eliminated
      through the biliary tree. Following exposure to the near-infrared fluorescenc light source,
      indocyanine green becomes fluorescent and highlights relevant biliary structures. Since the
      pioneer studies, a large number of trials have been conducted and several protocols are
      currently underway, in order to establish the clinical efficacy of near-infrared
      cholangiography. A recent systematic review of clinical studies on near-infrared
      cholangiography has reported high visualization rates of biliary structures, as a surrogate
      marker of clinical efficacy, before dissection of Calot's triangle. However, one of the most
      significant drawbacks of near-infrared cholangiography following systemic indocyanine green
      injection lies in the very high background signal due to the rapid accumulation of
      indocyanine green in the liver, which can impair the visualization of the biliary structures.

      One of the strategies to improve the visualization of the cystic duct and the common bile
      duct, without suffering from the disturbing background liver enhancement, is to perform a
      near-infrared cholecystocholangiography, by injecting the fluorophore directly into the
      gallbladder, as previously demonstrated in a porcine experimental study.
    
  