
    
      Autogenous grafts are currently considered the gold standard in regenerative and
      reconstructive procedures. However, these procedures require a second surgical site to
      provide the tissue graft. In autogenous gingival grafts, the area commonly selected for graft
      harvesting is the palate, which is linked to great discomfort and morbidity for the patient.
      In order to overcome these limitations, xenogeneic and alloplastic materials have been tested
      as tissue substitutes, but their results are still considerably inferior when compared to
      autogenous grafts. Faced with this superiority, another approach to favor the use of
      autogenous grafting is to develop materials that provide greater postoperative comfort and
      patient safety. Since the main complaint arising from the technique is related to pain
      resulting from the remaining surgical wound on the palate, it is interesting to look for
      mechanisms to reduce this sensitivity and accelerate the healing process. For this, the use
      of tilapia skin as a postoperative dressing seems to be a good alternative. Thus, the purpose
      of this study is to evaluate the use of tilapia skin, with the intention of accelerating the
      palate healing process, and to serve as a protector barrier during the healing process.
      Patients treated according to two techniques for palate protection after autogenous gingival
      graft harvesting will be evaluated: C- use of surgical cement and T- use of tilapia skin.
      Will be selected 60 patients of both sexes,> 18 years old, requiring the removal of the
      palate graft for periodontal surgery. At the time of graft removal, palate thickness and
      graft dimensions will be measured. After 7, 14 and 30 days, the patient's discomfort and the
      difficulty in chewing and speaking will be recorded through a visual analog scale, the
      consumption of analgesic, and the dimensions of the surgical wound on the palate. For
      statistical analysis, two-way ANOVA will be performed and t-test paired on the obtained
      results.
    
  