
    
      This study will involve little if any change from the typical induction of general
      anesthesia. Considering that lidocaine is routinely used for the induction of anesthesia, and
      that some anesthesia staff also inject magnesium prior to propofol, there will be little
      variation in the induction of anesthesia. Patients will be randomly assigned (by microsoft
      excel program providing a random number 1-4) to one of four groups:

        1. Lidocaine 50 mg in a 10 cc syringe

        2. Magnesium sulfate 0.25 g (2 mOsmol) in a 10 cc syringe

        3. 0.9% saline in a 10 cc syringe

        4. Lidocaine 50 mg and 0.25 g (2 mOsmol) magnesium sulfate in a 10 cc syringe

      Study drugs will be prepared in identical syringes by the Pharmaceutical Research Center
      (PRC). Study personnel will receive a syringe labeled with the study number as well as a data
      collection sheet labeled with the study number. A 20 gauge angiocatheter will be inserted
      into the dorsum of the hand for IV fluids and medication administration. Subjects will be
      given preoperative 1-2 mg intravenous midazolam for sedation when the subject is en route to
      the operating room as is typically done at the discretion of the anesthesia provider caring
      for the patient. After instituting standard monitors and providing preoxygenation, the study
      drug will be injected. Twenty seconds later, 50 mg of propofol will be injected. Ten seconds
      after infusion of propofol, the subjects will then be asked a standard question about pain on
      injection "Are you having pain at your IV site?". Any behavioral signs such as facial
      grimacing, arm withdrawal, or tears will be noted. Pain will be assessed using a four point
      scale: 0=no pain, 1=mild pain (pain reported only in response to questioning and without
      behavioral signs), 2=moderate pain (pain reported in response to questioning and accompanied
      by a behavioral sign, or pain reported spontaneously without questioning), 3=severe pain
      (strong vocal response or response accompanied by facial grimacing, arm withdrawal, or
      tears). Study key personnel will do these pain assessments; the behavioral signs and
      self-reporting of pain will be recorded separate from one another. The induction of
      anesthesia will then by completed with the appropriate amount of propofol. Formally assessing
      pain following injection is not something that is standard care but all patients are
      currently warned prior to injection that they may experience some warmth or burning at the
      site of their intravenous line.
    
  