
    
      The prevalence of HIV among men who have sex with men (MSM) is estimated at an alarming 19%
      domestically (CDC 2010), rates comparable to endemic settings in certain regions of
      sub-Saharan Africa where approximately 20% of the adult population is HIV infected. Studies
      have also demonstrated a staggeringly high prevalence of childhood sexual abuse (CSA) in MSM,
      and shown an association between CSA and HIV risk in MSM. A successful intervention for MSM
      with a CSA history to prevent HIV has the potential to avert infections among some of the
      riskiest members of the most HIV vulnerable group in the U.S. Notwithstanding the ability of
      the existing HIV prevention interventions to show reductions in sexual risk taking, the
      recent successes of chemoprophylaxis, current policy initiatives, and empirically supported
      recommendations, all support development of combination prevention interventions that can
      specify multiple prevention targets, address related risk factors and barriers, and are
      grounded in a community context. The pathways from CSA to adult sexual risk behavior are
      varied and complex and this complexity is appropriately addressed in individual-based
      interventions where empirically supported interventions for CSA related trauma were efficacy
      tested. The development of an integrated prevention intervention that utilizes cognitive
      behavioral technologies to address co-occurring and interfering CSA and sexual risk
      represents a novel and largely untested innovative application that is theoretically designed
      to address sexual risk directly and indirectly through reductions in CSA-related trauma
      symptoms. The flexibility of integrated and combination prevention programs has the potential
      to support triage of MSM with particular risk profiles to the programs that best meet their
      prevention needs.

      This two-arm RCT is designed to test the efficacy of a psycho-social intervention that
      addresses intersecting epidemics among MSM, HIV and CSA. The experimental condition
      integrates sexual risk reduction counseling with Cognitive Processing Therapy for Sexual Risk
      (CPT-SR). CPT-SR has been specifically piloted on MSM with CSA histories and sexual risk to
      reduce interfering negative CSA-related thoughts about self, to more accurately appraise
      sexual risk, and to decrease avoidance of sexual safety considerations through rehearsals of
      sexual safety behaviors. The active and time-matched comparison condition is risk reduction
      counseling plus supportive psychotherapy. The investigators will randomize HIV-uninfected MSM
      who report a history of CSA and multiple recent sexual risk episodes for HIV (unprotected
      anal/vaginal intercourse) across two sites (Boston and Miami). The primary outcome will be
      self-reported sexual risk taking as assessed via a computer-based questionnaire. Secondary
      outcomes include trauma symptom severity, both cognitive and behavioral. Study assessment
      points are at baseline, 3 (post treatment), 6, 9, and 12-month follow-ups.
    
  