
    
      Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is caused by the pressure and consequent compression on the
      median nerve within a confined anatomical area at the wrist referred to as the carpal tunnel.
      It is very common and has an important socio-economic impact. The prevalence of CTS in the UK
      is 7-16%. Its incidence has been estimated at 88-125 per 100,000 in USA. Economic
      consequences include the direct financial implications of treatment and the indirect cost of
      absenteeism from the workplace. The median number of days away from work for CTS is among the
      highest at 27 days. In the US in 1995, between 400,000 and 500,000 patients underwent
      surgical decompression. This equates to an economic cost of in excess of $2 billion. CTS and
      hearing loss was found to account for more morbidity, measured by cases and working days
      lost, than any other illness in the US working population. CTS may also occur as a work-
      related disorder leading to compensation claims.

      Despite the vast burden of the disease, there is no consensus regarding its best management.
      Surgical treatment is generally preferred in severe cases of CTS. A Cochrane review
      investigating surgical treatment of CTS showed surgical treatment relieves symptoms
      significantly better than splinting, but no conclusion could be drawn in people with mild
      symptoms and if surgical treatment is better than steroid injection. On the other hand,
      surgical treatment is relatively costly and carries risks of significant complications that
      may last several months and give rise to further work absence. In addition, the waiting time
      for surgery is usually long.

      For non-surgical interventions many modalities have been trialed but only a few have shown
      discernable benefits. Local steroid injection and wrist splinting are among the most popular
      options. They are commonly employed in mild to moderate cases of CTS. For severe cases, they
      can also offer relief of complaints during the waiting period for surgery or when there are
      contra-indications for surgery. Systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials have
      concluded that local steroid injection provides greater clinical improvement at one month
      compared with placebo and that there is weak evidence that a splint worn at night is more
      effective than no treatment in the short term. However, the number of studies that compare
      the two methods is limited, and they are mostly either retrospective in design or prospective
      but non-randomized. Two randomized controlled trials comparing local steroid injection and
      splinting found respectively that local steroid injection does not significantly improve
      clinical outcome compared to anti-inflammatory drugs and splinting and that injections of
      steroids are ineffective. However, the conclusions of these two studies are limited either by
      a small sample size or the lack of a validated outcome measure.

      We would like to conduct a prospective randomized clinical trial comparing the efficacy of
      local steroid injection and splinting in patients with CTS using the Boston Carpal Tunnel
      Questionnaire as outcome measure with a 4-week follow-up.

      Patients attending the medical clinic of a local hospital (Kwong Wah Hospital) complaining of
      finger or hand numbness are referred to the electro-neuro-diagnostic unit for nerve
      conduction test. Consecutive patients with clinical and electrophysiological features of CTS
      are invited to participate in the study. Clinical features are pain, paresthesia or weakness
      in the median nerve distribution for at least 3 months. The neurodiagnostic criteria are
      based on the American Academy of Neurology summary statement, which further classifies the
      abnormalities as follows: (1) mild abnormality, i.e., abnormal comparative tests or prolonged
      median distal sensory latency (DSL > 3.5 ms) but normal median distal motor latency (DML);
      (2) moderate abnormality, i.e., prolonged median DSL and DML (⩾4.2 ms); and (3) severe
      abnormality, i.e., absence of median sensory nerve action potential and prolonged median DML
      or absent compound muscle action potentials.

      Patients are excluded if they have any recognized causes of CTS including inflammatory
      arthritis, diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, renal failure, polyneuropathy and history of
      significant local trauma. Other exclusion criteria include age younger than 18 years,
      previous treatment of CTS and pregnancy. Patients with motor impairment or thenar muscle
      atrophy are also excluded and they will be referred to the Orthopedic unit for assessment of
      surgery.

      All potential participants are informed of the objectives and procedures of this study, as
      well as the possible complications. The patients who have given informed consent are
      interviewed by a single investigator within 4 weeks of the NCV. Their demographical data
      including age, gender and body mass index (BMI) are recorded. The duration of the symptoms,
      medical comorbidities and employment status are documented. Examination of the hand is
      performed by the same investigator focusing on the sensory loss at the tips of digits 1, 2,
      3, or the medial side of digit 4, and weakness or atrophy of the abductor pollicis brevis or
      opponens pollicis. Sensation is assessed using pinpricks. Sensory and motor function is
      recorded to be either normal or impaired. In patients with bilateral CTS, the most
      symptomatic hand will be included. In case both hands are equally symptomatic, the dominant
      hand will be included. Recruited patients are asked to complete the Boston Carpal Tunnel
      Questionnaire (BCTQ). They will then be allocated to one of the two treatment arms according
      to the randomization procedure.

      Patients are randomly assigned to one of the two treatment groups using sequentially numbered
      opaque sealed envelopes (SNOSE). Allocation concealment is maintained before the
      randomization procedure.

      The local injection of steroid is performed by the same investigator after the randomization.
      Using a sterile technique, 20mg depomedrol premixed with lidnocaine is injected using a
      25-gauge x 5/8" needle. The needle is inserted medially to the palmaris longus tendon at the
      distal palmar crease in the wrist at an angle of 45-degree to the forearm. The steroid is
      injected at approximately 1cm below the skin. The needle will be repositioned if there is any
      resistance to injection, or any pain or paraesthesia in the median nerve territory.

      Minor complications of steroid injection include local pain, bleeding, skin depigmentation,
      skin atrophy and digital ischemia. Concerns that nerve or tendon injury may result from
      steroid injection appear to be unfounded. In 28 studies of local steroid injection treatment
      involving 1981 hands in total there have been no reported instances of such injury,
      suggesting that the risk is very low. There is a small risk of infection.

      After randomization, the hands of the patients in the splinting group are splinted in neutral
      position with standard cotton-polyester splint. Patients are encouraged to use the splints
      during nighttime whenever possible for 1 months.

      The potential side effects of splinting include discomfort due to the local pressure and
      allergic response to the splint material.

      The primary outcome measure is clinical improvement at one month. The Boston Carpal Tunnel
      Questionnaire (BCTQ) is used as the measure assessing clinical response. It is a
      self-administered disease-specific questionnaire for assessing severity of symptoms and
      functional status based on two scales. The symptom severity scale (SSS) is comprised of 11
      questions, and the functional status scale (FSS) is comprised of 8 questions. The assessment
      of each question is on a scale of 1-5 points, in which 1 indicates no symptom, and 5
      indicates severe symptoms. Each scale generates a final score (sum of individual scores
      divided by number of items) which ranges from 1 to 5. The evidence base of the psychometric
      properties indicates that the BCTQ is a valid, reliable, responsive and acceptable instrument
      and should be included as a primary outcome measures in CTS intervention trials. The
      questionnaire has Chinese validity.

      Patients are interviewed at one month after randomization. They are asked to complete the
      BCTQ and rate the satisfaction of treatment each time. Duration of sick leave for employed
      patients, concomitant use of analgesics, and adverse effects are recorded.

      As all participants have symptoms of CTS and will receive valid active treatments, they
      should be motivated and compliant to the protocol. They are encouraged to report to the PI
      should there be any problems occurred regarding the splints or any adverse effects developed
      in both treatment groups. Appropriate actions will be taken or advices given by the PI. The
      subjects in the splinting group are instructed to mark each night that they have worn the
      splints on a calendar. Subjects who missed the scheduled follow-up will be contacted and
      encouraged to attend the re-scheduled follow-up as soon as possible.

      Based on previous studies, the minimum clinically important difference is 0.74 for the BCTQ.
      With 90% statistical power, 5% significance level, and two-sided statistical tests, and
      assuming a standard deviation of 0.8 for the BCTQ score the study can detect a true
      difference of at least 0.74 point on the BCTQ between the two intervention groups when 50
      patients are randomized. Version 20.0 of the SPSS statistical package is used. Descriptive
      statistics are presented as frequencies, means with standard deviation or medians with ranges
      as appropriate. Baseline parameters of patient between two treatment groups are compared by
      chi-square test for categorical variables, Student's t test for continuous variables with
      normal distribution or Mann-Whitney U test for nonparametric continuous variables. BCTQ
      scores before treatment and at the one, four and twelve weeks after treatment are compared
      with paired samples t test. Differences of the BCTQ scores between the two treatment groups
      were investigated with independent samples t test. For multi-variate analysis, multiple
      linear regression is used to compute the differences of outcome measures between the two
      treatment groups, and within the groups before and after the respective treatments with
      adjustment for baseline variables. Results are considered statistically significant if the P
      value is less than 0.05.

      This trial has been approved by the local ethics committee (Kowloon West Cluster Ethical
      Committee). The trial will be conducted in full compliance with the Helsinki Declaration and
      the Guideline for Good Clinical Practice of the International Conference on Harmonisation of
      Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use.
    
  