
    
      The current study cohort consisted with 3 cohort. In order to derive and validate the optimal
      cut-off values of FFR step-up amount for physiologic major vs minor stenosis and for
      physiologic minor stenosis vs. signal noise, the below 3 cohorts will be used.

        1. Derivation cohort of defining the optimal cut off value of FFR step-up amount for
           physiologic major vs minor stenosis and for physiologic minor stenosis vs. signal noise.

           The cohort of no coronary atherosclerosis confirmed by both angiography and
           intravascular ultrasound will be derived from patients with heart transplantation
           (NCT02798731).

           The cohort of significant focal or diffuse obstructive coronary artery disease with
           functional significance defined by FFR<=0.80 will be derived from post-PCI registry of
           Samsung Medical Center.

        2. Internal validation cohort will be post-PCI registry of Samsung Medical Center which
           enrolled 236 patients who underwent both pre- and post-PCI physiologic assessment after
           angiographically successful PCI using 2nd generation drug-eluting stent. Among this
           cohort, 234 patients with available pre-PCI pullback recording will be analyzed.

        3. External validation cohort will be COE-PERSPECTIVE registry (NCT01873560) which enrolled
           patients who underwent PCI for lesions with FFR<=0.80 and underwent post-PCI physiologic
           assessment.

      Among the 835 patients, 252 patients with available pre-PCI pullback recording will be
      analyzed.

      For the association between physiologic major, minor, or mixed stenosis classified using the
      optimal cut-off values of FFR step-up amount for physiologic major vs minor stenosis and for
      physiologic minor stenosis vs. signal noise, the patient level pooled data of both Samsung
      Medical Center registry and COE-PERSPECTIVE registry will be used.
    
  