
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the maximum-tolerated dose or recommended Phase II dose of ABT-888 (veliparib)
      which can be safely administered concurrently with radiation therapy, followed by maintenance
      therapy with ABT-888 and temozolomide (TMZ), in patients with newly diagnosed diffuse pontine
      gliomas (DIPG). (Phase I) II. To study the plasma pharmacokinetics (PK) of ABT-888 during
      ABT-888 and radiation therapy. (Phase I) III. To study the feasibility of intra-patient dose
      escalation of TMZ during maintenance therapy with ABT-888 and TMZ. (Phase I) IV. To describe
      the toxicities associated with administering ABT-888 and radiation therapy, followed by
      ABT-888 and TMZ, in patients with newly diagnosed DIPG. (Phase I) V. To estimate the
      proportion of newly diagnosed DIPG patients treated on protocol that are determined to have
      experienced pseudo progression. (Phase I) VI. To estimate the overall survival distribution
      for newly diagnosed patients with DIPG treated with the combination of ABT-888 and radiation
      therapy, followed by ABT-888 and TMZ, and compare to Pediatric Brain Tumor Consortium (PBTC)
      historical controls. (Phase II) VII. To study the feasibility of intra-patient dose
      escalation of TMZ during maintenance therapy with ABT-888 and TMZ. (Phase II) VIII. To
      estimate the proportion of newly diagnosed DIPG patients treated on protocol that are
      determined to have experienced pseudo progression. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) distribution and to summarize the best
      tumor responses observed prior to progression or recurrence.

      II. To explore the plasma PK of ABT-888 during ABT-888 and radiation therapy. III. To explore
      peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1(PARP) activity before
      and after treatment with ABT-888.

      IV. To explore quantifying non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) activity or gamma-H2A histone
      family, member X (H2AX) levels (as surrogate markers of unrepaired double-strand breaks
      (DSBs)) in PBMC before and after treatment with ABT-888.

      V. To explore quantifying PARP activity and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)-repair protein levels
      in biopsied atypical pontine gliomas, if available.

      VI. To explore associations of molecular parameters from secondary aims III, IV, and V with
      PFS and overall survival (OS) after conclusion of clinical trial.

      VII. To explore the quantitative magnetic resonance (MR) measures of relative cerebral blood
      volume (rCBV), vascular permeability (Ktrans, fractional plasma volume [vp], and
      extravascular extracellular space volume fraction [ve] values), and apparent diffusion
      coefficient (ADC) within the first six months of initiating protocol treatment to correlate
      with disease outcome and determine whether such metrics differentiate patients with pseudo
      progression from those with true early progressive disease.

      VIII. To explore the potential utility of urine biomarkers as a novel, non-invasive method of
      detecting and tracking changes in the status of pediatric brain stem gliomas.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of veliparib followed by a phase II study.

      DOSE-ESCALATION: Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) 5 days a week for
      6-7 weeks. Patients also undergo concurrent 3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) or
      intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) once daily (QD) 5 days a week for 6-7 weeks.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Beginning 3-4 weeks later, patients receive veliparib PO BID on days 1-5
      and temozolomide PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 10 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 3 years.
    
  