
    
      Patients with long-term CVCs (> 180 days) will be recruited for study participation by being
      asked "Why haven't you gotten a graft or fistula?" Those who indicate fear or discomfort with
      needles in the top 3 reasons will be consented into the study and administered the AVF/AVG
      Stages of Change Questionnaire.

      The Stages of Change questionnaire has been used extensively in research and has been shown
      to be highly predictive of people engaging in the behavior of interest. The five stages of
      change include: 1) Precontemplation: Patient doesn't know about, or knows about but doesn't
      want to think about, a behavior change; 2) Contemplation: Patients knows about and is
      beginning to consider behavior change; 3) Planning: Patient is actively investigating and
      making plans for behavior change; 4) Action: Patient is committed to make the change and/or
      has taken concrete steps to change behavior; and 5) Maintenance: Patient has made the
      behavior change and is trying maintain that change.

      Patients will be cluster-randomized to receive a standard needle phobia intervention (n =
      32), or an enhanced intervention consisting of a standard intervention plus a demonstration
      of the Synera patch (n = 32) within 15 days of baseline. The intervention will be
      administered by a study team member. In clinics where there is more than 1 patient randomized
      to a group, the intervention can be administered to multiple patients simultaneously. The
      standard intervention will last approximately 20 to 30 minutes. During this time, patients
      will receive information about the advantages of arteriovenous fistula or graft over
      central-venous catheter, be taught basic relaxation breathing, see a brief video of a patient
      overcoming needle fear, and have the opportunity to safely interact with a cannulation
      needle. In the enhanced intervention, the patient will receive the standard intervention with
      2 enhancements: (1) the video will include a segment in which a patient experiences the
      analgesic effects of the a Synera patch and (2) a Synera patch will be applied at the
      beginning of the intervention, and 30 minutes later the patient will be given the chance to
      explore the analgesic effects of Synera.

      Patients will complete a Stages of Change questionnaire 1 week after the intervention.
      Patients will then be followed for 4 months to determine whether or not they have scheduled a
      vein mapping appointment or have had a fistula or graft access placed.
    
  