
    
      Hypotheses

        -  The investigators primary hypothesis is that fenoldopam reduces renal dysfunction
           associated with indomethacin administration for closure of patent ductus arteriosus in
           preterm infants. A secondary endpoint or measured outcome will be the determination of
           fenoldopam pharmacokinetics in the premature population. Lastly, the investigators
           hypothesize that urine and serum acute kidney injury (AKI) biomarkers will be superior
           to contemporary neonatal AKI definitions in their ability to identify renal injury.

      Specific Aims

        -  Evaluate the effect of fenoldopam on renal function in preterm infants administered
           indomethacin

        -  Determination of fenoldopam pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles in preterm
           infants

        -  Define whether newly identified biomarkers of renal dysfunction are more sensitive
           markers of renal dysfunction following indomethacin than traditional markers including
           urine output and serum creatinine.

      Study design

        -  The study will be a prospective, blinded, randomized, placebo controlled trial.
           Fenoldopam will be started at 0.1 ug/kg/min. If, after 6 hrs there is no decrease in
           blood pressure, the dose will be increased to 0.2 ug/kg/min and continued throughout the
           remainder of the study. The previous study in pediatric patients showed no hypotension
           at a dose of 0.2 ug/kg/min. Fenoldopam will be started 12 hrs before the first dose of
           indomethacin and discontinued 12 hrs after the 3rd dose of indomethacin.

      Describe study population or sample material

        -  preterm infants born at less than or equal to 28 weeks gestation with patent ductus
           arteriosus in whom attempted medical closure with indomethacin is indicated as decided
           upon by the attending physician Sample size/power of primary endpoint

        -  Sample size is 20 patients in each of the two arms (fenoldopam vs placebo) based upon an
           improvement in serum creatinine by one standard deviation.
    
  