
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of iberdomide hydrochloride (iberdomide) and
      iberdomide with dexamethasone in intermediate- and high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma
      (SMM).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the 1- and 2- year progression free survival rates of patients receiving
      iberdomide with and without dexamethasone in intermediate-risk and high-risk smoldering
      myeloma.

      II. To determine the time to progression, and overall survival of patients with intermediate-
      and high-risk smoldering myeloma receiving iberdomide with and without dexamethasone.

      III. To study the risk of adverse hematologic and non-hematologic events observed in patients
      receiving iberdomide with and without dexamethasone for treatment of intermediate- and
      high-risk smoldering myeloma.

      IV. To evaluate stem cell mobilization failure and early stem cell mobilization feasibility.

      TERTIARY/EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the effects of iberdomide on cereblon targets Aiolos and Ikaros in natural
      killer (NK)- and T- cells.

      II. To measure the effect of iberdomide with and without dexamethasone on T-cell and NK-cell
      counts and activation.

      III. To determine the prognostic impact of high-risk cytogenetic abnormalities on clinical
      outcomes.

      IV. To assess minimal residual disease (MRD) on bone marrow samples in subjects who achieved
      a complete response (CR) or better and evaluate the correlation between MRD status and
      clinical outcome measures.

      V. To assess the association between anti-tumor activity and immune cells in tumor and blood.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive iberdomide hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and
      dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive iberdomide
      hydrochloride PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive iberdomide hydrochloride PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and then every 6
      months thereafter.
    
  