
    
      Design, Setting and Participants:

      The investigators will conduct a 3-arm, cluster-randomized, controlled trial in the
      Loire-Atlantique region, in France.

      The study will include a total of 1,500 GPs and about 100,000 women. The randomization will
      be based on GP practices to avoid a contamination bias resulting from shared tracking
      mechanisms and communication between GPs within a given practice. Thus, several GPs working
      in the same practice will be assigned to the same study arm. Women on the patient list of a
      given GP will be assigned to the arm of this GP.

      Intervention:

      After a cluster randomization according to the practice, the GPs and their female patients
      will be included in one of the following 3 arms:

        -  "Invitation letter + GP reminder" (Arm 1): 40-65 year-old women who did not perform a
           PAP test over the last 3 years will receive an invitation to consult a health
           professional to perform a screening test, AND GPs will receive the list of their 40-65
           year-old patients who did not perform a PAP test over the last 3 years;

        -  "Invitation letter" (Arm 2): 40-65 year-old women who did not perform a PAP test over
           the last 3 years will receive an invitation to consult a health professional to perform
           a screening test. GPs will NOT receive any list of their non-adherent patients.

        -  "Usual care" (arm 3): 40-65 year-old women who did not perform a PAP test over the last
           3 years will NOT receive any invitation to consult a health professional to perform a
           screening test. GPs will NOT receive any list of their non-adherent patients.

      Expected Results

      The investigators expect an increase in the proportion of women who perform a screening test
      in the intervention arm (arm 1), compared to arms 2 and 3. Previous studies have suggested
      that the proportion of women adherent to CC screening could be increased by 25% in arm 1
      compared to arm 3, whereas the participation could be increased by 15% in arm 2 compared to
      arm 3.

      Considering that the proportion of adherent women in arm 3 should be of about 55%, the
      absolute increase in participation could reach 11% in arm 1, and 6.6% in arm 2.

      A higher adherence to CC screening could improve the detection of pathological lesions by 5%
      for pathological pap smears and by 10% for positive HPV tests.
    
  