
    
      Study Group Universe The universe of the study consists of couples living in Ankara who have
      decided to get married and applied to Çankaya Municipality Marriage Office and / or Altındağ
      Municipality Marriage Office.

      Sample of the Study Group With type I error of 0.05 and 80% power, the minimum number of
      individuals required to determine the difference in numerical values for the groups at d =
      0.50 effect width (medium effect width was taken in the absence of a priori information) was
      determined as 128 in total. This number will be equally distributed among the groups.
      Considering the losses that may occur, it is planned to work with at least 50 pairs in the
      groups. (The sample size and power calculation required for the study was done using the
      program G * Power, Ver. 3.0.10, Universität Kiel, Germany,
      http://www.psycho.uni-duesseldorf.de/aap/projects/gpower/)

      Consent of couples who apply for marriage will be obtained with an informed voluntary consent
      form.

      Couples who meet the sampling criteria at least 2 months before the wedding / wedding day
      will be included in the study.

      Randomization will be made in determining the training and control groups in the study.

      In the first stage, an introductory information form and sexual health-reproductive health
      knowledge test will be applied face to face to the control group. The introductory
      information form includes socio-demographic characteristics, characteristics related to
      marital life, characteristics of sexual and reproductive health and sexual
      health-reproductive health education.An introductory brochure will be given to the
      intervention group and the WEB site will be introduced. Introductory information form and
      sexual health-reproductive health information test will be applied to the intervention group
      based on WEB.

      In the second stage, WEB-based marriage preparation training will be given to the
      intervention group. The training program is planned in two modules. The first module will
      include communication and problem solving, while the second module will include sexual
      health, reproductive health, contraception methods, sexually transmitted infections and
      domestic violence. Each training topic will be in the form of a 20-minute video narration and
      will be planned for 2 weeks in total. Participants will be able to benefit from the trainings
      24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It will be ensured that the trainings are completed before the
      wedding. In the second stage, no intervention is applied to the control group. One month
      after the intervention group got married, the sexual and reproductive health knowledge test
      will be applied again.

      In the third stage, 4 months after marriage, sexual health-reproductive health knowledge
      test, marital adjustment scale, sexual satisfaction scale and sexual self-efficacy scale will
      be applied to the intervention group. 4 months after marriage, the data of the marital
      adjustment scale, sexual satisfaction scale and sexual self-efficacy scale will be obtained
      from the control group via e-mail or phone.

      Evaluation of Data:

      The compatibility of the continuous variables to be obtained within the scope of the study to
      the normal distribution will be examined with the Shapiro-Wilk test. While mean ± standard
      deviation is used in the representation of descriptive statistics related to the variables
      that conform to the normal distribution, the median (Interquartile Width - MPI; minimum;
      maximum) will be given for distorted data, and the number and percentage will be given for
      the representation of categorical variables.

      In the comparison of numerical variables in the study groups, the appropriate method from the
      independent two-sample t-test and the Mann Whitney U test will be used by examining the
      necessary assumptions, and the Chi-square test for the comparison of categorical variables.
      Comparison of knowledge score before and after will be done with paired two-sample t-test or
      Wilcoxon tests, as appropriate.

      IBM SPSS Statistics 21.0 (IBM Corp. Released 2012. IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows, Version
      21.0. Armonk, NY: IBM Corp.) program will be used for statistical analysis and calculations.
      The statistical significance level will be accepted as p <0.05 for the hypotheses to be
      established bilaterally.

      Data Collection Tools:

      Data will be collected with the data collection form. The data colection form consist of five
      parts. 1. Introductory Information Form; 2. Sexual and Reproductive Health Knowledge Test; 3.
      Marriage Adjustment Scale; 4. The New Sexual Satisfaction Scale: The New Sexual Satisfaction
      Scale; 5. Sexual Self-Efficacy Scale:
    
  