
    
      Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is a syndrome involving the clinical triad of gait
      disturbance, urinary incontinence, and cognitive dysfunction, in the context of ventricular
      enlargement out of proportion to parenchymal atrophy with normal intracranial pressure.

      In the 1980's, a protocol for quantitative measurement of symptom response to large volume
      CSF tap (40-50ml) was developed, as a method for evaluating suitability for undergoing
      ventricular shunting surgery. A 2016 systematic review of the literature noted heterogeneous
      findings within the eight prospective cohort studies that were included in analysis, but
      concluded that there appeared to be support for the CSF-TT as a rule-in screen for response
      to shunt placement.

      Unfortunately, no extant literature has analyzed the independent predictive power of a
      clinically significant reaction time improvement in response to CSF-TT (widely defined across
      the literature as 5% improvement) to subsequent response to ventricular shunting. This
      frustrates an a priori power analysis. However, a rough estimate was calculated based on data
      presented within one of the aforementioned reviewed studies that identified an improvement in
      reaction time in response to CSF-TT, as well as an improvement in reaction time to subsequent
      shunting.

      The authors reported that 17 of 68 (25%) of the patients were labeled as positive-responders
      to CSF-TT, defined as meeting at least 2 of the following criteria: 1) 5% improvement in
      reaction time, 2) 5% improvement in gait (time or steps), 3) 25% improvement on visuospatial
      recall task, 4) 25% improvement on visuospatial recognition task. Of those 17 positive
      responders, 16 (94%) met the same positive-response criteria, post-shunting. If we use a 50%
      response rate as a proportion null hypothesis, this gives us a z-statistic = 3.63, or f2 =
      3.71. G*Power analysis, for a 4-predictor regression (i.e., the aforementioned indicators
      used), estimates a necessary sample size of 16. The primary limitation of this approach is
      that it is unclear which of the 2+ positive response criteria were met. However, review of
      the pre- versus post-shunting data suggests reaction time was significantly improved
      (p<0.001; Cohen's d = 0.399), suggesting it is reasonable to infer the domain was favorably
      impacted by the temporary effects of a CSF-TT.

      Patients will undergo pre-tap testing on the morning of their CSF-TT. The administration of
      the Conners Continual Performance Test - version 3 (CPT-3), an automated 14-minute
      computerized measure of reaction-time and sustained attention, will be added to the current
      neurocognitive screen being used (i.e., the Montreal Cognitive Assessment, MoCA). The current
      CSF-TT protocol's quantitative methods for measuring urinary incontinence and gait will
      continue to be collected. These patients will receive post-tap CPT-3 and MoCA testing
      one-to-three hours post-tap, and again at 2-3 days post-CSF-TT, during the follow-up
      appointment with Neurosurgery. For those that undergo ventricular shunt placement, the CPT-3
      will be administered at their post-operative follow-up appointment (~3 months
      post-operation).
    
  