
    
      The main objective of this study is to determine the efficacy, safety and utility of
      automated closed-loop glucose control in the home setting over a short term period, including
      the daytime and during the activities of normal daily living. This study builds on previous
      and on-going studies of closed-loop systems that have been performed in Cambridge in children
      and adolescents with type 1 diabetes in the clinical research facility and in the home
      setting. The data and experienced gained from this study will be utilised in planning future
      home studies.

      This is an open-label, single-centre, randomised, crossover study, involving two, 7 day
      (phase 1) and 21 day (phase 2) home study periods during which glucose levels will be
      controlled either by an automated closed-loop system or by subjects' usual insulin pump
      therapy combined with continuous glucose monitoring in random order. A total of up to 30
      children and adolescents aged 10 to 18 years with T1D on insulin pump therapy will be
      recruited through diabetes clinics, to allow for 12 completed subjects available for
      assessment in each study phase.

      Subjects will receive appropriate training by the research team on the safe use of the
      closed-loop insulin delivery system. During the training visit in a clinical research centre,
      subjects will be encouraged to mimic their usual daily activities and will be allowed to walk
      inside hospital premises. Subjects will be advised to discontinue automated closed-loop
      insulin delivery and follow their usual insulin pump therapy for certain activities such as
      periods of strenuous exercise during the 7 day (phase 1) and 21 day (phase 2) home study
      phase.

      The primary outcome is time spent in target range between 3.9 and 10.0 mmol/L as recorded by
      CGM (conservatively adjusted for potential over-estimation). Secondary outcomes are the time
      spent with glucose levels above and below target, as recorded by CGM, and other CGM-based
      metrics. Safety evaluation comprises the tabulation of severe hypoglycaemic episodes.
    
  