
    
      The objective is to determine the prevalence of left ventricle dysfunction and acute cor
      pulmonale, and its association with respiratory mechanics, in 100 consecutive critically ill
      COVID-19 patients, who were assessed with critical care echocardiography (CCE) within the
      first 24 hours of mechanical ventilation.

      Material and Methods This prospective, multicenter study was conducted between April and June
      2020 in the intensive care unit (ICU) of four university-affiliated hospitals of Santiago,
      Chile. Local ethics committee of each center approved the study and waived the need to
      provide written informed consent (protocol ID: 200422002). All participating centers have
      expertise in CCE on clinical grounds.

      The study population Were included systematically all consecutive patients with severe
      SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia, defined as respiratory failure requiring invasive mechanical
      ventilation (MV). Patients were included within the first 24 hours of MV. COVID-19 was
      confirmed by a positive polymerase chain reaction test. The main exclusion criteria were age
      under 18 years old, severe valvulopathy, poor ultrasound window and do-not-resuscitate
      status.

      Demographic data, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE), Sequential
      Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) and respiratory system mechanics were recorded.

      Echocardiography Transthoracic echocardiography was performed by intensivists trained in
      echocardiography in according to CCE. Echocardiographic measurements were obtained with a
      Vivid i echocardiography system (GE Medical Systems, Milwaukee, WI, USA), Philips CX 50
      (Philips Healthcare, DA Best, The Netherlands), and Mindray M9 (Bio-Medical Electronics Co.,
      Shenzhen, Chine), as used in each center. All patients were adapted to MV on continuous IV
      sedation during the echocardiographic assessment. Measurements were acquired at
      end-expiration and averaged over three consecutive cardiac cycles in according to current
      recommendations.

      Standard echocardiographic views were acquired. Left ventricular systolic function was
      assessed by the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), as measured with Simpson's
      modified rule. Based on LVEF patients were categorized in hyperkinetic (LVEF >60%),
      normokinetic (LVEF between 45% and 60%) and hypokinetic (LVEF <45%).

      Cardiac output (CO) was calculated from the left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) as
      described by Mclean et al. The diameter of the LVOT was taken from the long parasternal view.
      Pulsed wave Doppler samples were obtained at the LVOT from the apical view. Doppler velocity
      curves were manually traced and an average of three measures of velocity time integral (VTI)
      was calculated. The stroke volume (SV) was calculated as the product of the LVOT area and the
      VTI. The CO was calculated as the product of the SV and the heart rate obtained during
      measurement of the aortic VTI. Mitral annular plane systolic excursion (MAPSE) was obtained
      through an M-mode vector at the level of the mitral annulus at the LV lateral wall. MAPSE was
      measured in millimeters as described (5). Peak mitral annular myocardial velocity wave (s')
      was recorded at the level of the mitral annulus at the LV lateral wall with Tissue Doppler
      Imaging (TDI) as previously described.

      Left ventricular diastolic function was assessed by mitral inflow pulsed wave Doppler, to
      measure early peak velocity (E) and atrial velocity (A). The early diastolic peak velocity
      (e') of the lateral mitral annulus was also measured with TDI. From these variables E/A and
      E/e' ratios were calculated. Diastolic function was categorized as normal, grade I to grade
      III according to current recommendations.

      The presence of acute cor pulmonale was assessed through the relation between left and right
      ventricular end-diastolic areas (LVEDA and RVEDA), and by the presence of paradoxical septum
      motion. LVEDA and RVEDA were measured from the apical four chambers view, and the RVEDA/LVEDA
      ratio was calculated. Right ventricle (RV) dilatation was defined as RVEDA/LVEDA ratio > 0.6,
      ACP was defined as a dilated RV associated with the presence of paradoxical septum motion.
      Severe ACP was defined as a severely dilated RV (RVEDA/LVEDA ratio >1). Paradoxical septum
      motion was defined as end-systolic bulging of the interventricular septum toward the left
      ventricle, while analyzing loops in slow motion. It indirectly assesses RV performance and RV
      end-diastolic pressures. The paradoxical septum motion was assessed on the four-chamber view.
      In addition, RV systolic function was assessed by the tricuspid annular plane systolic
      excursion (TAPSE) obtained through an M-mode vector at the level of the tricuspid annulus.

      Hemodynamic assessment The hemodynamic profile was based on cardiac index (CI), patients were
      categorized as hypodynamic (CI<2 L⋅min-1⋅m2), normodynamic (CI between 2 and 4 L⋅min-1⋅m2)
      and hyperdynamic (CI>4 L⋅min-1⋅m2). Hemodynamic variables and norepinephrine doses were
      recorded. Maximum and minimum inferior vena cava (IVC) diameter was measured in M-mode
      tracing from a longitudinal subcostal view. Fluid responsiveness was assessed by either the
      respiratory variations of inferior vena cava (IVC), or by the arterial pulse pressure
      variation (PPV).

      The PiCCO (Continuous Cardiac Output Pulse Index) device was used in thirty patients to
      assess cardiac output (CO). An average of three consecutive thermodilution measurements was
      used. Other variables such as global end-diastolic index (GEDI), intrathoracic blood volume
      index (ITBVI), systemic vascular resistance index (SVRi), cardiac function index (CFi),
      global ejection fraction (GEF), extravascular lung water index (ELWI), and pulmonary vascular
      permeability index (PVPI), were recorded.

      Tissue perfusion was assessed by capillary refill time (CRT) and lactate levels. The
      peripheral perfusion index (PFI) derived from the photoelectric plethysmography signal of
      pulse oximetry was also used.

      Computer tomography (CT) pulmonary angiography was performed based on the clinical suspicion
      of PE.

      Biomarkers High-sensitive Troponin T and D-Dimer (DD) concentrations were measured
      simultaneously with echocardiographic assessment. Increases in Troponin T were defined as a
      value >14ng/l.

      Statistical Analysis As the study was descriptive sample size but was arbitrarily set at 100
      consecutive patients. Normality was tested by Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. The continuous data is
      presented as mean ± standard deviation or as median and interquartile ranges, depending on
      the distribution. Comparisons between groups were analyzed by t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum
      (WRS) test according to data distribution. Percentages were analyzed using two-proportion
      z-test. Categorical variables were compared with chi square test. Pearson or Spearman
      correlation was performed according to data distribution.

      In order to identify independent predictors for mortality, a multivariate regression analysis
      was carried out including all variables of interest associated with mortality in a univariate
      analysis (p value < 0.05) and adjusting for the other covariates of the logistic regression
      model. The discrimination of the model was assessed by the area under the receiver operating
      characteristic (ROC) curve. Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS (version 22.0, IBM
      SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). A p value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  