
    
      "Mindfulness Rounds" Care-giver well-being is recognized as an important goal in decreasing
      burnout, increasing job satisfaction, and may have implications in improving quality of care
      and patient satisfaction. Mindfulness training is a well-studied tool used to enhance
      care-giver well-being. The impact of a Mindfulness training experience for caregivers,
      support staff, and patients and their families working together in a hospital unit on patient
      satisfaction has not been well studied, if at all. The researchers propose instituting a
      pilot program of Mindfulness Rounds on a given hospital unit and assessing the effect on
      employee well-being, patient satisfaction, and quality of care.

      Introduction:

      The physical and mental health of healthcare practitioners (HCPs) has become an area of
      attention and research in recent years as HCP burnout and suicide are now openly discussed
      concerns in medicine. Well-being education is now a required curricula component by the
      Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). Mindfulness is a technique and
      philosophical concept which has received significant attention in the medical literature as a
      tool for increasing HCP well-being.

      Mindfulness describes the idea of maintaining a conscious presence in the present, of
      avoiding obsessing about the past or the future, and of continuously being aware of, and
      grateful for, the things we have in life as opposed to the things we don't. Mindfulness-Based
      Stress Reduction (MBSR) is one particular system, developed by Jon Kabat-Zinn over 30 years
      ago, which has been built into a well-structured certified training program for teaching
      mindfulness. Numerous studies have used MBSR or similar techniques to advance HCP psychologic
      well-being, and while some have investigated a variety of HCP training techniques to improve
      the patient experience, few have sought to explore a relationship between the impact of
      mindfulness training for HCP on patient satisfaction, quality of care outcomes, and HCP
      overall health. To the investigators' knowledge, no one has sought to bring mindfulness
      education to an entire hospital unit - physicians, nurses, support staff, as well as patients
      and their families wherever possible - with the goal of improving both HCP and the overall
      patient experience.

      The researchers propose instituting a pilot program of Mindfulness Rounds on a given hospital
      unit and assessing the effect on employee well-being, patient satisfaction, and quality of
      care.
    
  