
    
      This is a pilot study in patients with previously untreated inflammatory breast cancer (IBC)
      or locally advanced breast cancer (LABC) to evaluate angiogenesis parameters after treatment
      with rhuMAb VEGF - recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody vascular endothelial growth
      factor (bevacizumab). The challenge for new molecular-targeted anti-angiogenesis therapy is
      to devise appropriate and reliable markers to monitor efficacy. This may be achieved directly
      by evaluating changes in angiogenesis parameters in tumor samples. The use of less invasive
      surrogate markers to assess the efficacy of anti-angiogenic therapy is preferable. This may
      include functional changes in tumor vasculature assessed using non-invasive methods such as
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or determination of changes in circulating soluble markers
      of angiogenesis.

      Most breast cancers over express VEGF thus making it an ideal disease for treatment with
      anti-angiogenesis therapy. This study will evaluate the effects of bevacizumab on
      angiogenesis parameters both molecular and functional. The first cycle will consist of
      bevacizumab alone followed by six cycles of bevacizumab in combination with doxorubicin and
      docetaxel (AT). Loco-regional therapy will follow and bevacizumab will be recommenced for
      eight cycles.

      Changes in pre-designated angiogenesis parameters will be assessed at baseline, three weeks
      after bevacizumab and after three cycles of AT/bevacizumab. The first three molecular
      parameters: endothelial cell proliferation, endothelial cell apoptosis and tissue VEGF
      require multiple tumor core biopsies obtained using a mammotome. The fourth parameter k(ep),
      the redistribution constant is obtained using dynamic MRI. To determine the variability of
      the values of the three molecular primary angiogenesis parameters, multiple biopsies will be
      sampled at the same time points. An attempt will be made to correlate each of the four
      primary angiogenesis parameters with time to progression/recurrence. The effects of
      bevacizumab alone and AT/bevacizumab directly on tumor vasculature using dynamic MRI imaging
      and on the circulating angiogenesis marker, serum vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1)
      at the same three time points and prior to surgery and will be undertaken in an exploratory
      manner. An attempt will be made to correlate changes in these parameters with clinical
      findings and changes in tissue angiogenesis parameters. Additionally, other angiogenesis
      biomarkers will also be studied in an exploratory manner.

      Thrombosis factors will be monitored given the increased incidence of venous and arterial
      thrombosis seen in previous clinical trials using bevacizumab. An increase in the incidence
      of hypertension has also been seen. A subset of patients in this study will undergo frequent
      blood pressure monitoring to obtain a profile of the effect of bevacizumab on blood pressure.
    
  