
    
      The proposed DIAMA (DIAgnostics for Multidrug resistant tuberculosis in Africa) study aims to
      address current gaps in the diagnosis and management of patients with Multi-Drug-Resistant
      (MDR) tuberculosis. Building on existing networks and research collaborations previously
      funded by the European & Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP), this
      project involved partners in West, Central, and East Africa. It aims to evaluate and
      implement rapid and accurate molecular tests for several anti Tuberculosis drugs, to replace
      the current dependency on phenotypic drug resistance testing, which takes up to 4 months and
      is technically so demanding that few laboratories can perform it correctly.

      The project builds on the continuous surveillance of Tuberculosis retreatment patients for
      rifampicin resistance. Two African partners (Benin and Rwanda) with advanced molecular
      laboratories are establishing reference laboratories for the 'Deeplex' assay, a novel
      multiplex deep sequencing-based drug resistance diagnostic platform that simultaneously
      provides sequence information of genes that confer resistance to several key anti
      tuberculosis drugs. Partners are recruiting all patients with rifampicin resistant
      Tuberculosis, and a subset of those with rifampicin sensitive Tuberculosis. In a first phase,
      sputum will be shipped for the Deeplex assay, for comparison against phenotypic DST, the
      reference method for detecting resistance to 1st and 2nd line drugs. In addition, since Whole
      Genome Sequencing is the "reference" of molecular tests, Deeplex assay will also be validated
      again this test. In a second phase, Cepheid 2nd line Xpert and Molbio Truenat test, two
      'lower tech' tests at the last stages of laboratory validations, will also be validated. The
      Cepheid Xpert 2nd line cartridge can be implemented in existing Xpert machines used for the
      Xpert MTB/Rif assays. These tests will be compared versus the Deeplex assay and versus WGS

      Using the latest advances in DataTocare software developed by one of the project partners,
      molecular results will be communicated in real time to the National Tuberculosis Programmes,
      so that Multi Drug Resistant Tuberculosis patients can swiftly start appropriate treatment.
      The added-value of this system will be evaluated as a pilot study in some sites.

      Lastly, once patients have initiated MDR treatment, they will be monitored for treatment
      success by faster alternative approaches to the WHO recommended monthly cultures: serial
      sputum samples will have Fluorescein DiAcetate (FDA) vital stain microscopy, measurement of
      the bacterial load using the Xpert MTB/Rif as well as precursor of ribosomal RNA measurement
      (pre-rRNA).

      Together, these advances are expected to dramatically improve the currently dismal prognosis
      of MDR-TB in health systems in resource-poor settings.
    
  