
    
      All participants or their proxy will be informed about the anesthetic techniques and the
      operative procedure and will provide written informed consent before enrollment in the study.

      The eligible patients will be randomly divided by computer designed lists and then will be
      concealed in closed envelopes into the two study groups. A research assistant who will not be
      involved in patient management will be responsible for opening the envelope, group assignment
      and drugs preparation.

      Anesthetic management Pre-induction No premedication will be administered. Upon arrival to
      the operating theater, an intravenous (IV) cannula will be placed, and standard monitors,
      including 5-lead electrocardiogram, noninvasive arterial blood pressure monitor, and pulse
      oximetry, will be applied. Oxygen supplementation at fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) of
      0.35 will be achieved through a suitable air entrainment mask. Bispectral index (BIS:
      apparatus info) will be applied before starting the drug infusions and will be used for
      maintenance of sedation during operation.

      Induction of anesthesia Group M (n=17): will receive a loading of 50 mg/kg in 15 minutes of
      Magnesium sulphate, and will be followed by continuous infusion at 1 ml/kg/h of 15 mg/ml
      solution Group F (n=17): will receive a loading of 1 mcg/kg in over 15 minutes of fentanyl
      then will receive continuous infusion starting at 1 ml /kg/h. of 0.5 mcg/ml solution Both
      groups will be given 0.5-1.5 mg/kg bolus of propofol over 10 minutes to achieve target Ramsay
      sedation scale (RSS) of 3 (respond to command), if RSS afterwards does not reach 3 a
      supplementary bolus dose of 0.2 mg/kg propofol will be given to the patients, and will be
      followed by 1-2.5 mg/kg/hr infusion to maintain Intraoperative BIS readings between 60 - 80.

      Intraoperative management After achieving the target sedation level (RSS of 3), surgeons will
      infiltrate the surgical site with 20 mL of a local anesthetic solution containing 10 mL of
      0.5% bupivacaine and 10 mL of 2% lidocaine with adrenaline at least 5 minutes before surgical
      incision. After performing burr-hole craniotomy soaked pledgets with lidocaine will be
      applied to anaesthetize the dura, the dura will be then opened, and the hematoma will be
      evacuated. The Infusion of sedatives will be ceased after skin closure.

      Intraoperative patient's movements (defined as those which may interfere with the surgical
      conduct such as twisting of hand and/or leg and head mobility) will be managed by reassurance
      and support for 30 seconds. However, when movements continue, a bolus dose of propofol of 0.5
      mg/kg will be given then infusion dose will be increased till the maximum dose (2.5mg/kg/hr)
      to regain BIS sedation score between 60-80. If the patient starts to move again the same
      sequence will be repeated. Minute movements of other body parts as well as movements of
      fingers or toes that unlikely to hinder the operative intervention, will be deemed
      insignificant to be documented.

      Induction of general anesthesia will be only indicated if satisfactory surgical conditions
      will not be attained by the rescue propofol.

      Intraoperative bradycardia and tachycardia (defined as heart rate (HR) < 45 bpm or > 120 bpm
      respectively) will be treated with intravenous atropine 0.2 mg, or propranolol 0.5-1 mg
      respectively. Hypertension and hypotension (defined as a more than 25% increase or decrease
      from baseline respectively) will be treated with nitroglycerine (0.1-10 mcg/min) or ephedrine
      (5 mg) respectively.

      Postoperative management All patients will be transferred to the post-anesthesia care unit
      (PACU) after surgery where they will be closely monitored with the aid of five-lead
      electrocardiography and non-invasive arterial blood pressure, peripheral oxygen saturation
      (SpO2), and respiratory rate readings using an automated system for 24 h after surgery.
      Postoperative pain intensity will be assessed using VAS score at 1, 2, 3 and 6 hours after
      PACU admission. If VAS score exceeds 3, 30 mg of ketorolac will be administered.
    
  