
    
      This study is conducted on ICU patients with a suspected pneumonia, primary blood-stream
      infection (BSI), and/or urinary tract infection (UTI).

      The primary objective of the study is to demonstrate that in ICU infections treated
      empirically by carbapenems and documented with GNB on direct examination of a respiratory,
      urinary and/or blood sample(s), the early de-escalation guided by the results of the
      betaLACTA® test is not inferior to the reference strategy de-escalating on antibiotic
      susceptibility test (AST) results obtained 48-72h after sampling, in terms of mortality at
      D90 and infection recurrence in ICU.

      The secondary objectives are to compare the early de-escalation guided by the betaLACTA® test
      results to the reference strategy de-escalating on the AST results on:

        -  The exposure to carbapenems.

        -  The total use of ICU and hospital resources and the cost-effectiveness.

        -  The occurrence of other infections.

        -  The colonization of the digestive tractus of patients with 3rd generation cephalosporins
           (3rdGC) resistant Gram-negative bacteria (GNB).

      In addition, an ancillary study will be performed (only in participating centers from the Ile
      de France region) to compare :

        -  The composition of the intestinal microbiota among patients with an early de-escalation
           guided by the betaLACTA® test results and a standard de-escalation on AST results at
           48-72h.

        -  The evolution of intestinal microbiota of patients after exposure to different
           beta-lactam antibiotics, from carbapenems or cefepim/ceftazidim during the empirical
           treatment, to the definitive beta-lactam antibiotic chosen to cure the infection after
           antibiotic susceptibility test results.

        -  The outcomes of ICU patients (mortality at D90, occurrence of infection, ICU length of
           stay, etc.) according to the composition of their intestinal microbiota and to its
           evolution during antibiotic treatment.

      To meet these objectives, 646 patients will be enrolled.
    
  