
    
      The first part of the project focuses on studying the characteristics of the kombucha drink
      and microbial composition. The amount of living organisms in the drink will be determined by
      colony count. Apart from this, the culture will be studied to determine which organisms are
      present and which are dominant. After isolation of colonies found from culturing, Sanger
      sequencing will be used for characterization.

      The second part, which consists of the human study, will be performed over a span of 3 weeks
      and the aim is that 60 persons take part. The participants should be healthy, and have no
      diagnosed gut or stomach problems, and be 18 years old or older. They will be divided into
      groups, where one will be given living kombucha, one group kombucha sterilized by boiling
      (placebo) and the final group plain water (control group). The participants will drink one
      bottle (33 cl) of their designated beverage daily for two weeks. Fecal and saliva samples
      will be collected before, directly after and 10 days after the intervention. The samples will
      then be studied by sequencing the present organisms, after having extracted them. The library
      preparation will be made using Illumina sequencing. If possible, the aim is also to
      re-isolate a species from the kombucha after the study.

      The participants will be registered for the study as they sign a consent form. These forms
      will then be treated as confidential material, and therefore be kept locked away at the
      institution. Only participating researchers will have access to the forms.

      The participants will store the samples collected during the study until they are handed in
      for analysis. The samples will be destroyed during analysis.

      The sample size has been chosen to a maximum of 60 participants, due to economical
      boundaries, but mainly because similar studied have used even fewer participants. As this is
      a pilot study more is not necessary. The intervention time (three weeks) was determined by
      comparison to other studies, but also restricted by the time scope of the project.
    
  