
    
      In particular, CRP levels in patients with persistent AF are higher than in those with
      paroxysmal AF, and levels in both groups are higher than those in the control group.
      Moreover, hs-CRP and IL-6 levels have been reported as markers that may identify those
      patients with a higher risk of AF recurrence after successful electrical cardioversion (EC),
      providing prognostic information regarding the immediate and long-term success of EC.

      CRP is an acute-phase protein and a reliable marker of systemic inflammation. CRP has been
      shown to specifically bind to phosphatidylcholine on the membranes of myocardial cells which
      inhibits the exchange of sodium and calcium ions in sarcolemma vesicles, promoting therefore
      AF development. CRP may also play a part in the structural remodeling; it may induce
      apoptotic loss of atrial myocytes because of calcium accumulation within atrial myocytes
      during AF participating also in the clearance of apoptotic atrial myocytes as an opsonin.
      Myocyte loss is typically accompanied by replacement fibrosis which provides substrate for AF
      development. IL-6 is one of the most important stimuli of CRP release. As the strongest
      stimuli of macrophage, TNF-α is in the upstream of this cascade by activating macrophage to
      release a number of cytokines including IL-6.

      Whether inflammatory effects are a consequence of AF or the presence of a pre-existing
      systemic inflammatory status promotes AF development remains unclear. However, accumulative
      proofs have implied that both mechanisms may interrelate, suggesting that inflammatory
      markers are not only a consequence but also a cause.

      Consequently, pharmacological interventions with pleiotropic/anti-inflammatory effects might
      be efficacious in the prevention of AF by modulating inflammatory pathways.(17) Keeping with
      this, several agents with anti inflammatotory properties as statins, fatty acids, oral
      glucocorticoids, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, angiotensin converting enzyme
      inhibitors have been administered with controversial results.

      Colchicine is a lipid-soluble drug classified as an anti-inflammatory agent. It exerts its
      anti-inflammatory action without involving the arachidonic acid pathway affected by NSAIDs
      and glucocorticosteroids. The anti-inflammatory effects of colchicine are attributed to its
      ability to disrupt the assembly of microtubules in immune-mediated cells. By inhibiting
      tubulin polymerization, colchicine prevents the activation, degranulation, and migration of
      neutrophils, which are known initiating factors in inflammatory process. It has also been
      found to increase leukocyte cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels, inhibit interleukin-1
      (IL-1) production by activated neutrophils and down-regulate tumor necrosis factor alpha
      (TNFa) receptors in macrophages and endothelial cells.

      Clinical evidence support that colchicine administration reduced significantly the incidence
      of AF post-cardiac surgery (POAF) or post-AF ablation and this effect was attributed to the
      drug anti-inflammatory action. Of note, this effect was accompanied by a significant decrease
      in inflammatory mediators, IL-6 and CRP as it was shown in post-AF ablation patients.(33)
      Additional mechanisms may play also a role in the reduction of POAF or post-ablation AF as in
      vitro or animal studies showed colchicine administration to exert electrophysiological
      effects related to cytoskeletal disruption.

      All patients will undergo echocardiography and blood examination (including thyroid function,
      renal and liver function tests, lipid assessment, international normalized ratio and foul
      blood cell count) before EC. Blood samples for CRP, IL-6 and TNFa measurement will be
      obtained immediately before ECV (day 0), one day after successful ECV (day 1) and after 3
      days of colchicine treatment (day 4). Anticoagulation therapy will be instituted according to
      the current guidelines. If there is indication for transesophageal echocardiography this will
      be performed prior to EC.

      The protocol of electrical cardioversion will be as follows: a shock will be delivered with
      external paddles positioned in the anterior-apex position connected to an external electrical
      cardioverter for biphasic external cardioversion. The first shock energy will be delivered at
      200 J following a step-up protocol (to 300 J). In case of unsuccessful ECV, a second attempt
      in anteroposterior position could be made. ECV will be considered successful if sinus rhythm
      remains 24 hrs after the procedure.

      Successfully cardioverted patients will be entered the maintenance phase of the study and
      treatment will be continued for up to 6 months
    
  