
    
      Biliary obstruction usually presents with jaundice, pruritis, cholangitis, and steatorrhoea.
      Strictures which are a common cause of biliary obstruction, may be secondary to benign or
      malignant conditions. Common benign conditions include chronic pancreatitis, primary
      sclerosing cholangitis, autoimmune pancreatitis, prior surgery and recurrent pyogenic
      cholangitis. Cholangiocarcinomas, ampullary and pancreatic tumours are more common causes of
      malignant biliary obstruction.

      The principles of managing biliary strictures are to determine the underlying cause of the
      stricture, whilst achieving drainage of the biliary tree, initially with the placement of a
      plastic stent via an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). Strictures are
      sampled using biliary brush cytology and/or biliary biopsy to assess for underlying
      malignancy. Malignant strictures are usually staged for resectability with computed
      tomography (CT), magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) and/or endoscopic
      ultrasound (EUS).

      The Viaduct stent (GI Supply, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania, USA) is a unique stent design and has
      a winged perimeter, which channels flow of bile around the stent, rather than through a
      central lumen. Theoretically this may enhance flow and biliary drainage, and prevent
      obstruction. Both polyethylene and Viaduct plastic stents are approved for use by Health
      Canada for benign and malignant biliary conditions. It is not known whether one stent is
      superior to the other in maintaining symptomatic relief from bile duct strictures as there
      have been no studies to date comparing the two stents.

      There is limited published data on the Viaduct stent. A pilot study of the winged stent
      design was published in 2006. Five patients had winged stents inserted and followed for 2
      weeks. The were no problems with stent insertion and symptoms of obstruction and jaundice
      improved over this time. One study published in abstract form retrospectively compared 34
      Viaduct stents matched with 240 "conventional" stents over a five year period. There was no
      statistical difference with stent dysfunction, and a trend towards patency with the Viaduct
      stent.

      The primary aim of this study is to compare the stent patency time in the Viaduct and
      polyethylene stent groups in subjects with malignant bile duct strictures. The secondary aims
      are to determine the etiology of stent failure in the two treatment groups, to identify and
      compare device-related adverse events in the two treatment groups, to identify other patient
      factors associated with stent failure, and to compare survival between the Viaduct and
      polyethylene stent groups.
    
  