
    
      Research Design

        1. Experimental Design. To answer the first and second study objectives, a pragmatic,
           randomized, prospective, clinical study on 54 older adults with dizziness will be
           utilized. This will be conducted at Florida Hospital Sports Medicine and Rehabilitation
           locations that offer vestibular therapy. These are in East Orlando and Winter Park.

        2. Correlation Design. A correlation analysis will be performed on the data collected on 54
           subjects in the experimental design to establish the test-retest reliability of the
           Timed Up and Go.

        3. Cross-sectional Descriptive Design. A regression analysis will be performed on three
           predictors of the Dizziness Handicap Inventory, obtained from the data collected on 54
           subjects in the experimental design and from Florida Hospital Sports Medicine and
           Rehabilitation Physical Therapy medical charts from June 2015 to June 2018 that met the
           inclusion and exclusion criteria that were outlined in the Protocol #1365169.

      For the experimental design that will be conducted at Florida Hospital locations, the
      following data will be collected as standard of care by the physical therapist during initial
      evaluation, and if more time is needed, during the first follow-up physical therapy
      appointment: mCTSIB, TUG, DGI, DHI, age, gender, body mass index, home situation, Functional
      Comorbidity Index (FCI) total, ability to drive, medications and insurance type. After the
      subject signs the informed consent prior to the tenth visit, the study coordinator will be
      notified by the research staff to conduct a retrospective chart review of the patient's
      medical record. The study coordinator will extract the following baseline measurements from
      the subject's medical record: DGI, mCTSIB, DHI, TUG and socio-demographic data that include
      age, gender, body mass index, home situation (lives alone or with social support), Functional
      Comorbidity Index (FCI) total, ability to drive (able or unable), medications for vertigo and
      insurance type (Medicare/Non-medicare). Based on the retrospective chart review, the study
      coordinator will determine if the subject is eligible to participate in the study.

      Visit 1: Once the study coordinator determined that the subject is eligible to participate in
      the study, the subject will be assigned a research number and will be randomized into one of
      the three intervention groups. The research staff can initiate or continue the VR program and
      initiate the research intervention according to the intervention group. For the test-retest
      reliability of the TUG test, there will be one practice trial followed by two final
      performances that will be included in the data analysis. The subject will also be asked to
      complete the IPAQ-short form questionnaire. The test-retest reliability of TUG and the
      IPAQ-short form questionnaire are for research purposes only.

      Visit 2: The research staff can initiate the research intervention according to the
      intervention group.

      Visit 3 to visit prior to discharge: The research staff can continue the VR and intervention
      according to the intervention group.

      Discharge or last visit: All outcome measures (DGI, TUG, mCTSIB, DHI and IPAQ) will be
      reassessed. Discharge scores for DGI, TUG, mCTSIB and DHI are standard of care, while IPAQ is
      for research purposes only. The total number of visits and length of interventions (in weeks)
      for every participant will be recorded as secondary outcome measures. These research data
      will be forwarded to the study coordinator, and will be stored in a locked cabinet and
      password protected Florida Hospital computer.

      Four-weeks after discharge: The study coordinator will conduct a follow up phone call to all
      subjects four weeks after discharge summary is completed to obtain the level of physical
      activity using the IPAQ short form questionnaire. This is for research purposes only. A
      follow-up on a subject will be discontinued if a subject is not reached after three attempts
      of follow-up phone call made on three different days between 30 and 45 days. Data analysis
      will commence once all the data from 54 subjects are collected.

      Sample Size Determination

      A priori power analysis predicting a large effect size (F=.25) determined that a total of 54
      subjects (18 in each group), who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be needed,
      with alpha at the conventional value of .05 to achieve a .80 power, that includes an
      assumption of a dropout rate of 50% .

      Statistical Analysis Plan

      The results will be presented through the following tables with supporting explanations:

        -  Clinical and sociodemographic characteristics of participants by group at baseline.

        -  Comparisons of TUG, DGI, mCTSIB and DHI between the three intervention groups on
           admission and discharge.

        -  Comparisons of self-reported walking activity (walking MET-min/week) and total
           self-reported energy expenditure (total physical activity MET-min/week) as determined
           from the IPAQ short form on admission, discharge and four-week follow-up between the
           three intervention groups

        -  Comparisons of averages of compliance to step log recording and compliance rate for
           meeting step goal between the VRWP and VRW groups. Compliance is defined as low (<33%),
           moderate (33%-75%) and high (>75%) based on the step log or walking log. This grading of
           compliance was used by Hall and colleagues in their research on efficacy of gaze
           stability exercises in older adults with dizziness.(6)

        -  Comparisons of total number of visits and length of interventions in weeks between the
           three intervention group.

        -  Intraclass Correlation Coefficients for the Timed Up and Go test-retest reliability

        -  Result of stepwise linear regression analysis for TUG, DGI, mCTSIB and DHI

      All interval and ratio data will be tested for normality prior to undertaking the data
      analysis. Descriptive statistics will be used to describe the characteristics of the sample
      and compare the three groups at baseline. This will include Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) for
      parametric and Chi Square for nonparametric sociodemographic and clinical data.

      Analyses will employ five repeated measures Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA), adjusting for
      age, with two independent variables (group and time) and five outcome measures (TUG, DGI,
      DHI, mCTSIB and IPAQ short form). The adjustment of age is based on age-related decline.
      Intraclass Correlation Coefficient will be calculated to establish the test-retest
      reliability of the TUG and a stepwise linear regression with age as covariant will be
      conducted for all 54 subjects at baseline to determine if TUG, mCTSIB and DGI are predictors
      of DHI. Two-tailed test will be utilized to compare the compliance with step log recording
      and meeting step goals between the two walking groups (VRWP and VRW), and ANOVA to compare of
      total number of visits and total length of intervention in weeks between the three groups.
      Alpha for all analyses will be set at 0.05 to test for significant difference.
    
  