
    
      At the present time, effective treatments for RTT, MECP2 Dup, or Rett-related disorders are
      lacking. Substantial progress has been made in RTT over the past eleven years such that this
      study represents a narrowing of focus to mutations or duplications of the MECP2 gene and
      related disorders, including those with phenotypic overlap. Understanding of RTT has advanced
      remarkably well through the Rett Syndrome Natural History Clinical Protocol (NHS) and
      correspondingly advancement in the basic science realm has moved forward with equivalent
      success. Thus, progress in clinical and basic science has led to the establishment of
      clinical trials and other translational studies that hold promise for additional clinical
      trials in future. In the process, however, additional MECP2- and RTT-related disorders that
      were unknown at the time the original proposal have been identified. In addition, substantial
      clinical variability in individuals with RTT that cannot be explained by differences in
      mutations alone must be explored further. In fact, variability among individuals with
      identical mutations has led to the search for additional explanations. At the time of the
      initial application (2002), just three years after the identification of the gene, MECP2, as
      the molecular link to RTT, the variation in clinical disorders related to MECP2 mutations or
      to the related but quite different MECP2 Dup were unknown. Each disorder is characterized by
      significant neurodevelopmental features related either to alterations in the MECP2 gene or
      related to phenotypes closely resembling those seen in individuals with RTT. Further, the
      phenotypic overlap with RTT due to mutations in CDKL5 and FOXG1 was also unexplored. This new
      study will build on the substantial progress made in understanding both classic and variant
      RTT and to add these related disorders, MECP2 Dup and the Rett-related disorders including
      CDKL5, FOXG1, and individuals with MECP2 mutations who do not have RTT. A comprehensive
      clinical research program will be performed including clinical, neurophysiologic, and
      molecular and biochemical markers across these different, but related disorders. This
      protocol will address the natural history components only and will serve as the basis for
      other study protocols including the neurophysiologic and biomarker studies. Thereby, these
      studies will represent a continuing pathway to focus and inform not only the ongoing but also
      the emerging clinical trials.
    
  