
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Organ transplantation has emerged as the treatment of choice for patients with end-stage
      chronic disease, which is an increasing burden in industrialized and newly-industrializing
      societies. For example, the global burden of end-stage renal disease in 2017 is estimated to
      be 3,900,000 with an ~6% growth rate, which is significantly greater than world population
      growth. Today, over one million people worldwide live with organ transplants, and another
      120,000 organs transplanted each year.

      Despite progress in transplantation, allograft rejection remains a major threat to allograft
      health, with thousands of allografts failing every year worldwide due to organ rejection.
      Failed allografts create immediate and severe consequences for patients in terms of mortality
      and morbidity, while generating billions in extra costs to health care systems.

      One of the most important advances in transplant medicine was the recognition that anti-human
      lymphocyte antigen (anti-HLA) antibodies are destructive. Recently, lots of studies
      recognized the capacity of anti-HLA antibodies to activate complement and determined that
      complement activation magnifies the cytotoxic potential of these antibodies. Over the last
      decade, studies have reported that complement-activation is highly associated with allograft
      rejection and failure, with varying magnitudes of effect. In addition, more recent studies
      have suggested that beyond kidney allografts, these antibodies could have a broad universal
      deleterious effect in other solid organ transplants such a heart, liver and lung allografts.

      MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES:

      Evaluate the clinical relevance of complement-activating anti-HLA antibodies at a population
      level, by performing a meta-analysis across solid organ transplants (kidney, liver, heart and
      lung transplant patients) to determine the magnitude of the association between the presence
      of complement-activating antibody and the related risk for allograft failure and risk of
      rejection.

      DESIGN:

      This meta-analysis will report in adherence with the preferred reporting items for systematic
      reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA) and the reporting Meta-Analyses of Observational Studies
      in Epidemiology (MOOSE).

      A comprehensive search will be design and conduct by an experienced librarian with input from
      the study investigators. Controlled vocabulary supplemented with keywords will be used to
      search for complement-activating anti-human leucocyte antigen donor-specific antibodies in
      human solid organ transplantation in any language. The following databases will be included:
      Ovid MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid EMBASE, Ovid
      Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Ovid Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews,
      and Scopus.
    
  