
    
      Background and objective: Fecal occult blood test (FOBT) is a convenient tool for the
      screening of asymptomatic gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding while 「guaiac-based fecal occult
      test (G-FOBT) 」 is increasingly replaced by the use of an 「immunochemical-based test (I-FOBT)
      」 that reacts with human globin, a protein that is digested by upper GI enzymes and is
      specific for detecting lower GI bleeding. However, in Taiwan, although the incidence of
      colorectal cancer is rapidly increasing, Helicobacter pylori-related upper GI pathologies
      remain highly prevalent, which may imply that mass screening solely based on I-FOBT could be
      insufficient as significant upper GI pathologies can be missed. Since I-FOBT dose not predict
      upper GI pathologies, the adjuncts of G-FOBT and H. pylori stool-antigen test (HpSA) may be a
      potential candidate to realize a pan-detecting assay based on stool samples in a population
      in which both lower and upper GI lesions are equally prevalent.

      Patients: Our study will enroll consecutive subjects participating in the health check-up at
      National Taiwan University Hospital (Health Management Center), who will undergo I-FOBT,
      G-FOBT, HpSA, colonoscopy and EGD. The diagnostic values of three fecal testing, alone or in
      combination, will be respectively evaluated. knowing that subjects who were detected with
      gastrointestinal tract cancers might be small based on one screening setting, we also
      recruited patients who were detected with gastrointestinal tract cancers at other screening
      sites and were referred to the National Taiwan University Hospital for confirmatory diagnosis
      and treatment. They were also requested to complete the three fecal tests as well as the
      bidirectional endoscopies; however, it should be noted that, in this group of patients, those
      who completed only one of the bidirectional endoscopies were still eligible.

      Our primary hypothesis was to test whether a guaiac-based test combined with an
      immunochemical test could help differentiate occult bleeding in the upper gastrointestinal
      tract from that in the lower gastrointestinal tract. As such a hypothesis would not be held,
      we also evaluated an alternative choice based on Helicobacter pylori stool antigen test to
      catching the upper gastrointestinal tract lesions.
    
  