
    
      High grade gliomas (HGG) are the most common brain tumor in adults, with 15,000 new
      cases/year in the USA. Despite progress made using combination therapies including surgery,
      radiation and/or chemotherapy, the treatment of HGG remains challenging with a typical median
      survival of 6-12 months for patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GB) and
      24-36 months for patients with anaplastic astrocytoma. The time to tumor progression of
      patients with recurrent GBM is nine weeks and the median survival is 25 weeks, while for
      recurrent anaplastic astrocytomas (AA), the time to tumor progression is 13 weeks and the
      median survival is 47 weeks. More recently, single-agent Avastin has been seen to improve
      6-month progression-free survival (PFS-6) to 42.6% as well as increase Median Overall
      Survival to 9.3 months in patients with recurrent GBM. However, chemotherapy treatment for
      malignant gliomas has limitations given the low activity of available antineoplastic agents,
      the emergence or de-novo presence of resistance to such agents, the sensitivity of the brain
      to irreversible damage from a therapeutic modality, and the compromised delivery of these
      agents to partially privileged intracranial sites. Effective agents with novel mechanisms of
      action need to be evaluated in HGG which account for these limitations.

      With these limitations in mind, this study directs attention to two particularly appealing
      delivery modalities which may improve the efficacy of neuro-oncologic chemotherapeutic
      agents: liposomes (liposomal irinotecan) and convection enhanced delivery (CED). Liposomes
      are typically composed of double chain phospholipid amphiphiles (chemical compounds with
      combined hydrophilic and lipophilic properties) in combination with cholesterol, forming
      spheroidal bilayer membrane structures that encompass an aqueous internal domain. Based on
      structural/pharmacologic features, distinct liposome classes have been developed to package
      various therapeutic agents for the treatment of cancer. From the circulating bloodstream,
      liposomes are able to diffuse across the blood brain barrier (BBB) due to their lipophilic
      characteristics. An example is liposomal irinotecan which may reduce the toxicity of
      irinotecan to healthy tissues while maintaining or increasing its anti-tumor potency.

      CED improves chemotherapeutic delivery to brain tumors intraparenchymally by utilizing bulk
      flow, or fluid convection, established as a result of a pressure gradient, rather than a
      concentration gradient. As such, CED offers markedly improved distribution of infused
      therapeutics within the central nervous system (CNS) compared to direct injection or via drug
      eluting polymers, both of which depend on diffusion for parenchymal distribution.
      Additionally, CED obviates the challenges of systemic agents crossing the blood brain barrier
      while minimizing systemic exposure and toxicity. Through the maintenance of a pressure
      gradient from the delivery cannula tip to the surrounding tissues, CED is able to distribute
      small and large molecules, including high molecular weight proteins, to clinically
      significant target volumes centimeters rather than millimeters in diameter. Although
      developed independently, work combining the two delivery options, liposomes and CED, is
      presently underway in an effort to improve treatment efficacy in the treatment of CNS
      malignancies. This clinical trial is a step in this direction with a prospective, single-arm,
      open-label trial that delivers liposomal-irinotecan and gadolinium (which provided real time
      imaging of delivery) by CED in patients with recurrent malignant glioma.

      Added to this logic is support from a recent preclinical study at the University of
      California, San Francisco (UCSF) which compared routes of delivery for liposomal irinotecan
      (CED versus IV) and showed superior anti-tumor activity of CED administration in treating
      mice with intracranial glioblastoma xenografts. In total, such results indicate that
      liposomal formulation plus direct intratumoral administration of therapeutic are important
      for maximizing the anti-tumor effects of irinotecan and support the current clinical trial
      evaluation of this therapeutic plus CED route of administration combination.
    
  