
    
      Introduction: Diabetes mellitus is characterized by impaired arterial function and high
      incidence of cardiovascular events. Metformin and most recent antidiabetic groups of drugs,
      SGLT2 inhibitors, were in previous studies shown to reduce cardiovascular events. Until now,
      direct effect of empagliflozin on arterial function and its comparison to metformin was not
      studied yet.

      Aim: The aim of the present study is to explore and compare potential direct effects of
      empagliflozin and metformin on arterial functional and structural arterial wall
      characteristics in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus.

      Methods: Patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus are randomized into four groups: 1)
      empagliflozin (25 mg daily), 2) metformin (2000 mg daily), 3) combination (empagliflozin 25
      mg daily and metformin 2000 mg daily) and 4) control (placebo). At inclusion and after 12
      weeks treatment, arterial function is assessed: endothelial function (brachial artery
      flow-mediated dilation (FMD), reactive hyperemia index (RHI)) and arterial stiffness (carotid
      pulse wave velocity (PWV), carotid-femoral PWV (cfPWV) and common carotid artery stiffness
      (β-stiffness)).

      Background:

      Diabetes mellitus is characterized by chronic hyperglycaemia causing chronic microvascular
      and macrovascular complications. Among the microvascular complications, diabetic retinopathy,
      neuropathy and nephropathy are included. Macrovascular complications include atherosclerotic
      brain-vascular disease, coronary disease and peripheral arterial disease. Chronic
      complications of diabetes pose a greater risk of disability, development of blindness, renal
      failure, neuropathy and cardiovascular disease. Consequently, a good glycemic control is
      crucial to protect the patients from the development of chronic complications. In this
      regard, glycemic control is of primary importance, as well as the choice of treatment that
      can further improve the functioning of the arteries and thus protect against the onset of
      cardiovascular damage or complications.

      For the treatment of hyperglycemia patients with type 1 diabetes need insulin. Some oral
      anti-diabetics have been found to improve glycemic control, reduce insulin consumption (the
      total daily insulin dose), and also protect against the development of cardiovascular
      complications. Such effects have been shown in clinical studies for metformin. The latter
      improved from endothelium-dependent relaxation of the arteries and reduced insulin
      resistance, but most studies were performed in patients with type 2 diabetes and studies in
      type 1 diabetes are limited.

      A novel group of oral antidiabetics are SGLT2 inhibitors, such as empagliflozin, reduce
      glucose reabsorption in proximal kidney tubules and increase glucose excretion through urine.
      Most of the previous studies on the efficacy of empagliflozin basic antidiabetic activity and
      additional effects have been performed in patients with type 2 diabetes. They were shown to
      improve glyceamia control and also reduced blood pressure body weight. In patients with type
      1 diabetes, favorable effects of empagliflozin on the reduction of arterial wall stiffness
      and blood pressure reduction were observed, but no systematic studies were performed yet and
      the mechanisms behind the beneficial effects are not known yet.

      Methods:

      Type 1 diabetes mellitus patients are being recruited. The patients are equally randomized
      into 4 groups that receive one of the three drugs in addition to insulin. The groups were as
      follows: 1) empagliflozin group (receiving 25 mg daily), 2) metformin group (receiving 2000
      mg daily), combination group (receiving empagliflozin 25 mg daily and metformin 2000 mg
      daily) and 4) control group (receiving placebo). The duration of the study period is 12
      weeks. All subjects are voluntarily participating in this study. The study was approved by
      the National Medical Ethics Committee of Slovenia.

      At the beginning of the study, a complete history and full medical examination of each
      patient are performed. At inclusion to the study and after 12 weeks of treatment, arterial
      function measurements are performed, comprising of i) measurements of endothelial function
      (brachial artery flow-mediated dilation (FMD), reactive hyperemia index (RHI)); and ii)
      measurements of arterial stiffness (carotid artery pulse wave velocity (PWV), carotid-femoral
      PWV (cfPWV) and common carotid artery stiffness (β-stiffness)). Additionally, venous blood
      samples are obtained at the beginning and at the end of the study period. Automated
      sphygmomanometer is used for blood pressure measurements. Ultrasound measurements are
      obtained on Aloka ProSound alpha7 machine with integrated high resolution eTracking system.
      Endothelial function, by means of brachial artery FMD, was assessed in accordance to the
      current guidelines. Reactive hyperemia index is measured using Endopat 2000 device (Itamar
      Medical Ltd., Caesarea, Israel), while cfPWV is obtained using SphygmoCor device (AtCor
      Medical, Sydney, Australia) with SphygmoCor CvMS software (version 9).
    
  