
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the toxicity (detection of replication competent retrovirus)
      associated with CD34+ cells transduced with a retroviral vector expressing human
      O6-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase in adult and pediatric patients with poor prognosis
      CNS tumors. II. Determine the safety of genetic modification of cells carried out in the
      presence (ex vivo) of recombinant fibronectin (FN) fragment utilized to assist in retroviral
      entry into mammalian cells. III. Determine any evidence of engraftment of cells exposed to FN
      during retroviral transduction. IV. Determine any evidence of antibodies to FN following
      infusion of cells exposed to FN during ex vivo retroviral transduction.

      OUTLINE: Patients with surgically approachable lesions undergo maximal surgical debulking
      that allows preservation of good neurologic functioning. Harvest: Patients receive filgrastim
      (G-CSF) subcutaneously or IV beginning 4 days prior to initiation of first leukapheresis and
      continuing until completion of harvest. Peripheral blood stem cells are harvested and
      selected for CD34+ cells which are transduced with a fibronectin assisted retroviral vector
      expressing human O6-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase. Intensification: Patients receive
      oral lomustine and vincristine IV on day 0 and oral procarbazine on days 1-7. Treatment
      repeats every 4 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients with newly diagnosed tumors may undergo involved field radiotherapy
      (IF-RT) after completion of the third course of chemotherapy and may begin the fourth course
      of chemotherapy after completion of IF-RT. Transplantation: Two-thirds of the transduced
      CD34+ cells are reinfused on day 9 of the first course of chemotherapy. The remaining portion
      (one-third) of the transduced CD34+ cells are reinfused on day 9 of the second course of
      chemotherapy. Untransduced CD34+ cells are reinfused on day 9 of the last 3 courses of
      chemotherapy. Patients are followed every 3 months for 6 months, every 4 months for 1 year,
      every 6 months through year 5, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 15-20 patients will be accrued for this study within 1 year.
    
  