
    
      Friedreich ataxia (FA) is a multi-system progressive disorder with the most prevalent and
      prominent symptoms relating to dysfunction in the central and peripheral nervous system,
      including, loss of balance and coordination, frequent falls, loss of ambulation, dysarthria,
      dysphagia and loss of vision and hearing. Other symptoms include cardiomyopathy, diabetes,
      scoliosis and fatigue. Age of onset can vary but most often presents during childhood, ages
      5-15 years.

      There is currently no cure and no disease-modifying treatment. Drug candidates to potentially
      treat FA are under development; however, there is a lack of well- characterized neuroimaging
      biomarkers for testing their efficacy in clinical trials, hampering this process.
      Establishing disease-specific neuroimaging biomarkers to track disease progression requires
      high-quality longitudinal data from large cohorts of patients, compared to controls. In rare
      diseases, such as FA, this can only be achieved through multi-site collaboration.

      The aim of TRACK-FA is to develop an FA neuroimaging dataset from brain and spinal cord that
      is suitable for assessing the potential value of neuroimaging biomarkers and providing a
      basis for instituting them in clinical trials. The dataset will comprise a range of
      neuroimaging measures to assess changes in spinal cord and brain regions that have previously
      shown to be compromised in individuals with FA. In addition to neuroimaging measures,
      TRACK-FA will also include clinical, cognitive data and biospecimen data. The TRACK-FA
      dataset will provide a unique opportunity for academic researchers in collaboration with
      industry partners to access the images, subsidiary data, and associated clinical data for
      community research.

      This multi-centre study is a collaborative effort across six academic institutions, together
      with industry partners and the Friedreich's Ataxia Research Alliance USA (FARA).
    
  