
    
      Office hysteroscopy (OH) and endometrial biopsy (EMB) is increasingly performed for
      evaluation of various gynecologic conditions. It has replaced traditional dilatation and
      curettage for evaluation of intrauterine pathology. It is more acceptable to most women as it
      is quick, safe and cost effective with higher diagnostic accuracy. However, pain encountered
      at the time of procedure is a major limitation and at times lead to incomplete procedure. The
      variables that influence women's experience of pain during these procedures are nulliparity,
      menopausal status, pre-existing anxious state, use of tenaculum, presence of synechiae in the
      cervical canal, and duration of procedure.

      The average pain score recorded at the end of procedures when OH and EMB were performed
      simultaneously was 7 on a 10 cm VAS scale (Visual analogue scale) 5 among pre and post
      menopausal women who received pre-procedure analgesia in the form of oral Non-Steroidal Anti
      Inflammatory drug (NSAID) and application of local anesthetic gel. Among patients where only
      intracervical topical anesthetic injection was used, the pain score at the end of OH and EMB
      was 9.22 (low pain) and 11.52 (moderate pain), respectively, on a 20cm VAS. Most women
      describe EMB as "moderately" or "severely" painful6. A significant source of pain during
      endometrial sampling is placement of tenaculum on the cervix. Interventions that have been
      studied to reduce pain with EMB include misoprostol for cervical ripening, intrauterine
      lidocaine infusion, paracervical block, and pre-procedure NSAIDs. The results are variable
      with modest benefit on pain with only an intrauterine lidocaine infusion with or without
      NSAID or/and misoprostol. Similarly, during OH also, there are multiple points where women
      experience pain. It can be during tenaculum placement, introduction of the hysteroscope,
      distension of uterine cavity, intrauterine procedures, and withdrawal of scope. Out of many
      interventions evaluated, local anesthesia via paracervical block provided consistent
      decreases in intraoperative and postoperative pain scores. There were mixed data on efficacy
      of intracervical blocks and no evidence to support the use of intrauterine anesthesia or
      topical gels, sprays, or creams. Premedication with opioid analgesics or NSAIDs do not confer
      benefit in pain management during office hysteroscopy. Misoprostol for cervical ripening
      prior to diagnostic hysteroscopy neither reduce pain nor facilitate the procedure for
      hysteroscopes with diameters of less than 6 mm in premenopausal women, but there may be a
      benefit in postmenopausal women. In contrast, another systematic review examining use of
      misoprostol before hysteroscopy found that misoprostol given to premenopausal women reduced
      the need for cervical dilatation and the incidence of cervical laceration.

      Misoprostol is a prostaglandin E1 analog that was first marketed in the 1980s to prevent
      gastric ulcer. It can be administered sublingually, orally, vaginally, or rectally. Peak
      serum levels are achieved after vaginal administration. The plasma concentration increases
      gradually after vaginal administration, reaching its maximum level after 70-80 minutes.
      Misoprostol is commonly used in gynecology for inducing dilatation of the cervix for
      termination of pregnancy and removing retained products of conception. It helps in
      non-pregnant women to dilate the cervix and provides easy access to the uterine cavity for
      transcervical procedures such as hysteroscopy and intrauterine device placement. To evaluate
      the optimal dose of vaginal misoprostol for cervical priming before operative hysteroscopy,
      low dose (200mcg) and high dose (400 mcg) misoprostol was compared in a recent randomized
      control trial. They found no difference in perioperative dilatation time, and subjective
      difficulty of cervical dilatation assessed by surgeons. However, the incidence of misoprostol
      related adverse events such as abdominal pain, pre-insertion nausea and cramping were less in
      the group who received 200 mcg misoprostol. But it is important to note that even 200 mcg
      misoprostol is associated with 50% incidence of abdominal cramping. Since we would be
      conducting outpatient diagnostic procedures only, we propose that use of 50 mcg misoprostol
      would lead to adequate cervical dilatation to successfully complete the OH and EMB with lower
      incidence of associated complications (abdominal cramping, vaginal bleeding, and nausea).
      Moreover, it is important to note that the standard operating procedure of the fibroid and
      endometriosis center has been the administration of 50 mcg misoprostol to patients undergoing
      simultaneous OH and EMB. This practice that has been ongoing for over 12 months has provided
      very favorable results. No other study has evaluated the efficacy of such a low dose and it
      would be interesting to explore the minimal effective dose, which can be used for
      simultaneous OH and EMB to yield effective results in terms of lower pain scores and lower
      incidence of associated complications. As mentioned previously, studies evaluating the role
      of misoprostol in alleviating overall pain during OH and EMB had mixed reviews. But those
      studies have been performed in the general population. It is important to note that there are
      subgroups of women (previous cesarean section, nulliparous, postmenopausal, previous loop
      surgery) who more often need dilatation of the cervix to facilitate passage of the
      hysteroscope. Therefore, this trial will focus on these subgroups to assess whether the use
      of prostaglandin analogue provides clinically significant reduction in pain, reduces the need
      for dilatation and incidence of genital trauma and whether these benefits outweigh the
      potential harms (bleeding, laceration, abdominal cramping, fever etc.)
    
  