
    
      Study Parts and Study Drug Dose Levels:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will start Part 1 of the
      study. During Part 1, you will receive the study drugs before having a stem cell transplant.
      If the disease is well controlled after the transplant and you are still eligible, you will
      start Part 2. During Part 2, you will continue to receive romidepsin. The study treatments
      given in each part are described in more detail below.

      The dose of romidepsin you receive will depend on when you join this study. The first group
      of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose
      than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until
      the highest tolerable dose of romidepsin is found.

      All participants will receive the same dose level of fludarabine. Busulfan dose levels are
      explained below.

      Study Drug Administration and Transplant (Part 1):

      The days before you receive the stem cell transplant are called minus days. The day you
      receive the stem cell transplant is called Day 0. The days after you receive the stem cell
      transplant are called plus days.

      On Days -13 and -12, you will receive busulfan by vein over 3 hours. Blood (about 1 teaspoon
      each time) will then be drawn for pharmacokinetic (PK) testing up to 11 times over the 11
      hours after the first busulfan dose. PK testing measures the amount of study drug in the body
      at different time points. The study staff will tell you more about the PK testing schedule.
      The test results will help the doctor decide what dose of busulfan you will receive during
      the study.

      A heparin lock line will be placed in your vein before the PK testing to lower the number of
      needle sticks needed for these draws. If for any reason it is not possible for the PK tests
      to be performed, you will receive the standard dose of busulfan.

      On Day -7, you will be admitted to the hospital.

      On Day -6 through -3, you will receive romidepsin by vein over 4 hours, fludarabine by vein
      over 1 hour, and then busulfan by vein over 3 hours. PK testing up to 11 times over 11 hours
      will also be performed on Day -6 if the doctor thinks it is needed.

      If you are going to be receiving a transplant from a matched unrelated donor, you will also
      receive antithymocyte globulin (ATG) by vein over 4 hours on the 3 days before the
      transplant. This drug is designed to further weaken your immune system to reduce the risk of
      rejecting of the transplant.

      Beginning on Day -2, you will receive tacrolimus by vein over 24 hours every day until you
      are able to take it by mouth. Tacrolimus is designed to weaken the immune system and lower
      the risk of graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD - a reaction of the donor's immune cells against
      your body). Once you are able to take tacrolimus by mouth, you will take it every day for
      about 3 months, or until the doctor thinks it is safe to stop taking.

      On Day 0, you will receive the donor's stem cells by vein. The infusion will last anywhere
      from about 30 minutes to several hours.

      On Days +1, +3, +6, and +11, you will receive methotrexate by vein over about 15 minutes.
      Methotrexate is also designed to weaken the immune system and lower the risk of GVHD.

      If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will be given other standard drugs to help lower the
      risk of side effects. You may ask the study staff for more information about how the drugs
      are given and their risks.

      Romidepsin Maintenance Therapy (Part 2):

      Starting between Day +28 and Day +100, if you are eligible for Part 2 based on the disease
      status, you will continue to receive romidepsin by vein over 1 hour once or twice a month.
      You may receive the doses at MD Anderson or at an oncologist's office close to where you
      live. The study doctor will discuss this with you.

      Study Visits:

      As a baseline test at the beginning of the study (within 7 days before starting romidepsin),
      blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for comparison purposes to learn if and how
      romidepsin may affect the disease and your immune system. If a bone marrow aspirate will be
      performed at this time, additional bone marrow aspirate will be collected for testing to see
      how romidepsin may have affected the disease and your immune system.

      You will remain in the hospital for as long as the doctor thinks is needed.

      Whenever your doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 2 tablespoons) and/or urine will be
      collected for routine tests.

      About ½-1, 3, 6, and 12 months after the transplant:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 8 tablespoons) will be drawn to see how well the transplant has taken and
           to learn if and how romidepsin may have affected the disease and your immune system.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a bone marrow aspiration to check the
           status of the disease. To collect a bone marrow aspirate, an area of the hip or other
           site is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a
           large needle. Additional bone marrow aspirate will be collected for testing to see how
           romidepsin may have affected the disease and your immune system.

      The above tests/procedures may be performed sooner, if your doctor thinks they are needed.
      You may also have additional tests if your doctor thinks they are needed.

      Before your first dose of romidepsin in Parts 1 and 2:

        -  You will have an electrocardiogram (EKG) to check your heart function.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn to learn if and how romidepsin may have
           affected the disease and your immune system. Part of this blood sample will be used for
           a pregnancy test if you can become pregnant.

      If you are in Part 2, every 2 weeks (before each dose of romidepsin), blood (about 4
      tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. Part of this blood sample will be used for a
      pregnancy test if you can become pregnant. This may be repeated more often, if your doctor
      thinks it is needed.

      If you are in Part 2, once a month:

        -  You will have an EKG.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

      Part 2 participants may have the blood tests done before each romidepsin dose and monthly
      EKGs and physical exams performed either at MD Anderson or your local oncologist's office. If
      they are performed locally, the results should be sent to the study staff. You will need to
      return to MD Anderson to have tests and procedures performed at 3, 6, and 12 months after the
      transplant.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive up to 4 doses of romidepsin in Part 1. You may also receive chemotherapy on
      certain days between Day -13 and Day -3, and the stem cell transplant on Day 0. In Part 2,
      you may receive up to 24 cycles of romidepsin maintenance therapy as part of the study.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits. After 1 year, you
      will have routine follow-up with your transplant doctor.

      You may be taken off study early if the doctor thinks it is in your best interest, if the
      disease gets worse or comes back, if intolerable side effects occur, if you have graft
      failure (the transplanted cells do not grow), or if you are unable to follow study
      directions.

      If for any reason you want to leave the study early, you must talk to the study doctor. It
      may be life-threatening to leave the study after you have started to receive the study drugs
      but before you receive the stem cell transplant because your blood cell counts will be
      dangerously low.
    
  