
    
      There is a pressing need for techniques that allow detection of cancer at an earlier stage
      when curative treatment is more likely. Exhaled biomarkers are known to reflect a wide range
      of metabolic processes, including those related to cancer such as the Warburg effect.
      Owlstone Medical Ltd (hereafter referred to as Owlstone Medical) has developed Breath Biopsy;
      a workflow to collect and analyse breath Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) in a highly
      standardised way. The PAN-study is a collaborative effort between Cambridge University
      Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (CUH), University of Cambridge (UoC), Cancer Research United
      Kingdom (CRUK) and Owlstone Medical to evaluate the potential of Breath Biopsy to detect
      various types of cancer by profiling breath metabolites.

      The PAN-cancer Early Detection study or PAN-study is a prospective cross-sectional
      observational case-control study evaluating whether Breath Biopsy can differentiate between
      patients with and without different cancer types by comparing breath biomarkers for a range
      of cancer types including patients with gastric, oesophageal, and liver cancer.

      The research may be extended to include also pancreatic, renal, prostate and bladder cancer
      patients, however in agreement between Cambridge University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust,
      University of Cambridge, CRUK and Owlstone Medical recruitment in these arms will not start
      until further notice. When recruitment is planned to start in these arms, Owlstone Medical
      will ensure to notify the REC. Subjects with a histologically confirmed cancer will be
      recruited from CUH by local research staff. Breath samples will be collected by means of the
      ReCIVA breath sampler which requires tidal breathing into a face mask for around 10 minutes.
      A cancer free control subject matched for age, sex and tumour specific risk factors will be
      recruited and sampled. Breath samples will be shipped to Owlstone Medical for analysis of
      breath biomarkers by Gas Chromatography-Time Of Flight-Mass Spectrometry (GC-TOF-MS) and Gas
      Chromatography-Field Asymmetric Ion Mobility Spectrometry (GC-FAIMS).

      This study will be the first step towards evaluating VOCs analysis as a test to improve early
      detection rates for cancer with future applicability to primary care. Ultimately, such a
      research program could enable low cost and widespread targeted screening programs for cancer.

      In a subset of up to 12 patients with cirrhosis and 12 healthy volunteers, a sub study will
      be conducted to measure the washout of limonene after ingestion of a standardised quantity of
      limonene under controlled circumstance for food and drink intake.

      The objective of this limonene sub-study is to demonstrate that limonene is a biomarker that
      differentiates between healthy individuals and cirrhotic patients with Child-Pugh grade A and
      B with or without HCC as a comorbidity.

      Participants will be asked to visit the clinical site to provide 4 breath samples at
      different timepoints before and after ingestion of limonene. Participants will be asked to
      fast overnight for 10 hours, not to have brushed their teeth for 2 hours prior to first
      breath sample and not be a current smoker or should not have smoked in the past 6 months.
      Non-abstinent patients with alcohol related liver disease or participants who drink to excess
      daily will be excluded from this sub-study.
    
  