
    
      Breast milk, with its unique and inimitable characteristics, is the ideal feeding for
      full-term babies. The maternal diet strongly influences the composition of milk, in
      particular, its lipid proflie, which provides about 50% of the infant's energy needs. In
      particular, the polyunsaturated fatty acid fraction may varies according ethnic origin and
      diet habit.

      Docosahexaenoic acid or DHA (22: 6 n-3), a long chain fatty acid from the omega 3 series,
      plays a fundamental role in neurogenesis and neurotransmission as well as in vision, as it is
      present in both brain, particularly in neural synapses, and in retinal photoreceptors. In
      particular, the brain grows rapidly from birth to the first year of life, and this growth
      must be supported by the adequate and balanced intake of all fatty acids; among these we have
      seen that DHA has a priority role. Observational studies have shown that higher
      concentrations in breast milk and / or maternal and / or neonatal DHA blood are associated
      with greater visual acuity, language development, psychomotor development, attention and
      higher IQ scores in children. The paucity of DHA in the maternal diet of Western countries,
      and the low conversion rate of α-linolenic acid or ALA (18: 3 n-3) in DHA in humans babies,
      may result in an insufficient supply for the newborn brain.

      Most of the prospective studies carried out in this area have evaluated the effects of
      maternal supplementation of fish oils, algal oils, chia oil, linseed oil. At present, the
      positive association between the frequency of fish consumption and DHA levels in breast milk
      has only been evaluated in retrospective studies.

      On these basis, the purpose of this randomized clinical trial is the evaluation of the
      efficacy of a dietary counseling specifically aimed at increasing the intake of ALA and its
      long-chain derivatives on the lipid profile of breast milk. Women in the intervention group
      will be provided an informative scheme on food options with the highest content of the
      aforementioned polyunsaturated fatty acids. The expected result, at 3 months after delivery,
      in the intervention group is an increase of DHA in breast milk 80% higher than the value
      found in the control group (women on a free diet). Dietary habits at enrollment and actual
      intakes will be recorded for 1 week before the two milk samplings. The research is also aimed
      at verifying the efficacy of a nutritional educational intervention, without strict
      preordained schemes, and above all without the aid of dietary supplements.
    
  