
    
      Keratoconus is a corneal degeneration characterized by bilateral conical protusion and
      corneal thinning. The course of the disease varies from slight irregular astigmatism to
      severe visual impairment due to increasing protrusion and subepithelial scarring. There is no
      treatment available that can stop keratoconus progression. Thus, because of its progressive
      nature, keratoconus is the most frequent reason for keratoplasty worldwide in the past 3
      decades.

      The collagen crosslinking (CXL) technique using riboflavin and ultraviolet - A (UVA) light
      was recently developed to counteract the progressive corneal thinning, and thus the
      progression of keratoconus. With crosslinking, additional covalent binding between collagen
      molecules can be achieved, which stabilizes the collagen scaffold and enhances corneal
      resistance.

      Prospective longitudinal randomized case-control study including progressive keratoconus
      cases is addressed to evaluate the effectiveness of collagen cross linking (CXL) in reducing
      progression of mild and moderate progressive keratoconus. Progression is based on increase in
      the cone apex keratometry of - 0,75 D, alteration of - 0,75 D in the spherical equivalent or
      increase of the anterior chamber depth on Pentacan, in a period of at least six months. All
      patients must be between 15 and 40 year old and are randomized and allocated in the treated
      or the control groups. Complete exam before and after exam included best corrected visual
      acuity, refraction, IOP, fundoscopy, imaging exams such as corneal computerized topographic,
      pentacan, orbscan, ultrasound pachymetry, esthesiometry, endothelial cell count, HRT II
      system confocal microscopy, optic coherence tomography (VISANTE), ORA , optic coherence
      tomography (Stratus OCT) and dynamic contour tonometry . All the exams are repeated 1, 3, 6
      and 12 months after the procedure. The cross linking is performed as follows: after topical
      anesthesia, the epithelial tissue is removed in a 8.0mm diameter area of the central cornea,
      the 0,1% riboflavin solution is applied every 2 min, for 30 min followed by cornea
      irradiation with UVA light with a wavelength of 370 nm and an irradiance of 3 mW/cm2. During
      the irradiation, drops of the riboflavin solution is continuously applied onto the cornea
      every 5 min.
    
  