
    
      Injuries from falls are a leading cause of emergency visits, hospitalizations, and deaths in
      older US adults, resulting in total lifetime costs of more than $19 billion in 2000. Fall
      injuries reduce independence and mobility, and increase disability and institutionalization.
      There is good evidence that community-based group exercise classes focusing on strength and
      balance prevent older adult falls, but uptake is limited. This study will test a new approach
      to promote participation in group balance-retraining exercise classes, targeting older adults
      in faith-based congregations. The proposal addresses national research priorities to evaluate
      strategies for dissemination and implementation of effective interventions to prevent falls
      among community-dwelling older adults. Focus groups and key informant interviews will provide
      research-based understanding of church members aged 60+ and those who influence them, and
      explore facilitators and barriers to class participation. With this formative research, a
      targeted social marketing program will be developed to motivate participation. Behavioral
      change and social marketing theories form the intervention's theoretical basis and will guide
      program design. The marketing program aims to increase class attractiveness, usability, and
      uptake by reducing barriers or costs and using incentives or other benefits to reinforce
      participation. Churches, representing varied denominations and communities, will be randomly
      allocated to intervention (marketing program implementation) or control (no program) groups.
      Outreach to diverse churches will ensure that materials and strategies target potentially
      hard-to-reach (e.g., Hispanic, rural) populations. The trial will test whether older adult
      members of intervention churches are more likely to join balance retraining classes. Factors
      that may mediate intervention effects will be examined. Secondary outcomes include baseline
      fall risk among class participants, assessed by physical function tests; and intensity,
      diffusion, message penetration and acceptability of the marketing program, and persistent
      facilitators and barriers to class participation, evaluated with process measures, focus
      groups, and structured interviews.
    
  