
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether autologous transplantation of mobilized CD34+ peripheral blood stem
           cells (PBSC) can provide complete hematologic reconstitution after myeloablative
           chemotherapy comprising etoposide (VP-16) and carboplatin (CBDCA) in patients with
           metastatic or recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma, neuroblastoma, Ewing's sarcoma/primitive
           neuroectodermal tumor, germ cell tumors, childhood brain tumors, or hepatoblastoma.

        -  Determine the frequency and yield of CD34+ PBSC and granulocyte-macrophage
           colony-forming units (GM-CFU) that are mobilized, harvested, and purified after a single
           priming course of high-dose cyclophosphamide (CTX) followed by filgrastim (G-CSF).

        -  Correlate the number of CD34+ cells and GM-CFU in the autologous PBSC graft with time to
           engraftment of white blood cells, neutrophils, and platelets in these patients.

        -  Determine the optimal day of PBSC harvest after a single priming course of high-dose CTX
           and G-CSF in these patients.

        -  Determine whether CD34+ PBSC rescue and daily post-transplantation G-CSF decrease the
           time to hematopoietic recovery after high-dose VP-16 and CBDCA compared to historical
           results achieved in similar patients rescued with bone marrow.

        -  Compare the tumor cell content of marrow, mobilized blood, and purified CD34+ PBSC graft
           preparations.

        -  Determine the optimal timing of PBSC mobilization and harvest in relation to extent of
           prior chemotherapy in these patients.

        -  Determine the feasibility of a single leukapheresis for PBSC harvest in children.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the antitumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of cyclophosphamide.

      Mobilization/harvest: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 90 minutes on day 0 and
      filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously or IV over 30 minutes on days 2-15 or until blood counts
      recover. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are harvested and selected for CD34+ cells on day
      15. Bone marrow is also harvested in case insufficient PBSC are harvested.

      Preparative regimen/transplantation: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour and
      etoposide IV continuously on days -6 to -4. Cyclophosphamide is administered IV over 1 hour
      on days -3 and -2 or IV continuously on days -3 and -2, -4 to -2, -5 to -2, or -6 to -2. PBSC
      or bone marrow is reinfused on day 0.

      Cohorts of 3-10 patients receive escalating doses of cyclophosphamide until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the highest dose at which 20% of
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      At least 6 additional patients receive cyclophosphamide at the MTD.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 36 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  