
    
      Sleep disturbance is common among older people due to age-related changes in sleep, in
      addition to health conditions, psychosocial issues, medication effects and a variety of other
      factors that impact sleep. The evidence that insomnia has negative effects on health and
      quality of life in older adults is convincing. Prior research has demonstrated that insomnia
      symptoms are even more common among veterans compared to the general population. Our own work
      has demonstrated that sleep problems are associated with depressive symptoms and other
      impairments in quality of life in older people, and that nonpharmacological and behavioral
      interventions can improve sleep in a variety of settings.

      Objectives: We tested two methods of providing behavioral sleep interventions for treating
      insomnia in older veterans. The long-term objective of this work was to identify ways to
      improve access to behavioral sleep interventions for older veterans, in order to improve
      their well-being and quality of life.

      Methods: This project was conducted in outpatient clinics of the VA Greater Los Angeles
      Healthcare System. Community-dwelling older veterans (aged 60 years and older) with insomnia
      were identified by a postal survey. Enrolled veterans with insomnia (N=150, 50 per group)
      were randomized to one of three groups:Individual Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia
      (Individual-CBTI), Group-CBTI, or group-based Sleep Education Control Condition (Control).
      The intervention involved a manual-based behavioral sleep intervention provided by a
      non-clinician sleep coach. Baseline data included subjective and objective measures of sleep,
      and structured assessments of depression and quality of life. Post-treatment assessments was
      performed after completion of the 6-week intervention, and follow-up assessments were
      performed at 6-months and 12-months after randomization. Main outcome measures were: sleep
      measures obtained from sleep diaries (i.e., sleep onset latency, wake after sleep onset,
      total wake time, sleep efficiency). Sleep efficiency was also obtained from wrist actigraphy.
      Subjective sleep quality was measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Insomnia
      severity, depression and self-reported quality of life were measured as secondary outcomes.
      Data were analyzed for all randomized participants (n=159) in an intention to treat analysis.
      The study was not designed to compare differences in primary outcomes between individual and
      group CBT-I. Subjects who received individual and group CBT-I were pooled to form the
      intervention group. We hypothesized that the intervention would improve sleep (both
      objectively and subjectively) at six-month follow-up and improvements would be maintained at
      12-month follow-up.
    
  