
    
      The ptosis is divided into light, medium and severe according to the difference in muscle
      strength of the upper levator muscle. According to the previous diagnosis and treatment
      criteria, for the mild and moderate ptosis, it is recommended to use the method of shortening
      or partial resection of the levator muscle. For severe patients, because the strength of the
      upper levator muscles are extremely weak, the function of the upper eye lid can only be
      reconstructed through the strength of the frontal muscles. So it is recommended to use the
      frontal muscle flap surgery for correct ptosis. However, compared with the levator levator
      shortening, the shortcoming of the frontal muscle suspension is to change the nature
      anatomical relationship of the upper eyelid, resulting in unnatural eye lid lines, obvious
      frontal lines, easy recurrence and other shortcomings. In the case, this therapy turns out
      not to be very satisfied.

      Based on years of clinical experience in treating ptosis, our research team have tried to use
      the levator muscle shortening combined with the tarsus resection method for more than 10
      years. We have successfully cured more than 1000 patients with severe ptosis and obtained
      good therapeutic effects. The results are summarized and the sequence is published in several
      international journals and is recognized by domestic and foreign counterparts. However, for
      the new procedure of levator muscle shortening combined with tarsus resection, there is
      currently no comparative study with traditional therapy, and it is impossible to objectively
      evaluate its efficacy. Secondly, how to improve the long-term effect of levator muscle
      shortening combined with tarsus resection, whether the eyelid morphology is satisfactory, and
      the recurrence rate has not been reported. In addition, because the tarsus plays an important
      role in the shape and function of the eye, including maintaining the function of the tarsus
      and keeping the cornea moist, etc., the effect of partial removal of the tarsus on the
      original tarsus function is also worthy of further investigation.

      Based on the original clinical results, the project team designed a randomized controlled
      single-blind study to compare the efficacy and safety of the levator muscle shortening
      combined with the tarsal resection and the traditional frontal muscle flap in the correction
      of severe ptosis. At the same time, to explore the dose-effect relationship between the
      shortening of the levator muscle and the amount of tarsal resection and the amount of
      correction of the ptosis after operation, the surgical design is more precise and
      personalized, which provides a scientific basis for further development of clinical diagnosis
      and treatment guidelines.
    
  