
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis is the most common form of inflammatory arthritis. It is a condition
      where the body's joints become swollen and damaged. Currently, the approach used to manage
      rheumatoid arthritis is the so-called 'Treat to Target' approach. The aim of this approach to
      treatment is to achieve the absence of signs and symptoms, or best possible state of low
      disease activity. It requires the use of frequent routine clinical assessments to help
      determine what treatment to use. Ultrasound imaging (using sound waves to take images of the
      joints and surrounding tissues) has been shown to be better than standard clinical
      measurements in detecting disease activity. Doctors are already using ultrasound imaging as
      part of their decisionmaking, in terms of diagnosis and altering treatments, but it is has
      not been clearly shown if this is associated with a better control of the disease.

      Participants will be randomly put into 1 of 2 treatment groups (standard treatment group or
      the imaging group). All patients will also undergo the ultrasound assessment. In the standard
      treatment arm, the doctor will not know the ultrasound result and will base treatment on the
      routine disease activity score alone. In the imaging group, doctors will use routine clinical
      disease activity score plus the ultrasound result to make decisions on which treatment is
      given and treatment will be increased if necessary. However, for patients in the imaging
      group, even if their rheumatoid arthritis remains stable as judged by the disease activity
      score, treatment will be increased based on signs of active disease on the ultrasound.

      Participation will last for 2 years. During the study participants will be required to attend
      8 clinic visits. Approximately 400 patients from a number of countries in Europe and Japan
      are expected to take part in the study.
    
  