
    
      BackgroundRadiation therapy is an important component of treatment for breast cancer,
      especially in the setting of breast conservation. Even though cancer patients who are
      receiving radiation treatments follow established hygiene and skin-care protocols they still
      experience differing degrees of cutaneous skin reactions and associated symptoms of dryness,
      itchiness, burning sensations, and pain.1-7 For some patients the side-effects associated
      with radiation therapy can become so severe serious consideration is given to discontinuing
      treatments. The treatments currently used for reducing cutaneous reactions and symptoms are
      very limited and often ineffective.5-7 Anti-inflammatories and steroid-based topical
      pharmaceutical agents are used sparingly due in part to research findings8 and potential
      harmful side-effects.7 This has left physicians and patients using a trial and error approach
      in seeking an alternative treatment that will help these patients cope with (and sometimes
      endure) the cutaneous radiation side-effects. Ongoing clinical experience and discussions
      with present and former radiation patients reveals that skin irritation, breakdown, pain and
      associated suffering are common side-effects that patients wish they did not have to
      experience. The lack of effective, efficient, non-pharmacological treatments for reducing
      symptoms associated with cutaneous skin reactions to radiation cancer therapy is problematic.
      Study Objectives the overall aim of the study is to determine if biologically active A.
      barbadensis is a therapeutic agent for reduction of cutaneous side effects women experience
      as a result of undergoing radiation therapy for breast cancer.The primary aim is to determine
      if there is a significant reduction or increase of cutaneous skin reactions using A.
      barbadensis on the irradiated skin of the breast or chest wall in comparison to following the
      standard CCI non-pharmacological treatment protocol and in comparison to using the moist
      inert vehicle gel on the irradiated site.The secondary aim is to explore if there is a
      reduction or increase in subjective symptoms at the irradiated site with the use of A.
      barbadensis in comparison to following the standard CCI 'best care' non-pharmacological
      treatment protocol and in comparison to using the moist inert vehicle gel on the irradiated
      site.MethodThis study is a single blind randomized controlled trial using a three Arm design.
      Analysis stratification is being conducted according to radiation technique, breast size,
      smoker vs. non-smoker, nutrition, protocol adherence, and prior chemotherapy. The control arm
      will treat the skin reaction as per standard CCI breast radiation protocol
    
  