
    
      Far infrared light (FIR, 5.6-1000 µm) penetrates our skin and reaches the underlying tissue
      up to 4 cm and promotes widening of the blood vessels (vasodilation). This results in
      increased blood flow in the tissue under the skin, without heating up the skin itself.
      Increased blood flow allows more oxygen to reach the muscles and more metabolic waste
      products to be transported away from the muscles. Thus, exposure to FIR might aid the process
      of recovery in muscle groups lying close to the skin.

      Indeed several research groups could show that exposure to FIR aids recovery. 30 min intense
      far infrared exposure enhanced recovery from exercise-induced muscle damage in highly trained
      runners. Studies assessing clothing containing an FDA approved ceramic particles covered yarn
      that reflect FIR light showed delayed onset muscle pain decreased and a reduction in
      inflammatory markers.

      Since a large part of our recovery takes place during sleep it is of interest to assess the
      effect of FIR on night-time recovery and sleep itself. One study showed that FIR exposure
      during sleep increased the amount of non-rem sleep in rats. This effect has not been
      replicated in humans, possibly because increased temperature is not beneficial for sleep and
      thus should be kept constant. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of far
      infrared reflecting sleepwear on night-time recovery and sleep.

      Sleepwear of a breathing and thermoregulating material, with a layer of FIR reflecting
      minerals printed on the outer surface, will be assessed. Physically active males are invited
      to participate in two bouts of exercise in the lab, separated by one week. The exercise bout
      targets one leg, the second week the other leg is exercised. Starting the protocol with the
      dominant/non-dominant leg (determined in first session) will be randomized. Participants will
      then wear the FIR reflecting sleepwear and placebo sleepwear respectively at home for the 7
      nights following each bout of exercise.

      To assess sleep quality activity will be measured using wrist worn activity trackers. To
      assess recovery physical performance will be measured (max. single leg force and jump
      height), knee range of motion and thigh circumference of each leg at before each exercise
      bout, after each exercise bout and at three days after each exercise bout. Per exercise bout
      muscle soreness will be induced in one leg of the two legs respectively, to account for a
      repeated bout effect.

      It is hypothesized that more overnight recovery takes place during nights with FIR reflecting
      sleepwear compared to nights with placebo sleepwear.
    
  