
    
      Cardiopulmonary exercise test: The test will be performed according to the recommendations of
      the American Thoracic Society and American College of Chest Physician.The variables to be
      measured includes maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max), maximal ventilation (Vemax), respiratory
      quotient (RQ), peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2), subjective levels of dyspnea and fatigue
      in the legs (modified BORG scale), pulse oxygen (VO2/HR) and maximal heart rate (HRmax).
      During the test, the individuals will be asked to walk for 2 minutes to adapt to the
      treadmill, with a speed of 3 km/h and without inclination. After that, there will be
      increments in the speed of 0.5 Km/h, every minute, with a fixed slope of 3%, until the end of
      the test. All individuals will be encouraged to keep the pace until signs of exhaustion or
      limiting symptoms appear (dyspnea, leg pain and/or dizziness). To be considered a maximal
      test, at least three of the following criteria should be observed: exhaustion or inability to
      maintain the required speed, RQ>1.10, maximal achieved HR>85% of the estimated HR (formula:
      220- Age) and the presence of a plateau in the VO2max.

      Interactive Video Games: Participants will use Nintendo Wii for 10 minutes and then use Xbox
      One for 10 minutes, taking a 10-minute rest between one console and another. During the two
      video games, patients will use a Neoprene mask to collect gases, including maximal oxygen
      (VO2), carbon dioxide (CO2), maximal ventilation (VEmax), respiratory quotient (RQ) and the
      metabolic equivalents for oxygen (VE/VO2) and for carbon dioxide (VE/VCO2). In addition,
      peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2), subjective levels of dyspnea and fatigue in the legs
      (modified BORG scale), pulse oxygen (VO2/HR) and maximal heart rate (HRmax) before and after
      Intervention will be collected.

      Accelerometer: All participants will use an accelerometer while playing in the interactive
      video games. This equipment will be used on the left side of the waist. The results of the
      physical activity variables will be expressed as mean counts/min, as a mean indicator of the
      intensity of physical activity. In addition, the time spent in activities according to their
      intensity will be classified as sedentary (<100 counts), mild (≥100 counts) and moderate to
      vigorous (>2296 counts).

      Scales: In the OMNI scale, individuals point out on a scale of 0 to 10 the fatigue level,
      where 0 is very easy and 10 is very difficult.Also, the level of satisfaction will be
      evaluated using a 5-point Likert scale where 1 represents no satisfaction and 5 much
      satisfaction.
    
  