
    
      This study will use a cluster (facility) randomized trial with 3 arms; patients receiving 3
      monthly ART supply at facilities-standard of care (3MF) (Control group), patients receiving 3
      monthly ART supply at newly formed CARGs (3MC) and patients receiving 6 monthly ART supply at
      newly formed CARGs (6MC). Participants will be followed up for 24 months. A total of 30 study
      clusters (facilities) will be randomization, into the three study arms; 10 clusters per arm
      stratified 2 urban, 8 rural.

      Study Setting and study population The study population is HIV-infected adults over the age
      of 18 years recruited from health facilities in U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS
      Relief (PEPFAR) Zimbabwe scale-up districts (using existing national records of patients in
      the ART registers) that have been stable on a standard first-line ART treatment regimen for
      at least 6 months.

      Facilities from Chitungwiza Municipality, Matebeleland South Province, Masvingo Province and
      Mberengwa district will be purposively selected to be the urban/periurban and rural settings
      in the study. These areas were selected as they have PEPFAR Zimbabwe scale-up priority
      facilities, high numbers of patients on ART and have prioritized implementation of CARGs.
      These locations are also viewed to be good representations of PEPFAR Zimbabwe scale-up
      priority facilities, hence are likely to improve the generalizability of the study findings
      to the study population. As contexts differ between rural and urban/periurban settings, it is
      important to determine the effectiveness of MMD within CARGs within both contexts.

      Sampling and Sample size Sample sizes were determined for a cluster-randomized noninferiority
      trial, using PASS v.14 (TM) software. Sample size estimates were calculated for the primary
      outcome of retention in care at 12 months. The probability of patient attrition twelve months
      after study enrolment in the control group (3MF) is assumed to be 5%, derived from the
      relative difference in patient retention between 12 and 24 months from the 2015 Zimbabwe
      UNAIDS Global AIDS Response progress report. An intracluster correlation coefficient (ICC) of
      0.01 for patient retention/attrition amongst stable ART patients is assumed. The
      noninferiority limit is specified as 3.25%. Assuming α=0.05, power of 85%, using one-sided
      Z-test (unpooled) test statistic, 182 participants per facility will be required with a total
      sample size of 5460 participants. A sample size re-estimation during accrual will increase
      the total sample size to approximately 5760; 192 enrolled participants per study site and
      1,920 participants per arm. As retention in care is the primary outcome, no adjustment for
      loss to follow-up needs to be made.

      Study procedures As this is operational research, the study will not interfere with routine
      patient management and will follow national guidelines. The health care worker assesses each
      patient's clinical notes to establish stability and study inclusion. Once informed consent is
      obtained, a baseline questionnaire will be applied to record demographic characteristics and
      the patients clinical and ART history. Patients will receive care based on their study ARM
      and relevant SOP. Patient files and CARG tools will be reviewed and data collected at each
      ART refill. Viral loads will be repeated annually.

      Data Collection The study will use both qualitative and quantitative methods. The data
      sources will include patient clinic notes, electronic patient management system (ePMS), CARG
      monitoring data collection tools. In addition, variables to control for confounding in the
      analysis for outcomes of interest will be collected at baseline through a short
      cross-sectional survey. A pre-and-24-month post survey time-flow evaluation of patient
      waiting times to assess gains of facility decongestion will be conducted. Feasibility of MMD
      of ART within CARGs will be measured prospectively at baseline, 12 and 24 months. To
      understand the acceptability of CARGs by patients and service providers; patient
      satisfaction, and improvement in quality of care at the facilities, 20 patient FGDs and 20
      heath care provider KII will be conducted at baseline, 12 and 24 months. A micro-costing
      approach supplemented by a macro-costing approach of fixed costs will be utilized to measure
      cost outcomes. A resource use form will collect information per patient through retrospective
      review of clinic records. Start up costs will be included under each arm. Data to assess
      patient level costs will be collected from a randomly selected sub-sample of 365 patients per
      arm at baseline, 12 months and 24 months.

      Data analysis Quantitative data will be analyzed using STATA 14. An intention-to-treat
      analysis will be performed for the primary outcome of retention in care, in which all
      patients and clinics will be analyzed in the group to which they were originally assigned.
      Risk differences between arms will be compared with binomial population averaged generalized
      estimating equations using an identity link and an exchangeable correlation matrix,
      specifying for clustering by facility. Viral load suppression analyzed using log-binomial
      regression, generalized estimating equations will be used to estimate risk ratios between the
      study arms, specifying for clustering by facility and using an exchangeable correlation
      matrix. Average patient waiting times will be compared between study arms using linear
      regression.

      Content qualitative analysis will be conducted using Atlas Ti, A cost outcomes analysis will
      be conducted from the provider perspective. Average cost per yield rates (cost per client
      retained in care, cost per client virally suppressed, cost per patient per year) will be
      calculated. An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for the will be calculated; ICER
      threshold comparison as recommended by World Health Organisation (WHO) will be employed.
      Average patient costs will be from the patient's perspective. Startup costs for each service
      delivery model will also be analyzed.

      RISKS / BENEFITS TO PARTICIPANTS There may be no direct benefit to participants who take part
      in this study, beyond benefits related to their routine ART medication that would have been
      achieved otherwise. Information learned in this study may be of benefit to participants and
      others in the future, particularly information that may lead to optimized treatment
      guidelines for HIV-infected stable patients on ART.

      As this is operational research, study procedures are routine clinical care associated with
      minimal risk to participants. All patients will attend routine clinic visits to be assessed
      for new Opportunistic infections (OIs), pregnancy, drug-drug interactions or side effects of
      medications. This will ensure that patients who develop co-morbidities or become pregnant
      during the study receive standard care, although they will not be excluded from the study.

      REIMBURSEMENTS AND COMPENSATION As participants of FGDs may use transport money to the
      discussion venue, this will be reimbursed. Those who are part of a FGD will receive snacks
      after the discussion. CARGs will receive a bag to carry drugs from the clinic back to their
      communities. This will be made clear to all study participants during the informed consent
      process.

      CONFIDENTIALITY ASSURANCES Participant information will not be released without written
      permission to do so except as necessary for review, monitoring, and/or auditing. All
      study-related information will be stored securely. Participant research records will be
      stored in locked areas with access limited to study staff. case record files (CRFs), and
      other documents that may be transmitted off-site will be identified by patient identifier
      only. Likewise, communications between study staff and the investigators regarding individual
      participants will identify participants by patient identifier only. The patient identifier
      will be an anonymized key to identify unique subjects and will be used for data pooling,
      transfer, storage, manipulation and analysis. Personal identifying data will not be available
      to the investigators. Study sites will store study records that bear participant names or
      other personal identifiers separately from records identified by patient identifier. Lists,
      logbooks, appointment books, and any other documents that link the patient identifier to
      personal identifying information at the facilities should be stored in a separate, locked
      location in an area with limited access. Electronic data will be stored on password secured
      servers, which will be backed-up on a regular basis. Data will be presented in aggregate form
      only.
    
  