
    
      Arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis is essential in assessment of respiratory and metabolic
      status in acutely ill patients. In comparison to peripheral venous blood (PVG) sampling, the
      ABG sampling procedure is more painful for the patient and technically more challenging for
      the clinician to perform. Other drawbacks of ABG sampling include adverse events such as
      subcutaneous hematoma, arterial thrombosis or embolization, and the serious, though rare,
      complication pseudoaneurysms.

      Peripheral venous blood gas (VBG) sampling has been suggested as an alternative to the ABG
      procedure. This procedure causes less patient discomfort and the sample can be analysed in
      combination with other venous blood tests. Studies have revealed that pH and bicarbonate have
      good correlation, whereas venous and arterial blood gasses (pO2 and pCO2) show low agreement.
      A recent systematic review comparing ABG and VBG in the ED setting found similar results and
      concluded that venous pCO2 was not an accurate representative of arterial pCO2.

      However, a new method has been developed to calculate ABG values mathematically from
      peripheral venous blood by use of venous to arterial conversion (v-TAC) software (Obimedical,
      Denmark), supplemented with oxygen saturation measured by pulse oximetry. The principle of
      the method is a mathematical transformation of VBG values to arterialized values (aVBG) by
      simulating the transport of blood back through the tissue. To facilitate this simulation the
      following physiologically relevant assumptions were made: 1) The peripheral extremity was
      well perfused; 2) change in base excess across the tissue sampling site was approximately
      zero; 3) the respiratory quotient (rate of CO2 production and O2 utilisation over
      capillaries) could not vary outside the range 0.7 and 1.0, and 4) the haemoglobin
      concentration was constant from artery to vein. Initial testing of the method in an emergency
      department setting showed acceptable clinical congruence between arterial and mathematically
      arterialized pH and pCO2 with a small difference on 0.001- 0.024 and 0.00 0.46 kPa,
      respectively. However, inaccurate values of pO2 were seen when oxygen saturation measured by
      pulse oximetry was above 96%, due to the flat shape of the oxygen dissociation curve (ODC).

      The aim of this study was to test appropriate practical handling of venous blood gas samples
      and evaluate the reliability of the v-TAC method, in an acute medical emergency setting in
      awake and circulatory stable patients capable of giving consent.

      Methods Patient inclusion The study was conducted in the ED at North Denmark Regional
      Hospital from September through October 2015 in daytime. This hospital is 24-hour hospital
      with a collective medical and abdominal surgery emergency department, with 7-10.000 annual
      admissions per year.

      Circulatory stable patients needing ABG analysis for respiratory and metabolic assessment
      were selected randomly for participation in the study. Patients were considered circulatory
      stable if systolic blood pressure was above 90 mmHg and heart rate was 50 to 110 beats/min in
      accordance with Danish Emergency Process Triage (DEPT), which were used to triage patients
      upon admission. A total of 30 patients were included; 10 patients for a pre-study purpose and
      then 20 patients in the following main study. Allocation to either the pre-study or the main
      study was performed by simple quasi-random allocation in order of admission. The clinical
      indication for ABG analysis was decided by the responsible physician in the ED upon patient
      admission and based on national guidelines and criteria.

      Blood collection In the pre-study, venous samples were collected in paired 2 mL ABG syringes
      and 4.5 mL tubes from each of the 10 patients, to determine which blood collection method was
      preferred. VBG samples were collected via a butterfly needle with a three-way stopcock in
      conjunction with routine venous blood sampling upon admission. VBG samples were collected by
      the biomedical laboratory technician in the same manner as PVB samples in the normal clinical
      setting. Results from the pre-study were used to determine the preferred blood collection
      method in the main study. In this study, paired ABG and VBG samples were collected
      simultaneously from each of the 20 patients. The ABG samples were collected by the
      responsible physician.

      Blood analysis Blood for VBG analysis collected in the syringe and 4.5 mL tube in the
      pre-study were analysed within five minutes after sampling. In the main study blood for VBG
      analysis was collected in three 4.5 mL tubes and converted to arterialised VBG (referred to
      as aVBG). Each aVBG tube was processed differently as follows: aVBG1 was held steady and
      analysed within five minutes of sample collection, aVBG2 was tilted in five minutes and
      analysed after seven minutes and aVBG3 was handled as aVBG1, but analysed after fifteen
      minutes. ABG samples were analysed within five minutes after sampling. All ABG and VBG
      samples were analysed with ABL800 blood gas analyser (Radiometer, Denmark) an VBG samples
      were mathematically converted to aVBG using v-TAC software which was integrated into the
      ABL800 analyser. In our hospital, the reference values for ABG parameters are as follows: pH
      7.37-7.45, pCO2 4.30-6.00 kPa, and pO2 9.60-14.4 kPa. All results from analysed ABG and aVBG
      samples were registered automatically in the hospital database. On the standard of care
      basis, only the ABG results were used as the usual standard reference in the medical
      evaluation of the patients, who took part in the study.

      Ethics and data protection The Danish Research Ethics Committee in the North Denmark Region
      was notified. Since the v-TAC method has previously been approved to be used in clinical
      research and blood sampling was performed as routine practice, ethical approval was not
      required. This study was approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency.
    
  