
    
      Degenerative Disc Disease (DDD) is one of the most common spinal pathologies, affecting up to
      10-15 % of adults. The degeneration is associated with diminished water-binding capabilities
      of the nucleus pulpous leading to disc dehydration, volume reduction, changes in cellular
      activity, biomechanical changes and painful symptoms. Patients are initially treated with
      non-surgical pain-management techniques, such as anti-inflammatory medications and physical
      therapy, but these therapies often provide only temporary relief. When non-surgical
      intervention fails, fusion or total disc arthroplasty are often prescribed, both of which are
      highly invasive surgeries with significant associated morbidity. Clearly, a meaningful
      solution for the treatment gap existing between conservative care and invasive surgical
      intervention is needed.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of treatment with the GelStix™ device
      in a patient population that had no benefit from conservative care.

      The primary objective of this study is to quantify the reduction in lumbar pain in a GelStix™
      treatment group compared with a control group receiving a saline solution injection as
      placebo.

      The secondary objectives are to assess:

        1. the impact of treatment with GelStix™ on disability compared with the control group

        2. the impact of treatment with GelStix™ on health related quality of life compared with
           the control group

        3. the impact of treatment with GelStix™ on reliance on medication to relieve the pain
           compared with the control group

        4. the acute and long-term safety of the GelStix™ device and implant system

      The total expected number of patients to be randomized is 72. Taking into account a relevant
      difference of 1.5 between groups on the NRS, with an SD of 2, 30 patients per group (60
      patients in total) will be required to detect a statistically significant difference with a
      power of 80% at an alpha of 5% (two-tailed) for unpaired Student's T test. Taking into
      account a 20% drop out rate, 72 patients are expected to be randomized for this study.

      The estimated duration for the investigational plan (from start of screening of first
      participant to end of follow-up of last participant) is 24 months.
    
  