
    
      STUDY PLAN

        1. Only the principal investigator, sub-investigators, and research nurse will be
           approaching potential participants. The above listed also will be the only consentors
           for the study. The recruitment process will occur during the outpatient visits being
           held at the Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins. HIPAA (Health
           Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ) and guidelines and good clinical practice
           will be followed at all times to ensure that the privacy of participants included in the
           recruitment process are strictly guarded.

        2. Patients will be registered by the Radiation Oncology clinical subjects coordinator
           after eligibility is confirmed and informed consent is obtained.

        3. The EORTC (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer)QLQ- C30 (Quality
           of Life Questionnaire), QLQ-CR38 (Quality of Life Questionnaire), and QLQ-CR29 (Quality
           of Life Questionnaire) forms will be completed by patients at the following time point:

             1. Within 3 weeks prior to start of radiotherapy

             2. During the 4th week of radiotherapy (when treatment-related symptoms are expected
                to peak)

             3. Approximately one month after completion of radiotherapy during a follow-up visit

        4. The QOL forms (QLC-C30, QLQ-CR38, and CR29) will be self-administered surveys. A nurse
           or other healthcare provider will be available to help the patient with any questions
           regarding the QOL forms.

        5. The symptom inventory will be collected in an interview by a nurse or other healthcare
           provider at the following time points: d. Within 3 weeks prior to start of radiotherapy
           e. Once weekly during radiotherapy f. Approximately one month after completion of
           radiotherapy during a follow-up visit.
    
  