
    
      Using a randomized controlled trial design, the purpose of this study will be to examine
      whether combining a HAPA-based intervention, specifically action and coping planning, with a
      tailored text message intervention can reduce workplace sitting time by increasing frequency
      and length of breaks from sitting and non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT) behaviours
      (i.e., standing, light-intensity physical activity) among office-working adults. A secondary
      purpose will be to examine the effects of the intervention on participants' action planning,
      coping planning and action control regarding reducing their workplace sitting time, as well
      as self-rated work performance and health-related outcomes (i.e., role limitations due to
      physical health, role limitations due to personal or emotional problems, emotional
      well-being, and energy/fatigue). Another secondary objective will be to determine if action
      and coping planning and action control towards reducing workplace sitting time are related to
      actual break behaviour, time spent standing, and time spent in light-intensity physical
      activity.

      If successful, participants in the intervention group (sedentary intervention group) will
      report reduced workplace sitting time, and greater break frequency and break duration, time
      spent standing, and time spent in light-intensity physical activity, compared to participants
      in the control group (no treatment). In addition, it is hypothesized that participants in the
      intervention group will report greater action and coping planning and action control towards
      reducing workplace sitting time, as well as improved work- and health-related outcomes.

      This study will employ a prospective, 2-group, repeated measures, randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) design. Participants will be full-time adult, office workers primarily recruited from
      large businesses and office spaces.

      Potential participants (estimated enrolment: 112) will be recruited by Andrew Scott Rollo,
      Principal Investigator, for this study. Relevant contacts/liaisons and/or senior executives
      (i.e., Head of Human Resources, President, Chief Executive Officer, Office Manager) at
      potential businesses of interest will be sought out via publically available sources (e.g.,
      London Chamber of Commerce Business Directory, company websites, etc.) and contacted via
      email. The email will include a letter of information (LOI) and recruitment poster and
      request the individual's assistance with recruitment. For each business/office, if the
      individual accepts the invitation and informs the researchers that he/she is willing to aid
      with the recruitment process, the individual will then be asked to email all full-time
      employees in their respective office/business and offer them the opportunity to participate.
      In this recruitment email, the recruitment poster and Letter of Information will be provided.
      Participants will be instructed to contact the researcher via email and/or phone if they wish
      to participate or receive additional details prior to making a decision as to whether to
      participate. A second recruitment approach will involve recruiting full-time adult, office
      workers through recruitment posters distributed through social media (i.e., Facebook,
      LinkedIn) and public advertisements (i.e., transit stations, newspapers). The study will also
      be advertised through emails sent out to various faculties at Western University. Recruitment
      posters and LOIs will be posted on social media and in public spaces. As stated previous,
      office-workers interested in the study will be instructed to contact the researcher via email
      and/or phone to sign up for study participation.

      At this point of contact, an email response will be sent to any interested individual. Adult
      office-workers who choose to take part in this study will receive a link via email that
      directs them to the Letter of Information, Informed Consent, and questionnaire for assessment
      of baseline measurements, which will be administered through a third party website called
      SoSci (online survey service). Participants will be assured that participation in this study
      is voluntary, that they are free to discontinue and withdraw from the study at any time, and
      that they may choose to skip any questions that they do not wish to answer without any effect
      on their employment status/work conditions. In other words, refusing to participate, refusing
      to answer any questions or withdrawing from the study will not impact their employment beyond
      potentially not receiving benefits associated with study participation. After viewing the
      Letter of Information and indicating that they consent to participate in the study (by
      clicking "I agree" on the survey), participants will be asked to complete a brief
      demographics questionnaire, followed by a questionnaire for baseline assessment of primary
      and secondary outcomes. In the initial email response sent to potential participants,
      participants randomized into the intervention group will also be asked to provide a day and
      time (within 3 days of completing the baseline assessment) that they would be available to
      schedule the behavioural counselling session they will receive.

      Upon completion of the Baseline assessment and prior to intervention delivery, all
      participants will be randomized, using computer-generated randomized stratification, into
      either a 6-week HAPA-treatment (SB-related planning + text messages intervention) or
      waitlisted control (no treatment) condition. For those in the treatment group, the study
      objective will be to reduce workplace sitting time by increasing non-sedentary or NEAT
      behaviours (i.e., increasing break frequency to a break every 30-45 minutes, with each break
      having a duration of 2-4 minutes, and increasing their time spent standing and engaged in
      light-intensity PA. Participants randomly assigned to the control group will receive no
      information or intervention of any kind and will only be asked to complete the outcome
      questionnaires.

      At the agreed upon and scheduled time, the researcher will deliver the intervention (i.e.,
      implement the appropriate HAPA-based behavioural counselling session involving action and
      coping planning) either in person OR electronically via phone and an online presentation
      website (www.zoho.com). The method of delivery will entirely depend on the participant's
      availability, preference, and whether they live within driving distance of the investigator.
      To ensure equal numbers of local and remote participants in both conditions, two
      computer-generated random number lists will be created by the lead investigator using an
      online research randomization program. Participants will be asked to complete a second
      informed consent (written informed consent) at this time.

      The one-on-one counseling sessions will be delivered by the principal investigator to ensure
      standardization between participants. During the counseling session, the researcher will
      first ask if the participant has any strategies that he/she would like to try or think would
      be effective. As much as possible, strategies will be kept as original and specific to the
      participant's lifestyle as possible, while still fulfilling the study objectives. Upon
      creation of each strategy, the researcher will ask the participant if they think that the
      strategy they came up with is realistic. The number of strategies will also be personalized
      depending on how the participant's baseline measures compare to the objectives of their
      treatment group. This will be done in order to attenuate for any neglected/unused strategies
      by those with larger differences between baseline and objective values. Similarly, coping
      strategies will be created alongside each strategy in order to boost the adherence to the
      developed strategies. When an action plan strategy is developed, the researcher will ask the
      participant "what are some challenges you foresee with executing this strategy?", followed by
      "what do you think is something we can do in order to overcome this/these challenges?" This
      will be done in order to keep the coping strategies personalized to the participant's
      lifestyle. Overall, the behavioral counseling sessions will take between 20-30 minutes to
      complete and both groups will receive equal contact time. Participants will be given the form
      with their action plan and coping strategies and told to display it somewhere prominent so
      they will be reminded of the strategies. The principal investigator will conduct the planning
      interventions in a non-interfering manner by providing brief instructions and then remaining
      available to answer any questions.

      At this point, participants in the intervention group will then be entered into a contact
      list on the text-messaging website called "Oh Don't Forget." "Oh Don't Forget," is a
      Web-based application that works through "Recess Mobile" to send messages from a computer to
      mobile phone numbers that are programmed into the application. All participants will begin
      receiving tailored text messages the day after receiving their one-on-one counseling session.
      Every participant will receive the same daily texts as each other participant in their group,
      with times varying slightly depending on their schedule. As planning is an ongoing process,
      participants will be reminded (via text message) to formulate another set of action and
      coping plans at the beginning of weeks 3 and 5. Upon completion of the intervention period at
      6 weeks, participants will be notified that they will no longer be receiving text messages
      and that the study is completed.

      After the initial behavioural counseling session, participants will be told they will receive
      a link to a questionnaire (assessment of primary and secondary outcomes) in their email every
      2 weeks, for the next 6 weeks (i.e., weeks 2, 4, and 6), and to complete the questionnaire
      the day they receive it. Participants will also be told that 2 weeks following the end of the
      6-week intervention, there will be a follow-up questionnaire (week 8), which they will
      receive and be asked to complete. All primary and secondary outcome questionnaires will be
      completed online and administered through a third party website called SoSci (online survey
      service). Participants will also be reminded via text to complete these. Primary outcomes
      including frequency of breaks, length of breaks, and NEAT behaviours at work (i.e., standing,
      light-intensity PA) will be assessed using subjective, self-report approaches. Secondary
      analyses will be performed to examine effects of the intervention on theoretical determinants
      of behaviour change (i.e., action planning, coping planning, action control), as well as
      participants' perceived work-related outcomes (i.e., self-rated work performance) and
      health-related outcomes (i.e., role limitations due to physical health, role limitations due
      to personal or emotional problems, emotional well-being, and energy/fatigue). All primary
      outcomes will be assessed at four time points (baseline, 2, 4, and 6 weeks), and again at a
      two-week follow-up (8 weeks). Action and coping planning and action control towards reducing
      workplace sitting time will be assessed at the same time points. Secondary outcome variables
      (i.e., perceived work- and health-related outcomes) will be assessed pre- (baseline) and
      post-intervention (6 weeks).
    
  