
    
      This is a three-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to study the effect of vitamin K
      supplementation (500 µg/d) on bone density at the hip, markers of bone turnover, vascular
      calcification, osteoarthritis and tests of concentration in 452 men and women, aged 60-80
      years. All participants will also be receiving calcium and vitamin D supplements, in addition
      to a multivitamin, to prevent any potential bone loss associated with dietary inadequacy of
      these nutrients.

      Measurements of plasma vitamin K concentrations, percent undercarboxylated osteocalcin
      (markers of vitamin K status), serum osteocalcin, collagen Type-I-crosslink N-telopeptides
      (markers of bone turnover) and BMD of the hip, as well as the heel, spine and total body at
      0, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months of vitamin K supplementation. Vascular calcification will be
      measured at baseline and at 36 months of vitamin K supplementation by multi-slice CT scan. An
      additional EKG will be performed at 36 months of vitamin K supplementation to determine
      cardiac changes that may have occurred over the course of the study. Bilateral hand x-rays
      will be measured at 36 months of vitamin K supplementation, as will the administration of the
      Framingham OA questionnaire. Plasma 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations and urinary calcium
      and sodium will be measured at the same time points to be used as covariates in this
      assessment. In addition, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D will be measured at the beginning and end of
      the study. Other covariates collected throughout the study include age, weight,
      anthropometric data, physical activity, medication used, smoking, plasma lipids, insulin and
      measures of inflammation, B vitamins and dietary intakes. In addition, two tests of attention
      and concentration will be administered at 36 months of vitamin K supplementation. This trial
      will determine if supplemental vitamin K will reduce age-related bone loss, vascular
      calcification, osteoarthritis and concentration in elderly men and women, above that achieved
      by supplemental calcium and vitamin D alone.
    
  