
    
      The proposed project, Nutrition Ed, Access and Texting (NEAT): Combining the Hartford Mobile
      Market with e-Marketing uses an e-technology social marketing strategy to promote use of a
      recently launched mobile produce market among SNAP-Ed recipients. This study will potentially
      increase fresh produce access and intake by combining an innovative food system change
      (produce mobile market) with existing SNAP-Ed nutrition education curriculum and the use of
      e-marketing technology. Thus, the study combines key elements that have been deemed necessary
      for increasing produce intake among low income communities. The goal of the NEAT study is to
      assess the impact of a texting-based social marketing campaign on SNAP-Ed participants'
      access to and purchase of fresh produce on a recently launched mobile produce market, and
      their subsequent produce intake. Objectives include: 1) Compare the impact of nutrition
      education alone to nutrition education plus promotional text messaging on purchase of fruits
      and vegetables; 2) Compare the impact of nutrition education alone to nutrition education
      plus promotional text messaging on consumption of fruits and vegetables; and 3) Assess the
      effectiveness of coupon distribution on coupon redemption at a mobile produce market. The
      NEAT design will be a randomized controlled trial using a pre-post assessment comparing
      change in behavior. Both intervention and control groups will receive SNAP-Ed education as
      currently delivered by the Hispanic Health Council. The intervention group will receive
      additional promotional text messaging related to use of the mobile market. The control group
      will receive text messaging about free activities taking place at the Hartford Public Library
      and other community locations. Participants will be interviewed via phone at baseline, then
      randomized to intervention and control groups, and re-interviewed again 6 weeks after they
      start receiving the text messages, which it will be 2 weeks after the one-month texting
      period ends.
    
  