
    
      There is good evidence to show that induction of labour with a transcervical balloon compares
      favourably with the use of prostaglandins.The cervical balloon works by softening &
      stretching the cervix mechanically & stimulates the release of endogenous prostaglandins.

      When compared with prostaglandins, meta-analysis have shown that for TCB induction, there is
      no significant different in caesarean section rates (27% vs 25%) with a reduced risk of
      hyperstimulation with fetal heart rate change (0.4% vs 3%). Further, when compared against
      induction with misoprostol, induction with a Foley catheter balloon was found to have a lower
      rate of caesarean section for a non-reassuring fetal heart rate (RR 0.54, 95% CI 0.37-0.79)
      and a fewer vaginal instrumental deliveries (RR 0.74, 95% CI 0.55-0.95) [41]. One randomized
      controlled trial of 824 women with no previous caesarean section comparing foley catheter
      balloon with a prostaglandin E2 gel demonstrated no difference in caesarean section rates & 2
      cases of uterine rupture or perforation in the prostaglandin E2 arm but not in the foley
      catheter balloon arm. Another study involving 1859 women comparing foley catheter balloon
      with oral misoprostol showed no difference in caesarean section rates or complications. It
      was, however, noted that induction with foley catheter balloon more likely required oxytocin
      induction at 80.3% vs 68.4% for misoprostol.

      While there were earlier concerns of an increase in infectious morbidity when using
      mechanical induction of labour due to the presence of a foreign body, more recent RCTs &
      meta-analysis have shown that there is no significant increase.

      One of the main concerns for induction of labour in patients with a previous uterine scar is
      an increased risk of uterine rupture. One observational study of 20,095 women quoted a risk
      of uterine rupture in spontaneous labour to be 0.52% & in prostaglandin-induced labour to be
      0.77%. Another observational study involving 33,699 women quoted a risk of 0.4% and 1%
      respectively. While there are also studies which suggest that there is no significant
      increase in the rate of uterine rupture, many professional bodies have discouraged
      prostaglandin-induction in women with previous scars.

      Due to lower levels of hyperstimulation that could lead to fetal distress or uterine rupture,
      trans cervical balloon induction has found itself as a possible, safer means of induction of
      labour for women who are keen for vaginal birth after caesarean and are agreeable with
      induction. Most RCTs were small in size & did not demonstrate any uterine rupture or
      dehiscence. However, 2 retrospective cohort studies involving a size of 2479 & 208 women
      respectively showed a uterine rupture rate of about 0.5%. trans cervical balloon induction
      appears to be a safe method for inducing consenting women keen for vaginal birth after
      caesarean and this study will contribute towards this body of evidence.
    
  