
    
      Idiopathic CD4 lymphocytopenia (ICL) is a rare syndrome defined by consistently low CD4 T
      cell counts (<300/3microL) without evidence of HIV infection or other known immunodeficiency.
      Patients with ICL are at risk for opportunistic infections typically associated with HIV/AIDS
      such as disseminated cryptococcal infection and severe human papillomavirus-related
      dysplasia. More than 20 years since the description of ICL, its etiology, pathogenesis, and
      management remain unclear. In this study we propose to administer the combination of
      granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) and plerixafor to ICL patients and healthy
      volunteers with the objective of harvesting mobilized CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells
      (HPCs) by apheresis for transfer into immunocompromised mice and for study with in vitro
      assays. The mice studies would serve to investigate thymic development, survival, and
      trafficking of the mobilized human cells within murine lymphoid and non-lymphoid organs.

      HPCs are used for various therapies and there is an increasing use of agents that stimulate
      the bone marrow to produce progenitor cells and move them into the bloodstream where they may
      be harvested by apheresis. Not all patients respond to GCSF with vigorous HPC mobilization.
      The binding of chemokine receptor CXCR4 to stromal cell derived factor (SDF-1 or CXCL12) is
      an important interaction between a hematopoietic progenitor cell and its marrow environment.
      Plerixafor is a CXCR4 inhibitor which blocks binding to SDF-1 , resulting in the release of
      HPCs (CD34+) into peripheral circulation. In pharmacodynamic studies of plerixafor in
      conjunction with G-CSF compared to G-CSF and placebo, a two-fold increase in CD34+ cell count
      was observed.

      Due to the important role CXCR4 plays in immune cell trafficking and its potential role in
      the pathogenesis of ICL, we propose as a secondary objective to assess peripheral CD4 T cell
      and CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cell numbers and functions in ICL patients compared to
      controls following G-CSF and plerixafor administration.

      Study participants will be screened within 12 weeks prior to the study period. Eligible
      participants will receive G-CSF for 5 days with hospitalization on Day 4 for plerixafor
      injection followed by apheresis or large volume blood draw (120 cc) on Day 5. Participants
      will return for examinations and blood draws on Days 8 and 12.
    
  