
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the efficacy, in terms of response to initial therapy, of prednisolone,
           vinblastine, and mercaptopurine with vs without methotrexate and leucovorin calcium in
           young patients with Langerhans cell histiocytosis.

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients with low-risk Langerhans cell
           histiocytosis who responded to initial therapy who are then treated with 6-month vs
           12-month continuation therapy comprising prednisolone and vinblastine.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the acute and long-term toxicity and the incidence of permanent effects.

        -  Compare the overall and progression-free survival, response rate, and time until
           response.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study with one pilot nonrandomized stratum.
      Patients are stratified according to number of systems involved (multiple vs single) and
      organs involved (at risk vs low risk).

        -  Stratum 1 (at risk patients): Patients are further stratified according to participating
           center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms (arms I and II).

             -  Arm I:

                  -  Initial therapy: Patients receive oral prednisolone 3 times daily on days 1-28
                     followed by a taper on days 29-42 and vinblastine IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29,
                     and 36. Patients achieving nonactive disease (NAD) after course 1 proceed to
                     continuation therapy. Patients achieving intermediate response or disease
                     regression receive a second course* of initial therapy. Patients achieving NAD
                     or disease regression after course 2 proceed to continuation therapy.

                  -  Continuation therapy: Patients receive oral mercaptopurine daily for 3 weeks,
                     pulsed oral prednisolone 3 times daily on days 1-5, and vinblastine IV on day
                     1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks until day 365 from the beginning of therapy
                     in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II:

                  -  Initial therapy: Patients receive prednisone and vinblastine as in arm I
                     initial therapy. Patients also receive methotrexate IV over 24 hours on days
                     1, 15, and 29 and oral leucovorin calcium twice daily on days 2,16, and 30.
                     Patients achieving NAD after course 1 proceed to continuation therapy.
                     Patients achieving intermediate response or disease regression receive a
                     second course* of initial therapy. Patients achieving NAD or disease
                     regression after course 2 proceed to continuation therapy.

                  -  Continuation therapy: Patients receive oral mercaptopurine daily for 3 weeks,
                     pulsed oral prednisolone 3 times daily on days 1-5, vinblastine IV on day 1,
                     and oral methotrexate on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks until day 365
                     from the beginning of therapy in the absence of disease progression or
                     unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Stratum 2 (low-risk patients): Patients are stratified according to age at diagnosis (≤
           2 vs > 2) and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms
           (arms III and IV) after the first course of initial therapy.

             -  Arm III:

                  -  Initial therapy: Patients receive prednisolone and vinblastine as in course 1
                     of stratum 1 arm I initial therapy. Patients achieving NAD or disease
                     regression after course 1 proceed to continuation therapy. Patients achieving
                     intermediate or worse response receive a second course* of initial therapy.
                     Patients achieving NAD, disease regression, or intermediate response after
                     course 2 proceed to continuation therapy.

                  -  Continuation therapy: Patients receive prednisolone and vinblastine as in
                     stratum 1 arm I continuation therapy. Treatment continues until day 182 from
                     the beginning of initial therapy in the absence of disease progression or
                     unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm IV:

                  -  Initial therapy: Patients receive 1-2 courses of prednisolone and vinblastine
                     as in stratum 2 arm III.

                  -  Continuation therapy: Patients receive pulsed prednisolone and vinblastine as
                     in stratum 1 arm I continuation therapy. Treatment continues until day 365
                     from the beginning of initial therapy in the absence of disease progression or
                     unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Stratum 3 (pilot study) (patients with multifocal bone disease and/or special sites):

             -  Initial therapy: Patients receive prednisolone and vinblastine as in stratum 1 arm
                I initial therapy. Patients achieving NAD or disease regression after course 1
                proceed to continuation therapy. Patients with disease progression receive a second
                course* of initial therapy. Patients achieving NAD or disease regression after
                course 2 proceed to continuation therapy.

             -  Continuation therapy: Patients receive pulsed prednisolone and vinblastine as in
                stratum 1 arm I continuation therapy. Treatment continues until day 182 from the
                beginning of initial therapy in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                disease.

      NOTE: *Patients receive oral prednisolone 3 times daily on days 43-45, 50-52, 57-59, 64-66,
      71-73, and 78-80 only during the second course of initial therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 376 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  