
    
      For many patients with myocardial infarction with ST-segment elevation (STEMI), the time from
      presentation to percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) exceeds established goals.
      Formalized data feedback is one strategy proposed to reduce treatment time in STEMI-patients.
      The aim of this multicenter study is to evaluate whether systematic data analysis and
      feedback leads to shorter contact-to-balloon and door-to-balloon times and reduces mortality
      in different regional care networks serving patients with STEMI. The multicenter trial
      includes hospitals with primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) capacity. Existing
      protocols encourage prompt transfer of patients with STEMI to the PCI center and emphasize
      minimizing time to treatment. In each participating center, all patients presenting with
      STEMI are enrolled. The study is conducted prospectively during five consecutive 3-month
      periods (quarters). Data collection is web-based and identical for the five quarters. For
      each center, time points from initial contact with the medical system to revascularization
      are assessed, analyzed and presented in an interactive session to hospital and emergency
      services staff. This formalized data feedback is performed at the end of each quarter.

      Patients presenting during the first three-month period are included as the reference group.
      Data from patients with STEMI presenting during the next four quarters are presented in the
      same manner. Comparisons between the reference group and the next quarters will be made with
      the Gehan and Pearson χ2 tests.

      Following the Pilot Phase started as feasibility study including a group of 6 different
      hospital systems of STEMI care, the multicenter FITT-STEMI-Implementation-Phase was started
      to investigate the effect of standardized documentation, analysis and systematic
      feedback-intervention on prognosis within a large group of different hospitals capable of
      primary PCI. This study is performed over 6 quarters including 3 feedback-sessions, and so
      far, 46 different PCI-hospitals capable of primary PCI participate at the
      FITT-STEMI-implementation-phase.

      Following the initial study period with quarterly feedback-sessions, data collection is
      continued, and in all of these hospitals feedback-sessions with the EMS- and hospital-staff
      are held once a year (after quarters 8, 12, 16, and so on).

      Participating hospitals So far, a total of 53 hospital-systems with primary PCI capacity and
      cooperating non-PCI-hospitals participate at the FITT-STEMI-program. At the PCI-Centers, 24 h
      PCI capability existing for at least one year prior to inclusion, at least two interventional
      cardiologists who could take call, and a volume of at least 250 PCI procedures as well as 50
      PCI procedures in STEMI patients per year are required for participation at the project. All
      6 key strategies of the ACC D2B-initiative (Bradley EH, NEJ 2006) were endorsed by the
      hospitals before participating in the project. All hospitals ensured prompt transfer of
      patients with STEMI to the PCI centers minimizing time to treatment.

      The overall geographic catchment area currently serves a population of more than 10 million
      people in Germany with more than 5,500 STEMI patients per year, which is consistent with > 10
      % of the German population and with > 10% of the patients treated with acute STEMI in German
      hospitals per year .
    
  