
    
      This study will explore the feasibility of delivering adapted BBTI in a group setting to
      family carers of people with dementia. The study will be a feasibility study given that
      delivering BBTI to groups of dementia carers hasn't been done before. It is therefore
      necessary to explore, in essence, whether it is 'do-able'. In-line with this, the current
      study will be considering the following:

        -  How many eligible participants consent to participate in the study?

        -  How many carers stay in the study until the end?

        -  Do carers find BBTI an acceptable treatment, are they able to comply with treatment
           instructions, and what modifications might be required?

        -  Are any improvements in sleep observed?

        -  Are any improvements in anxiety, depression and carer burden observed? It is
           hypothesised that carers' sleep will improve over the course of the study. Specifically,
           it is hypothesised that there will be a reduction in scores on the Pittsburgh Sleep
           Quality Index (PSQI), an increase in scores on the Sleep Condition Indicator (SCI), and
           an improvement in sleep diary parameters (increased sleep efficiency, a reduction in
           sleep latency and a reduction in wake time after sleep onset) following participation in
           BBTI. Sleep efficiency is calculated by dividing time spent in bed divided by time
           actually asleep; sleep latency is the time it takes you to fall asleep and reduction in
           wake time after sleep onset is the total time you are awake during the night after you
           first fall asleep. Based on a calculation, the sample size required is estimated to be
           11. Given that some participants may withdraw from the study the study will aim to
           recruit 15 participants.

      Procedure Individuals who are caring for a family member with dementia will be given a
      Participant Invitation Letter by healthcare workers and advertisements will be place in
      relevant clinics. Those interested in finding out more will make contact with the research
      team, who will screen potential participants. Those meeting the criteria will be sent a
      Participant Information Sheet and invited to attend a baseline assessment appointment. At the
      initial assessment appointment, the researcher will answer any questions the person has about
      the study, the Participant Information Sheet, or the Consent Form. They will then be asked to
      fill in the Consent Form before starting the assessment. If they do not consent the
      assessment will not be initiated. If they do consent, then the researcher will proceed to
      completing the baseline assessment. This will include the semi-structured sleep interview and
      questions regarding physical and mental health. The following measures will also be
      administered: Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT), Drug Use Disorders
      Identification Test (DUDIT), Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Sleep Condition Indicator
      (SCI), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and the Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI).

      Participants will also be shown how to complete a sleep diary at this appointment and will be
      asked to complete this for the two weeks prior to the first session of BBTI. The baseline
      assessment appointment is expected to last between 45-60 minutes.

      The intervention will be delivered across 3 group sessions and 1 telephone consultation over
      a period of 4 weeks, as follows:

      Week 1 - 90 minute group session (allowing time to cover all the educational material and to
      give individual sleep instructions as well as a break and initial group introductions) Week 2
      - Group session (max 45 mins) Week 3 - Phone call (approx. 15 minutes) Week 4 - Final group
      session (max 45 mins) Week 5 - Appointments for post-treatment assessment

      There will be two group facilitators and groups will have a maximum of 5 participants.
      Participants will be asked to keep sleep diaries throughout the intervention period. At the
      beginning of each session, participants will also be asked to complete the Stanford
      Sleepiness Scale in order to monitor daytime sleepiness.

      The following measures will be administered post-treatment and at 4 week follow-up:
      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Sleep Condition Indicator (SCI), Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression Scale (HADS) and the Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI).
    
  