
    
      1. All interviews will occur at a community clinic or convenient community location.

        2. Clinical faculty will receive an oral and written overview of the project prior to
           beginning in case they have patients they want to recommend to participate.

        3. Physician will approach individual patients to participate during a regular medical
           office visit, patients will be given an introduction and overview of the study, and then
           will be asked if they would like to participate in the study.

        4. If the patient wants to participate, Malika Siker, MD will schedule a time for the
           patient to meet with a member of the study team to conduct the interview.

        5. The interview will be scheduled at a time convenient for the patient.

        6. If the patient does not want to participate, no further action is required

        7. All study subjects will be adults with the ability to understand the study and consent
           to participate.

        8. The sample will be a convenience sample based upon interest in participating.

        9. At the time of the interview, patients will receive a written and oral overview of the
           research.

       10. The subject will have ample time to ask questions before completing the survey or
           beginning the interview.

           All study subjects will understand and agree to having the interview audiotaped.

       11. The interview will take place immediately after the subject has agreed to participate.

       12. Interviews will last between approximately 60 minutes. Subjects can decline to answer
           any question and can withdraw from the study at any time during the process.

       13. Our highest estimate is that 50 subjects will be needed to complete the project.

       14. Interviews will be audiotaped and transcribed verbatim by a transcription service
           following the conclusion of the interview.

       15. The transcriptionist will be instructed to remove any names of individuals that may be
           discussed by the subject.

       16. Transcriptions will be placed in a password protected computer file.

       17. PI will review the transcripts to ensure that transcriptions are anonymous.

       18. When determined, PI will instruct that the recording be erased.

       19. The team will only begin analysis after ensuring that all transcripts are anonymous.

       20. The team will analyze the data for thick description and for themes that emerge during
           the analysis by following procedures developed by Corbin and Strauss.
    
  