
    
      Operation is the only curative treatment for gastric cancer patients. However, the rate of
      recurrence is high up to 60%. The 5 year's overall survival of patient at stage IIIb or more
      advanced stage is still poor and approximately 8-28%. Adjuvant chemotherapy is critical for
      improving efficacy further. Unfortunately, the optimal adjuvant regimen is not identified
      yet. The standard adjuvant treatments of American and European patients are not accepted
      widely in Asia area because of different operation procedure and patient's tolerability.
      Results of two critical trials indicated that S-1 alone as Japanese standard adjuvant
      chemotherapy could not improve the survival of stage IIIb advanced stage gastric cancer
      patients while the Korean standard regimen XELOX could. This implied that the more intensive
      chemotherapy must be used for the patients with higher risk of relapse. The proportion of the
      stage IIIb-IIIc Chinese gastric cancer patients is much larger than that of Japan and Korean.
      However, no randomized trial focusing on the extremely high risk of relapse stage IIIb and
      stage IIIc patients has been performed, and the standard adjuvant chemotherapy regimen is not
      clear and needs to be investigated.

      Docetaxel based combination is one of the most effective regimens for advanced gastric
      cancer. The combination of docetaxel and 5-FU was found to have a similar efficacy to ECF
      regimen along with milder toxicity. Capecitabine has been proved to be a good alternative to
      infusional 5-FU. So, docetaxel plus capecitabine seems to be a promising adjuvant regimen for
      high risk stage IIIb-IIIc gastric cancer patients. But it still needs to be verified.

      This trial is going to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two regimens of DX and XELOX as
      adjuvant chemotherapy for stage IIIb-IIIc gastric cancer patients after curative D2/D2+
      operation, and to investigate the optimal adjuvant regimen for such extremely high risk
      patients.
    
  