
    
      In children with spina bifida and neurogenic bladder dysfunction, the need for intermittent
      bladder catheterization increases the risk of bacteriuria. In many patients, this leads to a
      clinically significant urinary tract infection (UTI). Many of these children are placed on
      long term, low dose antibiotic suppression to prevent recurrent urinary infection.
      Unfortunately, bacteriuria often persists despite daily antibiotic therapy, and breakthrough
      urinary tract infections are common. Furthermore, this approach carries the potential for
      deleterious side effects, and may promote the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.

      Urinary tract infection in girls occurs when virulent bacteria migrate from the rectum and
      colonize the vagina and peri-urethral mucosa, thus gaining access to the bladder. In girls
      with spina bifida, access to the bladder is greatly facilitated by catheter passage.
      Antibiotic prophylaxis relies on maintaining a low dose of antibiotic in the urinary stream,
      which decreases peri-urethral colonization, and prevents proliferation of bacteria after they
      gain access to the bladder. An alternative approach to daily antibiotic prophylaxis is to
      decrease the risk of urinary colonization with virulent bacteria by supplementing the normal
      bacteria flora with non-infection causing strains of bacteria.

      Probiotics are dietary supplements containing potentially beneficial bacterial strains such
      as Lactobacillus. The safety of oral administration of probiotics has been demonstrated in
      several studies over the last 30 years. Studies using L. rhamnosus GG, a probiotic introduced
      in the late 1980s to alleviate diarrhea, have shown promising results when used for UTI
      prevention. In one study, researchers found that the subjects consuming Lactobacillus GG
      drinks had fewer episodes of UTI compared to those women not receiving probiotics. A
      placebo-controlled study in premature infants also used L. rhamnosus GG in an attempt to
      prevent UTI. The number of urinary infections was reduced but statistically the difference
      was not significant. Finally, a recent randomized clinical trial demonstrated that the rate
      of UTI in patients taking prophylactic antibiotics was similar to that of patients taking
      Lactobacillus acidophilus alone. The efficacy of probiotic usage in the spina bifida
      population has not been reported.

      Our objective is to determine whether over the course of 3 months, probiotics can reduce
      preexisting or new bacteriuria in girls with spina bifida who perform clean intermittent
      catheterization for bladder emptying. We will also attempt to ascertain whether changes in
      bacteriuria are associated with vaginal colonization by the administered probiotics.
    
  