
    
      After performing tumor biopsies and blood collection and processing the biopsies and research
      blood for comprehensive molecular analysis using established methods for RNA and DNA
      analysis, we will use Pathway Recognition using Data Integration on Genomic Models (PARADIGM)
      and Differential Pathway Signature Correlation (DiPSC), computational approaches to pathway
      activity and predictive signature identification developed at University of California, Santa
      Cruz. We will also collect blood samples (for circulating tumor DNA, plasma, and serum) and
      circulating tumor cells from participating patients. Residual paraffin- embedded blocks,
      frozen tissue, and blood products (serum, plasma, and circulating cells) will be stored in a
      repository for future testing of candidate predictive markers identified during microarray
      analysis. We will utilize only Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)-certified
      laboratories(e.g. Strata Oncology) to identify genetic mutations within mCRPC tumors to
      provide genetic information that can be returned to patient to potentially inform treatment
      decisions.

      Certain genomic sequencing will be performed by Strata Oncology.

      Following biopsy and baseline peripheral blood collection, patients will be treated per
      investigator discretion, with treatment corresponding to assigned patient cohort and
      initiated within 42 days following baseline tumor biopsy and/or research blood collection.
      Patients will be evaluated for response to therapy per the standard of care for their
      specific disease type; such as with monthly serum PSA measurements (may be done at UCSF or at
      local laboratory) and/or restaging scans (bone scan + CT abdomen/pelvis) (UCSF or local
      radiology facility). Outcomes on treatment post-biopsy will be recorded, including maximal
      PSA decline, date of radiographic progression.

      At the time of disease progression by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) criteria for
      prostate cancer patients, or by RECIST v1.1 for patients with metastatic renal or urothelial
      cancer, patients may undergo optional repeat assessment for metastatic tumor biopsy, along
      with mandatory blood collection for analysis of circulating tumor DNA and circulating tumor
      cells (CTCs). Following second biopsy at progression, patients should continue to be followed
      for response to subsequent therapy.

      Patients will be followed every 6 months for updates on disease status including post-study
      therapies and survival status via telephone calls and/or chart review.
    
  