
    
      Biomarkers are defined as objective indicators of biological processes, pathogenic processes,
      or pharmacological response to a therapeutic intervention. Diagnostic biomarkers which are
      type of biomarkers, identify the presence of disease, differentiate normal from malignant,
      distinguish different diagnoses or progression stages.

      Micro ribosomal nucleic acids have been demonstrated to possess biomarker potentiality in
      multiple diseases, both individually and when combined in signature profiles. Micro ribosomal
      nucleic acids are short single-stranded noncoding ribosomal nucleic acids of 20-22
      nucleotides that function to regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. They
      play fundamental roles in the regulation of cellular proliferation, differentiation, and
      apoptosis. Dysregulation of micro ribosomal nucleic acid is a unique feature of cancers
      including lymphomas . Information about the functional role of micro ribosomal nucleic acid
      dysregulation in lymphomas is increasing day by day.

      The present study focuses on the micro ribosomal nucleic acid 155 since this molecule
      represents a typical multifunctional micro ribosomal nucleic acid. To date, increased
      evidence points out that micro ribosomal nucleic acid 155 is involved in numerous biological
      processes including haematopoiesis, inflammation and immunity. Deregulation of micro
      ribosomal nucleic acid 155 has been found to be associated with different kinds of cancer,
      cardiovascular diseases and viral infections. Since investigation on the functional activity
      of micro ribosomal nucleic acid 155 started a few years ago, it is reasonable to predict that
      many other functions will be uncovered in the near future.

      Micro ribosomal nucleic acid 155 maps within and is processed from an exon of a noncoding
      ribosomal nucleic acid transcribed from the B-cell Integration Cluster located on chromosome
      21.

      Micro ribosomal nucleic acid 155 is an oncological micro ribosomal nucleic acid with a
      crucial role in tumor initiation and development of several B-cell malignancies. Micro
      ribosomal nucleic acid 155 was upregulated in several malignancies compared to nonmalignant
      controls and overexpression of micro ribosomal nucleic acid 155 was further associated with
      poor prognosis. Elevated expression of micro ribosomal nucleic acid 155 shows potentiality as
      a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia. Additionally, in vitro and in vivo studies suggest micro ribosomal
      nucleic acid 155 as an efficient therapeutic target, supporting its oncogenic function. The
      use of inhibiting anti-micro ribosomal nucleic acid structures indicates promising potential
      as novel anticancer therapeutics.

      The search for non-invasive tools for the diagnosis and management of cancer has long been a
      goal of cancer research that has led to great interest in the field of circulating nucleic
      acids in plasma and serum.
    
  