
    
      In recent years it has been demonstrated that physical fitness , which is linked to a higher
      level of physical activity has a positive effect on the health status of adults, adolescents
      and children, especially by lowering the probability of developing overweight and/or obesity.
      At the same time, recent research has shown that there is a positive relationship between
      fitness with brain structure and executive function in children.

      In Chile, overweight and obesity constitute a public health problem in children. National
      figures show that the prevalence of overweight / obesity among preschool children reached
      53.6% in 2018 exposing the children not only the development of cardiovascular and metabolic
      diseases , but also affecting motor and cognitive development. Obesity has been shown to
      influence a country´s economic development, such as salary and productivity. The Economic
      Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean in 2017 determined that the health cost
      derived from obesity In Chile was equivalent to 0,2% of the national Gross Domestic Product.
      It is expected that by 2078, the estimated annual cost produced by an increasing prevalence
      overweight / obesity will be approximately 1 billion dollars.

      Because it is not economically viable in Chile to determine in every overweight/obese child
      the probability of developing chronic diseases later in life, it is of utmost importance to
      have valid, simple and reliable indicators to discriminate at an early age, children that are
      at greatest risk. In this respect, physical fitness appears as a powerful health marker
      independent of the nutritional status. Evaluation of fitness as well as that of non-invasive
      health markers, motor development and neuropsychological development in preschool children in
      schools, constitute an excellent opportunity to investigate at an early age, alterations that
      could be prevented with adequate interventions in schools that would probably be
      significantly less costly than interventions applied later on. To achieve this goal, valid
      and reliable tools have to be developed that are also comparable with similar ones developed
      elsewhere.

      With this background, The research objective is to analyze the factors that affect the
      configuration of a diagnostic model which includes the physical fitness and physical activity
      levels, motor development, non-invasive risk factors and neuropsychological development in
      preschoolers.

      The hypothesis is that there is a positive association between physical fitness, non-invasive
      health markers and neuropsychological functions in preschool children, thus enabling to
      generate a predictive diagnostic model based on physical fitness.

        1. The primary outcome is to determine the degree of association of physical fitness with
           non-invasive risk factors and neuropsychological development in preschoolers

        2. The second outcome is to determine the influence that physical activity level and motor
           development have on physical fitness among preschool children.

      This research aims a) to establish that physical fitness in preschool children may be
      considered as a diagnostic tool of the health status of children (independent of their
      nutritional status), and b) to determine the possible impact that the physical fitness level
      has on neuropsychological development
    
  