
    
      Locoregional radiotherapy after lumpectomy and axillary node dissection diminishes the
      locoregional recurrence risk at 10 years by 21,2 % in women with pathologically confirmed
      lymph node involvement.

      Excess dose to organs at risk can lead to acute and late side effects, such as tissue damage,
      organ malfunction and secondary cancers. Radiotherapy in prone position has helped reduce
      these risks for whole breast radiotherapy only, but has not yet been adequately investigated
      for patients also requiring regional nodal irradiation. One of the reasons is that there is
      no optimal patient support device available to allow regional nodal irradiation in prone
      position. To this end, a novel positioning device was developed at our center, allowing
      regional nodal irradiation in prone position. It was called the crawl breast couch because
      the patient position resembles a phase from the crawl swimming technique. A previous planning
      study by Deseyne et al. using this device shows a benefit (i.e. reduced dose) for the
      ipsilateral lung, the thyroid, as well as a minor benefit for the right lung, and
      contralateral breast (which already receive very low relative doses) while maintaining
      similar target coverage when compared to supine positioning.

      Apart from the paradigm shift from supine to prone radiotherapy, in recent years, it has
      become clear that breast cancer cells are more sensitive to fraction dose than originally
      presumed. Large randomized trials confirm this hypothesis: moderate hypofractionation schemes
      in 15 or 16 fractions are at least equivalent in tumor control and toxicity although the
      total dose is lower than the traditional 50 Gy in 25 fractions. Further acceleration to 5
      fractions is expected to have an even larger radiobiological advantage regarding tumor
      control. Additional advantages are patient comfort and a better use of radiotherapy
      resources.

      This randomized trial with 2 x 2 factorial design tests 2 interventions for patients with
      breast cancer requiring whole-breast and regional nodal irradiation: radiotherapy in prone
      position with a specifically designed patient support device called the crawl breast couch,
      and accelerated radiotherapy in 5 fractions. The standard arm in this trial is supine
      hypofractionated radiotherapy.

      The goal of this trial is to evaluate the effect of the prone crawl treatment position and/or
      accelerated schedule on acute and late toxicities, as well as quality of life and time
      management for breast cancer patients receiving whole breast and regional nodal irradiation
      after breast conserving surgery.
    
  