
    
      Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a set of physical, emotional and behavioral symptoms that
      occur during the week preceding menstruation and which alleviate when the menstrual flow
      begins. PMS affects millions of women during their reproductive years. Mild symptoms, which
      usually do not interfere with daily activities, are experienced occasionally by almost all
      ovulatory women. Between 8-30% of ovulatory women suffer from moderate to severe PMS
      symptoms, which may even require treatment. The more severe form of PMS, premenstrual
      dysphoric disorder is considered to affect up to 8% of ovulatory women. This severe form is
      associated with severe disruptions in work function, family, or social relationships. To
      date, therapeutic interventions are insufficient and ranges from stress reduction and
      lifestyle changing to hormonal therapies and the use of psychotropic medications. While
      traditional medications do not necessarily offer satisfactory alleviation of PMS symptoms
      homeopathy can offer a significant alleviation of PMS symptoms for an extended period of
      time.

      The proposed study will focus on PMS symptom alleviation for women diagnosed as suffering
      from the syndrome with the DRSP questionnaire.

      Five Homeopathic remedies (Natrum muriaticum, Lachesis, Sepia, Nux vomica and Pulsatilla )
      will be used, in five different therapy groups. The women will be allocated to the groups
      according to their matching to the remedy according to Homeopathic principles. In each group
      the women will either be treated with the appropriate remedy or with a placebo remedy. Women
      who do not match any of these five groups will be allocated to a sixth group receiving either
      Folliculinum that is given as general indication for PMS in homeopathy or placebo.

      The improvement of PMS symptoms will be evaluated using the Daily Record of Severity of
      Problems questionnaire at (DRSP). The questionnaire will be completed daily by women for 2
      months prior to receiving the treatment and for 3 months following treatment with a single
      dose of the homeopathy treatment.
    
  