
    
      Background:

        -  Research examining the potential impact of childhood chronic illness on parents and
           families has delineated a myriad of stressors that parents may experience, including
           financial stress, role strains, separations, interruptions in daily routines and plans
           for the future, and general uncertainty regarding the child s prognosis.

        -  All of these possible experiences may lead directly and indirectly to anxiety,
           depression, posttraumatic-stress, hopelessness, and feelings of loss of control in
           parents and families.

        -  The number of families headed by single, or lone parents has increased significantly,
           with 3 in 10 children now living in single parent homes.

        -  It is not known whether distress is greater for parents who are lone parents.

        -  Lone-parent families earn on average only 55% of what married-parent families earn, and
           are four times more likely to live in poverty.

        -  It is unclear how lone parents trying to navigate the complex needs of maintaining a
           home, family, and a chronically ill child adapt to these challenges.

        -  It is also unclear how many parents who check single on a standardized forced choice
           questionnaire format consider themselves to be lone when it comes to the experience of
           caring for their child with cancer.

      Objective:

      <TAB>

        -  Aim 1: To define and characterize lone parents

        -  Aim 2: To describe perceptions of social support and how they relate to lone and
           non-lone parenting

        -  Aim 3: To identify distress outcomes in parents of children with cancer who identify
           themselves as being lone when it comes to the experience of caring for a child with
           cancer

      Study Population:

      English and Spanish speaking parents of a child (1through 17 years) with a malignancy,
      diagnosed 6-18 months before recruitment will be invited to participate in this study.

      Design:

      -This is a pilot, exploratory study designed to describe the perceptions of support and
      distress outcomes of single/lone parents of a child with cancer. Participants will be
      administered a Lone Parent Support Questionnaire designed for this study. The study will be
      completed in one visit (<30mins).
    
  