
    
      In the past years, the adenocarcinoma of the esophagogastric junction (AEG) has been
      increasing obviously in China. It may be caused by the reason of increased body weight,
      alcohol consumption, gastroesophageal reflux disease and premalignant. In western countries,
      the 5-year rate of advanced AEG was less than 30%, it was the same in China. There was
      significant difference in epidemiology, pathogenic mechanism, biological characteristics and
      prognosis between AEG and antrum tumors, so AEG was regarded as a kind of independent
      disease. Up till now, the scope of lymph node dissected, the selection of operation approach,
      the resection range and the digestive tract reconstruction for the treatment of AEG were in
      dispute, especially in the reconstruction of digestive tract after operation.

      The digestive tract reconstruction methods for AEG II were determined by the surgical
      approach. The controversy exists regarding whether reconstruction method with low esophageal
      reflux should be used to treat AEG patients. The gastric tube reconstruction, the
      antrum-preserving double-tract reconstruction and the Roux-en-Y reconstruction were the
      common methods. Some studies showed that the 24-h pH profile in the patients with gastric
      tube reconstruction was similar to the healthy person, but it may be related to the
      increasing incidence of gastroesophageal reflux disease in the healthy person and the
      anti-reflux medication used in the patients. Although the antrum-preserving double-tract
      reconstruction have a good function of anti-reflux, the complicated operation and too many
      anastomotic stomas increased the rate of postoperative happened. The common physiological
      mechanism of anti-reflux was caused by the lower esophageal sphincter, esophagogastric
      junction, His angle and so on. Therefore, in our center, we use a new reconstruction which
      combine the advantages of gastric tube reconstruction with rebuilding the His angle and
      fundus of gastric. We call it Gastric tube interposition esophagogastrostomy with
      reconstruction of His angle and fundus (Giraffe anastomosis).
    
  