
    
      This study examines HIV medication optimization (HIV-MOI) in a prospective, randomized (1:1
      HIV-MOI: standard of care), clinical trial, comparing disease-specific clinical and
      humanistic outcomes in up to 200 adult African-Americans with HIV (1:1 men: women) and either
      diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM) and/or hypertension (HTN). Data will be collected from
      individual participants for a 2 year period. Once properly screened, consented and enrolled,
      medical records from participant's medical provider(s) will be obtained. Upon receipt of the
      medical records, research team personnel (working closely with the project biostatistician)
      will provide medical information only for those participants randomized to receive HIV-MOI to
      the study pharmacist. The study pharmacist then assesses the information to determine the
      clinical effectiveness and appropriateness of the current medical plan's medications. Upon
      completion, the study pharmacist will develop a prioritized medication problem list, create a
      plan, discuss/collaborate with the medical provider/healthcare team member as needed and then
      conduct the initial HIV-MOI visit with the patient. At the initial visit, an individualized
      care plan would be finalized with study participant input. Also at the initial HIV-MOI visit,
      the patient should receive an accurate (and reconciled with medical providers) personal
      medication record (PMR). Participants should also receive an individualized care plan called
      a medication action plan (MAP). The MAP can include non-pharmacological instructions and
      education. This may be guided in part by qualitative survey data obtained as part of the
      study visit. Follow-up visits will occur (ideally) not less than quarterly. Follow-up visits
      may occur face-to-face or using telecommunication methods.

      The study pharmacist will only be provided the medical information for the intervention
      group. Standard of care for pharmacists is not having access to medical information when
      providing HIV-MOI. Extracted data and study obtained data will be entered into the study
      database for analyses.
    
  