
    
      One-third of patients with epilepsy have seizures resistant to pharmacotherapy. There are
      many approaches developed to control these seizures, yet epilepsy surgery is still the most
      common method. The crucial part of epilepsy surgery is to assess the epileptic zone in order
      to render patients seizure free. However, accurate localization of the epileptic zone is
      often challenging due to the multimodal approach. This contains semiology, EEG (obtained
      during long term video-EEG monitoring), magnetic resonance Imaging (MRI), in addition to
      certain cases, positron emission computed tomography (PET), and single photon emission
      computed tomography (SPECT) and magnetoencephalography (MEG). At present, in one of the third
      patients, seizure remains after epilepsy surgery. Therefore a new preoperative method should
      be improved to assess the epileptic zone. Automated ESI is a post-processing novel method
      that estimates the location in the brain of the source of the recorded EEG signals.

      The objective of this study is:

        1. To determine the accuracy of ESI in localizing the epileptic focus.

        2. To determine the clinical utility of ESI on clinical decision making

      Methods:

      Study design: a prospective diagnostic study in line with the Standards for Reporting
      Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (STARD).

      EEG was recorded using the International Federation of Clinical Neurophysiology (IFCN)
      electrode array of 25 electrodes including six electrodes in the Inferior temporal chain
      (F9/10, T9/10, and P9/10) in addition to the 19 electrodes of the 10-20 system. Electrode
      impedance was kept below 5 kilo-ohm. EEG was recorded with a sampling frequency of 256 Hz.
      The investigators will make a video on how to place the electrodes, to make sure all centers
      follow a standardized method. Multidisciplinary epilepsy teams classify that in the first
      step you should keep the multidisciplinary team blinded to the source imaging data, and make
      the implantation plan without the ESI results. Then show the ESI, adjust the plan and note
      the changes.

      The multidisciplinary teams in different centers will classify seizures into "types." A
      seizure type is a group of seizures that have stereotypical semiology and ictal EEG. Maximum
      3 seizures are registered for per type. After Long Term Monitoring, they provide Epilog and
      Brain Electrical Source Analysis (BESA) teams with datasets including MRI and Long Term
      Monitoring recording for each patient. For uploading datasets, multicenter teams will use the
      platform developed by Epilog. Afterward, Epilog and BESA teams (blinded to patient
      information) will run the automated source imaging-both for interictal epileptiform discharge
      (EDs) and ictal signs. Both software packages have CE mark for ESI. Finally, the
      multidisciplinary teams take decisions in two steps:

      I. Considering all data, except ESI II. Adding ESI to all other data.

      At each step, the decisions are classified into one of the following categories:

        1. Stop (operation not recommended)

        2. Implantation of intracranial electrodes

        3. Operation

      In addition, the changes are classified into one of the following categories:

        1. No change - but concordant with the decision.

        2. No change - but discordant with decision.

        3. Change from stop to implantation.

        4. Change from implantation to stop.

        5. Change in implantation plan: implantation of additional sites (besides the ones planned
           in step-1).

        6. Change from implantation of operation.

        7. Change from operation to implantation.

        8. Other (specify in free text). If changes are not related to all analyses results, it
           will be noted, which method(s) triggered the change (SLORETA-interictal / ictal;
           Equivalent Current Dipole - interictal/ictal; CLARA interictal/ictal).

      At one-year follow-up, the changes are categorized as useful or not useful. A change is
      defined useful as follows: (a) change from stop to Intracranial Recording: the Intracranial
      Recording localized the source; (b) change in implantation strategy: the electrode(s)
      implanted based on the source imaging identified the source; (c) change from implantation to
      operation: the patient became seizure-free.
    
  