
    
      Subjects for project dulce will be recruited from parents who receive their newborn child's
      primary pediatric care from Boston Medical Center's Pediatric Primary Care Clinic. Subjects
      will be randomized to receive the study intervention or the control.

      Project dulce will provide a family partner to parents of infants up to six months of age.
      The dulce family partner (DFP) will be trained using the Healthy Steps model, an
      evidence-based approach to support parent understanding of child development, and by Medical
      Legal Partnership|Boston to identify legal and social needs that may affect a child's health
      and development. The dulce family partner will reach infants and families through their
      routine health care visits during their first six months of life and provide them with
      support for unmet legal needs, screen infants for developmental problems, screen families for
      mental health problems, and improve families' knowledge of child development. Families will
      meet with the DFP at the initial visit, at their subsequent routine healthcare maintenance
      visits, and during home visits if they wish.

      Families in the control group will receive safety education from a trained staff member on
      safe sleep and safe transportation, at two of their baby's routine well-child visits between
      1 and 6 months of age.

      Subjects will answer two sets of standard survey questions before and after intervention /
      control. The infant's electronic medical record will be reviewed up to the first year. This
      study will test whether the project dulce intervention promotes positive outcomes for
      children and families, and reduces risks and adverse outcomes. The results of this rigorous
      program evaluation may be used to support dissemination of project dulce to other primary
      care sites throughout the country.

      PROJECT GOALS 1. Assess whether the highly-structured dulce intervention results in: improved
      individual and family strengths, reduced risks, and decreased likelihood of child
      maltreatment. 2. Provide system-level information to assess the costs, resource needs,
      barriers, and benefits that come from implementing the dulce model within a patient-centered
      medical home. 3. In addition to the project's research goals, we will collect aggregated
      Child Protective Service (CPS) community-wide data regarding childhood injury and
      maltreatment, as is requested by funder.
    
  