
    
      This is a non-randomized, open label, single center, phase I/II, therapeutic exploratory,
      dose-escalation, prospective study, involving a single intravenous infusion of Temferon, an
      investigational advanced therapy consisting of autologous CD34+-enriched hematopoietic stem
      and progenitor cells (HSPCs) exposed to transduction with a third-generation, vesicular
      stomatitis virus-G (VSV-G) pseudo-typed lentiviral vector driving myeloid-specific
      interferon-ɑ2 (IFN-ɑ2) expression, which will be administered to up to 9 patients affected by
      multiple myeloma in early relapse after intensive front line treatment. The study will
      recruit, treat and follow-up patients at a specialist hematology and bone marrow
      transplantation unit at Ospedale San Raffaele (OSR) in Milan, Italy.

      The study will enrol multiple myeloma patients that have experienced an early relapse after
      intensive front line treatment, have been treated with an approved second line combination
      treatment regimen and obtained at least a very good partial remission (VGPR) according to
      International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria. Once the written informed consent is
      obtained, and screening procedures have been completed, harvesting of HSPCs will occur.
      Patients will be offered maintenance treatment during Temferon production and release. Upon
      Temferon release for clinical use, patients will be admitted to the transplantation unit for
      receipt of a reduced-intensity conditioning regimen consisting of melphalan. This will be
      followed by autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) and administration of Temferon. In-patient
      monitoring will occur until hematological recovery occurs. Thereafter, regular follow-up of
      patients will occur up to 2 years (+730 days). At the +730 day visit, patients will be
      invited to participate in a long term follow-up study which will last for an additional 6
      years.

      3 cohorts of 3 patients will receive escalating doses of Temferon.

      In the event that MM disease progression occurs, patients will be managed according to best
      clinical practice.
    
  