
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Systemic sclerosis is a connective tissue disease of unknown etiology characterized by
      microvascular injury and excessive fibrosis of the skin and viscera. In the United States,
      5,000 to 10,000 new cases are diagnosed annually. Approximately 80 percent of these persons
      will eventually develop some degree of lung involvement, and restrictive lung disease
      (interstitial fibrosis) is now the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in systemic
      sclerosis. An inflammatory alveolitis is thought to be the precursor of interstitial
      pulmonary fibrosis in systemic sclerosis. An effective treatment for SSc interstitial lung
      disease has yet to be identified. Cyclophosphamide (CYC) is already being widely used by
      rheumatologists desperate to do something to halt rapidly declining lung function in SSC
      patients. Thus, the time is ripe to perform a placebo-controlled trial of CYC in this
      disease.

      Pulmonary scleroderma strikes all races and is most prevalent among women during their
      child-bearing, child-rearing, and working years. A positive outcome from this trial,
      demonstrating that oral cyclophosphamide has a beneficial effect on pulmonary fibrosis, would
      be of great importance by offering a scientific basis for treatment. Similarly, a negative
      result, demonstrating no benefit from cyclophosphamide therapy, would also be important in
      avoiding hazardous and expensive therapy that is now being used widely.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Multicenter, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind. Subjects are recruited at 12
      clinical centers and randomized to 2 mg/kg/day of cyclophosphamide or placebo. Follow-up
      visits for pulmonary assessments occur every three months for two years after treatment. If
      patients fail the cyclophosphamide treatment, they will be offered azathioprine for the
      remainder of the 24 month trial. The primary endpoint of the study is change in forced vital
      capacity at the end of 12 months of treatment. Secondary endpoints include quality of life,
      activity, and dyspnea indices, and carbon monoxide diffusing capacity. Recruitment ends in
      December, 2003.
    
  