
    
      Cutaneous malignant melanoma (CMM) represents a major public health problem.Although melanoma
      accounts for only 4% of all dermatologic cancers, it is responsible for 80% of deaths from
      skin cancer; only 14% of patients with metastatic melanoma survive for five years . The
      probability of survival for melanoma stage II/IIIA at 15 years is around 50%.

      Treatment with dacarbazine, fotemustine, temozolomide, interferon---α and interleukin---2 has
      been proposed in metastatic melanoma, but these drugs exert poor efficacy. More recently,
      ipilimumab, which blocks cytotoxic T---lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 to potentiate an
      antitumor T---cell response has been approved for the treatment of HLA---A*0201-positive
      patients with unresectable stage III or IV melanoma . This treatment has been found to delay
      mortality by about 4 months, although, in clinical trials a fraction of patients lived much
      longer . However, the drug caused severe or fatal side effects in almost 13% of patients,
      prompting the FDA to qualify its approval with a mitigation strategy. There were 14 deaths
      related to the study drugs (2.1%), and 7 were associated with immune---related adverse
      events. These findings do not suggest the use of ipilimumab in non metastatic patients. After
      surgical resection no specific pharmacotherapy is recommended for patients with stage II/IIIA
      CMM until metastases are found.

      β---adrenoceptor antagonists (β---blockers) belong to one of the most widely used classes of
      drugs in clinical practice. Their use is mainly directed to the chronic management of
      hypertension , although they are also prescribed for ischemic heart disease, heart failure,
      anxiety, tremor, migraine and glaucoma , Initial pharmacoepidemiological evidence shows that
      β---blockers may reduce cancer risk. Indeed, β--- blockers have been reported to exert a
      certain degree of protection against prostate cancer . More recently, β---blocker treatment
      for concomitant diseases has been found to significantly reduce distant metastases, cancer
      recurrence, and cancer---specific mortality in breast cancer patients .

      Infantile hemangiomas are the most common benign tumor of infancy. Over the last few years,
      propranolol has become a popular and successful treatment for infantile hemangiomas. The
      ability of ß---adrenoceptors to increase the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and
      the subsequent angionenetic pathway has contributed to the identification of this mechanism
      as a primary target of ß---blockers to limit cancer progression and to treat hemangiomas. The
      recent observation that propranolol treated successfully a case of infantile
      lymphangiomatosis and simulatneously reduced VEGF levels further strengthens this hypothesis.
      Preclinical studies have proposed that activation of β--- adrenoceptors play a detrimental
      role in melanoma, as in vitro studies showed that melanoma tissues expressed both β1--- and
      β2---adrenoceptors and that isoproterenol is a potent inducer of VEGF, IL---8 and IL---6 gene
      expression in human melanoma cells supporting the role of β--- adrenoceptors in this pathway.
      Thus, the role of ß---adrenoceptors to promote angiogenesis, supported by both basic and
      clinical evidence, represents the most robust working hypothesis explaining the beneficial
      effect of ß-blockers indifferent models of cancers,including melanoma.

      In a prospective cohort of 121 consecutive patients with thick melanoma (Breslow >1), the
      investigators recently found that the use of β---blockers for concomitant diseases for 1 year
      or more is associated with a reduced risk of CMM recurrence. After a median follow---up time
      of 2.5 years, tumor progression was observed in 3.3% of the treated (n=30) subgroup and in
      34.1% of the untreated (n=91) subgroup . Cox model on progression indicated a 36% (95%CI:
      11%---54%; P=.002) risk reduction for each year of β---blocker use. No death was observed in
      the treated group, whereas in the untreated group 24 patients died. This study suggested for
      the first time that exposure to β---blockers is associated with a reduced risk of progression
      of thick CMM. In a larger group of 741 patients with thick and thin CMM the invetigators have
      recently confirmed the association between β---blocker prescription (79 patients) and the
      reduction in the risk of CMM recurrence and death.

      The investigators hypothesize that treatment with propranolol reduces the risk of recurrence
      of CMM and decrease overall mortality.

      Study Design The investigators propose a randomized double---blind placebo---controlled
      clinical trial (RTC) to evaluate whether the treatment with propranolol 80 mgR/die reduce the
      risk of CMM recurrence and mortality. Patients with resected stage II/IIIA CMM will be
      recruited in various Centers in Italy. Participants will be randomly assigned to propranolol
      treatment or placebo (1:1 ratio), treated for at least 1 year and followed for 2 years.
      Recruitment will proceed simultaneously at the different Centers, and will be completed in 2
      years. Complete physical examination, measure of study compliance will be performed at
      baseline, as well as at the interim visits, every 4 months. The primary outcome of the entire
      trial will be, however, estimated by assessing a reduction in overall mortality at five
      years. The invetigators will also evaluate general CMM recurrence and CMM specific mortality.

      Study population/Study Sites The proposed RCT will be conducted across Dermatology and
      Plastic Surgery centers primarily in Tuscany and also in other sites in Italy and if
      necessary in additional European countries. The end of follow-up is determined by recurrence,
      death, or last day of the follow-up.

      Recruitment, Randomization and Treatment Assignment Potential study participants will be
      recruited among patients treated at Dermatology and Plastic Surgery centers in Tuscany/Italy.
      All screened subjects at each center will be assigned an ID number irrespective of whether or
      not they are randomized to receive study treatment. Randomization will be performed using a
      web---based procedure. Randomization patient numbers for each participant will be generated
      by computer for each of the two treatment assignments.

      Unblinding will be provided once recruitment, data collection, laboratory analyses and whole
      follow up are completed. Protection of confidentiality will be achieved by limited access to
      the databases. At baseline the invetigators will also measure anthropometric variables such
      as weight, height. Arterial blood pressure, pulse rate and ECG will be recorded. Subjects
      enrolled will be asked about: hormone therapies, statin use; medical conditions such as
      xeroderma pigmentosum, basal cell nevus syndrome, lupus erythematosus, organ transplantation
      and immunosuppressive therapy; history of psoriasis; history of depression; all concomitant
      medications.

      The participants will be asked to return to the recruitment clinic for 13 follow---up visits
      at months 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36, 42, 48, 54 and 60. At alternate visits they will
      receive the next 8 months supply of medication for the study participants. The physician will
      perform a complete physical examination, including measurement of body weight, blood pressure
      and pulse rate, to assess the general health of the study participant. We will collect
      up---dated information about health status and signs of recurrence of melanoma.

      Dosage and Administration Study participants will be randomized to 80 mgR propranolol once
      daily or placebo.

      Concomitant medications Patients will be discouraged from taking unspecified medications.
      However all medications, vitamin and mineral supplements and herbs taken by the participant
      should be documented on the Case Report Form (CRF) and will include: start and stop date,
      dose and route of administration, and indication for use.

      Methods to monitor adherence The following methods of adherence monitoring will be used:
      blisters evaluation and subject self--- reporting, in keeping with the current practice of
      investigators to rely heavily on such tools.

      Withdrawal criteria Study Participants will be able to withdraw from the study at any time.
      Reason for subject discontinuation may include: recurrence, adverse event that compromises
      the patient's ability to participate in the study, such as serious acute emergencies (i.e.,
      heart attack, stroke or acute abdomen surgery). Subjects who discontinue treatment will be
      encouraged to participate in the follow---up examinations to maintain an
      intention---to---treat analysis.

      After 3 years of treatment patients will terminate the intervention period and will be
      followed on an annual basis for 2 years unless the early termination of the study. After 546
      patients have been randomized, the accrual will be closed. When the last randomized subject
      has concluded the 3 years of treatment and 2 years of follow---up, the study will be
      considered closed. The Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB), the Ethics Committee and
      regulatory authorities can make the decision to terminate the study earlier. This decision
      could be based on factors such as unacceptable adverse events, poor accrual or compliance on
      interim analyses.

      Staffing and Scheduling Coordinating Centre for Field Activities: the study will have a study
      coordination center at the Department of Preclinical and Clinical Pharmacology of the
      University of Florence, which will coordinate all the different aspects of the study field
      conduction. Prof. Alessandro Mugelli expert in cardiopharmacology, Prof. Niccolò Marchionni,
      expert in clinical cardiology and Dr. Sara Gandini, expert in data management and
      biostatistics will assist Dr. Vincenzo De Giorgi and Prof. Pierangelo Geppetti in the
      coordination of the study. The clinical investigators led by the PI, Dr. Vincenzo De Giorgi,
      will be responsible for study recruitment, clinical examination of patients and assessing
      patient safety. Study set-up will take approximately 6 months and will occur at the beginning
      of the funding period. After 6 months of study set---up period and 9 years of active data
      collection period (i.e., time between the first person entering the trial up to the last
      person completing the final 24 month follow-up visit), the last 6 months will be for study
      close---out activities. These activities will include final data entry and cleaning, final
      data analysis, and report writing. The entire study from beginning of study set-up to end of
      study close-out will take 7 years to be completed (two years of accrual, 3 years of
      treatment, 2 years of follow-up).

      Sample size calculations Results of the previous prospective study on of 741 melanoma
      patients showed that, after a median follow---up time of 4 years, Cox-regression model on
      overall mortality indicated a 38% (95%CI: 10%---57%;P=.02) risk reduction for each year of
      β--blocker use. Cautiously, we considered an hazard ratio of about 0.6 for the randomized
      placebo-controlled phase-II trial. A total sample size of 546 (split equally between the two
      groups) will give us 90% of power for estimating a improvement in OS at five years achieves
      90% power to detect an improvement given a survival at five years of 0.70 and an increase to
      0.82 in the treatment groups)at a significance level (alpha) of 0.05 using a two---sided log
      rank test. These results assume that 3 sequential tests are made using the O'Brien-Fleming
      spending function to determine the test boundaries and that the hazards are proportional.
    
  