
    
      Spastic disorders of the esophagus encompass hyperactive conditions of the esophagus due to
      either abnormal premature contractions or extreme vigor. In the current iteration of the
      Chicago classification, spastic esophageal disorders include spastic (type III) achalasia,
      diffuse esophageal spasm (DES), and hypercontractile (jackhammer) esophagus. Management of
      these spastic esophageal disorders is challenging and not clearly defined. Several medical
      therapies have been suggested and include acid suppression, nitrates, muscle relaxants, and
      visceral analgesics. For those who fail to response to medical therapy, the treatment options
      are limited.

      Botulinum toxin (BTX) injection is an effective therapeutic option for spastic esophageal
      disorders, however many patients experience symptoms relapse with this treatment requiring
      repeated injections.

      Heller myotomy is a surgical option for patients with esophageal spastic disorders. As
      compared to other types of achalasia, the response rate to surgical myotomy was lower in
      patient with spastic achalasia. The theoretical reason for this is that the disease involves
      not only the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) but also the esophageal body. Given data to
      suggest that surgical myotomy may be effective in treating patients with spastic esophageal
      disorders, peroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM), which is a less invasive treatment modality,
      has recently been studied for these difficult-to-treat patients. An initial study reported
      high success rate of POEM for severe spastic esophageal disorders. The response rate as
      defined by Eckardt score to ≤ 3 was 96% in spastic achalasia, 100% in DES and 70% in those
      with Jackhammer esophagus after a median follow-up of 234 days in a largest case series of
      medically refractory spastic esophageal disorders.

      To date, the optimal treatment for patients with severe symptomatic esophageal spastic
      disorders who fail medical therapy is unclear. Here, investigators aim to compare POEM and
      BTX injection in a randomized design.

      To compare the efficacy of peroral endoscopic myotomy and Botulinum toxin injection in
      spastic esophageal disorders.
    
  