
    
      Diabetes is a disease of glucose metabolism which in the United States in 2007 was estimated
      to effect at least 17.5 million people with type 2 diabetes mellitus accounting for
      approximately 90% to 95%. Poorly-controlled or treated type 2 diabetes is associated with a
      variety of health risks, including heart disease, stroke, renal failure, amputations,and
      blindness and is the seventh leading cause of death in the United States (NDIC, National
      Diabetes Statistics, 2011). A large number of medical treatments are available yet
      approximately 67% of patients in the United States with type 2 diabetes are unable to reach
      levels of hemoglobin A1C less than 6.5%, which is the target level set by the American
      Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE, State of Diabetes in America, 2011). In
      patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who are also morbidly obese, certain bariatric
      surgical procedures have shown improvement in the control of type 2 diabetes in addition to
      the expected weight loss effects. However, clinical investigations have pointed to a
      mechanism other than just weight loss in the improvement of type 2 diabetes in these patients
      and raised the possibility of utilizing the same mechanism in non-morbidly obese patients.
      Subsequent basic science research in 2004 involving a surgical bypass procedure of the
      proximal intestine in non-obese mice with type 2 diabetes mellitus showed remission of
      diabetes in the majority of mice and marked improvement over medical treatment in the
      remaining mice (13). Human clinical trials have been conducted in various locations worldwide
      and have produced similar results to the animal study; a call has been made for studies of
      new surgical procedures for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in IRB-approved clinical trials
      (39). In several studies, the duodenal exclusion, which is a procedure which bypasses the
      duodenum and proximal jejunum and leaves the stomach intact, has been shown to cause
      remission or marked improvement in type 2 diabetes mellitus without significant weight loss
      in non-morbidly obese patients. However, no study within the United States has compared the
      effect of this surgical procedure upon type 2 diabetes with the effect of conventional
      medical treatment of type 2 diabetes in a controlled clinical trial. In this clinical study,
      the investigators propose to directly compare the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in
      non-morbidly obese humans by a surgical bypass of the duodenum and proximal jejunum to the
      treatment of a similar group of humans treated with conventional medical therapy. Our
      hypothesis is that a non-bariatric surgical procedure, the laparoscopic duodenal exclusion,
      will provide improved treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in non-morbidly obese patients
      when compared to conventional medical treatment. The measures of the treatment of type 2
      diabetes mellitus in which a difference is expected to be observed are glycosylated
      hemoglobin A1C (HbA1C), fasting glucose, and insulin resistance. The investigators propose a
      prospective, controlled, non-randomized clinical trial to test this hypothesis.
    
  