
    
      Patients with CML falls into various groups based on their disease stage and response to
      kinase inhibitors. In the context of currently available kinase inhibitors, allogeneic
      transplant and the various available new drug trials, there are still some patients who will
      not achieve a satisfactory or sustainable response. For such patients, we aim to employ CIK
      cell as an immunotherapeutic modality concurrent with their original CML-specific therapy.
      This will enable us to explore any additional activity of CIK cells against CML without any
      compromise to their ongoing, established treatment.

      The following groups of patients are potential candidates:

        1. Blast crisis / accelerated phase patients who have failed to response to the kinase
           inhibitors but are fit to undergo induction chemotherapy as for the acute leukemia.
           Repeated cycles of CIK will be given in phase with the planned chemotherapy cycles, to
           observe for achievement of any remission and its durability.

        2. Blast crisis / accelerated phase patients who have achieved a haematological or
           cytogenetic response to the kinase inhibitors, but do not have further definitive
           curative options eg allogeneic transplant. In the absence of long term data with
           Dasatinib or Nilotinib , it is justifiable to study the efficacy of addition of CIK
           therapy to their baseline best response achievable with drug therapy.

        3. Patients with resistance to the currently available kinase inhibitors due to T315I
           mutation or other undefined mutations, with progressive relapse either at molecular,
           cytogenetic or haematological level, and do not have transplant as a curative option. In
           this group of patients additional of CIK to current treatment will show any activity of
           CIK against the drug-resistant mutant CML cells.

        4. Patients who have achieved a stable but residual molecular evidence of CML, who are
           willing to explore additional means with a hope to eradication of MRD. Since the role of
           immunotherapy is most relevant in MRD, CIK infusion will provide the proof of principal
           observation of whether imatinib-resistant CML Philadelphia stem cells can be eradicated
           by these ex vivo activated and expanded cytotoxic T cells.
    
  