
    
      Retention of patients in HIV care following diagnosis and enrollment is a chronic challenge
      in both resource rich and resource poor settings (Rosen, Fox et al. 2007; WHO 2009; Fox and
      Rosen 2010), and is critical to the long-term success of HIV care and treatment scale-up.
      Most research on retention in care has focused on persons who are eligible for or have
      initiated antiretroviral therapy (ART), generally examined only demographic and clinical
      determinants. However, a large proportion of patients enrolled in HIV care (e.g., 45%,
      according to our data from 722 sub-Saharan African clinics) have not been determined to be
      ART-eligible and have not yet initiated ART; among these individuals, even less is known
      about the magnitude and determinants of non-retention in care. Retention in HIV care prior to
      ART initiation is a pre-requisite to: 1) optimal prophylaxis, diagnosis, and treatment of
      opportunistic illnesses (OIs); 2) effective secondary prevention of HIV transmission, such as
      by patient counseling and education, earlier diagnosis of infected family members and sexual
      partners, and prevention of mother to child transmission (PMTCT); and 3) more timely ART
      initiation. Retention in care among patients at earlier disease stages is also increasingly
      important given the WHO-recommended expansion of ART eligibility guidelines in
      resource-limited settings (WHO 2009).

      Objective: The goal of this study is to better understand barriers and enablers to retention
      and engagement in HIV care among adult patients who are enrolled in HIV care and are not yet
      eligible for ART. The specific objectives are:

        1. To describe themes in barriers and enablers to retention and engagement in HIV care;

        2. To conduct structured interviews to gather relevant baseline information on potential
           determinants of non-retention and non-engagement in HIV care;

        3. To estimate the incidence of short-term outcomes (missed visits and lost to follow-up
           (LTF)), including the rate and proportion of those LTF who are no longer engaged in HIV
           care; and

        4. To identify determinants of missed visits, LTF, and non-engagement in care among
           ART-ineligible patients.

      Methods: This study will be conducted using qualitative and quantitative methods at four HIV
      care and treatment clinics (CTCs) in Kagera Region, Tanzania.

        1. Qualitative: in-depth interviews at two CTCs with up to 20 adult patients (ART naïve,
           and ineligible or indeterminate for ART) and about 4 health care workers; and focus
           group discussions (about 4 groups of about 6-10 persons/group) with adult patients (ART
           naïve, and ineligible or indeterminate for ART).

        2. Quantitative: 1) structured baseline interviews at four CTCs (n= approximately 900 adult
           patients who are ART naïve, and ineligible or indeterminate for ART); 2) prospective
           monitoring of these 900 patients using routine CTC patient data to assess missed visits
           and LTF; and 4) brief structured surveys of patients who become LTF and are reached
           through defaulter tracing efforts.
    
  