
    
      Sickle cell nephropathy (SCN) is a progressive complication of sickle cell disease (SCD) that
      begins in childhood and results in renal (kidney) failure and early mortality in nearly 12%
      of adults with hemoglobin SS (HbSS). The potential for prevention and reversal of kidney
      damage in SCD is not known. Albuminuria is a commonly used biomarker of glomerular damage;
      however the correlations of albuminuria with specific measurements of glomerular function and
      pathophysiology have not been determined. The investigators hypothesize that in patients with
      persistent albuminuria despite treatment of SCD with hydroxyurea, losartan will reverse
      kidney dysfunction in early stage nephropathy and ameliorate progressive kidney dysfunction
      in more advanced nephropathy. Losartan is an FDA-approved drug to treat blood pressure to
      protect the kidneys in people who have diseases like diabetes and blood pressure. It is not
      specifically labeled for use in sickle cell disease. Participants will be enrolled from
      Children's Healthcare of Atlanta (pediatric subjects) or Grady Memorial Hospital (adult
      subjects) and will be in the study for 1 to 2 years (depending on when the final renal
      function tests can be preformed).

      The primary aim of this pilot study is to evaluate the acute and longer-term effects of
      losartan (study drug) on renal function in children and adults with SCD who have persistent
      albuminuria. The renal function tests will be done at study entry (prior to taking losartan),
      1 month, and 1 to 2 years after starting losartan therapy. In addition, participants are
      assessed monthly by their regular clinical team. The second aim of this study is to assess
      the correlation of changes in albuminuria after 1 month of losartan with changes in direct
      measurements of renal function at 12-24 months, thus determining if the magnitude of the
      initial decrease in albuminuria in response to losartan predicts sustained improvements in
      renal function.
    
  