
    
      The fear of falling affects about 20% of seniors living at home, having fallen beforehand or
      not. Its repercussions, like the premature decline of physical capacities, the decrease in
      quality of life, the loss of independence and the independent risk of falling are well known.
      They appear mediated by a restriction of mobility when the phobias of falling take place.
      Indeed, when a phobia of falling occurs, the person limits her moving to avoid the situations
      confronting her to the object of her fear - in this case, the fall. However, individuals
      going outdoors less frequently or moving through smaller life-space areas likely have poorer
      health and function, and coexisting lower levels of physical activity. Thus increasing
      life-space area may provide important health benefits in elderly people phobic of the fall.

      The usual cares of the phobia of falling are physical activity, home assessment and
      modification with or without CBT programs. Their efficacy on the increase in mobility has not
      been properly assessed. One of the priorities is to assess these programs with some tools
      reporting improvement in mobility and independence.

      The Life-Space Assessment (LSA) questionnaire of the Alabama and Birmingham Study of Aging
      can measure the evolution of the life-space area in an appropriate way, i.e. the spatial area
      in which a person commonly acts. This 20-item assessment captures the life-space mobility of
      individuals in five successive areas or life-space (LS) levels (from within the home to
      outside of town). Subjects are asked the frequency with which they moved in each of the five
      areas over the past four weeks, and if any assistance (from other persons or with equipment)
      or no assistance was required. A composite life space score (LSC, range: 0-120) is calculated
      combining information on the life space level, the degree of independence, and the frequency.
      Higher scores indicate greater life space. The reliability and construct/criterion validity
      of this questionnaire translated into French has been published.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness on an aera of mobility, measured
      using LSC on three months program combinating physical activity, home assessment and
      modification (rehabilitation group), versus a program combinating physical activity, home
      assessment and modification, and CBT (rehabilitation and CBT group) of the senior older than
      70, suffering from phobia of falling and living at home.

      After the initial study assessment, each participant will benefit during 8 consecutive weeks
      of a weekly individual session of physical activity, 2 home-based sessions of modification of
      the home environment and, moreover, for the patients of the rehabilitation and CBT group, a
      weekly session of individual CBT during the 8 consecutive weeks of the program and a booster
      session one month later.

      Participation in this study will last up to 8 months. LSC will be tested in both groups
      before, immediately after, 3 and 6 months after completion of the intervention period to
      explore the benefit of each intervention.
    
  