
    
      Study design

      The present study is a 3-year prospective, single-blinded, randomized clinical trial. The
      enrolment will be carried out at the Stroke Unit and the VASCOG clinic of the Careggi
      University Hospital. Forty patients will be enrolled according to the following criteria: 1)
      MCI defined according to Winblad et al. criteria (19); 2) Evidence of impairment across
      attention neuropsychological tests; 3) Evidence on MRI of subcortical vascular lesions:

      moderate to severe age-related white matter changes (WMC) according to a modified version of
      the Fazekas scale (20). Exclusion criteria: age<18 years. All enrolled patients will be
      evaluated at baseline according to the study protocol, that includes: 1) Clinical assessment;
      2) Functional, quality of life and mood assessment; 3) Extensive neuropsychological
      assessment; 4) MRI protocol. After baseline assessment, participants will be randomly
      assigned to attention training or standard care. Stratified minimization randomization will
      be used to ensure the balance for possible prognostic factors (i.e., age, gender, MMSE total
      score, extension and localization of WMC) across the groups. All APT-II sessions will be
      administered by a clinical neuropsychologist, or an appositely trained graduate student in
      medicine. The student clinicians will receive a minimum of 30 hours of training with adult
      rehabilitation patients, and will be closely supervised by the neuropsychologist.
      Participants in the APT-II group will receive overall up to 40 hours of individual attention
      process training. Therapy will be administered in one two-hour session each week over a total
      of 20 weeks. Participants in the standard care group will not receive cognitive training or
      rehabilitation interventions, will be instructed to have an usual lifestyle, and will be
      conventionally provided of medication and clinic consultations. Each patient will be
      followed-up at 6 and 12 months after baseline assessment. During the follow-up visits
      clinical assessment, an extensive neuropsychological evaluation, and mood, functional, and
      quality of life assessments will be performed according to the baseline protocol. The MRI
      protocol will be repeated at 1-year follow-up.

      Work Methodology

      Baseline and follow-up clinical, neuropsychological, functional, and MRI data will be
      collected in a dedicated database. Data will be checked and controlled for consistency in
      real time during collection. At the end of the enrolment, a first exploratory data analysis
      will be carried out. Postprocessing of neuroimaging acquired at baseline will be performed by
      an experienced radiologist. At the end of each follow-up (6 and 12 months after enrollment),
      analysis of data (uni- and multivariate models and effect size measures) will be carried out.
      All analyses will be performed using SPSS 18 and will be mainly directed to: 1) evaluate the
      short and long-term effectiveness of the rehabilitation program, using cognitive performance
      and functional and quality of life measures as dependents variables (within and between
      groups analyses); 2) identify potential predictors of effectiveness of the rehabilitation
      program (multivariate model). The variables included in the model will be: demographic and
      vascular risk factors, baseline cognitive profile and functional status, and preexisting
      brain structural changes; 3) evaluate the potential protective effect of the rehabilitation
      program on the increase of cognitive impairment or transition to dementia at 1 year
      follow-up; 4) evaluate the long-term effect of rehabilitation on brain activation, using
      f-MRI data, whole-brain histograms, and voxel-based analyses as dependents variables (within
      and between groups analyses).

      Milestones

        -  Phase 1 (4 months): 1) Project protocol establishment; 2) Dedicated database for data
           collection construction; 3) MRI protocol determination; 4) Training on cognitive
           rehabilitation

        -  Phase 2 (24 months): 1) Baseline patients cohort enrolment and clinical,
           neuropsychological, functional, and MRI data collection; 2) Neuropsychological
           rehabilitation program administration; 3) Follow-up assessments (6 and 12 months after
           enrolment)

        -  Phase 3 (8 months): 1) Post-processing of neuroimaging acquired at baseline and at
           1-year follow-up; 2) Data completeness and consistency control; 3) Data analysis; 4)
           Dissemination of results
    
  