
    
      BACKGROUND The perioperative events associated with major surgery trigger the body's stress
      response, compromising optimal post-surgical recovery and outcomes. Moreover, traditional
      perioperative indications, such as restricting food up to two days before surgery, have been
      shown to be associated with poor outcomes following surgery. The Enhanced Recovery After
      Surgery (ERAS) protocol, initiated in the early 2000's, aimed to address these problems. The
      ERAS protocol has recommendations for pre-, intra-, and post-operative stages, with the goal
      of modifying physiological and psychological responses to surgery. A key component of ERAS is
      perioperative nutrition, including avoidance of fasting before surgery and carbohydrate
      loading up to two hours pre-surgery. It is hypothesized that adequate nutrition and provision
      of an energy source in the perioperative period can attenuate the body's stress response
      during surgery, thereby enabling faster and more successful recovery.

      Early post-operative feeding is another recommendation of ERAS and is also intended to ensure
      optimal metabolic balance. Post-operative nutrition of ERAS patients generally involves oral
      feeding with energy-dense nutritional supplements in the days after surgery until the patient
      is ready for normal food intake. Lipids and carbohydrates form the bulk of these supplements,
      providing a readily available energy source. Lipid emulsions, such as Intralipid速, are used
      commonly in total parenteral nutrition and are also indicated as an energy source in patients
      for whom the usual intravenous fluid therapy would not be adequate. Lipid emulsions alone may
      therefore be helpful in enhancing recovery following major surgery, particularly in patients
      who are not good candidates for a strict ERAS protocol. With respect to short-term outcomes
      following surgery, Intralipid has been shown to modulate blood pressure by increasing
      systemic vascular resistance and cardiac output.

      Only one study so far has evaluated post-surgery recovery outcomes following administration
      of lipid emulsion exclusively. The investigators found that patients receiving an intravenous
      infusion of lipid emulsion experienced better overall recovery and faster time eye opening
      and exit from the operating room compared to patients receiving an infusion of 0.9% normal
      saline. While these results suggest that post-operative lipid delivery improves recovery, the
      study did not assess differences in basic vital signs between the two groups, and the
      subjects were limited to those undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. In this study, the
      investigators will recruit patients undergoing any surgery of the abdomen and assess
      post-operative outcomes, including vital signs, following an intravenous bolus of Intralipid速
      20% or 0.9% normal saline.

      OBJECTIVE To demonstrate that patients receiving an intravenous bolus of Intralipid速 20%
      immediately following surgery experience improved post-surgical recovery compared to patients
      receiving an intravenous saline bolus.

      HYPOTHESIS The investigators hypothesize that patients who receive an intravenous bolus of
      Intralipid速 following major abdominal surgery will show more stable vital signs and faster
      discharge from the recovery room compared to patients receiving a saline bolus.
    
  