
    
      Over the past 35 years the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Dietary Guidelines
      for Americans (DGAs) has sought to translate recommendations on nutrient requirements (i.e.,
      Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) from the Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of
      Medicine (IOM) into practical nutritional advice for the American public. Over the same time
      interval in which the Dietary Guidelines have existed the occurrence of nutrition-related
      health problems in the United States has escalated dramatically, showing that the population
      of obesity in U.S. has reached to a total of 35.8%. In addition, the lack of appropriate
      focus on protein nutrition is a major shortcoming of the DGAs. Not only is the amount of
      protein not a major focus, but also absolutely no mention is made of protein quality. Protein
      quality refers to the amount, profile, and true ileal digestibility of the essential amino
      acids (EAAs) in the protein. However, the concept of protein quality is not new, as the
      Protein Digestible Corrected Amino Acid Score was published by the Food and Agriculture
      Organization of the World Health Organization in 1993. Although animal protein (and beef
      specifically) has much higher the Digestible Indispensable Amino Acid Score (DIAAS) than
      plant proteins, often by as much as two fold, DIAAS has not taken account of the importance
      of the amount and profile of EAAs in individuals proteins. Moreover, the misrepresentation of
      the equivalencies of various food sources of protein in MyPlate raises the question of the
      process by which this occurred, and how can the process be influenced to more accurately
      reflect that high quality of animal proteins, including beef? Therefore, we propose to make
      these measurements in response to intake of "equivalent "(according to MyPlate) amounts of
      beef, kidney beans, eggs and peanut butter. Demonstration that the functional responses to
      these varied sources of protein coincide with the predictions from the USDA nutrient data
      base and calculation of the DIAAS will provide needed support to redefine "ounce equivalents"
      of protein food sources according to those data bases for all animal and plant sources of
      protein.
    
  