
    
      Concurrent Chemoradiation therapy is widely accepted as a standard treatment of locally
      advanced unresectable stage III NSCLC. When compared with the result of radiation therapy
      alone of CALGB 8433 trial (i.e., 9.7 months), the median survival times have almost doubled
      over the last 2 decades, but rarely exceeded 18 months after chemoradiation therapy in most
      randomized trials. On the other hand, a significant portion of patients had to endure the
      side effects of grade 3/4 esophagitis and also pneumonitis, which resulted in
      treatment-related deaths in some cases. There is a great need to develop more effective but
      less toxic treatment strategies. Recently, molecular-targeted therapy using EGFR-TKIs brought
      new enthusiasm to the NSCLC therapy. The investigators observed a median survival time of
      20.1 months in chemo-naïve never-smoker Korean patients with adenocarcinoma of the lung. The
      benefit of EGFR-TKI was also demonstrated in never-smokers who participated in the phase III
      trial of carboplatin/paclitaxel with or without Erlotinib (TRIBUTE). Despite a lack of
      benefit in the overall patient population, Erlotinib conferred a survival benefit to those
      who had never smoked cigarettes, In this analysis, 105 patients who were identified as never
      smokers had a median survival of 10 months, similar to the entire study population, when
      treated with carboplatin/paclitaxel plus placebo. However, for the patients in this
      subpopulation who were treated with Erlotinib and the same chemotherapy regimen, the median
      survival increased to 22.5 months (P = 0.01). Furthermore, EGFR mutation was associated with
      significantly higher response rate and longer survival as compared with those without EGFR
      mutation. More importantly, the median survival time of those patients with EGFR
      mutation-positive tumors exceeded 20 months in the majority of the studies. These results are
      very provocative given the fact that only the patients with stage IIIb not amenable to
      chemoradiation therapy and stage IV NSCLC patients were included in the study and in many
      studies, the majority of the patients were heavily pre-treated with multiple chemotherapy
      regimens. The investigators postulate that if the case were properly selected, EGFR-TKI would
      significantly improve the overall survival of the patients with locally advanced unresectable
      stage III NSCLC. The investigators therefore propose a randomized phase II trial to evaluate
      the efficacy and toxicity of EGFR-TKI Erlotinib in selected group of NSCLC patients with EGFR
      mutation-positive stage III tumors. The use of induction chemotherapy is feasible and
      effective. It is also logistically beneficial for decreasing micrometastases and
      radiation-related toxicity by decreasing tumor burden before definite locoregional concurrent
      therapy. Previously the investigators conducted several phase II study of IP chemotherapy in
      advanced NSCLC and demonstrated that IP chemotherapy has a promising activity and readily
      manageable toxicity profile. Given the encouraging activity of IP chemotherapy in the
      advanced stage setting, the investigators postulated that their further investigation in the
      stage III setting might lead to further prolongation of survival times. In addition to
      cisplatin, Irinotecan has been demonstrated to act as radiation sensitizers in preclinical
      and clinical setting. Therefore, their use with concurrent radiotherapy might lead to
      radiation sensitization and improved locoregional control.
    
  