
    
      NK cells may react against leukemia cells, particularly when they are mismatched for certain
      HLA tissue type proteins. In the lab, the NK cells are separated from the blood using a
      machine called a CLINIMACs system. This machine uses certain kinds of cells and
      antibody-coated magnetic beads to separate the NK cells. The drug aldesleukin (interleukin-2,
      IL-2) is then added to the NK cells to improve their function. The aldesleukin will be washed
      out of the cell sample before it is given to you.

      The NK cells will be donated from a family member who has a certain genetic type in their
      blood called HLA that partly matches yours. The stem cells you will receive will come from a
      separate HLA-identical family member or an unrelated donor.

      Fludarabine is designed to interfere with the DNA (genetic material) of cancer cells, which
      may cause the cancer cells to die.

      Busulfan is designed to bind to DNA, which may cause cancer cells to die.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, 6 days before the NK cell
      infusion, you will be admitted to the hospital and will receive hydration fluids by vein.

      Starting 5 days before the NK cell infusion, you will receive fludarabine by vein over 1 hour
      for 4 days in a row. On the last 2 days, you will receive busulfan by vein over 3 hours. The
      day before the NK cell infusion, you will "rest" (not receive any drugs).

      Starting 3 days before the infusion, you will receive methylprednisolone by vein over 15
      minutes and antithymocyte globulin (ATG) by vein over at least 4 hours for 3 days in a row.
      ATG is given to help reduce the risk of transplant rejection.

      On the day of the NK cell infusion, you will receive the NK cells by vein. You will receive
      Benadryl (diphenhydramine) by vein over 15 minutes before the infusion to help lower the risk
      of an allergic reaction.

      Starting on the day of the NK cell infusion, you will receive aldesleukin as an injection
      under the skin 1 time a day for 5 days. Aldesleukin is given to help the NK cells survive and
      multiply.

      Starting 5 days after the NK cell infusion, you will receive ATG by vein 1 time a day for 3
      days.

      The day after the last ATG dose, you will receive the stem cell transplant by vein.

      You will also receive tacrolimus and methotrexate to help lower the risk of a reaction called
      graft vs. host disease (GVHD). GVHD is when the donated immune cells in the transplant react
      against the body of the person receiving the cells. You will receive tacrolimus by vein as a
      continuous infusion for about 2 weeks after the stem cell transplant. After that, you will
      receive tacrolimus by mouth 1 time a day for at least 3 months.

      On Days 1, 3, and 6 after the stem cell transplant, you will receive methotrexate by vein
      over 30 minutes.

      You will also receive Neupogen (filgrastim, G-CSF) as an injection under the skin 1 time a
      day until your blood cell counts are high enough.

      Study Tests:

      On Day 5 after the NK cell infusion, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn to check for
      NK cells.

      During the study, blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn 1 time to check for a protein
      found on NK cells. This blood will be collected during a routine blood draw, if possible, to
      avoid an additional needle stick. If you have a central venous catheter (CVC), blood will be
      drawn through the CVC.

      You will need to stay in the hospital for about 4 weeks and have blood draws (about 2
      teaspoons) for routine tests as often as the doctor thinks is needed during this time. After
      you leave the hospital, you will continue as an outpatient in the hospital area, which means
      you will have to stay close enough to be able to come back for any visits for at least 100
      days after the transplant.

      Length of Study:

      You will be taken off study early if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects
      occur, if not enough NK cells can be collected, or if you are unable to follow study
      directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the follow-up phone
      calls.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      At 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after your transplant:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  You will be checked for possible reactions to your treatment, including GVHD and graft
           failure. Graft failure occurs when donor cells may not be able to grow and multiply in
           your body. If this happens, there will be a high risk of infections and/or bleeding. If
           the number of white blood cells does not get back to high enough levels within 3 weeks
           after the transplant, more stem cells may need to be given.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check the level of
           the infused NK cells, for immune function tests, and to check the status of the disease.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a bone marrow aspiration to check the
           status of the disease.

      One (1) time a year for 2 years after your transplant, if you are unable to return for a
      follow-up visit, the study staff will call you to ask how you are doing. These phone calls
      should take about 10 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. The way the researchers process the NK cells using the
      CliniMACs device is investigational. The NK cell process is not FDA approved or commercially
      available. It is currently being used for research purposes only. Fludarabine and busulfan
      are FDA approved and commercially available to treat CML.

      Up to 32 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  