
    
      The specific aims of this project are: a) to determine whether a technology-based
      personalized home exercise program delivered asynchronously and supervised remotely by a
      kinesiologist is more effective in improving gait than a traditional home-based exercise
      program, b) to assess the system acceptability and satisfaction, c) to examine and compare
      the impact of both approaches on several secondary outcome measures related to mobility, PD
      symptom, and quality of life. This study is a prospective randomized controlled
      single-blinded clinical trial of efficacy of a technology asynchronous assisted supervised
      tele-exercise program compared to an a traditional home-based exercise program with a
      booklet.

      Interventions:

      Control group (CONT): The participants (n=21) included in control group will follow a
      non-supervised home-based exercise program (booklet format). The exercise program will
      include 3 physical activity sessions per week for 12 consecutive weeks. This exercise regimen
      has been shown to be adequate to improve functional capacities in elderly and feasible. Each
      exercise session will last 40-45 minutes and includes: 1) 5 minutes of warm-up exercises; 2)
      15-18 minutes of mobility and balance exercises (e.g. high knees, lateral launches, side
      steps); 3) 15-18 minutes of strengthening and coordination exercises (e.g. weight transfer
      and squats, leg extension and balance, lateral shifting, horizontal flexion and extension)
      and; 4) 5 minutes for cool down/stretching. This exercise protocol was developed based on
      general guidelines for the prescription of exercises to older adults and, validated in a
      previous study. The exercise booklet will be introduced and supervised for the first sessions
      by a trained kinesiologist. Follow-ups by phone will happen at sessions 6, 12 and 18. During
      these follow-up calls, if the answers are "yes" to the 3 following questions (1. Did the
      participant perform during the last weeks all the exercise sessions? 2. Did the participant
      feel safe when performing exercises? 3. Did the participant find easier to perform the
      exercises compared to the last contact?), then the participant will be invited, but not
      obligated, to increase the level of difficulty using the option indicated in the booklet.

      JIN Group (n=21): The JIN group (n=21) will receive an individualized asynchronous supervised
      home-base exercise program using the Jintronix System, 3 times/week for 12 weeks (36
      sessions). This exercise regimen has shown to be adequate to improve functional capacities in
      elderly. Briefly, the Jintronix Rehabilitation System (JRS) uses Microsoft Kinect cameras to
      track patient's movements in 3D during exercises. They are programmed as games that are
      visualized on a television and for which performance feedback is provided to the participant.
      Developed by Jintronix system designers in partnership with researchers, the system provides
      an interactive exergame environment to execute, specialized exercises through specific
      instructions and real-time feedback. The Jintronix system which includes a computer, the
      software and a motion capture device will be installed at participants' homes on their own
      television. A trained kinesiologist will install the system and supervise the exercise
      program. Participants will be trained to use the system with help of the kinesiologist during
      the visits. Each exercise session will last 40-45 minutes and includes: 1) 5 minutes of
      warm-up exercises; 2) 15-18 minutes of mobility and balance exercises (e.g. high knees,
      lateral launches, side steps); 3) 15-18 minutes of strengthening and coordination exercises
      (e.g. weight transfer and squats, leg extension and balance, lateral shifting, horizontal
      flexion and extension) and; 4) 5 minutes for cool down/stretching. Based on the Web-portal
      daily reports on the performance of the exercise program, the kinesiologist will do online
      adjustment of the degree of difficulty of the individualized exercises by increasing the
      number of repetitions, number of series, intensity and range of motion and provide feedback
      to the participant. This will ensure individualized adaptations and progress throughout the
      12-week intervention.

      The JIN group will use the Jintronix rehabilitation software to exercise at home whereas the
      CONT group will use an exercise booklet. Both groups will be free to exercise on the 3 days
      and times that best suit their schedule, with a mandatory minimum of one day off between
      sessions. In addition, to counteract human interaction bias, both exercise groups will have
      the same number and type of contact. The first weeks following the baseline evaluation, 3 to
      4 in-person home visits are required to ensure proper and safe execution of exercise protocol
      (both groups) and the capacity to use the technology (JIN group only). In addition to these
      visits, 3 follow-up phone calls will be given to allow the kinesiologist to ensure safety and
      adherence. An emergency contact number will be given to participants for any questions
      regarding the exercise regimen during the 12-week intervention.

      Study workflow and monitoring: After a phone screening to ensure eligibility and obtaining an
      oral consent to participate, participants will follow 2 baseline visits: 1 at their home and
      1 at the "Université du Québec à Montréal" (UQAM). Before the home visit, subjects will be
      randomized into control (CONT) or Jintronix® (JIN). During the first visit at home,
      participants will sign an informed consent form. Afterward, the visit will be divided in 2
      parts. The first part will serve to complete validated questionnaires (Parkinson's Disease
      Questionnaire, Short Falls Efficacy Scale-International and Life Space Assessment). The
      second part is to install the wearable equipment for mobility assessment (Apple watch® and
      location beacons). Participants will wear the sensor for at least 7 consecutive days.
      Afterwards, participants will return wearable sensors and location beacons at the UQAM visit.
      They will arrive in the morning in "off" state (abstinence of medication 12h before
      appointment) to undergo the motor evaluation, which is the 6-minute walk test, and the Short
      Physical Performance Battery test. After these, participants will take their medication with
      a breakfast at the lab. While waiting to be "on" state, investigators will perform the body
      composition (DEXA) and muscle composition scans (Ct-scan). When the medication is fully in
      effect, functional capacity and 6-min walk tests will be re-assessed. This will provide us
      comparison measures. All evaluations will be repeated at the end of the exercise intervention
      using the same sequence.

      Power analysis:

      Sample size: Primary outcome measure is the average gait speed assessed during a 6-minute
      walk test. Based on previous studies, obtaining clinically significant improvement in gait
      speed needs to show a gain of 0.2m/sec after intervention. Data using the proposed technology
      yielded significant improvement (JIN:+0,2±0,12m/s vs CONT:0,05 ±0,09m/s; p=0.025). Thus,
      obtaining a power of 0.80, an alpha of 0.05, with an effect size of 0.5 (which is
      significantly smaller that the investigators previously obtained (1.37)), this project would
      need a total sample size of 28 participants (14 per group) to detect clinically significant
      differences in gait speed changes between two groups. However, considering an attrition rate
      of 20% (3 out of 14 in each group) and to improve chances to achieve adequate power for
      secondary outcomes, a sample of 21 participants per group (n=42) will be used. Even if
      adequate power is not achieved for the secondary outcomes' measures, sample sizes between 24
      and 50 are sufficient to calculate the standard deviation of outcome measures gathered during
      a feasibility study, to estimate the sample size required for hypothesis testing in a
      randomized control trial (RCT). Thus, calculations will ensure a sufficient power analysis
      for the primary outcome measure and position the investigators to establish the variability
      on secondary measures for a larger RCT.

      Statistical analyses: Descriptive statistics (means, standard deviations, ranges, normality,
      and proportions) will be determined for all study variables. The primary outcome, gait speed,
      will be assessed using a two-way mixed model analysis of variance (ANOVA) where group is the
      between factor and time is the within factor. Tukey post hoc or Friedman test will be used
      based on data characteristics. Categorical variables related to the outcome measures (i.e.
      clinical scales and diary) will be analyzed using χ2 or Fisher exact tests for baseline
      comparisons. The change in each outcome variable (before and after training) will be modeled
      in an unadjusted 1-factor (group) analysis of variance, to investigate the effect of
      interventions. Wearable sensor data will be averaged over multiple days and compared using a
      two-way mixed model ANOVA as described above, similar to other secondary outcome measures
      (i.e. DEXA, CT-Scan, etc.). Tukey post hoc or Friedman test will be used based on data
      characteristics. To examine changes in variability, standard deviations will be averaged over
      multiple days and compared using the same approach. Finally, exploratory analyses will be
      performed to examine 1) if the JIN intervention allows to improve on/off periods, 2) the
      possible effect of age, sex or medication dose on exercise adaptations.

      Innovation: Patients with PD are likely to experience a decrease in their daily physical
      activity (PA) because of physical impairments, fatigue, and apathy. PA is a complement to
      pharmacological interventions to manage the inherent decline in function associated with the
      disease. It is well known that PA interventions induce positive effects on physical
      capacities and more specifically on gait, mobility, posture and balance. However, engaging
      older adults in PA through different modalities of exercise programs to obtain these benefits
      is a challenge, as more than half of older adults are inactive physically and patients with
      PD are even more than older adults. Supervised exercise programs are needed to motivate and
      engage patients with PD in becoming more physically active in structured and safe ways.
      Providing access to supervised exercise programs for patients is difficult as they have
      mobility constrains and they rely on others for their travel. Home Exercise Programs (HEPs)
      offer potential benefits but are often lacking close supervision and interaction with a
      healthcare professional. The use of a supervised in-home PA program driven and supported by
      an exergame such as Jintronix© has the potential to be more impactful and meaningful to
      patients than traditional HEPs. It can be used independently by them in their own home and do
      not require the presence of a professional to perform physical activity training. This allows
      patients to perform exercise as they wish (schedule, day, on/off period etc.) which overall
      will increase their adherence to the PA program and promote self-engagement and
      self-management of their PD. The technology provides a unique way to engage patients in PA
      while ensuring supervision and communication with a health care professional. The proposed
      works will also innovate by using an ecological mobility measurement approach based on
      wearable sensors to capture gait and activity metrics under real life conditions for
      multiples days and link this to medication use. The combination of sensors used (inertial
      sensor at the ankle, and interior and exterior location sensors) and their packaging into
      highly usable and wearable form factors is highly innovative and unique. The proposed
      instrumentation for the measurement approach offers a lot of potential to study the impacts
      of pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions on real life functions and
      activities of patients. It could be of interest to other parties involved in clinical trials
      on interventions for PD.
    
  