
    
      Immunotherapy is an innovative approach being developed for the treatment of pancreatic
      cancer, a lethal and relatively chemotherapy-resistant disease. However, the tumor and its
      environment have developed a number of ways in which they inhibit the function of the immune
      system preventing it from recognizing and killing the cancer. In addition, the investigators
      still do not understand how T cells, the cells in the immune system that have the potential
      to recognize cancer as different and kill cancer cells, traffic into the tumor to accomplish
      their task. The investigators are currently testing an immune system activating pancreatic
      cancer vaccine (known as GVAX) in combination with immune boosting doses of the chemotherapy
      agent, cyclophosphamide, as preoperative and postoperative treatments for pancreatic cancer.
      The investigators have discovered tertiary lymphoid aggregates, a unique lymph node-like
      structure formed within resected tumors from the patients who received the vaccine two weeks
      prior to the surgery. This discovery demonstrates that the immune system can get into the
      tumor and provides the investigators with the opportunity to better understand how these
      immune cells traffic into the tumor and function once they arrive. The investigators also
      found that the vaccine causes an increase in signals that would suppress the immune system's
      ability to fight off cancer cells, including signals involving PD-1. In this novel study, the
      investigators will test the effects of blocking PD-1 in combination with the vaccine in
      patients with pancreatic cancer. The investigators will specifically isolate these immune
      cells and evaluate at both the genetic and protein level, the types of signals expressed by
      these aggregates. The investigators will compare aggregates from patients with long term
      survival versus patients who succumb to their cancer early. In this way, the investigators
      will be able to determine how safe this novel treatment is, how effective it is at changing
      the immune system in pancreatic cancer, and how it impacts the health and survival of
      pancreatic cancer patients who undergo surgery to remove the cancer.
    
  