
    
      Outline of the study:

      This study will take place at the Imperial Clinical Research Facility (ICRF). Twenty healthy
      volunteers will be recruited to take part in three visits to the ICRF. These will each last
      8-12 hours. During these visits participants will receive penicillin via infusion following:

      (i) Routine (intermittent or continuous) dosing protocols. (ii) Intermittent dosing directed
      by a closed-loop control system. (iii) Continuous dosing directed by a closed-loop control
      system. Participants will have up to 15 blood samples and tissue microdialysis performed. A
      biosensor will also be used to provide real-time antibiotic concentration data. This will be
      used to drive the closed-loop control system. Outcome measures will be PK-PD target
      attainment between visits. This target will be 50% time > MIC and 100% time > MIC.

      Participant identification:

      Healthy volunteers will be recruited from a healthy volunteer database held within Imperial
      College London and via identification of participants within the College. An initial
      advertisement e-mail will be sent by the Healthy Volunteer Database Administrator and
      individuals responding will then followed up by telephone or e-mail and invited to attend a
      screening visit at the ICRF. They will be sent the participant information leaflet via email
      in advance of this meeting to give them time to consider the information.

      Study methodology:

        -  Twenty healthy volunteers will be invited to participate in an exploratory study of the
           biosensor device and closed-loop control systems.

        -  Allergy status will be confirmed with the participant at each visit.

        -  Study days will follow the same format. The only deviation will be the method of
           penicillin delivery (this will either be by routine infusion, closed-loop intermittent
           infusion, or closed-loop continuous infusion).

        -  On the night before study visits, participants will be asked to refrain from drinking
           alcohol. On the study day they will be invited to bring a laptop / tablet device for
           their entertainment. Alternatively, one will be provided on the study day by the ICRF.

        -  On arrival at the study center the participant will have a microneedle biosensor sited.

        -  They will have two cannulae inserted, ideally one in each arm. One of these will be for
           taking blood during the study. The other will be for penicillin delivery.

        -  They will also have a microdialysis fibre inserted in the same arm as the microneedle
           array.

        -  A baseline blood sample will be taken (full blood count, renal function, liver function,
           and C-reactive protein) on each visit.

        -  The microneedle biosensor will be sited peripherally (on the non-dominant arm). These
           sensors are connected to potentiostat devices that record data, which can then be
           downloaded onto a computer for analysis.

        -  The study will then commence at time = 0 when the first infusion of penicillin will be
           given.

        -  In total, the study will run for 3 benzylpenicillin dosing intervals (8-12 hours). For
           intermittent, routine care benzylpenicillin doses will be given at time = 0, 4, and 8
           hours. During closed-loop control visits the controller will be allowed to determine the
           dosing interval / period. The controller will be limited to deliver a MAXIMUM dose
           equivalent to 2.4g every 4-hours.

        -  During the study interval the participant will undergo rich blood and microdialysis drug
           concentration sampling. For blood sampling, up to 15 beta-lactam drug levels will be
           taken during the study visit period. Each blood test will involve the collection of 5mLs
           of blood (1 teaspoon). Microdialysis will be performed continuously for the study
           period. The collection vial will be changed every 15-30 minutes during the study period.

        -  In addition, a blood spot will be used from the blood samples taken as part of the PK
           sampling to test point-of-care penicillin sensors at the time-points described below.

        -  A visual analogue scale will be completed by the participant every hour to evaluate
           their level of discomfort due to the microneedle sensor device. The device and site will
           also be checked by researchers every hour.

        -  Time points for the blood sampling are planned to initially be taken at pre, 6, 10, 15,
           30, 60, 120, 180, 240, 246, 250, 300, 480, 486, 600 minutes. However, following initial
           PK analysis a D-optimal design will be employed using Pmetrics and BestDose
           pharmacokinetic software to determine the optimal time points for blood PK analysis.
    
  