
    
      Background

      Breathing retraining techniques receive increased attention in the management of asthma,
      since the evidence for safety and usefulness of such procedures is growing.
      Physiotherapist-guided breathing programs, such as the Papworth method and the Buteyko
      method, are most systematically investigated and hence yield the best evidence of
      effectiveness.

      Active breathing modulation techniques are frequently assigned to complementary and
      alternative medicine CAM, comprising of a variety of systems and modalities other than the
      politically dominant healthcare system.

      However, patients may take a different perspective, since the prevalence of CAM use in the
      treatment of asthma is at a level of 20-30% among adults and 50 - 60% for children, even if
      rigorous estimates are being applied.

      Anthroposophic therapeutic speech applies sounds and syllabic rhythm, e.g. the hexameter, for
      improving articulation, breathing and cardiorespiratory interaction. The method has been used
      for many years as a breathing retraining method for asthma in all settings. This study is the
      first to systematically investigate the effects of ATS in asthma patients in a real-life
      outpatient setting.

      Objective

      The following hypotheses are tested: i) anthroposophic therapeutic speech improves relevant
      parameters of pulmonary function in patients with asthma. ii) anthroposophic therapeutic
      speech reduces the use of as-needed medication in patients with asthma. iii) anthroposophic
      therapeutic speech improves asthma control and quality of life in patients with asthma.

      Methods

      The study is a randomised, controlled, multicentre, 2-period cross-over clinical trial
      conducted at 3 centres in Switzerland and Germany. Participants are randomly assigned in a
      1:1 allocation ratio to either firstly receive 11 speech therapy sessions or to wait
      (control), followed by a cross-over to the other group.
    
  