
    
      The primary objectives of this study are:

        1. To assess the change on the Rivermead Post-Concussion Symptoms Questionnaire (RPQ) and
           the PTSD Check List-Civilian Version (PCL-C) administered pre-treatment, then bi-weekly
           (weeks 2, 4, 6) during a 7 week treatment course, then monthly for 3 months following
           treatment.

           Hypothesis: The addition of high frequency left pre-frontal and low frequency right
           pre-frontal cortical stimulation will improve symptom reporting on the RPQ and PCL-C in
           service members with mTBI and PTSD symptoms as compared to sham treatment.

        2. To assess the tolerability of TMS in subjects as measured by side effects in active TMS
           compared with sham treatment.

      Hypothesis: TMS will prove safe and tolerable in service members with mTBI and PTSD.

      The secondary objectives of this study are:

        1. To assess whether TMS results in an improvement in mood as measured by the Quick
           Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology - Self Report (QIDS-SR), general life functioning
           (physical, cognitive, emotional, behavioral, and social problems) as measured by the
           Mayo-Portland Adaptability Inventory - military (MPAI-m), life satisfaction as measured
           by the Satisfaction With Life Scale (SWLS), and suicidality as measured by the Beck
           Scale for Suicidal Ideation (BSS).

           Hypothesis: TMS will result in an improvement in mood, general life functioning, and
           life satisfaction, as well as a reduction in suicidality.

        2. To assess the durability of any improvement realized by TMS over the course of three
           months following the conclusion of sessions.

           Hypothesis: The improvement realized by 7 weeks of TMS will prove stable, showing
           effects up to 3 months after the conclusion of active treatment.

        3. To assess structural neuronal changes over the course of active vs. sham TMS as measured
           by MRI.

           Hypothesis 1: Analysis of structural MRI (3D T1-weighted) will reveal increased volume
           of the hippocampus and anterior cingulate cortex in service members who improve in PTSD
           symptoms (as measured by the PCL-C).

           Hypothesis 2: Microstructural MRI (DTI) will reveal FA increase in the corpus callosum
           and the uncinated fasciculus in service members who improve in measures of mTBI (i.e.,
           Rivermead Post Concussion Symptoms Questionnaire).

        4. To assess metabolic neuronal changes that occur over the course of active vs. sham TMS
           as measured by PET.

           Hypothesis 1: TMS will result in increased glucose uptake in the ipsilateral and
           contralateral cerebral hemispheres for those who show significant improvements in the
           symptomatic measures of TBI (i.e. RPQ and MPAI-m).

           Hypothesis 2: TMS will result in decreased glucose uptake in the dorsal anterior
           cingulate/mid cingulate cortex (dACC/MCC) and in the bilateral amygdala for those
           service members with significant improvements in the symptomatic measures of PTSD and
           mood (i.e. PTSD Checklist and QIDS-SR).

        5. To examine the mechanism of action of TMS through looking at the metabolic changes that
           occur during a TMS session.

           Hypothesis: There will be increased glucose uptake in the left prefrontal cortex and
           decreased glucose uptake in the right prefrontal cortex immediately after active TMS as
           compared to sham.

        6. Exploratory: To assess biological changes that result from TMS therapy and to determine
           how biomarkers relate to changes in PTSD symptoms.

        7. Exploratory: To examine how single gene polymorphisms (SNPs) in serotonin genes may
           relate to TMS response and symptom change.
    
  