
    
      Patients will give us blood to make CD19 CD28 chimeric receptor-T cells in the laboratory.
      These cells will be grown and frozen for the patient. To make the T cells investigators take
      the blood and stimulate it with growth factors to make the T cells grow. To get the CD19
      antibody (with CD28) to attach to the surface of the T cell, they insert the antibody gene
      into the T cell. This is done with a virus called a retrovirus that has been made for this
      study and will carry the antibody gene into the T cell. This virus also helps us find the T
      cells in the blood after they inject them using a special laboratory test. Because the
      patients will receive cells with a new gene in them they will be followed for a total of 15
      years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene transfer. If the patient cannot
      visit the clinic, they may be contacted by the research coordinator or physician.

      When the patients enroll on this study, they will be assigned a dose of CD19 CD28 chimeric
      receptor-T cells.

      For those with intermediate or low grade lymphoma/leukemia: The investigators' studies so far
      have shown that the infused T cells may need to receive an extra boost in order to expand
      efficiently in the body. Therefore, 2 weeks after T cell infusion, the patient may receive
      one injection of a drug called ipilimumab, which they believe will help the T cells grow.
      This drug is approved by the FDA to treat certain cancers, such as melanoma, but the dose of
      drug used for this study will be lower than those used in those other treatments to avoid
      side effects.

      Patients will be given an injection of cells into the vein through an IV at the assigned
      dose. The injection will take about 10 minutes. Patients will be followed in the clinic after
      the injection for up to 3 hours. If after a 4-6 week evaluation period after the infusion,
      the patient seems to be experiencing a benefit (confirmed by radiological studies, physical
      exam and/or symptoms), they may be able to receive up to three additional doses of the T
      cells if they wish. These additional infusions would be at least 4-6 weeks apart and at the
      same dose level they received the first time or a lower dose. The treatment will be given by
      the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's Hospital or Houston Methodist
      Hospital.

      To learn more about the way the CD19 CD28 chimeric receptor-T cells are working and how long
      they last in the body, extra blood will be drawn.
    
  