
    
      Study title: A multicentre double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised, parallel-group study
      to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Lornoxicam in patients with mild to moderate probable
      Alzheimer's Disease.

      Study phase: II

      Indication: Alzheimer´s Disease

      Study objectives: Primary:

      To evaluate the efficacy of Lornoxicam (8 mg, BID) administered for 6 months versus matched
      placebo based on the following end-point:

      • Cognitive performance - ADAS-cog+

      Secondary:

      To evaluate the efficacy of Lornoxicam (8 mg, BID) administered for 6 months versus matched
      placebo based on the following end-point:

        -  Activities of daily living - ADCS-ADL

        -  Behavioral / psychiatric symptoms - NPI

      To evaluate the safety of Lornoxicam (8 mg, BID) administered for 6 months versus matched
      placebo.

      • Overall incidence of adverse events.

      Exploratory:

      In a subgroup of 50 patients MRI analyses will be performed. In a subgroup of 50 patients
      exploratory data on the production of amyloid biological markers - blood plasma concentration
      of Aß1-38, Aß1-40 and Aß1-42 will be collected.

      An optional 6 month open-label phase will be available.

      Subject population, diagnosis and main criteria for inclusion: Male and female patients with
      mild to moderate probable Alzheimer's Disease according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria

        -  Age 50 - 85 years inclusive

        -  MMSE 18-26 inclusive

        -  No history of treatment with Acetylcholine-esterase inhibitors or 4 weeks wash out
           period before baseline visit.

        -  No history of treatment with Memantine or 4 weeks wash out period before baseline visit.

      Duration of treatment: 6 month double-blind phase 6 month open-label phase (optional)

      Total number of subjects: A total of 220 patients will be recruited to the study from
      approximately 20 centers in a treatment ratio of 1:1 (8 mg BID, 110 : placebo, 110). This
      reflects the minimum number of patients required and also allows for a drop out rate of
      approximately 20%. Additional subjects may be recruited based on interim analysis.

      Number of study centres: Approximately 20; multinational Europe

      Number of visits: Doubble-Blind Phase: 5 visits (including screening); Open-Label Phase: 3
      visits

      Investigational product, dose schedule and route of administration: Lornoxicam (8 mg) tablets
      to be taken orally two times daily (BID) for a period of 6 months.

      Reference product, dose, schedule and route of administration: Placebo (8 mg) tablets to be
      taken orally two times daily (BID) for a period of 6 months.
    
  