
    
      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: Infants are randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups. Patients are
      stratified by disease severity, chorioretinitis, prenatal treatment, and certainty of
      diagnosis at birth.

      One group of infants is treated with a loading dose of oral pyrimethamine followed by a
      higher dose for the first two months then a lower dose for the remainder of the 12 months.
      Sulfadiazine and leucovorin calcium are also given orally for 12 months. The pyrimethamine
      loading dose is omitted if prior prenatal therapy was given.

      Another group of infants is treated with a higher dose of oral pyrimethamine for the first 6
      months and then the lower dose for the remainder of the 12 months. Sulfadiazine and
      leucovorin calcium are administered concurrently.

      Infected fetuses of pregnant women are nonrandomly assigned to treatment with pyrimethamine,
      sulfadiazine, and leucovorin calcium after the first trimester. Spiramycin is administered
      before the fetal diagnosis is made.

      Concurrent prednisone for active retinal inflammation or elevated cerebrospinal fluid protein
      is allowed.

      Collaborating physicians will also refer historical controls, who have not been treated in
      the first year of life or who received one month or less therapy, and are older than one
      year. Absence of treatment in the first year of life will be due to parental preference,
      prior inadequate follow-up by the family physicians, or lack of detection or treatment of eye
      disease before the age of one year in otherwise asymptomatic children. These historical,
      untreated patients (who enter the study when they are older than one year) will be compared
      with treated children in the randomized study. These historical patients will not be
      randomized. Any abnormality requiring treatment (e.g., active chorioretinitis) in any child
      (including historical patients) will be treated.

      All infants are followed at birth, then at age 1, 3.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 15, and 20.
    
  