
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of cyclophosphamide that can be combined with
      ixazomib citrate (ixazomib) and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated
      symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM). (Phase I Cohort A) II. To determine the complete plus very
      good partial response rate (>= VGPR) of ixazomib, used in combination with cyclophosphamide
      and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated symptomatic MM. (Phase II Cohort A)
      III. To determine the hematologic response rate of ixazomib, used in combination with
      cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated light chain
      amyloidosis. (Phase II Cohort B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with
      previously untreated symptomatic MM following treatment with ixazomib in combination with
      cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone followed by ixazomib maintenance till progression. (Cohort
      A) II. To determine the toxicities associated with ixazomib in combination with
      cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated symptomatic MM.
      (Cohort A) III. To determine the organ response rate of ixazomib, used in combination with
      cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated light chain
      amyloidosis. (Cohort B) IV. To determine the progression free survival and overall survival
      among patients with previously untreated light chain amyloidosis following treatment with
      ixazomib in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone followed by Ixazomib
      maintenance till progression. (Cohort B) V. To determine the toxicities associated with
      ixazomib in combination with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with previously
      untreated light chain amyloidosis. (Cohort B)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the pharmacokinetics of ixazomib when used in combination with cyclophosphamide
      and dexamethasone. (Cohort A) II. To assess the incidence of neurotoxicity using patient
      completed questionnaires. (Cohort A)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of cyclophosphamide followed by a phase II
      study.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15 and
      cyclophosphamide PO and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive ixazomib citrate PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 5 years.
    
  