
    
      Breast Cancer is the most common cancer type in women in New Zealand and has the second
      highest mortality (Ministry of Health NZ) Many women with early breast cancer still receive
      chemotherapy, before or after surgery and delayed nausea is a particular challenge. Ensuring
      tolerable therapy is critical to improving outcomes, by enabling patients to complete optimal
      anti-cancer therapy and to improve quality of life during therapy. Despite recent advances in
      antiemetic regimens, recent trials showed that rates of delayed Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea
      and Vomiting (CINV) are is in excess of 50%, with significant impacts on quality of life
      during treatment. This suggests that different mechanisms than those targeted by centrally
      acting anti-emetics account for such symptoms. There is strong evidence that chemotherapy
      regimens can result in gastrointestinal mucosal injury and dyspepsia. A number of studies
      have shown chemotherapy-induced dyspepsia can be relieved by a proton pump inhibitor, but
      none have reported their use as prophylaxis for delayed CINV, which may be a linked symptom.
      Proton pump inhibitors are widely used in the treatment of non-malignant dyspeptic conditions
      and are the most potent medications at reducing gastric acid secretions. They are considered
      safe in short-term use and are commonly used in clinical practice in cancer patients as well
      as the wider population. The pharmacokinetics Pantoprazole make it the ideal PPI for this
      study. The experience of New Zealand Medical Oncologists is that delayed nausea is often
      completely resolved by the delayed use of a PPI when symptoms occur. In this study we hope to
      see a 30% difference in the rates of delayed nausea by using a drug which is readily
      available and of very low cost. This will be the first time it has been used as preventive
      therapy in this setting. If this benefit occurs, it would significantly improve the treatment
      journey and may improve compliance to anti-cancer therapies.
    
  