
    
      Estrogens are effective means of treating advanced prostate cancer. In randomized studies
      estrogens have better cancer control rates than orchiectomy alone, suggesting that estrogen
      efficacy is not limited to its ability to suppress testosterone. One hypothesis is that
      estrogens modulate immunity to prostate cancer through direct activation of effector cells
      and by upregulating cytokines in prostatic stroma. Administration of estrogen in murine
      models induces infiltration of normal prostate with T lymphocytes even in castrate male
      animals potentially through induction of autoimmunity to normally cryptic prostate antigens.
      Estrogens activate multiple immune effectors and autoimmunity in a broad variety of
      experimental settings, suggesting upregulation of immune recognition on many levels. Pilot
      data demonstrates that estrogens upregulate expression of interferon regulated genes, major
      histocompatibility antigens (MHC) on prostate cancer, and increase both number and activation
      of natural killer (NK) cells. Other groups have shown that standard forms of androgen
      deprivation also induce immunity against both normal and malignant prostate tissue. We
      propose to test the hypothesis that administration of estrogen and/or androgen deprivation
      induces immune recognition of prostate cancer in humans through upregulation of major
      histocompatibility antigens on tumor and induction of tumor specific immunity. The
      specificity of estrogen effect will be tested by comparing measures of immunity in patients
      treated with estradiol, androgen deprivation or no neoadjuvant therapy.

      Plan of therapy

      The specific aims of this proposal are:

        1. To treat patients with clinically localized, low to intermediate risk prostate cancer
           who are candidates for radical prostatectomy with either standard androgen deprivation
           prior to surgery (neoadjuvant androgen deprivation) or neoadjuvant transdermal
           estradiol. Patients will undergo radical prostatectomy 21 days after initiation of
           treatment.

        2. To evaluate radical prostatectomy specimens obtained from these patients for expression
           of MHC class I and II, and NK ligands MICA and MICB in prostate carcinoma and adjacent
           prostate by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Western analysis.

        3. To evaluate tumor tissue for infiltration by clonal T lymphocytes, NK cells, and
           plasmacytoid dendritic cells using IHC and spectratyping of T cell receptor gene
           rearrangements.

        4. To evaluate patients for the induction of tumor specific antibodies using patient
           immunoglobulin collected before and after neoadjuvant therapy (SEREX)

        5. To evaluate patients for induction of NK cells and upregulation of the NK receptor NKG2D
           on patient lymphocytes by androgen deprivation and estradiol.

        6. To evaluate the effects of androgen deprivation and estradiol on induction of plasma and
           tissue levels of interferon gamma, alpha, beta, IL-4 and GM-CSF by ELISA and
           ribonuclease protection assay.
    
  