
    
      Existing formulations for adults include zidovudine 100mg capsule, zidovudine/3TC 300/150mg,
      zidovudine/3TC/NVP 300/150/200mg, zidovudine/3TC/ABC 300/150/300. Currently, international
      guidelines recommend a daily dose of 600 mg in 2 divided doses. Pharmacokinetic studies on
      zidovudine showed a twice daily regimen resulted in higher predose zidovudine-triphosphates
      (TP) concentrations, the active intracellular metabolite, when compared to the same daily
      dose given once daily. Further, a small study in Thailand study found doses of zidovudine 200
      mg twice daily achieved plasma levels equivalent to the standard international 300 mg twice
      daily dose in individuals weighing less than 60 kg.

      The clinical efficacy of zidovudine has been evaluated in randomized clinical trials using a
      range of doses from 300 to 1500 mg/day. In an early trial (Nordic Medical Research Councils'
      HIV Therapy Group 1992) comparing different dosing of zidovudine monotherapy in advanced HIV
      infection found no differences in death rate, or new AIDS defining events. The incidence of
      anaemia and leucopenia comparing 400 mg and 1200 mg daily showed a direct dose relationship:
      4% to 24% (anaemia) and 3% to 22% (leucopenia) respectively. Another early trial (Fischl
      1990) demonstrated an improved survival with the lower dose of zidovudine (63%) versus the
      high dose (52%), again with significantly more anaemia and neutropenia in the high dose
      zidovudine arm (p < 0.001).

      High doses of zidovudine have led to increased incidence of anaemia and neutropenia, with no
      impairment in treatment efficacy as measured by CD4 cell count, HIV RNA level or clinical
      progression. In the context of new recommendations favouring the use of zidovudine over
      stavudine as first line treatment in resource limited settings, the investigators aim at
      evaluating the impact of reduced zidovudine (200 mg BID) treatment.

      API (active product ingredient) production costs are the most important determinant of
      antiretroviral drug prices among generic manufacturers. A given percentage reduction in
      dosage will thus translate into a virtually equivalent percentage in drug pricing. As cART
      will continue to expand in Least Developed Countries, it is predicted that around 1.5 million
      people will take zidovudine-based regimen by 2010. Small reductions in the annual per-patient
      cost of AZT-based regimen could lead to significant reductions in the global cost of HIV
      treatment: it is estimated a 47 million US dollars savings if 9 million patients will be
      treated in 2014.

      The present study is a prospective, randomised, 48 weeks, phase II trial. Subjects will be
      recruited through one site: the HIV outpatient clinic of Internal Medicine Department, CNPS
      Hospital, Yaoundé, Cameroun. Randomisation will be performed at initiation of ART. Patients
      will be randomised in one of the following treatments arms, in combination with lamivudine
      and an NNRTI regimen: a low-dose AZT arm (200 mg twice daily)or a standard-dose AZT arm (300
      mg twice daily).

      The primary endpoint is the comparison of proportions of patients experiencing a new grade 1
      to 4 anaemia or increasing their anaemia grade between the two dosing AZT regimen during the
      first six months of treatment.

      The secondary endpoints are:

        -  Mean haemoglobin concentration and leukocyte count changes, laboratory grade 3 and 4
           adverse events rate leading or not to switch for another cART regimen.

        -  Differences in proportion of patients achieving virological success (VL <50 cop/ml)
           between the two dosing zidovudine regimen at week 24.

        -  Difference in proportion of patients achieving virological success ( VL <400 cop/ml)
           between the two dosing zidovudine regimen at week 24.

        -  Difference in mean viral load decline between the two groups at week 4 and 8

        -  Difference in mean CD4 cell count increase from baseline between the two dosing
           zidovudine regimen at week 8, 24.

        -  Difference in proportion of patients with genotype mutations in patient with detectable
           viral load at week 24.

        -  Number of new AIDS defining illness, mortality rate, drop-out rate will be compared
           between the two groups.

      Patients will be followed individually 24 weeks for the entire period of experimental
      treatment. After the follow-up period, all patients included in the low dose AZT arm will be
      treated with standard AZT dose. They will keep their routine follow-up at the CNPS hospital.

      For the first 68 patients included (half of the total cohort) in the study, the Data Safety
      Monitoring Board (DSMB, independently of the clinical investigators) will undergo an interim
      analysis at week 8 of follow-up before continuing enrollment. In this sample of patients, the
      efficacy of two treatment groups will be compared: an excess of 15% virological treatment
      failure in the low-dose AZT arm will be considered as significant. Virological treatment
      failure at this point is defined as a decline in viral load from baseline to the 8th week of
      less than 2log.

      An incidence of 30% of patients experiencing new grade 1 to 4 anaemia or increasing their
      anaemia grade during the first 6 months of treatment is expected with the standard AZT dose
      regimen. A reduction of this adverse event to 10% of the patients treated by the low dose
      regimen would be considered as clinically significant. Thus, with a 10% of LFU expected
      during the follow-up period, the investigators calculate a sample size of 68 patients in each
      arm to detect a clinically significant difference between the two arms.

      The percentage of patients experiencing a new grade 1 to 4 anaemia or increasing their
      anaemia grade will be compared between both treatment arms using the difference of proportion
      observed (Chi2 test or Fisher exact test).

      The same method will be used to compare all the efficacy and safety indicators. Multivariate
      analysis will be used to obtain adjusted estimates of risk factors for treatment failure and
      for clinically significant adverse events.

      Analysis on treatment safety and efficacy will be performed both in 'intention to treat" and
      in "per protocol".

      An "intention to treat" analysis will include patients enrolled in the study who received at
      least one dose of study medication to which they were randomly allocated.

      A "per protocol" analysis will include patients enrolled in the study who received at least
      one dose of study medication to which they were randomly allocated AND have reached one of
      the protocol defined treatment failure endpoints (death, lost to follow-up, virological
      failure) on the treatment they were randomly allocated or have completed the trial follow-up
      on the treatment they were randomly allocated.

      Criteria for the termination of the trial are:

        -  Too low enrollment rate.

        -  Unsafe or unethical practices.

        -  Following the recommendation of the DSMB. The sponsor and investigators will ensure that
           this study is conducted in full compliance with the principles of the "Declaration of
           Helsinki" or with the laws and regulations of the country in which the research is
           conducted, whichever affords the greater protection to the individual. The study must
           fully adhere to the principles outlined in "Guideline for Good Clinical Practice" ICH
           Tripartite Guideline (E6, June 1996) or with local law if it affords greater protection
           to the subject.

      This study will be conducted in accordance with the ethical principles laid out in the
      Declaration of Helsinki and the National Statement on Ethical Conduct in Research Involving
      Humans.

      Investigators will obtain written informed consent from each subject participating in this
      study, after adequate explanation of the aims, methods, anticipated benefits, and potential
      hazards of the study.
    
  