
    
      Any patient undergoing a lumbar or cervical transforaminal epidural, as ordered by their
      treating physician will provide written informed consent before the procedure is conducted.
      The contents of the consent forms will be used to explain the study to patients. There are no
      drug treatments associated with the study other than those which are part of the existing
      treatment plan. There is no subject randomization. Subjects will be recruited consecutively.

      Patients with pregnancy, coagulopathy, systemic infection, allergy to contrast dye, mentally
      disabled or those whom are unable to give informed consent will be excluded from the study.

        1. One experienced physician (>5 years experience) will use intermittent fluoroscopy to
           place needle for transforaminal epidural position using standard techniques. The
           physician will then use real time fluoroscopy when injecting the contrast solution to
           determine pattern of contrast flow (his standard of care).

        2. For each individual epidural site (each level and side per patient per setting counted
           as separate injections) the following will be identified:

             1. Patients age

             2. Diagnosis (reason for epidural) i.e. spinal stenosis, HNP, DDD

             3. Procedure level

             4. Gauge of needle

             5. Type of needle tip

             6. Aspiration of blood in needle hub pre-injection

             7. Contrast pattern using real time fluoroscopy

             8. Number of attempts of needle positioning

             9. Total fluoro time per case

        3. The physician will routinely wear a ring radiation badge to determine average radiation
           exposure to his hand.

        4. Analyze results

        5. Confirm incidence of intravascular pattern per level and determine incidence of mixed
           intravascular-epidural pattern per level.

        6. Quantify average fluoro exposure time and compare to average flouro time of identical
           procedures using intermittent fluoroscopy.

      All of the procedures for this protocol are standard of care.

      All data is collected during the procedure. There will be no follow-ups after the procedure.

      We will be asking participants if they are willing to be contacted regarding future research
      studies that may be of interest to them.
    
  