
    
      Background: Development of new cancer treatments requires better understanding of why tumors
      develop resistance to standard-of-care (SOC) therapies. However, post-progression tumor
      biopsies are not routinely collected, limiting the tissue available to characterize
      mechanisms of treatment resistance. The TRANSLATE clinical study is specifically designed to
      address these critical gaps.

      Trial design: TRANSLATE is a global, multicenter, translational study designed to collect and
      compare archival pre-treatment tumor tissue with paired de novo tumor and blood samples
      obtained following disease progression on SOC therapies, targeting therapeutically important
      areas of cancer biology.

      Eligible Tumor Type and Most Recent SOC Therapy:

        -  Non-small-cell lung and Anti-PD-1/-L1 monotherapy

        -  Non-small-cell lung and Anti-PD-1/-L1 + platinum

        -  Clear cell renal cell carcinoma and Anti-PD-1/-L1 monotherapy

        -  Clear cell renal cell carcinoma and Doublet anti-PD-1/-L1 + anti-CTLA-4

        -  Clear cell renal cell carcinoma and Pembrolizumab + axitinib

        -  Clear cell renal cell carcinoma and Avelumab + axitinib

        -  HR+ HER2- breast and Palbociclib + hormonal therapy

        -  germline mutated BRCA breast and Olaparib or talazoparib monotherapy

        -  Castration-resistant prostate and Enzalutamide

        -  Castration-resistant prostate and Abiraterone + prednisone

      Eligibility criteria include adults with locally advanced or metastatic tumors; radiographic
      evidence of progressive disease during the most recent SOC regimen; sufficient archival tumor
      tissue; and a post-progression tumor lesion that is safely accessible for a new biopsy.

      The results from clinical NGS panel testing may help inform subsequent treatment plan or
      identification of relevant interventional clinical trials.

      Patients are enrolled after disease progression on SOC and before change in treatment and
      participate in 3 study visits within approximately 3 months.

      Next-generation sequencing results from analysis of tumor tissue and blood will be returned
      to the study physician and patient for review at a subsequent study visit within this
      timeframe.

      The primary endpoint is the change in frequency of gene alterations between pre-treatment and
      post-progression tumor biopsies. Secondary endpoints address prioritized scientific
      hypotheses specific to each target area of biology and indication.

      Primary data will be publicly available after the study to support further research.

      Sponsored by Pfizer Inc.; EudraCT: 2018-003612-45.
    
  