
    
      2.1 Primary Objective(s)

      The primary objective is to assess the percent change in bone mean cortical thickness within
      regions of bone receiving 30 Gy or more at 3 months after SBRT. The % change in mean cortical
      thickness will be compared between patients who received risedronate and those who received
      placebo.

      2.2 Secondary Objective(s)

      In addition to the primary objective, the investigators will further analyze the remaining
      routine follow-up chest CT scans, for mean cortical thickness change in regions of bone that
      received 0 - 10 Gy, >10 - 20 Gy, > 20 - 30 Gy, > 30 - 40 Gy, and > 40 Gy at all time points
      including 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months. These scans are standard of care and
      would be performed regardless of inclusion on this trial. This will allow us to determine the
      potential persistence of effects from SBRT and bisphosphonate use.

      The investigators will assess and compare the incidence and grade (per modified CTCAE v.5) of
      radiation induced chest wall pain within the radiation treatment portal (within the 50%
      isodose line) at time of each routine follow up visit (3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12
      months post SBRT). The purpose of utilizing a placebo and double-blind design is that chest
      wall pain is a subjective finding. Furthermore, it is unclear if chest wall pain from
      radiation is directly due to bone damage, nerve damage, muscle irritation, or a combination
      of all of these factors. The use of placebo will help us reduce the potential for bias in
      pain assessment.

      The investigators will assess and compare the incidence of rib and vertebral fractures (as
      noted on CT imaging) that occur within 12 months of irradiation and are within the radiation
      treatment field. The radiation treatment field will be defined as within the 50% isodose
      line.

      The urine concentration of an osteoclast-specific biomarker, urinary N-telopeptide (NTX)
      indicating osteoclast activity will be assessed prior to SBRT and at each routine follow up
      visit (at 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months post SBRT).
    
  