
    
      Rituximab seeks out and helps destroy cancer cells. GM-CSF stimulates the body to produce
      white blood cells.

      Before treatment starts, patients will have a complete exam, including blood and urine tests.
      A chest x-ray and a CT scan or MRI scan of the abdomen and pelvis will be done to measure
      tumors. Bone marrow and lymph node samples will be taken.

      Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      Patients in this study will receive both rituximab and GM-CSF. The combined treatment will
      last 8 weeks.

      Rituximab will be given through a needle in a vein over 3-6 hours once a week. GM-CSF will be
      given through a needle under the skin 3 times a week. The first of these 3 doses will be
      usually given 1 hour before the rituximab dose. In selected cases, GM-CSF will start 1 week
      before or 1 day after the rituximab.

      Patients may also receive the drugs acetaminophen (Tylenol) and diphenhydramine hydrochloride
      (Benadryl) 30-60 minutes before each dose of rituximab. This will be done to ease side
      effects. Patients may need to stay in the clinic for up to 2 hours after rituximab is given.

      If the combined Rituximab and GM-CSF treatment causes severe side effects, the treatment may
      be stopped.

      During the study, blood tests will be done before each rituximab treatment and after the
      first and fourth rituximab treatments. About 2 to 6 teaspoons of blood will be drawn for each
      test. A physical exam and a urine test will be done before the fourth rituximab treatment.

      After all treatment is done, patients will have a complete exam, including blood tests once a
      week for 4 weeks and then at 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months. A CT scan or MRI scan of the
      abdomen and pelvis will also be done at 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months. Bone marrow
      samples will be taken at 2, 3, and 12 months. Some patients may also have bone marrow samples
      taken once a year after that. A large needle will be used to take the bone marrow samples.

      This is an investigational study. GM-CSF and rituximab are approved for commercial use by
      FDA. As many as 40 patients will take part in the study. All will be treated as outpatients.
      The study will take place only at the University of Texas (UT) MD Anderson Cancer Center
      (MDACC).
    
  