
    
      AIM Depression after Acute coronary syndrome (ACS - myocardial infarction and unstable
      angina) is highly prevalent and associated with a 2.5 fold increased in all-cause morbidity
      and mortality. Sleep disturbances is an integrated part of the pathology of depression and
      have severe consequences for quality of life.

      Melatonin has shown potential to reduce depressive symptoms and anxiety. Likewise melatonin
      has shown sleep improving effects in several populations and also in patients with
      depression. Melatonin can potentially reduce the incidence of depression and sleep
      disturbances in patients after myocardial infarction.

      The project sets to answer the following hypotheses:

        1. Melatonin will due to its antidepressant effect prevent or reduce the incidence of
           depressive symptoms in patients after an ACS.

        2. Melatonin will due its anxiolytic effect prevent or reduce the incidence of anxiety in
           patients after an ACS.

        3. Melatonin will due to its hypnotic and circadian effects prevent development of sleep
           and circadian disturbances in patients after an ACS.

      BACKGROUND In Denmark about 8600 each year suffered an acute myocardial infarction. An acute
      myocardial infarction is a life-changing event that affects people's lives long after the
      blood clot. 20% develop a moderate to severe depression requiring pharmacological treatment
      and up to 50% experience depressive symptoms after the initial treatment. Depression after a
      acute coronary syndrome is associated with 2.5-fold increased mortality, and 1.5-fold
      increased risk of a recurrence of thrombosis. Screening of patients for depression has
      therefore been recommended by both the Danish cardiology Association and the American Heart
      Association.

      Depression in itself requires treatment because depression after myocardial infarction is
      associated with reduced quality of life, reduced compliance with medication, reduced
      participation in cardiac rehabilitation, and less likelihood of occupational activity.

      Medical treatment of depression would traditionally be a selective serotonin reuptake
      inhibitor (SSRI) as first-line treatment. SSRI are associated with side-effects such as sleep
      disorders, sexual disorders and heart rhythm disturbances.

      As an alternative to SSRIs, the investigators focus on the endogenous hormone melatonin which
      is virtually side-effect free. Previous experiments have shown that 1000 mg of melatonin
      daily for one month was only associated with mild drowsiness increased. Melatonin regulates
      the body's circadian rhythm and plays an important role as a hypnotic and in stabilizing the
      sleep during the night. Sleep disorders are an integral part of the pathogenesis of
      depression and is important for the development of depression.

      Method The investigators will perform a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial in
      which patients allocated to either melatonin or placebo in a prophylactic setup. Participants
      will be followed for 12 weeks, where they have three clinical visits and depression
      measurements every two weeks.

      Depression in the study is measured by Major Depression Inventory (MDI), a self-rating form
      with 12 questions. The questionnaire is well studied and validated in a Danish population.
      The questions covers the 10 ICD-10 symptoms of depression, and is recommended for use in
      general practice. MDI is a flexible tool that can be used as a diagnostic tool and at the
      same time as measuring instrument for severity of depressive disorder. MDI will be
      administered during clinic visits and used in the outpatient phase, so the patients are
      followed continuously every two weeks throughout the study. Should there be a treatment
      demanding depression (moderate/severe) the participant will be referred to a dedicated
      psychiatrist who will perform a Hamilton evaluation and make treatment recommendations.

      Participants are also assessed for depression and anxiety by using the Hospital anxiety and
      depression scale (HADS). A large Danish study of patients after myocardial infarction was
      shown have a prevalence of depression in 20%, and HADS will also be used to compare included
      with non-participating patients (external validity).

      Melatonin has been shown ameliorative effect on sleep and circadian rhythm. Sleep and
      circadian rhythm disorders are an integral part of the development and maintenance of
      depression. These will be monitored intensively with actigraphy (objective sleep
      measurements), Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI), sleep diaries and visual analog scales
      from inclusion meeting to first clinical control. Afterwards subjective sleep measurements
      will be performed every two weeks.

      Sample size is calculated on the basis of a conservative assumption that, 31 % of patients
      following ACS will develop depressive symptoms, which the investigators assume can be reduced
      to 15.5 % by Melatonin treatment. Power calculation is based on two-sided test, and with a
      power of 0.80 and the significance level 5 % (alfa= 0.05), the required sample size in each
      group is 116. There are no interim efficacy analyses planned. The study will proceed until
      120 patients have been enrolled in each arm.

      MEFACS subtrial (single center)

      The objective of the MEFACS study is to investigate whether prophylactic treatment with
      melatonin has an effect on endothelial dysfunction. Secondarily, our objective is to
      investigate the effect of melatonin on inflammation markers.

      The MEFACS trial is a sub-trial of the MEDACIS trial, and The MEFACS trial will be carried
      out as a single center trial on a subpopulation of the patients enrolled in the MEDACIS
      trial.

      The MEFACS trial will include 2 x 15 patients.
    
  