
    
      This is a pilot prospective randomised crossover double blind study. 40 patients will be
      enrolled in two sites, with 20 patients each site.

      The duration of this study is planned to be 25 months: 24 months will be for enrollment and 1
      month for the follow-up.

      The follow-up of patient comprises 3 visits, will be extended to 28 days for each patient:

      • V1: inclusion visit:

      After obtained an informed consent signed, the following analysis will be realized: a
      clinical assessment, quantify analysis of walking using 3D motion analysis system, assessment
      of equilibrium using force plate and functional abilities.

      The patient will record him-self clinical scales and will respond auto-evaluation
      questionnaires. A cerebral magnetic resonance imaging and a blood collection of 5 ml will
      also be realized.

      • V2-V3 (Locomotion /equilibrium assessment visit):

      V2 and V3 will begin with tDCS experimental visit (EV) or tDCS placebo visit (PV), the visit
      order for each patient will be defined by randomization result.

      During the 2 visits, the tDCS will be placed on the scalp of the patient. The anode will be
      placed at the hot spot of the tibialis anterior motor cortex area on the damage hemisphere,
      and the cathode will be placed at the controlateral orbit. The intensity of stimulation will
      be 2 mA.

      In tDCS experimental visit, the stimulation will last 30 minutes. In tDCS placebo visit, the
      duration of the stimulation will only be 120 seconds, with the identical other conditions.

      Before the beginning of the stimulation, a clinical assessment, a functional gait related
      activities evaluation and a 3D gait motion analysis associated with an evaluation of the
      equilibrium will be performed.

      During the stimulation period, the gait and the equilibrium assessments, using 3D motion
      analysis will be done.

      After the stimulation, the evaluations such as clinical, functional and motion analysis will
      be realized again.

      The tDCS experimental visit and the tDCS placebo visit will be spaced one week.
    
  