
    
      Patients The local ethics committee approved the study, and all patients have to give their
      written informed consent prior to inclusion. To be included patients had to satisfy the
      following criteria: (a) American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) Class A or B10 SCI caused
      by trauma within the last 6 months and located between C5 and T6, (b) no thoracic injury, (c)
      and admission to a rehabilitation unit. The study was conducted over the first 4 months in
      the rehabilitation unit.

      Measurements All tests will be performed with the patients seated in their wheelchairs. Lung
      function was tested using a Vmax 229 Sensormedics System (Yorba Linda, CA) according to
      standard guidelines.11 Arterial blood gas levels will be measured in capillary blood
      immediately after sampling from the radial artery with local anesthesia (topical lidocaine
      prilocaine, Emla®, Astra, Westborough, ME), using a Radiometer ABL 330 analyzer (Tacussel
      Radiometer Analytical, Copenhagen, Denmark). Flow will be measured using a Fleisch #2
      pneumotachograph (Lausanne, Switzerland) and esophageal pressure (Pes) using a
      catheter-mounted pressure transducer system (Gaeltec, Dunvegan, UK). Appropriate placement
      will be verified by the occlusion test.12

      Data Analysis Respiratory parameters will bemeasured during the last 5 minutes of a 20-minute
      period of relaxed breathing. From the flow tracings, we will measure inspiratory time (TI)
      and respiratory frequency (fR). Tidal volume (VT) will be obtained from the integrated flow
      signal. Dynamic lung compliance (CLdyn) will be calculated as the ratio of VT over the Pes
      difference at the points of zero flow corresponding to the start and end of inspiration.13
      Inspiratory WOB (joule/min) will be calculated from a Campbell diagram by computing the area
      enclosed between the inspiratory Pes-VT curve and the theoretical static pressure-volume
      curve of the chest wall, as previously described.14 In addition, WOB will be partitioned into
      its elastic (WOBel) and resistive (WOBres) components on either side of the line joining the
      two zero-flow points.

      Study protocol All patients will be studied during 2 months with and 2 months without IPPB,
      in random order. IPPB treatment will consist in at least 20 minutes of IPPB twice a day and 5
      days a week. The patient will be comfortably seated with the back of the chair inclined at
      45°. Inspiratory pressure will increase gradually to either the highest tolerated value or 40
      cm H2O. Respiratory rate, inspiratory flow (from 20 to 60 L/min), and end-inspiratory trigger
      will be set to maximize patient comfort. The patients chose between a mouthpiece (Bird, Palm
      Springs, CA) and a nasal mask (Respironics, Herrsching, Germany). During both of the 2-month
      treatment periods, the number of patients who will require physiotherapy to clear excess
      secretions and the number of physiotherapy sessions per patient will be recorded.

      Lung function tests will be performed at inclusion and at the end of each 2-month period in
      all patients. In addition, patients will be asked whether they will agree to measurements of
      flow, Pes, and gastric pressure at inclusion and at the end of each period. Measurements at
      the end of the IPPB period will be performed twice, immediately before and immediately after
      20 minutes of IPPB with the catheter-mounted pressure-transducer system still in place. Each
      measurement period wil last about 5 minutes.

      STATISTICS All data will be given as means±SD. Paired t tests will be used for within-patient
      comparisons of variables between the two treatments
    
  