
    
      This study will be conducted at 13 University Hospitals in France. The protocol has been
      approved by the institutional review board. After written informed consent, patients will be
      randomized, in the days after the fracture in 2 groups of 93 patients : 1) the control group
      (standard of care only: fixation by nail or external fixator and routine soft-tissue
      management) and 2) the study group (standard of care with percutaneous injection, one month
      after fracture, of autologous concentrated bone-marrow). Randomization will be stratified by
      severity of the open wound and by center. For the wound, strata A comprise Gustilo-Anderson
      types I, II and III-A and strata B, type III-B.

      For the study group, the injection is scheduled at 1 month ± 5 days after the fracture. The
      techniques have been described by Hernigou (J Bone Joint Surg Am, 2006; 88(sup 1 part 2):
      322-327). There are 3 steps: marrow aspiration (300 - 500 g) from iliac crest under general
      anesthesia, centrifugation in cell therapy unit to obtain a concentrated buffy coat of about
      50 ml containing progenitor cells and other mononuclear cells, percutaneous injection in the
      fracture site of 20-30 ml of the buffy coat under fluoroscopy control.

      Apart from the injection, the standard of care is the same for the 2 groups. Patients will be
      followed for 12 months, with assessments at 1, 2, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.

      All analysis will be based on the intent to treat the population. The primary outcome measure
      will be the proportion of patients requiring secondary intervention because of delayed union
      or nonunion within twelve months post fracture. An independent panel of surgeons will
      evaluate all secondary procedure with the potential of promoting fracture-healing.

      An independent evaluation of fracture union will be conducted by a radiology panel blinded to
      treatment allocation and all other patient data.

      An outcome will be considered to be successful when the fracture heal, according to the
      investigator, without secondary intervention and is radiographically united during patient
      follow-up.
    
  