
    
      This study will be a randomized crossover trial and reported in accordance with CONSORT
      guidelines. The study will involve a total of three seven-day conditions (2 experimental and
      1 control) with a three-week washout period in-between to minimize practice effects for a
      total intervention period of nine weeks (see figure 1). Each condition will consist of one
      day supervised in the laboratory followed by six at-home days, following lab protocol as
      closely as possible.

      Participants will be referred to the study by their physician. Interested participants will
      be asked to contact the researcher by email or phone call. Interested Participants will be
      invited into the lab for a familiarization session. They will be instructed to avoid
      caffeine, alcohol and MVPA for 48 hours prior to this session. During this session the
      following information will be obtained;

        -  Written informed consent

        -  Height using a stadiometer and weight using a standard beam scale

        -  Demographics questionnaire (education, ethnicity, family background, comorbidities)

        -  Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PARQ+) (Bredin, Gledhill, Jamnik, &
           Warburton, 2013)

        -  Resting blood pressure- will be measured once on each arm and then twice on the left arm
           with an automated BP monitor The participants will be educated/familiarized on the
           following;

        -  Cognitive assessments - Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB)

        -  Fitting with an inclinometer (activPAL4)

      Participants will be visited at their home ~72hrs prior to each condition to be fitted with
      the CGM and ActivPal. They will also be instructed to avoid caffeine, alcohol and MVPA for 48
      hours prior to each of the three conditions. Dinner will be consumed between 7:00 and 9:00
      pm, allowing for a 10 hour fast prior to the experimental condition the next morning. All
      participants will be instructed to arrive at the laboratory (with minimal activity during
      commute) at approximately 7:00 am. Upon arrival, participants will be asked to use the
      washroom and then rest for 30 minutes preceding a blood pressure measurement and first
      cognitive assessment. The participants will undergo the CANTAB cognitive assessments (at
      ~7:30 am) before meal consumption. A standardized breakfast meal will be consumed at 8:00 am,
      followed by lunch at 12:00 pm and dinner at 5:00 pm. Participants will be allotted 20 minutes
      for full meal consumption. The CANTAB cognitive assessments will then be re-administered at
      approximately 7:30 pm. Participants will be supervised throughout the conditions to ensure
      adherence to the protocols and will be permitted to watch DVDs, read books, magazines,
      newspapers, talk and/or work on a laptop computer. However, what they do during the first
      condition will be documented and then replicated for the remaining experimental conditions.
      Intensity of the bout intervals will be kept to an RPE of 6-9 using the Borg RPE scale.

      Once the 12- hour laboratory component is complete, participants will be sent home (still
      wearing the CGM and activPAL) with the intension of replicating the laboratory-based protocol
      after each meal in their own free-living environment. Participants will track their mealtimes
      by sending photos to the researcher before consumption during the 6 at home days. The
      researcher will then go to the participants house on the last day (day 7) of each condition
      to re-administer the CANTAB cognitive assessments and collect the CGM, and activPal. There
      will then be a 3-week washout period, followed by replication of protocol for the remaining
      two conditions.
    
  