
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate that 2 mg once daily per breast of 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT) topical gel
      results in a reduction in the Ki-67 labeling index of ductal breast carcinoma in situ (DCIS)
      lesions that is not inferior to that seen with 20 mg daily oral tamoxifen citrate (TAM) for
      4-10 weeks, when comparing the base-line diagnostic core biopsy to the therapeutic surgical
      excision sample.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare post-therapy changes in the oncotype DCIS-score between arms (this is a
      validated reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction [RT-PCR] assay for Ki67, STK15,
      survivin, cyclin B1, MYBL2, PR, GSTM1).

      II. To compare between-group post-therapy changes in immunohistochemistry (IHC) markers:
      CD-68 macrophage marker as a surrogate for response to therapy, p16 and COX-2.

      III. To compare post-therapy changes in breast density, quantitative estimate, between arms.

      IV. To compare post-therapy breast tissue and plasma levels of TAM and its metabolites
      (N-desmethyl tamoxifen [NDT], [E] and [Z] isomers of 4-hydroxytamoxifen [4-OHT],
      N-desmethyl-4-hydroxytamoxifen [endoxifen]).

      V. To compare post-therapy breast tissue and plasma levels of estradiol and progesterone
      between arms (optional).

      VI. To compare the post-therapy fraction of participants demonstrating "no residual DCIS".

      VII. To compare post-therapy changes in plasma proteins involved in coagulation: factors VIII
      and IX, von Willebrand factor, total protein S between arms.

      VIII. To compare post-therapy changes in plasma markers of systemic estrogenic effect (IGF-1,
      SHBG).

      IX. To compare post-therapy changes in symptoms as captured in the breast cancer prevention
      trial (BCPT) Eight Symptom Scale (BESS) questionnaire and skin reactions to 4-OHT gel.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients apply afimoxifene gel to both breasts and receive placebo orally (PO) daily
      for 4-10 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients apply placebo gel to both breasts and receive tamoxifen citrate orally PO
      daily for 4-10 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1-2 weeks and 1 month after
      surgery.
    
  