
    
      Further details provided by SARC (Sarcoma Alliance for Research through Collaboration):

      After complete surgical removal of their cancer, patients will be randomly assigned to
      receive either Saracatinib or placebo (a sugar pill) throughout the study. Patients will take
      Saracatinib (or placebo) once daily by mouth for a total of 364 days. The duration of
      treatment is divided into 13 cycles, 28 days each cycle with no breaks in between.

      Patients will be seen for interim medical history, physical exam and laboratory studies prior
      to each cycle. To monitor for recurrence of tumor, patients will undergo thoracic CT scans at
      3-4 weeks, 6-8 weeks, at 3 months, at 6 months, at 9 months, at 12 months, then every 6
      months up to 2 years, and then every year up to 5 years after starting treatment. An
      electrocardiogram (ECG) will be taken at 3 months, and a bone scan will be performed at 12
      months.

      Patients who recur in the lung while on-study and who are thought to be amenable to complete
      surgical resection will be able to find out if they were receiving placebo or saracatinib.
      Those patients who were receiving placebo may then have the option of undergoing surgical
      resection. If fully resected of all recurrent disease,they will be given the option of
      receiving oral therapy with saracatinib. Saracatinib will be administered as a once daily,
      oral dose of 175 mg, for a 28-day cycle, with no breaks between cycles. The duration of
      treatment with saracatinib will be thirteen 28-day cycles (364 days total). If complete
      resection of all lung nodules is not achieved, the patient will be removed from the study.

      Patients who recur in locations other than the lung while on-study will be taken off study at
      that time.

      Blood and tumor samples for research purposes will be collected at the time the tumor is
      removed.

      After completing all 13 cycles, patients will be followed for approximately every 3 months
      until 2 years from starting treatment, then approximately every 6 months until 4 years from
      starting treatment, and once at year 5.
    
  