
    
      The treatment period was set at 20 weeks, in order to realize adequate treatment efficacy of
      imiquimod, while minimizing the risk of progression of cervical dysplasia to invasive disease
      in the conservative treatment group. Based on the available literature on the natural history
      of CIN and several studies on cervical dysplasia that included a conservative treatment
      group, the risk of disease progression within the treatment period of 20 weeks is estimated
      to be marginal. Approximately 30% of high-grade CIN progresses to cervical cancer. [Peto,
      2004; McCredie, 2008]. This is believed to be a slow process, which can take many years. The
      annual risk of progression of CIN 3 to invasive cervical cancer is estimated to be less than
      1%.[Canfell, 2004]. Ten studies were identified in which a total of 637 patients with high
      grade CIN were included either as a control group, receiving conservative treatment during 6
      weeks to 15 months, or followed during the period between diagnosis and LLETZ.[Grimm, 2012,
      Follen, 2001; Meyskens, 1994; Keefe, 2001; Alvarez, 2003; Garcia, 2004; Van Pachterbeke,
      2009; Kaufmann, 2007; Trimble 2005; Munk, 2012] Three cases of invasive disease were
      identified: all occured in the same study after 16 weeks of conservative treatment. Other
      studies showed no progression to invasive disease. One case of progression was reported with
      undefined disease grade and follow-up term. The possibility of invasive disease already
      present at the initial colposcopy (biopsy error) cannot be excluded. Based on these results,
      the investigators selected a treatment period of 20 weeks, with a control colposcopy with
      diagnostic biopsies after ten weeks.

      The current study protocol includes a substantial amendment to the original study protocol,
      which consisted of three study arms: imiquimod treatment arm, LLETZ treatment arm and an
      observational arm. The purpose of the observational arm was to assess spontaneous regression
      of high-grade CIN and to develop a prognostic biomarker panel to predict spontaneous
      regression of high-grade CIN. Patients in the observational arm underwent no treatment for a
      period of maximum 20 weeks. Histological assessment of disease development was performed
      after 10 and 20 weeks by colposcopy with diagnostic biopsies. Inclusion of patients into the
      study was hampered by the observational arm: patients declined the study because they wished
      to be treated, rather than undergo observational management. The observational arm was
      removed from the study.
    
  