
    
      The demand for total knee replacement (TKR) continues to grow, especially for younger
      patients who are at a greater risk of outliving the useful lifetime of their implants, thus
      requiring revision surgery (Aggarwal et al., 2014; Stambough et al., 2014). Rates of revision
      TKR are growing at an even faster rate than primary TKR. Between 2009-10, the incidence of
      primary TKR grew by 9.4% in the U.S., while revision TKR grew by 17.1% (Kurtz et al., 2014).
      Revision occurs for failures such as loosening, infection, or wear. Unfortunately, patients
      undergoing revision TKR are roughly 6 times more likely to require re-revision compared to
      patients undergoing primary TKR, further increasing the revision burden. Standard of care for
      revision TKR has evolved, in search of long-lasting fixation and improved patient outcomes.
      In many centres, the current standard of care is to use revision TKR implants with long stems
      for enhanced fixation. Surgeon preference is variable, however, as to whether these stems
      will be fully cemented, or whether only the most proximal aspect of the baseplate will be
      cemented (hybrid fixation). While most common, these long-stemmed revision implants have
      suffered from poor survivorship, are technically demanding to implant, and can result in poor
      patient outcomes, including ongoing pain. Over the past decade porous metal augments have
      gained favour. These devices interface between the defective bone and the implant, aiding
      fixation. The first augment of its kind are the Trabecular Metal cone augments from Zimmer.
      Although an improvement in principle, they have a number of drawbacks including poor fit with
      most implant systems, increasing technical challenge and requiring intra-operative
      customization, which lengthens the surgery. More recently, Stryker Tritanium augments have
      been introduced that offer a closer fit with Triathlon revision implants, decreasing
      operative time. This closeness of fit also provides an opportunity to rethink the utilization
      of long stems when porous augments are used. Ultimately, the goal would be for porous metal
      augments to completely fill all bone defects, essentially enabling a more primary-like TKR to
      be performed, enhancing patient outcomes. The gold standard for measurement of implant
      fixation over time is radiostereometric analysis (RSA). At the time of surgery, 0.8-1.0 mm
      Tantalum beads (typically n = 6-8 per region of interest) are inserted into the bone
      surrounding the implant of interest, and occasionally also into the polyethylene liner or
      insert of the implant. RSA exams are then acquired within the first 2 weeks post-operation,
      and again at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years. Each exam involves a stereo
      x-ray acquisition with a calibration unit to reconstruct the 3D location of the implant
      relative to the marker beads. Across each exam, the migration of the implant relative to the
      marker beads is tracked compared to the baseline exam acquired within the first 2 weeks. RSA
      is extremely precise and accurate, and is able to track migrations on the order of 10's of
      microns. Large early migrations within the first 1-2 years post-operation are predictive of
      eventual implant loosening and failure. RSA can also be used to measure inducible
      displacement of implants to assess instantaneous fixation of implanted components. These RSA
      exams compare a supine, unloaded image of the patient's joint to a standing, loaded image of
      their joint, to determine whether any movement occurs between the implant and marker beads
      with loading. To our knowledge, only three published RSA studies of revision TKR exist in the
      literature. Jensen et al. (2012) published a 2-year study with 40 patients comparing cement
      reconstruction to Trabecular Metal cones. They found no significant difference between groups
      for migration at 2 years, and determined that use of the Trabecular Metal cones resulted in
      better early stability with reduced irregular motion patterns compared to using hybrid cement
      reconstruction. Heesterbeek et al. (2016) published a 2-year study with 32 patients that
      compared hybrid to fully cemented stem fixation using the Legion revision system, which was
      followed up to 6.5 years by Kosse et al. (2017). At both follow-up time points, there was no
      difference in overall migration between the hybrid and fully cemented stem groups. Taken
      together, these studies do not reflect the latest thinking in revision knee surgery, do not
      account for the current generation of augment design, do not directly compare augments with
      hybrid and fully cemented fixation, and do not correlate fixation and patient outcome scores.
    
  