
    
      Mental disorders are common. A WHO study shows (Gore, Bloem, Ferguson, Coffey and Mathers,
      2011) that during adolescence; most of the years lost because of illness are due to
      neuropsychiatric disorders such as depression, substance abuse and schizophrenia.
      Steinhausen, Metzke and Kannenberg (1998) found that 22% of the children and adolescents
      living in the canton of Zurich, suffer from mental disorders. The figures are comparable with
      Wittchen, Nelson and Lachner (1998) who fund 27% of the adolescents fitting the DSM IV
      (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual) criteria for mental disorders.

      Mental disorders are particularly stressful in combination with unemployment. Unemployed are
      often in a worse physical condition compared to employed people; they tend to negative
      emotional states and depression, fatigue and sleep disorders. It is to be expected that
      unemployment will have the same effect on adolescents. Fergusson, Horwood and Lynskey (1997)
      showed that in 16 to 25 years old, the increase of the unemployment was correlated with the
      increase of mental distress having consequences like depression, anxiety, substance abuse and
      attempts to suicide.

      The aim of this project is to validate a screening tool for the early recognition of mental
      disorders among young unemployed. The screening tool will be composed by no more than 50
      items.

      The participants will be requested to fill out the screening tool and in a second phase, they
      will be asked to participate in a face to face, standardized clinical Interview, the
      Munich-Composite International Diagnostic Interview (M-CIDI) (Wittchen, Lachner, Wunderlich
      and Pfister, 1998).

      To ensure that the screening tool differentiates between 'at risk' and 'non at risk'
      patients, the sample will be composed by 40 unemployed young adults, Age 16-25 and 40 working
      young adults, age 16-25.

      Statistical Analysis: After the data collection the data from the screening and the clinical
      interview will be tested for sensitivity and specificity. To evaluate both the Receiver
      Operating Characteristic (ROC) and other methods will be used. The prognostic validity of the
      screening tool will be additionally calculated with a logistic regression. The data analysis
      will be executed with SPSS 21.

      Missing data will be excluded from the sample.
    
  