
    
      I

      Specific Aim:

      Primary Endpoint Our primary endpoint is to compare the effect of anesthetic method (GA vs.
      NA) on plasma level of neuronal damage biomarker NSE.

      Study Design:

      This is a prospective, single center, randomized controlled trial that try to assess the
      effect of anesthetic method on neuronal damage biomarker level. The study will be conducted
      at the Rabin Medical Center (Beilinson Campus), Petach Tikva, Israel, a tertiary university
      hospital.

      One hundred and forty patients aged 18 and above, undergoing elective TURB, TURBT, (TVT-O)
      and pelvic floor repair surgeries, will be enrolled in the study following providing their
      consent for participation.

      Index procedure:

      After consenting to participation patients will be randomly assigned to one of the following
      study groups:

        1. Patients undergoing surgery under GA

        2. Patients undergoing surgery with NA. Anesthetic regime will be subject to standard
           clinical guidelines and to clinical judgement of the attending anesthesiologist.

      Intraoperative and postoperative hemodynamic monitoring will be according to standard
      departmental and clinical guidelines. Data will be recorded and stored electronically by
      Metavision system (iMDsoft company).

      BIS monitoring:

      In addition to the standard monitoring prescribed by the American society of
      Anesthesiologists, all study participants will be monitored with the BIS, a noninvasive
      monitoring device which measures the depth of anesthesia. The monitoring is performed using
      noninvasive electrodes placed on the forehead.

      Blood tests:

      Venous blood will be collected from each participant in the surgery room prior to anesthesia
      induction, throughout anesthesia and one hour following surgery in the PACU in order to
      assess cerebral biomarkers according to the ELISA method requirements. At each one of the
      assessment points 9 cc of venous of blood will be taken from each of the study participants,
      while routine blood tests are taken.

      Data Collection

      For each participating patient the following data will be collected and recorded through the
      study duration:

        1. Demographic data

        2. Each participant medical history including concomitant medications.

        3. Hemodynamic data including heart rate, automatic non-invasive blood pressure
           measurements, temperature as well pulse oximetry as routine procedures will be recorded
           and stored by Metavision system.

        4. Anesthetic data: anesthetic method, anesthetic agents given throughout surgery,
           anesthetic complications.

        5. Opioid use in the first 24 hours after surgery.

        6. Duration of stay in the PACU.

        7. Duration of hospital stay

        8. Functional status upon hospital release.
    
  