
    
      1. Patient registration procedure

           If it is confirmed that the subject meets the inclusion criteria and correspondent none
           of the exclusion criteria, the subject is registered by using Clinical Research Support
           Center (CReS) Kyushu registration/allocation system. The registration with the
           registration/allocation system is available for 24 hr (URL:
           https://reg.cres-kyushu.or.jp/qmin/login/) and needs for individual identifier (ID) and
           password.

        2. Quality management

             -  Preparation and management of the test drugs

      The test drugs are an active drug, which is a capsule filled with dexamethasone powder and
      lactose, and a placebo, which is a capsule filled with only lactose. The test drugs will be
      prepared by the Department of Pharmacy (manager: Professor Masuda), Kyushu University
      Hospital in accordance with the procedures for preparation of the test drugs. Dexamethasone
      powder and lactose will be purchased by Department of Surgery and Science, Graduate School of
      Medical Sciences, Kyushu University from Tomita Pharmaceutical and delivered to the pharmacy
      department. Research funds will be used for the purchase. The capsule will be purchased from
      Tomita Pharmaceutical. The test drugs will be delivered to CReS-Kyushu (enrollment/data
      center) and managed using a double-blind method in accordance with the procedures. The
      double-blind code will be kept by the person responsible for management of the test drugs
      Shoji Tokunaga, Medical Information Center, Kyushu University, and a backup of the code will
      be kept by Hidekazu Aratani of CReS-Kyushu.

      The test drugs will be managed according to the investigational drug number and stored at the
      warehouse of the Fukuoka branch of Yamato Logistics Co., Ltd. The warehouse is certified to
      store drugs for humans for more than 2 years under the supervision of pharmacists.

      In the participating medical institution, manager and vice manager for the management of the
      test drugs will be appointed. It is preferable that the manager and vice managers are
      selected from among personnel who are experienced in drug management including personnel from
      the Department of Pharmacy or clinical trial management office. The manager is not allowed to
      become the investigator or sub-investigator. A physician who may treat subjects is not
      allowed to become the manager.

      The electronic data capture (EDC) system will be used for communications between the
      enrollment/data center, Yamato Logistics and participating medical institution. Information
      on subjects will be reported by e-mail to the data center, and the data center will ensure
      the information by telephone to Yamato Logistics and the investigational drug management
      division of the medical institution. The test drugs will be delivered by Yamato Logistics to
      the medical institution. The test drugs for only a subject will be delivered once (allocation
      adjustment factor). Considering that a number of days are necessary for delivery, there
      should be at least 3 working days between enrollment and start of treatment. The interval
      between enrollment and start of treatments should be up to 14 days. Physicians treating
      subjects are not allowed to manage the test drugs. The vice manager will manage the test
      drugs according to subjects under the supervision of the manager. Orders for the test drugs
      will be made by letter or e-mail in accordance with the medical institution's procedures. A
      sufficient number of capsules of the test drugs until the next hospital visit will be
      ordered/prescribed once. If the test drugs are used properly in accordance with the protocol,
      an order/prescription for the test drugs will be made every 7 days. Subjects (patients) will
      be advised to keep records of the use of regorafenib and test drugs in the medication diary.
      The remaining number of capsules of the test drugs will be checked in consideration of the
      use of the test drugs. The remaining test drugs will be returned to the study office. In
      accordance with the protocol, the test drugs should be prescribed for 28-day treatment, but
      will be prescribed for 30-day treatment considering loss and damage. The test drug for 2-day
      treatment should be left unused when treatment is completed. The remaining test drugs will be
      returned to the enrollment/data center.

      When the test drugs are delivered, the enrollment number, investigational drug number,
      reception date, the number of capsules of the test drugs delivered will be entered in the EDC
      system. Also, the number of capsules prescribed, date of prescription, remaining number of
      capsules (total number of capsules stored including the number of capsules returned),
      confirmation date of completion/discontinuation of the protocol treatment, total remaining
      number of capsules including the number of capsules returned will be entered in the EDC
      system.

      The number of capsules lost and reasons for the loss will be entered in the EDC system.

        -  Monitoring

      A central monitoring or in-site monitoring are carried out based on the data from case report
      form (CRF) collecting at data coordinating center. In principle, an on-site monitoring is not
      carried out, but it may be carried out when the on-site monitoring is determined to need by
      Kyushu Study group of Clinical Cancer (KSCC) steering committee from the results of the
      central monitoring so on.

      Data Monitoring Committee A Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) has been established.

        -  Data entry

      all data will be entered by the double entry method. Referential data rules, valid values,
      range checks, and consistency checks against data already stored in the database will be
      supported. Checks will be applied at the time of data entry into a specific field. Additional
      errors will be detected by programs designed to detect missing data or specific errors in the
      data. The investigator who receives the inquiry will respond by checking the original forms
      for inconsistency, checking other sources to determine the correction, modifying the original
      paper form entering a response to the query.

        -  Regular monitoring report

      A regular monitoring report generated by data coordinating center is submitted to KSCC
      Steering Committee, principal investigator, the DMC etc and it is reviewed according to "KSCC
      regulation on the monitoring". The information on the status of site ethics committee (EC)
      approval and the achievement of enrollment: number of enrollment- total/per periodical,
      total/per site, is reported monthly using e-mail.

        -  Contents of monitoring report

      Study abstract: schema/purpose/subject/endpoint/definition of treatment/anticipated
      enrollment number/progress of the study Enrollment status: per participating site/total
      Monitoring activity: contents of activity/CRF collection per site/uncollected CRF, inquiry
      Review of the eligible treatment case：the case of ineligible possibility/the case determined
      as ineligible/number of eligible case/the case determined as non-treatment/total number of
      treatment case Review of a target population for analysis: the number of cases targeted for
      efficacy analysis/safety analysis Patient background Treatment time-course: summary of
      on-treatment and discontinuation/summary of reason for discontinuation/list of reason for
      discontinuation Protocol violation/deviation Safety evaluation: serious adverse reaction,
      event/the case which was notified to the study group among the adverse reactions, events with
      an ordinary report/general adverse events Others

        -  Audit

      A site audit is carried out by the audit members of KSCC Coordinating Center, data
      coordinating center, medical staff of other site under the approval of the site director
      according to "KSCC regulation for site audit". The results of the audit are reported to the
      site director, KSCC Steering Committee, principal investigator etc. (if required, to DMC).
    
  