
    
      As T. solium is a zoonosis, it's control will be evaluated in a One Health perspective,
      tackling both the human and pig host. The study will be carried out in the Katete district,
      in the Eastern Province of Zambia, an area reported to be endemic for T. solium in both pigs
      and humans. The pig interventions will not be described here, as requested by
      ClinicalTrials.gov Suitability of communities in the Katete district was assessed during a
      pilot survey conducted by the proposers (April 2015).

      Two communities were selected that fulfilled all of the eligibility criteria. The Nyembe
      neighbourhood community (1,210 people, 5 villages, 520 pigs), within the Nyembe Rural Health
      Centre (RHC) catchment was selected for the elimination study arm; and Chimvira neighbourhood
      community (1,470 people, 11 villages, 827 pigs), in the Mtandaza Rural Health Centre
      catchment, was selected for the control study arm.

      The interventional study will entail a high-input elimination study arm (E), in which
      multiple control options targeting both the final (human, mass drug administration, health
      education) and intermediate (pig) hosts (treatment and vaccination), are combined; and a
      lower-input control study arm (CI), which will use a single control option targeting only the
      porcine host (treatment).

      Teams of suitably qualified and trained human and veterinary medical staff will go from
      door-to-door to each household in the study communities.

      Procedures will include collection of both qualitative and quantitative data from human
      participants and pigs; subject-related interventions in both human participants and pigs; and
      laboratory analysis of collected samples.

      For the baseline surveys, one randomly-selected consenting adult member and one
      randomly-selected assenting (and parental consent) child member (above 5 years) from each
      household will be sampled (serum: diagnosis of human cysticercosis; and stool: diagnosis of
      taeniasis), whereas for all subsequent surveys in the elimination arm (see protocol for
      specific time points), all eligible consenting members of the elimination communities will be
      invited to participate (stool samples: diagnosis of taeniasis). All eligible consenting
      members from the control arm will be included at the final study sampling (stool: diagnosis
      of taeniasis and serum: diagnosis of cysticercosis). It is expected that all age, sex and
      socioeconomic groups will be equally represented.

      For the socio-economic questionnaires, 50% of the households will be randomly selected and
      the head of the household addressed.

      The school based questionnaire will be administered to grade 5-6 children attending school in
      each of the study communities.

      For the perception questionnaires: here also 50% of the households will be targeted (random
      selection), until data saturation has been reached.

      For the focus group discussions (FGD): 6 FGD (3 with each time 10 men, 3 with each time 10
      women) will be conducted in the elimination study arm, 12 in the control study arm (6
      iterations involving 10 men and 6 iterations involving 10 women), at defined time points
      (table 1), until data saturation has been reached.
    
  