
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate that developing a custom vaccine for smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM) is
      feasible.

      II. To show that a custom peptide-based vaccine in smoldering multiple myeloma is safe.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the intensity and longevity of antigen specific T-cell mediated immune
      responses to the neoantigen vaccine.

      II. Time to progression to multiple myeloma (TTM) at the end of the follow up period (18
      months).

      III. Duration of response. IV. Clinical benefit rate (minor response [MR] or better) after 6
      cycles of vaccine treatment per modified International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria
      for multiple myeloma (MM).

      V. Overall survival.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity at complete remission (CR), if achieved.
      MRD assessment will be based on bone marrow aspirates.

      II. Molecular profiling (including whole exome sequencing, gene expression profiling and
      ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing of tumor/bone marrow samples) and cellular (including flow
      cytometry) profiling at baseline using bone marrow aspirate samples and peripheral blood.

      III. Immunophenotypic characterization of dendritic, T-, B-, natural killer (NK)- and
      NKT-cells, and inhibitory/activation markers on tumor cells at baseline (bone marrow and
      peripheral blood), day 1 of each cycle (peripheral blood only) and at completion of 6 cycles
      of therapy (bone marrow and peripheral blood) in bone marrow aspirate samples and/or
      peripheral blood.

      IV. Perform mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis on 15 myeloma cell lines to identify
      shared human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I-restricted antigens that can be targeted with
      immunotherapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 stages.

      STAGE I: Patients undergo collection of blood and bone marrow for making the vaccine.
      Patients then receive personalized vaccine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1 and 15 of cycles 1-2
      and on day 1 of cycles 3-6. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      STAGE II: Patients undergo collection of blood and bone marrow for making the vaccine.
      Patients then receive personalized vaccine SC on days 1 and 15 of cycles 1-2 and on day 1 of
      cycles 3-6. Patients also receive lenalidomide orally (PO) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 12 months.
    
  