
    
      Background

      Chronic subdural hematoma (CSH) is one of the most common intracranial bleedings in patients
      over 60 years of age and a frequently found neurosurgical entity. Age related brain atrophy
      leads to enlargement of the subarachnoid space, a space limited by the dura mater and the
      arachnoid membrane. Blood vessels that occupy this space are being stretched and may rupture
      after a minor head trauma. Although the resulting bleeding itself is often without noticeable
      consequence for the patient, the anatomical outcome may be serious as it enlarges the
      subdural space. The formation of new leaky capillary-like vessels and/or volume enhancing
      osmotic gradients lead to the enlargement of the subdural hematoma over weeks, filling the
      intracranial space and compressing the brain. Headaches, gait disturbances, language
      problems, hemiparesis and decreased consciousness are among the many presenting symptoms and
      tend to develop over days or weeks.

      Computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head typically
      reveals the blood accumulation in the subdural space. Standard treatment includes the
      evacuation of the subdural blood through burr holes (see below) under either local or general
      anesthesia. In cases when a hematoma clot cannot be evacuated through burr holes a small
      craniotomy is performed. CSH is feared for its high recurrence rate (between 9 and 27%) that
      mostly occurs within 3 months of the initial operation.

      The optimal follow-up course for operated patients remains controversial. Due to the high
      rate of recurrences, one strategy is to perform serial CT scans in order to identify
      recurrent hematomas early. The radiologic evidence of a recurrent or significant persistent
      hematoma often leads to reoperation. Another strategy after surgical hematoma evacuation is
      to closely follow the patient with neurological examinations and perform neuroimaging only in
      case of persistent or new neurologic deficits. Advocators of this strategy argue that follow
      up with routine CT scans may be harmful due to additional and maybe unnecessary surgeries and
      hospital days in a patient population marked by advanced age and fragility.

      However, even when neuroimaging is done routinely, no correlation has been observed between
      the radiologic evidence of a hematoma remnant and the reoperation rate. This observation has
      been reported by Mori and Maeda in a retrospective analysis of 500 patients. Some persistent
      hematoma is almost always seen after the surgical intervention and there seems to be a
      correlation between the re-expansion rate of the brain and the likelihood of hematoma
      recurrence. However, the correlation is weak and of little practical value for patient
      treatment. The high incidence of hematoma remnants in post-op imaging complicates the
      indication for re-operation of a recurrent CSH solely by imaging criteria. Since the presence
      and the amount of remnant hematoma after the operation is a poor predictor of future
      recurrent hematoma some clinicians refrain from postoperative CT scans and rely solely on
      neurological assessments. If patients become symptomatic, serial CT scans are performed and
      surgery is scheduled in cases of persistent, enlarging or new hematoma. The discrepancy in
      follow-up strategy reflects our current incomplete understanding of the pathophysiology of
      CSH and its recurrence.

      The aim of the current study is to evaluate the role of CT scanning in the postoperative
      treatment course after neurosurgical evacuation of CSH in a prospective, randomized
      controlled trial.

      Objective

      The hypothesis of interest to test in this trial is that a follow-up protocol without any CT
      scan is not inferior to a follow-up protocol with serial CT scans after neurosurgical
      evacuation of CSH as assessed with the modified Rankin scale at 6 months. Additional
      hypotheses of interest are that the size/volume/features of the hematoma rest/remnant in an
      early (<72 hours) CT scan after neurosurgical evacuation is not correlated to the
      neurological status of the patient and that the size/volume/features of the hematoma
      rest/remnant on post-op CT scans is not predictive for reoperation.

      Methods

      Patients will be screened and included into this study within 48 hours after surgery for a
      chronic subdural hematoma (burr hole trepanation and insertion of drainage). Study patients
      are randomized (1:1) on day 2 after surgery into CT-Scan arm (group A) or Clinical arm (group
      B). A CT scan is scheduled for patients of group A on day 2 and 30 after surgery. Patients of
      both study groups (A and B) will receive a neurological follow-up examination at day 2, 30
      days and 6 months after surgery. Regardless of randomization all patients will receive CT
      scanning if judged necessary on clinical grounds at any time.
    
  