
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is the 4th most common diagnosis among Veterans. Each year, over
      13,000 Veterans transition from CKD to end stage renal disease (ESRD), a disease with high
      mortality and poor health related quality of life (HRQoL). Over 52,000 Veterans with ESRD are
      currently on dialysis and CKD/ESRD care costs VA over $18 billion per year. The majority of
      Veterans progressing from CKD to ESRD have limited to no awareness of CKD and its treatment
      options. This hinders Veterans' informed dialysis selection resulting in a gross underuse
      (7%) of home dialysis (HoD). As there are no significant differences in mortality among
      different dialysis modalities, VHA National Kidney Program and professional renal societies
      advocate informed dialysis selection and greater use of HoD to facilitate improvements in
      Veterans' post-ESRD clinical and health services utilization outcomes.

      Reports from Europe and Canada show that providing comprehensive pre-ESRD patient education
      (CPE) improves the quality of CKD care and empowers patients to make informed dialysis
      modality selection. Data further show that informed modality selection substantially corrects
      the underuse of HoD as desired by the healthcare systems, including VHA.

      However, across VHA, many Veterans with CKD are identified too late to benefit from CPE; and
      even for those identified and under renal care, the availability of CPE is limited. This
      results in suboptimal pre-ESRD care and preparation, and continued low HoD utilization. Thus,
      there is an urgent systemic need to provide CPE to all pre-ESRD (stage 4 and 5 CKD) Veterans
      and study its effectiveness prospectively within the VHA.

      This study aims to evaluate the impact of the comprehensive pre-ESRD patient education on
      high-impact outcomes for Veterans and health services, across a local Veterans Healthcare
      System (VHS). The investigators will compare the impact of CPE (intervention), delivered
      either in-person or through telemedicine, with the usual care (control) enhanced by the
      provision of the self-learning CKD information among Veterans with advanced CKD across the
      North Florida/South Georgia VHS.

      The investigators' study has four aims, consisting of one primary outcome (HoD use) and
      multiple secondary outcomes, to help us understand the impact of CPE on patients' informed
      decision making and on important post-ESRD clinical, patient-reported, and health services
      outcomes.

      Aim 1: Compare the impact of CPE on Veterans' knowledge of CKD, their confidence in dialysis
      decision making, and their selection of dialysis modality, between the CPE and usual care
      groups.

      H1.1: CPE will improve Veterans' knowledge of CKD and its management. H1.2: CPE will improve
      Veterans' confidence in making an informed selection of a dialysis modality.

      H1.3: CPE will increase Veterans' selection of HoD. Aim 2: Compare Veterans' actual use of
      HoD (Primary Outcome) between the CPE and usual care groups.

      H2.1: Veterans in the CPE group will show increased HoD use. Aim 3: Examine Veterans'
      perceived satisfaction with CPE, explore their preferences for F2F- or Tele-CPE, and
      investigate barriers and facilitators in the selection and use of their preferred dialysis
      modality. (Qualitative) Aim 4: Compare the following post-ESRD secondary outcomes between the
      CPE and usual care groups.

      Patient reported outcomes: 1) health-related quality of life and 2) satisfaction with
      dialysis; clinical outcomes: 3) time to ESRD, 4) estimated glomerular filtration rate at
      ESRD, 5) need for inpatient initiation of dialysis, and 6) vascular access status at ESRD;
      and health services utilization outcomes: 7) number of inpatient stays, and 8) number of
      outpatient visits, from enrollment to 90-day post ESRD period.

      H4: Veterans in the CPE group will show improvement in these secondary outcomes.

      Findings from this study will help to achieve the long-term goal of better meeting the needs
      of Veterans with advanced CKD by improving Veterans' knowledge of CKD and its management, and
      promoting evidence-based Veteran-centered ESRD care.
    
  