
    
      This will be a prospective, registry-based, single-blind, randomized controlled trial with a
      1:1 allocation ratio. No important changes to the methods are anticipated. This will be a
      single-institution study performed at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation in Cleveland, and the
      AHSQC will serve as our platform for data collection. All enrollments and surgeries in this
      study will take place at Cleveland Clinic Main Campus.

      The study will consist of 2 interventions: IPOM or eTEP. Two expert hernia surgeons with
      advanced MIS training will enroll patients and perform the operations.

      A computer-generated randomization scheme will be built. Randomization will take place on the
      Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap®) database program. Patients will be randomized to
      IPOM or eTEP in the operating room after induction of general anesthesia.

      The primary outcome measure is early postoperative pain. Secondary outcome measures are cost,
      hernia recurrence, and surgeon workload as determined by the NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX).
      The investigators will also collect outcomes pertaining to abdominal wall-specific quality of
      life (measured by Hernia-Related Quality of Life inventory - HerQLes), and 30-day wound
      events. No changes to trial outcomes are anticipated, and no interim analyses will be
      performed. No stopping guidelines are needed, as both eTEP and IPOM represent current
      standards of care for ventral hernia repair.

      Subjects will be blinded to the intervention. A similar number of incisions will be present
      on the abdomen in similar locations following each intervention, preventing patients from
      knowing which intervention they received. The investigators are unable to blind the operating
      surgeon to the intervention arm. The investigators are unable to blind the data collector,
      the research fellow, to the patients within each intervention arm. However, by utilizing data
      largely determined from the patients themselves, who will not be informed of the operation
      that they have received until after study completion, The investigators believe that they are
      presenting accurate data with limited bias. No subgroup analyses are planned. Patients will
      not be included for analysis at any time point for which their data is unavailable. Following
      their 1-year visit, patients will be informed regarding the intervention that they received.

      Outcomes to be investigated are based on the study hypotheses and are listed below:

      Specific Aim #1: To determine if patients with ventral hernias undergoing eTEP experience a
      30% decrease in pain scores by postoperative day 1 compared to patients undergoing IPOM.

      The primary outcome is early postoperative pain. Pain will be assessed by Patient-Reported
      Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Pain Intensity 3a survey and the Numeric Pain
      Rating Scale (NRS-11). The PROMIS pain intensity 3a survey is a National Institutes of Health
      developed and validated tool that focuses on patient-reported pain characteristics . The
      NRS-11 is a frequently utilized pain assessment that consists of an easily administered 0 to
      10 Likert scale, in which higher scores reflect greater pain intensity. PROMIS Pain Intensity
      3a survey pain scores will be assessed at baseline (at the time of enrollment), at 30 (± 15)
      and 365 (± 90) days. NRS-11 scores, often used to measure acute pain, will be obtained in the
      post-anesthesia care unit, and on postoperative days 1 (± 1 days), 7 (± 3 days) and 30 (± 15
      days). The NRS-11 scores will be obtained either in person while the patients are
      hospitalized, or by telephone interview following hospital discharge. Postoperative narcotic
      requirements, as recorded on standard of care 30-day follow-up forms, will be collected.

      Specific Aim #2: To determine if eTEP is associated with higher direct costs compared to
      IPOM.

      A secondary outcome is direct cost at the index surgical admission. Cost data will be
      obtained from the Cleveland Clinic financial department and will include direct costs. Direct
      costs for the index operation will include operating room supply and time, intensive care
      unit, anesthesia, floor care, laboratory tests, radiology and endoscopy, pharmacy, and
      in-hospital rehabilitation therapies. The operating room supply direct costs for index
      surgeries will be further categorized into the following groups: mesh and general supply
      costs. Indirect costs and total charges will be excluded. Capital costs, including the
      robotic system if used, laparoscopic towers, and non-disposable equipment, will not be
      included.

      Specific Aim #3: To determine if eTEP is associated with equivalent one-year recurrence rates
      compared to IPOM.

      Hernia recurrence will be assessed with the Ventral Hernia Recurrence Inventory survey
      (VHRI), radiographically, and with clinical exam at 365 (± 90) days. The VHRI, which uses
      patient-reported outcomes to detect hernia recurrence, is a validated tool that has been
      shown to detect ventral hernia recurrence with a sensitivity of 85% and a specificity of 81%.
      If patients do not follow up in person, the VHRI will be applied over the phone by research
      fellows or coordinators to determine whether hernia recurrence has occurred. If patients
      follow up in person and have CT scans available, clinical and radiographic assessments of
      recurrence will be used to determine whether a recurrence has occurred rather than VHRI.

      Specific Aim #4: To determine if eTEP is associated with increased intraoperative surgeon
      workload compared to IPOM.

      The investigators plan to measure surgeon workload using the NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX)
      inventory, which is a subjective workload assessment tool for individuals working with
      human-machine interfaces. This consists of self-reported scales rating an individual's mental
      demand, physical demand, temporal demand, performance, effort, and frustration. These will be
      collected from participating surgeons immediately after each operation.

      Additional outcomes include abdominal wall-specific quality of life and 30-day wound events.
      Abdominal wall-specific quality of life will be determined by the HerQLes questionnaire.
      HerQLes is a 12-question hernia-specific survey that has been previously validated in
      patients undergoing ventral hernia repair. This will be assessed at baseline, at 30 days (±
      15 days) and at 365 days (± 90 days). Wound events are defined as surgical site infection
      (SSI), surgical site occurrence (SSO) and surgical site occurrences requiring procedural
      intervention (SSOPI), as defined by the Ventral Hernia Working Group. Wound events will be
      assessed by a physical exam at 30(± 15) days and 365 (± 90) days. This information is already
      routinely collected for all patients included in the AHSQC. Additionally, the investigators
      will plan to obtain yearly follow-up going forward via quality of life surveys and CT scans
      that are standard of care for our group.
    
  