
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish whether eribulin mesylate (E7389) can be given safely to patients with
      moderate and severe renal dysfunction at 1.4 mg/m^2/week (the maximum tolerated dose [MTD]
      previously defined for patients with normal renal function) on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day
      cycle. (Phase I) II. To characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of E7389 in patients
      with moderate and severe renal dysfunction. (Phase I) III. To determine the response rate of
      patients with advanced urothelial carcinomas to E7389 in the first-line setting. (Phase II)
      IV. To determine the 6-month, progression-free survival and overall survival of patients with
      advanced urothelial carcinomas treated with E7389. (Phase II) V. To document the toxicity
      associated with the administration of E7389 to patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma
      patients and varying degrees of renal dysfunction. (Phase II) VI. To determine the response
      rate of patients with advanced urothelial carcinomas to E7389 in the setting of progression
      after prior platinum-based chemotherapy for advanced or recurrent disease, in two cohorts:
      tubulin-inhibitor treated or tubulin-inhibitor naive. (tubulin inhibitors in common use for
      urothelial cancer include paclitaxel, docetaxel and vinblastine). (Phase II) (per Amendment
      6) VII. To determine the 6-month progression-free survival and overall survival of patients
      with advanced urothelial carcinomas treated with E7389 after platinum-based therapy for
      recurrent or advanced disease. (Phase II) (per Amendment 6) VIII. To document the toxicity
      associated with the administration of E7389 to patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma
      patients in the second line and later setting. (Phase II) (per Amendment 6) IX. To compare
      men and women with advanced bladder cancer treated with E7389 with respect to toxicity of
      E7389 as classified by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4
      for (i) all hematologic toxicities, (ii) all non- hematologic toxicities, and (iii) the most
      frequently observed toxicities (neutropenia, anemia, leucopenia, infection). (Enrollment to
      additional females) (per Amendment 11) X. To compare men and women with advanced bladder
      cancer treated with E7389 with respect to response to E7389 as evidenced by (i) disease
      control rate (DCR) defined as stable disease (SD)+partial response (PR)+complete response
      (CR) at 12 weeks, (ii) progression-free survival (PFS), and (iii) overall survival (OS).
      (Enrollment to additional females) (per Amendment 11) XI. To compare men and women with
      advanced bladder cancer treated with E7389 with respect to pharmacokinetics of E7389.
      (Enrollment to additional females) (per Amendment 11) XII. To compare men and women with
      advanced bladder cancer treated with E7389 with respect to tumoral expression of genes
      involved in the mechanism of action of E7389, including tubulin isotypes,
      microtubule-associated protein 4 (MAP4), and stathmin. (Enrollment to additional females)
      (per Amendment 11)

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive eribulin mesylate intravenously (IV) over 1-2 minutes on days 1 and 8.
      Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 12 months and then
      every 3 months for up to 24 months.
    
  