
    
      Symptoms such as pain, morning stiffness, and decreased muscle strength lead to a decrease in
      functional capacity and quality of life in knee osteoarthritis. It is estimated that 80% of
      patients with osteoarthritis have movement limitation and 25% are unable to perform
      significant daily activities. It is also stated that increases the risk of falls due to
      decrease proprioception in patients with knee osteoarthritis. In addition to physical
      symptoms, it is reported in the literature that symptoms such as sleep disturbance,
      depression and anxiety are seen and play a role in pain experience.

      It is stated in the literature that hypersensitivity of the central nervous system causes
      painful perception of normal body functions in chronic osteoarthritis, which leads patients
      to compensatory and dysfunctional movement strategies.

      Body Awareness Therapy (BAT) is a mind-body treatment approach directed towards awareness of
      body senses and how the body is used. The aim is to integrate the body and soul in the
      individual's experiences and to restructure body awareness and control.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of BAT on pain, balance and functional
      capacity in patients with knee osteoarthritis.

      The study will consist of patients with stage 2-3 knee osteoarthritis according to
      Kellgren-Lawrence classification.

      The individuals included in the study will be divided into two groups as training and control
      groups using a computer-based randomization program.

      Both groups will be given a home program consisting of joint range of motion, stretching,
      strengthening and proprioceptive exercises. The control group will perform home exercise
      program and follow up will be made at once a week. The training group will participate in BAT
      for 3 days/week for 6 weeks in addition to home exercise program. Assessments will be made
      before and after the 6-week study program.
    
  