
    
      Background: Peripheral artery disease (PAD) of the lower extremities is due to arterial
      obstruction leading to reduced arterial flow during exercise and/or at rest. The disease is
      present in approximately 4 percent of persons >40 years of age, but in 15-20 percent of those
      >65 years. Claudication is the major symptom and can improve with pharmacotherapy or exercise
      rehabilitation. In patients with disabling claudication that persist despite exercise and
      pharmacotherapy or with critical limb ischemia (i.e. ischemic rest pain; ulcers or gangrene
      at risk of major amputation), revascularization therapies are indicated. However, in about
      1/4 of these patients endovascular or surgical therapy fails or is not applicable, making
      alternative approaches necessary.1 Thus, promotion of angiogenesis, a process triggered by
      ischemia with sprouting of capillaries insufficient to provide adequate blood supply to
      jeopardized tissues, and arteriogenesis, which refers to positive remodeling of preformed
      collateral arterioles, i.e. collateral growth should be applied in these patients.2, 3
      Despite the fact that numerous studies during the last decade pursued the important
      therapeutic strategy of improving collateral function in patients with PAD, there is
      currently no method available to quantify collateral arterial function of the lower limb and,
      thus, to determine therapeutic effects. Clinical studies investigating new therapeutic
      strategies for the promotion of peripheral collateral growth by application of growth factors
      and/or exercise rehabilitation have used imprecise and inadequate assessment methods and
      therefore determined only "weak" endpoints. In contrast to the coronary circulation, there is
      currently no gold standard available to document successful promotion of collateral growth in
      patients suffering from PAD.

      Aim: The purpose of this study in patients undergoing elective coronary angiography with or
      without chronic stable coronary artery disease is to evaluate a new invasive method to
      quantify arterial collateral flow in the lower extremity.

      Main hypothesis: Quantitative assessment of peripheral arterial collaterals by
      pressure-derived collateral flow index (CFIp) in the lower extremities is safe and feasible.

      Methodology: Prospective exploratory trial. Primary study endpoint: Pressure-derived
      collateral flow index (CFIp) of the superficial femoral artery.

      Potential significance: The results of this study will demonstrate that the concept of
      collateral flow index - which has been proven by our group in the coronary circulation - is a
      safe and feasible method for the quantitative assessment of peripheral limb collateral
      function. The results of this study may serve as preliminary data for larger clinical trials
      investigating therapeutic promotion of collaterals in patients with PAD and provide a
      reliable study endpoint.
    
  