
    
      During the first study visit, information about participants, such as age, race and gender,
      medical history, including nutritional status, medications and dietary supplements, and
      genetic diseases in the participant's family will be collected. Smoking and tobacco status,
      alcohol consumption, and/or recreational drugs usage will be documented. Additionally, wound
      information, including wound measurements, infection history, cause, location, how long you
      have had the wound, etc, a digital photograph of the wound and ultrasound imaging (if
      available) will be obtained. Lab results, such as nutrition and blood sugar (if the subject
      has Diabetes Mellitus) levels will be obtained. If a blood sugar level is not available from
      the past 3 months, a finger stick will be performed to obtain the participant's hemoglobin
      A1c level. Lastly, debrided tissue and/or biopsies, wound fluid, and 20 cc of blood will be
      collected.

      During second study visit, a digital image of the wound area will be taken and the wound will
      be evaluated for clinical signs of infection using a WIfI scale, as appropriate. Any new
      wound treatments, labs, and adverse events along with changes in medications and medical
      history since baseline will be documented. Additionally, debrided tissue and/or biopsies,
      wound fluid, and 20 cc of blood will be collected.

      The final stage is the observation phase, which will last up to 12 weeks. The wound closure
      and/or area data will be recorded from the participant's medical record up to 12 weeks.

      Potential Risks:

      Biopsy and Debridement:

      There may be some discomfort with the tissue biopsy procedure depending on the amount of
      sensation the subject has at the site of the wound. The wound site will be numbed by applying
      local anesthesia as appropriate to area being biopsied. The amount of pain that occurs with
      wound biopsy will vary from person to person, but all reasonable efforts will be made to
      minimize pain. The biopsy procedure is done within the boundaries of the existing wound to
      avoid giving the patient a separate new wound. Bleeding is a possible complication, but the
      risk is low for the small biopsies and is reduced by using local anesthetics with
      epinephrine, and silver nitrate sticks are available in each room to cauterize biopsy sites
      as needed. Infection is also a potential risk; however, wound tissue biopsies are routinely
      performed as the standard of care in the CWC to diagnose wound infection. The biopsy site
      will be appropriately monitored for infection by the provider managing the wound during
      routine wound clinic visits. No additional study specific risk is identified for debrided
      tissue as the procedure is performed as part of SoC.

      Blood Draw:

      Temporary discomfort from the needle stick, bruising, bleeding, and rarely, infection. To
      reduce the risk of infection, the research personnel will clean subject's arm with an
      antiseptic solution before any blood is drawn.

      Hemoglobin A1c point-of-care testing:

      The point-of-care testing for hemoglobin A1c test is low risk. Potential risks include minor
      and temporary pain or discomfort and bleeding. Prior to the finger prick, research staff will
      clean the finger to be pricked with an alcohol swab. Subjects will be provided with a cotton
      ball and/or band-aid to stop the bleeding, if there is any.
    
  