
    
      Hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia and glycemic variability, the three components of dysglycemia are
      independently associated with morbidity and mortality of critically ill patients. Blood
      glucose (BG) control with insulin has the potential to decrease morbidity and mortality of
      intensive care unit (ICU) patients. Blood glucose control with insulin, however, is
      associated with an increased risk of hypoglycemia and its effect on glycemic variability is
      uncertain. BG control with insulin utilizing manual systems for glucose measurement is
      blood-consuming and time-consuming, since frequent blood draws for glucose measurements are
      necessary in order to achieve blood glucose control.

      Severe hypoglycemia (blood glucose level < 40 mg/dl) is a feared complication of blood
      glucose control with insulin. Undoubtedly, with implementation of blood glucose with insulin
      the incidence of hypoglycemia increases. Reported incidences of severe hypoglycemia rise by 5
      to 10-fold as compared to conventional glucose control strategies in randomized controlled
      trials. Several reports showed a significant association between hypoglycemia and patient
      outcomes. Recently, an association has even been suggested between moderate and mild
      hypoglycemia (blood glucose level between 40-69 mg/dL) and patient outcomes. Incidences of
      moderate hypoglycemia are more prevalent than severe hypoglycemia. The risk of developing
      (severe or moderate) hypoglycemia hampers, at least in part, broad implementation of blood
      glucose control with insulin, in particular when aiming at normal blood glucose levels
      [17,18].

      Recent studies showed also significant associations between glycemic variability and patient
      outcomes. BG control algorithms, if properly applied, could decrease glycemic variability.
      Experimentally, rodent experiment showed that brain damage was not associated with the
      duration of severe hypoglycemia, but instead with its correction (mainly overcorrection) with
      intravenous dextrose causing formation of radicals. Hence, a close glucose monitoring to
      prevent overcorrection is mandatory.

      These different arguments strongly support the need for reliable and accurate CGM. The
      GlucoClearTM Continuous Glucose Monitoring system from Edwards Lifesciences measures blood
      sugar by Glucose Oxidase Sensing Technology through in-blood measurement. Blood is
      automatically drawn and analyzed every 5 minutes from a peripheral venous catheter, with real
      time graphical display. Blood is then returned to the patient and the system automatically
      self-calibrates. The GlucoClear CGM is designed to be highly accurate. In a recent study
      performed in critically ill patients, it was shown to comply with the required standards of
      quality.

      The main research question addressed by the present study is: "To which extent a CGM-guided
      strategy improve the quality of BG control performance"?
    
  