
    
      Background In Western countries the numbers of elderly patients are increasing. Although many
      elderly individuals are healthy, the number of individuals with complex needs for health care
      is large and growing. Patients less than 80 years of age, who suffer a myocardial infarction
      are usually offered an early invasive strategy including coronary angiography possibly
      followed by intervention, preferably percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Among non
      ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) patients, 80 years of age or over, only
      approximately 40% receive an invasive approach in Sweden, since the majority are handled in a
      conservative way, i.e. with medical treatment only. Furthermore, as with pharmacological
      treatment, there is a large variation between Swedish counties regarding the choice of
      strategy for the treatment of elderly (80+) patients with NSTEMI with an even larger
      variation between acute hospitals ranging from 20% to 90 %.

      The Swedish national guidelines for heart disease have emphasized that the patient's
      biological age, i.e. the patient's biological status and expected length of life, is crucial
      for decision-making, though there is limited guidance regarding how the biological age should
      be estimated.The term frailty denotes a multi-dimensional syndrome characterized by increased
      vulnerability and decreased physiologic reserves, which can be seen as a marker of biological
      age.

      The Canadian Study of Health and Ageing (CSHA) Clinical Frailty Scale (CFS) is a global
      clinical measure of biological age, mixing co-morbidity, disability and cognitive impairment.
      The CFS might be the most commonly used frailty instrument in an acute care context. The
      investigators have previously reported the potential importance of frailty for short-term (1
      month) and medium-term outcome (1 year) in a NSTEMI population. However, published data on
      the role of frailty´s prognostic value, its capacity to predict adverse effects including
      complications, and the potential to guide clinical decision-making for elderly patients with
      myocardial infarction are scarce, particularly regarding longer-term outcomes.Similarly,
      there is a lack of knowledge of how different patterns of comorbidity burden, e.g. measured
      by a well-established index like the Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) might influence
      rational decision-making. Particularly this might be true regarding the combination of
      frailty and comorbidity.

      The large variation in the management of these patients shows that there is need for further
      studies within this area in order to determine which treatment one should chose, whether it
      be invasive or conservative, in different groups.

      Aims To explore the association between frailty and treatment patterns in cardiac care To
      study the association between outcomes and degree of frailty, with and without comprehensive
      adjustment for differences in baseline characteristics.

      To study how treatment benefits for patients admitted to coronary care units differ in
      patients depending on comorbidities and frailty.

      Hypothesis The investigators hypothesize that frailty is independently associated with worse
      outcomes, including mortality, readmissions and complications.

      The investigators also hypothesize that frailty influences the benefit-risk ratio for
      pharmacological therapies and invasive treatments.

      Methods and material An observational, register based, multicentre study. Inclusion criteria:
      Patients consecutively included in the SWEDEHEART registry. Exclusion criteria: None.

      SWEDEHEART is a national quality registry collecting information on all patients hospitalized
      with MI or suspected MI. All 72 Swedish hospitals with acute coronary care contribute with
      data. Briefly, information is collected prospectively about individual patients' medical
      history, treatment before admission, management during hospital stay, treatment at discharge,
      and diagnoses. Approximately 20.000 patients diagnosed with MI are included in this register
      per year. From January 1st 2020 frailty (CFS) is a mandatory variable in the registry.
      However, as a pilot project to ensure feasibility, five hospitals began to register frailty
      November 1st, 2017. These include three university hospitals: the Huddinge-Karolinska
      Hospital, the Linköping University Hospital and the Sahlgrenska Hospital, and two large
      county hospitals: The NAL-Uddevalla (NU) Hospital and Gavle Hospital. For the investigators
      initial analyses data will be used from the pilot study to assess the association between CFS
      level and outcomes. The data extraction will be done by one of the monitors of the SWEDEHEART
      registry. After about two years the investigators will extract data prospectively entered
      into the registry. By use of the Swedish unique personal identification numbers (PIN) data
      from the SWEDEHAERT will be merged with data from the National cause of death registry in
      order to obtain information on mortality and cause of death, with the National patient
      registry, a comprehensive national register of the consumption of inpatient hospital care
      maintained by the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, to obtain information on
      comorbidity and outcomes, with the Swedish prescribed drugs registry to obtain information on
      collected drugs and from Statistics Sweden information on socio-economic factors and country
      of birth. After data extraction, merging PINs will be removed and all statistical analyses
      will be performed on de-identified data.

      The frailty instrument The crucial study instrument CFS is a 9-point scale, derived from the
      deficit of accumulation model of frailty, and it has been validated against the Frailty
      Index. It has good predictive validity and prognostic power, is relying on clinical judgment,
      and is relatively easily used in clinical practice, see the attached document Clinical
      Frailty Scale. Since the scale includes several degrees it can be considered to be
      particularly appropriate for risk stratification, and accordingly it has been used for this
      purpose. The investigators have got the instrument owner´s permission to use this scale.

      The evaluation of the patient's degree of frailty will be based on bedside judgment
      undertaken preferably by registered nurses regarding frailty and other clinical information
      including the records in the patient file. The inter-rater reliability among a sample of
      frailty-assessing nurses will be pragmatically assessed before the study start, see
      Statistics. During the study there will be several support functions in order to enhance the
      validity and reliability of the judgments: a manual and an instruction film on the frailty
      assessment via CFS has been developed by a focus group including cardiological and geriatric
      expertise; there will be instructions on how to assess frailty on the homepage of SWEDEHEART;
      and five trained SWEDEHEART nurses will function as monitors and support for the local
      assessing nurses, as will the mentioned expert group.

      The CRF focus on demographic and clinical patient characteristics registered in the
      SWEDEHEART, particularly those which are supposed to be potential confounders when testing
      the hypothesis: chronological age, gender, cardiovascular risk, diabetes, heart failure,
      renal insufficiency, other co-morbidities, including the Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI),
      previous MI, medications, ejection fraction, and the classification of MI. Cardiovascular
      risk will be assessed according to the Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events (GRACE) risk
      score (GRS).

      Results from echocardiography, ECGs, laboratory testing and registration of anthropometric
      data will be included according to routine practice within the frame of SWEDEHEART.

      Follow-up of cohorts of invasively or conservatively treated patients with different stages
      of frailty will be done one, three, six, 12, 24 and 36 months after the inclusion point
      respectively.
    
  