
    
      The TRIBUTE trial is looking at a new type of treatment for Crohn's Disease (CD), called
      regulatory T-cells (Tregs) immunotherapy.

      Regulatory T-cells are naturally produced by the immune system. These cells have a powerful
      immunosuppressive action; they prevent auto-immune diseases by suppressing the over-active
      response that the immune system mounts against the body in these diseases. In addition it is
      thought that in patients with active CD, other immune cells in the gut are resistant to the
      normal controlling action of Tregs. Finally, we have found that Tregs that are isolated from
      patients and then are grown in the laboratory are more suppressive than Tregs freshly
      isolated from patients' blood.

      Treg immunotherapy, TR004, will be unique to each patient. White blood cells will be
      extracted from their blood via leukapheresis. These cells will form the starting material to
      manufacture TR004 by expansion in a GMP accredited laboratory following a validated
      manufacturing process.

      It will take between 20 and 45 days to produce enough cells for the immunotherapy treatment.

      The trial aims to recruit a total of 24 patients diagnosed with moderate to severe CD. Men
      and women aged over 18 years who did not tolerate or did not respond to at least 2 standard
      treatments for the condition will be eligible to participate.

      TRIBUTE is a double-blind, placebo controlled, crossover, First Into Human clinical trial of
      a single dose of TR004, with an adaptive Continual Reassessment Method (CRM) dose finding
      design.

      In stage 1 of the study, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be determined from an initial
      cohort of 16 patients. In the second stage, 8 further patients will be added to allow a
      minimum effective dose (MED) to be determined from all patients. Patients will be block
      randomised in a two-period crossover design to the order in which they receive both TR004 and
      placebo. In each successive pair of subjects, one will first receive TR004 and the other will
      first receive placebo at the same dose as each other and in each period.

      There will be 3 dose levels for TR004: 0.5 - 1.0 million TR004/kg, 3.0 - 5.0 million TR004/kg
      and 8.0 - 10.0 million TR004/kg.

      The first pair on the trial will be dosed at 0.5 - 1.0 million TR004/kg. Dose levels for
      subsequent pairs will be allocated by the CRM algorithm program. DSMB members will oversee
      the decision making process and make the final decision on the next dose level.

      Participants may be involved in the study for up to 14 months, from screening to safety
      follow-up at Week 52.

      Eligible participants will receive two infusions eight weeks apart, one at Week 0 and one at
      Week 8. One infusion will be the TR004 infusion, the other one will be a placebo infusion.

      Patients will have a number of blood tests over the course of the trial. This will allow the
      doctors to monitor how safe TR004 is and how the body reacts to it.

      Other tests, including vital signs such as blood pressure, heart rate and temperature, stool
      testing, and colonoscopy/biopsy will also be performed for this purpose and participants will
      have regular check-ups by the trial team. Scans such as CT scans, MRI scans or ultrasounds
      may be performed prior to starting the trial and participants will fill out questionnaires
      and diaries to monitor their progress over the course of the trial.

      There are currently no known benefits to the participants in taking part in the study. While
      it is hoped that the treatment will reduce bowel inflammation, this may not happen.
      Participants may not directly benefit from taking part in this study but the information
      gained from their participation may help to improve the treatments available to other people
      with Crohn's Disease.

      During the blood tests participants may experience discomfort and there is a risk of bleeding
      and bruising around the puncture site but this is very rarely serious.

      During leukapheresis and on infusion days cannulas will be inserted in participant's veins.
      The cannula insertion may cause pain, bruising, or, on rare occasions, infection.

      Some people find the leukapheresis uncomfortable due to having to stay in the same position
      for 2-3 hours. Blood calcium level may fall during the procedure and this can cause numbness
      and tingling in hands and feet and around the mouth. Patients can also feel cold, dizzy or
      sick.

      A colonoscopy poses few risks. Rarely, complications of a colonoscopy may include:

        -  Reaction to the sedative used during the test

        -  Bleeding from the site where the tissue sample (biopsy) is taken

        -  A tear in the colon or rectum wall (perforation). The risk of this is less than 1 in
           1,000

      This is the first time this particular expanded Tregs treatment will be tested in human so
      there may be potential unknown risks that could be serious.

      The anticipated risks of Treg administration are similar to those of a blood transfusion. The
      potential risks are likely to be lower because the cells infused will be the patient's own
      cells rather than cells from a blood donor. Common transfusion symptoms include a red, itchy
      skin rash, swelling of the hands, arms, feet, ankles and legs, dizziness and headaches. Less
      common symptoms include high temperature, chills and shivering.

      The TRIBUTE study will be set-up and run at Guy's and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, London.
      It will be the only UK centre recruiting participants into the study although patients may be
      referred from other hospitals in order to take part in the trial.
    
  