
    
      Background: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most common malignancy in the
      world.The practice of screening by ultrasonography and serum alpha-fetoprotein concentration
      in cirrhotic patients and hepatitis B carriers has led to an increasing incidence of HCC.

      Hepatectomy, local ablation and liver transplantation are regarded as the mainstay of
      curative treatment for HCC according to international guidelines by EASL, AASLD and ESMO.The
      shortage of liver grafts has limited the application of liver transplantation. Hepatectomy is
      thus widely accepted as the treatment option of choice for patients with HCC and non
      cirrhotic liver.

      Major hepatectomy (resection of > 3 Couinaud's segments) is always needed when HCC is large
      or is close to major blood vessels within liver. With the advancements in techniques of
      hepatectomy and perioperative patient care, the operative mortality of open major hepatectomy
      (OMH) has reduced to < 5% in recent years. Nonetheless, OMH for HCC is still associated with
      major problems as follows:

        1. It is associated with significant morbidities. The morbidity rate after OMH remains high
           (30% - 40%) even in high-volume centres. Wound infection and bronchopneumonia are among
           the most common complications after hepatic resection. Long incision and vigorous
           retraction of the rib cage are required to achieve adequate exposure of the liver tumor
           during hepatic resection. As a result, sepsis due to chest complications and wound
           problems are frequently encountered. Furthermore, division of the porto-systemic
           collaterals in the anterior abdominal wall contributes to postoperative ascites, which
           is another common complication.

        2. It is associated with a high tumor recurrence rate, even when performed with a curative
           intent. The 3-year recurrence rate has been reported to be more than 50%. Most
           recurrences occur in the liver remnant, in the forms of intrahepatic metastasis or
           multicentric tumor recurrence. Risk factors related to recurrence include unfavorable
           tumor factors such as microscopic venous or capsular invasion. Hence, tumor cell
           dissemination could be the main mechanism of recurrence. In this context, manipulation
           of the tumor during OMH leading to tumor cell dissemination can potentially contribute
           to high tumor recurrence rate. Furthermore, it has been suggested that postoperative
           immunosuppression induced by surgical stress may induce tumor growth in the liver
           remnant.

      Laparoscopy has a well-defined role in the staging and diagnosis of hepatobiliary
      malignancies. However, laparoscopic hepatectomy has not yet been widely practiced, because of
      the technical difficulties in liver resection, difficulty in the control of hemorrhage during
      liver transection and retraction of the liver for optimum exposure. With the advanced
      laparoscopic techniques, much enthusiasm has been developed in laparoscopic major hepatectomy
      (LMH). Recent series have proven the feasibility and safety of LMH for HCC. The selection
      criteria of the reported series included tumor size up to 10cm and single or multiple tumors
      confined to one liver lobe. The overall conversion rates was around 10%. There was no
      hospital mortality and the morbidity rate was about 10%. Apart from the documented advantages
      of laparoscopic surgery (less wound and chest complications, and shorter hospital stay),
      theoretically, LMH carries oncological advantages over OMH. LMH may result in less surgical
      stress and immunosuppression due to less intraoperative blood loss than OMH. Moreover, using
      laparoscopic instruments, it involves minimal manipulation of the tumor and less cancer cells
      dissemination during surgery. Potentially, postoperative tumor recurrence could be reduced
      and hence patient survival could be prolonged.

      To date, only retrospective studies using propensity score matching to compare LMH with OMH
      were reported. In these study, the studied patient number was small (< 40) in each matched
      treatment arm and the reported 2-year overall (86% - 88% vs. 85% - 100%) and recurrence-free
      survival (72% - 83% vs. 81% - 85%) rates were comparable between OMH and LMH. Nevertheless,
      there is a trend that LMH is associated with better overall and recurrence-free survival than
      OMH. It is likely that these studies were underpowered (Type II error) to show the potential
      oncological benefits of LMH over OMH. Because of these limited data on LMH, according to
      EASL, AASLD and ESMO guidelines, its role for HCC is still not yet defined. In the sphere of
      laparoscopic hepatectomy, according to the European Guideline Meeting for Laparoscopic Liver
      Surgery (Southampton consensus), there was only limited data on short-term outcome but no
      data on long-term outcome of LMH. With these reasons, there is an urge for a prospective
      study aiming to define the role of LMH for HCC with respect to its potential oncological
      benefits.

      In the principle investigator's institution (the Department of Surgery, The Chinese
      University of Hong Kong), preliminary data using propensity score matching analysis on
      patients with HCC (median size = 4cm) undergone either laparoscopic (n = 112) or open
      hepatectomy (n = 224) (major hepatectomy accounts for 40.5%), the intraoperative blood loss
      (median: 159 mL vs. 419 mL), blood transfusion rate (0% vs. 4.5%) and morbidity rate (5.4%
      vs. 28.1%) were significantly lower in laparoscopic group than open group. The hospital
      mortality (0% vs. 0.4%), long-term overall (5-year: 56% vs. 42%) and recurrence free (5-year:
      36% vs. 33%) survival rates were comparable between groups. (Supplementary information
      attached) With this experience, the principle investigator proposes an open labelled
      prospective multi-center randomized trial (AP-LAPO Trial) comparing LMH with OMH for HCC.
      This study involves 5 high-volume centres specialized in liver surgery and with facilities
      supporting LMH and OMH in Asia-Pacific region (Hong Kong, Sichuan, Guangzhou and Foshan).
      These centres perform at least 30 LMH or OMH per year (The Chinese University of Hong Kong,
      median no. = 51; Kwong Wah Hospital, median no. = 30; West China Medical School of Sichuan
      University, median no. 120; Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital & Institute, median no. =
      115; The First People's Hospital of Foshan, median no. = 102), and have achieved excellent
      perioperative and oncological outcome after LMH or OMH (operative mortality 1% - 2%;
      complication rate 14% - 23%; 2-year overall survival rate 85% - 88%; 2-year disease-free
      survival rate 81% - 84%).

      Objectives and hypothesis: The primary objective is to test the hypothesis that LMH is
      associated with less surgical stress, less immunosuppression and thus less tumor recurrence
      and better survival than OMH. The primary outcome measure is 2-year recurrence-free survival.
      The secondary outcome measures include hospital mortality, morbidity, quality of life and
      overall survival between groups. Besides, stress-related cytokines (interleukin-6 [IL-6] and
      immunosuppressive acidic protein[IAP]) will also be measured during the perioperative

      Sample size estimation: Based on a reported 2-year recurrence-free survival rate of 72% after
      OMH and an expected 88% after LMH (about 20% improvement) according to a previously reported
      series, 106 patients need to be recruited to each arm in order to demonstrate a statistically
      significant difference with a 80% power at the 0.05 level of 2-sided significant difference
      between laparoscopic and open hepatic resection, allowing a drop-out rate of 10%. This sample
      size will also allow detection of reduction of 2-year tumor recurrence from 50% in OMH group
      to 30% in LMH with a similar power and level of significance. The principle investigator's
      unit is a major referral center for management of HCC in Hong Kong, with more than 150 new
      cases seen per year. There are one other centers in Hong Kong and 3 centers in Mainland
      China, which are specialized in both laparoscopic and open surgery for patients with HCC,
      with referral patient number ranging from 50 to 200 per year. The planned number of patients
      recruited in each participating centres is as follows (The Chinese University of Hong Kong, N
      = 32; Kwong Wah Hospital, N = 20; West China Medical School of Sichuan University, N = 50;
      Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital & Institute, N = 50; The First People's Hospital of
      Foshan, median no. = 60) It is therefore expected that recruitment can be completed in about
      12 months. All patients will be observed for at least 24 months after treatment. Hence, the
      total period of study including follow-up is estimated to be about 3 years for the funding
      period. After the funding period, recruited patients will be followed up periodically up to 5
      years after surgery to evaluate the long-term outcome.

      Statistical analysis: Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS version 11.0 (SPSS
      Inc., Chicago, Ill). The 2-year recurrence-free survival (primary outcome) will be evaluated
      by Kaplan-Meier method and compared by the log-rank test between studied groups.

      Other secondary outcome measures will be compared using Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact
      test for categorical variables, and Mann-Whitney U test for continuous variables between
      groups. Overall survival is again computed by the Kaplan-Meier method and compared by the
      log-rank test between groups. P < 0.05 is considered statistically significant.

      Ethical consideration: All aspects of the study will be discussed with each subject during a
      phone interview or screening visit. An information sheet will be provided, and each subject
      will be given the opportunity to seek medical advice or to discuss the study with friends or
      family prior to involvement. Each volunteer will give written, informed consent, in
      accordance with the attached form, and the subjects will be free to withdraw from the study
      at any time. This study will be performed in accordance with the ethical standards of the
      Declaration of Helsinki of 1975 and its later versions. Ethics approval from the
      institutional review broad of individual center will be sought.

      Relevance to clinical applications: The proposed study is an open-labelled prospective
      multi-center randomized trial investigating the potential benefits of laparoscopic major
      hepatectomy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), as compared to conventional open surgery. It
      involves 5 high-volume surgery centers in the Asia-Pacific region, where the incidence of
      hepatocellular carcinoma is high. The result of this study provides level 1 evidence on the
      best treatment option for HCC, which needs major hepatectomy. Such information will influence
      the evidence-based policy in professional practice in the management algorithm for HCC. Since
      postoperative complications and tumor recurrence are substantial after OMH, potential
      benefits of LMH tested in this study will help to alleviate these problems. Ultimately, the
      long-term survival of patients with HCC could be improved.
    
  