
    
      RESEARCH PROBLEM:

      In the past 20 years, enhanced recovery pathways (ERPs) have become increasingly integrated
      into most surgical fields as standard care in high income countries, as is exemplified by
      national priority programs and the widespread acceptance of the Enhanced Recovery After
      Surgery (ERAS) society network. ERPs represent a fundamental shift towards a patient-centred,
      multidisciplinary-driven continuity of care that aim to attenuate surgical stress and
      expedite recovery. Studies on total joint arthroplasty (TJA) for both hips and knees have
      shown that implementation of an evidence-based, structured approach to patient care decreases
      postoperative morbidity and consequently length of stay without increasing readmission rate.

      However, in low- and middle-income countries, the value of implementing ERPs is yet to be
      explored. This may be because: i) the perception that current hospital resources may make it
      difficult to develop and implement structured and sustainable protocols to enhance
      postoperative recovery, and ii) short and long-term data collection on the quality of the
      work provided is scarce, inhibiting the ability to benchmark clinical results and improve the
      service provided to patients. Despite these challenges, a healthcare system in a
      middle-income country such as South Africa may benefit from the implementation of ERPs
      through reduced postoperative morbidity and the associated cost reductions, as has been
      demonstrated in high-income countries.

      STUDY RATIONAL:

      Documentation of current perioperative interventions with associated postoperative outcomes
      is crucial before implementing a new model for perioperative care. As such, this study will
      give the investigators baseline values against which the perioperative results achieved from
      instituting a multidisciplinary enhanced care programme for South African arthroplasty
      patients will be analyzed.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      This is a 10-week prospective observational audit of patients scheduled for primary elective
      unilateral total hip or knee arthroplasty at 9 District, Regional and Central hospitals in
      South Africa.

      PATIENT RECRUITMENT, DATA COLLECTION AND CONFIDENTIALITY:

      The patients will be recruited consecutively by the orthopaedic surgeons in the preoperative
      arthroplasty clinic or when presenting for admission before surgery (minimum 1 day before
      surgery). Staff from the departments of orthopaedic surgery, physiotherapy and anaesthesia
      will be responsible for in-hospital data capture. Telephonic follow-up interviews 30 days and
      12 months after surgery will be conducted by the Principal Investigator or dedicated research
      assistants. The patients will be informed that they can choose to leave the study at any time
      during the study period.

      Each individual center will collect and record data on either an electronic or paper case
      record form (CRF) for every patient recruited. Access to the data entry system will be
      protected by username and password delivered during the registration process for individual
      local investigators. All electronic data transfer between participating centres and the
      coordinating center will be encrypted using a secure protocol (HTTPS/SSL 3.0 or better).

      TIME FRAME:

      The study will run for 10 weeks at each enrolled site. The in-hospital and 30 day data
      collection is expected to be completed in 2018.

      RISK AND BENEFITS:

      Participation in the study will not add any risk to the patient, why the patient's safety is
      intact. Principles of Helsinki and Good Clinical Practice will be adhered to.

      SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      As knowledge on current postoperative outcomes after hip and knee arthroplasty in South
      Africa is scarce, this study is a descriptive hypothesis generating study to establish
      baseline data for future studies, and hence there is no formal power calculation for this
      study's primary outcome; Days alive and at home 30 days after surgery (DAH30). However, in
      the study by Myles and colleagues (Myles et al. BMJ Open. 2017; 7(8): e015828. Published
      online 2017 Aug 18. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-015828) patient cohorts of approximately 200
      patients resulted in clinically relevant and acceptable 95% CI, why we aim to enrol minimum
      200 patients. The data are expected to be non-parametric and will be presented as median with
      interquartile range (25-75 percentile).

      As the investigators are unaware of any publications of South African orthopaedic patients
      which report the specified secondary outcomes, the data will be used to establish a baseline
      incidence in South African arthroplasty patients for HRQoL (preoperative, 30 days and 12
      months postoperative), TUG (in-hospital day 3), mortality (12 months postoperative) and
      prosthetic joint infection and joint revision (12 months postoperative). These data will be
      used to power future interventional studies.

      Continuous variables will be described using sample mean and standard deviation (SD) and
      categorical variables using sample median and interquartile range (IQR). Where statistical
      comparisons are to be made between continuous variables, the unpaired t-test or Mann Whitney
      U test will be used as appropriate. Categorical data will be compared using the χ2 test.
    
  