
    
      This is a pilot study designed to better understand what elements/strategies help to engage
      Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF) veterans in an e-health program for
      promoting weight loss and increasing physical activity. These data will be used as pilot
      information for a larger study to assess the effectiveness of using an e-health approach to
      promote weight loss and increase physical activity among post-deployment OEF/OIF veterans who
      are at risk for developing diabetes. Additionally, we seek to recognize any effects of the
      intervention on other health-related outcomes, such as stress, depression or other mental
      health measures, chronic pain, sleep, quality of life, satisfaction with care/ Veteran
      Affairs Health system, employment status, social support/connectedness.

      Post-deployment OEF/OIF veterans worry about gaining weight and believe regular physical
      activity is beneficial, yet many don't exercise due to health problems and/or chronic pain.
      Healthy eating combined with physical activity are key strategies in maintaining or losing
      weight and is important in preventing diabetes, cardiovascular disease and other preventable
      illnesses as well as managing many mental health conditions and reducing chronic pain
      symptoms. In addition, maintaining or improving physical activity/exercise may be an
      effective strategy for addressing other post-deployment issues: stress, social issues.

      E-health strategies may be an effective and potentially preferred as well as efficient
      (cost-effective) way to deliver or assist OEF/OIF veterans with health and lifestyle related
      health behaviors. There is a growing array of e-health tools, technologies and approaches to
      assist people with diet-related issues (for weight loss or maintaining a healthy weight) and
      to encourage physical activity. This includes cell phone applications, objective monitoring
      devices such as pedometers and web-based programs (as well as combination of these different
      strategies). However, the most effective and efficient way to encourage healthy eating and
      weight loss/maintenance or promote physical activity remains an open question and which tools
      and technologies might best engage the OEF/OIF veteran population in addressing these
      lifestyle issues is yet to be determined.

      OEF/OIF Coordinators will include the study recruitment flyer in their initial informational
      mailing to new OEF/OIF veterans and publish the flyer in their monthly newsletter. The
      recruitment flyer will encourage interested veterans to contact study staff via a toll free
      number (where they will leave a message) or email. During one-on-one meetings, Coordinators
      will identify overweight and obese OEF/OIF veterans who are interested in losing weight with
      physical activity and with the veterans permission will forward the veterans name and phone
      number to the research study staff by leaving a voice mail on the study phone line. During
      these meetings, the OEF/OIF Coordinators will also provide basic information regarding the
      program and provide the Veteran a recruitment flyer. Recruitment flyers will also be posted
      at strategic locations around the VA with the approval of Public Affairs. Should study staff
      fail to meet recruitment goals through the assistance of the OEF/OIF Coordinators and posted
      flyers, primary care physicians (PCPs) will also be educated on the study and given study
      recruitment flyers to give to potentially eligible patients. With the permission of the
      veteran, PCPs will forward the veterans name and phone number to the research study staff by
      leaving a voicemail on the study phone line.

      Potential participants will be contacted by phone to be screened for eligibility. If
      eligible, participant will be asked to come to the Ann Arbor Veterans Affairs Healthsystem
      (VA) for a 1 ½ to 2 hour enrollment session. Patients will be consented at the start of this
      enrollment visit, prior to the commencement of any research activities.

      All research activities are outpatient. This pilot study will be a crossover study of two
      6-week programs. The participant will be involved for 15 weeks.

      The three home base diet and exercise programs we are testing are:

        1. A web based diet and exercise program in which you can track your diet and exercise
           progress and read and post messages to a large online community of others who are also
           trying to lose weight. (Sparkpeople.com)

        2. A program in which you wear a small device on your arm that measures your physical
           activity and allows you to upload detailed physical activity data to a web site to help
           you track your progress. (Bodymedia Fit)

        3. A DVD based home exercise program that guides you through a daily exercise routine.
           (P90X)

      Thirty OEF/OIF veterans with body mass index (BMI) > 30 will be recruited to test the diet
      and exercise programs. Each veteran will test only two of the three programs described above.

      Participants will be informed about the study by OEF/OIF coordinators, medical providers or
      by reading posters about the study posted in outpatient areas in the Ann Arbor VA Medical
      Center. Contact information for veterans who express an interest and give permission will be
      forwarded to the research staff. Research staff will call the potential participant on the
      phone, briefly describe the study and then complete a short eligibility screening
      questionnaire. Eligible and interested participants will schedule an initial in person study
      visit.

      At the initial study visit, participants will

        -  Complete the informed consent process and sign an informed consent document.

        -  Receive instructions for completing an online survey to be completed during the visit or
           at home

        -  Have height and weight recorded by the research coordinator

        -  Be randomly assigned to test two of the three diet and exercise programs described above

        -  Receive instructions and related equipment or materials for the first program to test.

        -  Schedule a follow up visit to cross over to the second program after 6 weeks.

      Participants will then test the diet and exercise program at home for 6 weeks.

      . At this second visit, the cross over visit, participants will

        -  Return the materials from the first program they tested

        -  Have weight rechecked

        -  Receive instructions on filling out a second online survey asking about experience with
           program 1 to be completed during the visit or at home

        -  Complete a 30 minute interview or schedule a time to complete the interview by phone

        -  Receive instructions and related equipment or materials for the second program.

      Participants will then test the second program at home for 6 weeks.

      Participants will then arrange with the study coordinator to return the equipment and
      materials for the second intervention tested, complete a third online survey and a second
      interview.

      Participants may choose to complete the study without a third VA visit. They would return
      equipment and materials by mail at the VA's expense, complete the final survey online from
      home and complete the final interview by phone. Study staff will ask participant for
      self-reported weight measurement if the final visit is done remotely. For participants who do
      come to the VA for the final assessment, we will also recheck their weight.

      Study staff may contact participants by email or phone to remind participants to complete
      surveys, upcoming phone interviews, and upcoming research visits. If participant does not
      complete survey online, study staff will offer to mail the survey for participant to complete
      at home (including a return envelope), or doing the survey by phone.

      If participants test the SparkPeople.com website, they will receive an email from study staff
      with video clips that describe the website in further detail. The will also receive emails
      directly from Sparkpeople.com depending on how they set their profile.

      If participants test the BodyMedia fit device, BodyMedia will send an email directly to the
      participant with directions on setting up their account.

      All three of the diet and exercise programs we are testing in this study are commercially
      available home exercise programs and they are not programs developed by or delivered by the
      VA or VA staff.

      Please note: At initial study visit, participant is randomized to 2 of the 3 possible
      interventions.

        -  The BodyMedia Fit device has nickel contacts on the device. These contacts will be
           directly next to skin. If participant has known nickel allergy and randomized to
           BodyMedia Fit group, they will not participate in Body Media Fit intervention.
           Participant will be given the intervention they were not selected for and given
           necessary instructions.

        -  If participant has an unknown nickel allergy and they have a reaction to the BodyMedia
           Fit device, study staff will document in file on I: drive and tell the participant to
           stop wearing the device. The participant will wait until the end of the 6 weeks without
           an intervention.
    
  