
    
      The Heartfelt-1 device is a CE (Conformité Européenne = European Conformity) mark medical
      device used to measure biometric parameters of the foot and lower leg. The study aims at
      assessing the usefulness in patients suffering from heart failure, who have peripheral
      oedema. Models used for the measurements of foot and lower legs have not yet been validated
      for this group of patients, who are likely to have feet with abnormal surface contours and
      appearance secondary to oedema. Peripheral oedema can be a leading indicator of heart failure
      de-compensation which can lead to hospitalisation of patients, and therefore the device could
      be a useful clinical tool to monitor patients in their home. The Heartfelt-1 device has the
      ability to recognise the patient's feet (amongst an average size household setting), and
      trigger automatically the measurements when the feet are naked (for example as the patient
      goes in and out of bed). This makes the device an obvious choice for patients with compliance
      issues with current methods of monitoring (e.g. daily use of weighing scales) and treatment
      (e.g. diuretics) if it could be validated in this patient group.

      The study has two general aims:

      The first is to collect a time-series of data on inpatients with peripheral oedema caused by
      heart failure, as they receive intravenous or oral diuretic treatment to remove excess fluid
      and achieve optimal body weight and fluid balance. This data will be used both to determine
      the attainable resolution of foot biometric measurements on a patient as their fluid status
      changes, and also to further develop the algorithms used in the device and make them usable
      on a wide range of feet/lower legs which have been deformed by oedema. The data required for
      this study are images taken using the Heartfelt-1 device, as well as validation measurements
      such as the figure of eight using a medical grade tape measure, callipers, or the water
      displacement method using a volumetric gauge, at multiple time-points whilst the peripheral
      oedema reduces.

      The second, on a second group of stable ambulatory (Heart Failure) HF patients with variable
      levels of oedema, is to evaluate the performance of the Heartfelt-1 device in determining
      foot biometric parameters one a wide range of patients at a single point in time. Patients
      with stable chronic heart failure will have their foot/lower legs measured by the Heartfelt-1
      device, as well as standard medical measurement (figure of eight using a medical grade tape
      measure, callipers) and gold standard measurement (water displacement method using a gauge),
      as well as the patient's weight and a clinical grading of oedema. These will be compared and
      an estimate of the accuracy of the Heartfelt-1 device over this wider patient group can be
      extrapolated.
    
  