
    
      Peripheral neuropathy is a common problem among cancer patients who have received
      chemotherapy treatment. Acupuncture is a technique that may treat symptoms by inserting very
      thin, solid, sterile, stainless steel needles into the skin at specific points. Weak
      electrical stimulation is also applied to the needles to try to improve the treatment effects
      of the acupuncture.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in a roll of dice) to 1 of 3 groups. This is done because no one knows if one study group is
      better, the same, or worse than the other group.

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will have will have acupuncture sessions with electrical
           stimulation 3 times a week for 4 weeks, for a total of 12 sessions. Then, you will take
           a 2 week break. After that, you will randomly assigned to receive 12 sessions of
           acupuncture with electrical stimulation as before or not have anymore sessions in this
           study.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will have will have acupuncture sessions without electrical
           stimulation 3 times a week for 4 weeks, for a total of 12 sessions. Then, you will take
           a 2 week break. After that, you will randomly assigned to receive 12 extra sessions of
           acupuncture without electrical stimulation or not have anymore sessions in this study.

        -  If you are in Group 3, you will have acupuncture sessions 3 times per week over 4 weeks
           for a total of 12 sessions. You may or may not have electrical stimulation at these
           sessions. These sessions will begin 14 weeks after you enroll.

      Study Visits Before the First Acupuncture Session:

      You will return to the clinic about 7-10 days after the screening visit. The following tests
      will be performed 2 times over a 1-2 week span:

        -  You will complete 3 questionnaires. The questionnaires will ask about any pain you may
           be having, about numbness and tingling you may be having, and about other cancer
           symptoms, such as fatigue and appetite changes. In total, these questionnaires should
           take 15-20 minutes to complete.

        -  Your tongue will be checked and you heart rate will be measured. This information will
           help the study doctor/acupuncturist learn how your body's organs are functioning
           together.

        -  If you can become pregnant, urine will be collected for a pregnancy test. To take part
           in this study, you must not be pregnant.

      A series of tests used to check your nerve function will also be performed. In total, it
      should take about 1-2 hours to complete these 4 tests. The following nerve function tests
      will be performed:

        -  You will complete hand tasks, such as writing, card turning, picking up small objects,
           and stacking). You will also be timed as you insert 25 shaped pegs into a board.

        -  You will complete 2 balance tests. The first balance test measures how long you can
           stand on 1 leg. The second balance test measures your ability to stand up from a chair,
           walk about 10 feet, and return back to the chair.

      Acupuncture Sessions:

      At each session, before you receive the acupuncture, your tongue checked and your heart rate
      will be measured.

      Your first acupuncture session may be on the same day as some of the tests described above,
      if possible. If not, it will be scheduled for another day no more than 14 days after the
      screening visit, unless you are in Group 3.

      For each session, you will be placed in a comfortable position and the study
      doctor/acupuncturist will find points on your body where the needles will be placed. All
      study participants will have the needles placed at the same points on the body (the hands,
      feet, legs, abdomen, and scalp).

      Very thin, solid, sterile, stainless steel needles will be used. All of the needles are
      specially made for acupuncture. The depth of the needle in the skin and the number of needles
      used is based on standard acupuncture procedures. The needles will remain in place for about
      20 minutes.

      Electrical stimulation will be added to some of the needles on your feet and hands. This
      involves placing wires on the needles, which are connected to a machine that delivers a weak
      electrical current through the wires. The strength of the electrical current will be changed
      slowly until it is at a comfortable level for you.

      Most acupuncture sessions will last about 1 hour. On the weeks that you complete the
      questionnaires, it will add about 15-20 minutes.

      After your 6th and 12th acupuncture sessions, you will complete the same 3 questionnaires as
      you did at the beginning of the study.

      Length of Study:

      You may take part in this study for up to 28 weeks. If intolerable side effects or symptoms
      occur, you will be taken off study early.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      At the end of the study, or if you go off study early for any reason, you will have an
      end-of-study visit. If the doctor thinks it is needed, the following procedures will be
      performed within 4 weeks after your last acupuncture session:

        -  You will complete the same 3 questionnaires as before.

        -  The 4 nerve tests will be repeated in order to learn if there have been any changes in
           your nerve function.

        -  Your tongue will be checked and your heart rate will be measured.

      Additional Information:

      During the study, you may still receive your regular pain treatments. You should tell the
      study doctor if you want to change your dose or want to start any new drugs for the treatment
      of your neuropathy.

      If you were in Group 2 or 3, after your participation on this study is complete, you may
      receive 3 extra acupuncture treatments.

      This is an investigational study. The acupuncture needles used in this study are commercially
      available and FDA approved. It is considered investigational to use acupuncture to treat
      peripheral neuropathy related to chemotherapy.

      Up to 120 patients will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 60 will be enrolled at MD
      Anderson.
    
  