
    
      Embryonic implantation is a critical process to the survival of the species that is
      relatively inefficient, especially in humans. Key elements are the embryo, the maternal
      endometrium, and the cross-communication between them using different scientific
      perspectives. Endometrial receptivity describes the phenotype that allows embryo adhesion and
      placentation to occur. Due to the need of an accurate and objective molecular diagnostic test
      for the receptivity status of endometrium, the Endometrial Receptivity Analysis (ERA) was
      developed. ERA test is a customized expression microarray that identifies the transcriptomic
      expression profile signature of the personalized window of implantation (WOI). Its clinical
      usefulness has been demonstrated in patients with implantation failure in whom 25% of them
      have a displaced WOI becoming pregnant once the embryo transfer is performed at the proper
      WOI predicted by ERA. However, this procedure requires an endometrial biopsy (EB), which is
      the major drawback of this diagnosis test, because embryo transfer has to be delayed to the
      next cycle, and also the possible discomforts caused to the patients. For this reason, a
      previous pilot study was conducted in order to confirm whether endometrial receptivity can be
      predicted through non-invasive methods in endometrial fluid (EF) samples. The gene panel of
      ERA test was interrogated on epithelial and stromal cells from endometrial biopsies and cells
      isolated from the EF at the single cell level, demonstrating that the major cells on the EF
      classifies together with the epithelial population.

      On the other hand, to try to better understand the mechanisms that connect endometrial
      receptivity and/or implantation of the embryo with an altered endometrial microbiome, another
      pilot study was conducted to determine the composition of the endometrial microbiome after
      the analysis of the bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA by NGS. Interestingly, in patients with
      receptive endometrium, diagnosed by Endometrial Receptivity Array (ERA) who had endometrial
      microbiome with pathogens, or not dominated by bacteria of the genus Lactobacillus (NLD)
      showed significantly lower implantation (23.1% vs 60.7% p = 0.02), pregnancy (33.3% vs 70.6%,
      p = 0.03), ongoing pregnancy per embryo transfer (13.3% vs 58.8%, p = 0.03), and live birth
      (6.7% vs 58.8%, p = 0.002) rates than those with a healthy endometrial microbiome dominated
      by Lactobacillus (LD). Moreover, this relationship was much more significant when pathogenic
      species found belonged to the genus Gardnerella and Streptococcus. This is in line with other
      published studies that analyze the impact of endometrial pathogens in IVF treatments,
      highlighting the importance of the study of bacterial communities for reproductive health.

      Given these preliminary results, the present study aims to validate in a larger sample set,
      the relationship between the imbalance of endometrial microbiome and the decline in
      reproductive success in patients undergoing ART. To do this, the experimental design will be
      improved in the following areas: (i) a higher sample size will be analysed to validate the
      previous results obtained in the previous pilot study on endometrial microbiome, (ii) paired
      samples from endometrial fluid and endometrial biopsy will be analysed for the microbial
      profile to study whether there is bacterial variability associated to the sample type, (iii)
      the endometrial microbiota will be simultaneously assessed with ERA as a supplementary
      diagnosis for this tool, and (iv) the analysis of the endometrial microbiota will be
      performed using the most advanced technology on bacterial metagenome sequencing to widen the
      information of the microorganisms identified in each sample.
    
  