
    
      A retrospective case control study (2006-2018) and a prospective study 2019-2020.

      Study subjects

      All patients diagnosed with a hematological disease who had a detection of toxigenic
      Clostridium difficile in the laboratory within the 2006-2018 period will be included in the
      study. Hematological patients with a negative Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) test in
      the same period will be included as controls, For controls, out of the number of cases within
      that study period, 200 will be randomly selected with the aid of the Excel software, with the
      tools randomization (RAND) and INDEX to ensure there is no bias. For each patient a protocol
      data will be filled retrospectively including the variables listed below.

      Additionally, a prospective study in 2019-2020 will also be conducted. We will include all
      patients diagnosed with an hematological/oncological disease or with any immunosuppressive
      condition, who have a positive detection of toxigenic Clostridium difficile. Patients will be
      followed for at least 2 months. For each patient a protocol data will be filled prospectively
      including the variables listed below.

      For all the study period 2006-2018 a total of approximately 200 patients will be included.

      For the prospective study 2019-2020 approximately 50 patients will be included.Data
      collection

      For the last 15 years, the institution has kept a prospective record of all episodes of CDI
      diagnosed in the hospital. This record enables the investigators to assess incidence,
      incidence density.

      The data collected will include age, sex, hospital department or outpatient clinic diagnosis
      of CDI. Data regarding the underlying conditions and comorbidity factors, clinical data
      regarding the CDI episode days of diarrhea, presence of abdominal pain, abdominal distention,
      fever, hypotension, toxic megacolon, pseudomembranous colitis, and severity of the CDI
      episode according to the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases
      (ESCMID) criteria. Analytical data on the day of diagnosis will be recorded. Treatment data
      will be recorded. Outcome will also recorded be recorded: need for intensive care unit (ICU)
      admission, need for surgery for CDI episode, recurrence, mortality, and CDI-associated
      mortality (For more details please find attached the clinical protocol).

      The investigators will also assess all the changes regarding different procedures, management
      and treatments that have occurred during the study period, including all changes in the
      diagnostic procedures.

      From January 2003 to February 2011, diagnosis of CDI was performed on all stool specimens for
      which a clinical request for C. difficile testing was made. From March 2011 to current days,
      diagnosis of CDI was also performed in all unformed stool specimens regardless of clinical
      request.

      Laboratory procedure All C. difficile strains will be characterized at molecular level
      including ribotype, as it is the most widespread method for the molecular typing of
      Clostridium difficile. It is based on the detection of polymorphisms located in the
      intergenic region between genes 16S and 23S RNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and
      electrophoresis on high resolution agarose gels and will be performed according to the
      technique described by Stubss et al.[13]The resulting ribotyping profiles will be compared to
      those of international libraries. Additionally antimicrobial susceptibility testing will be
      performed on these strains.

      All analyses will be performed using SPSS 18.0 (SPSS Inc, Chicago, Illinois, USA).
      Qualitative variables will appear with their frequency distribution. Quantitative variables
      will be expressed as the median and interquartile range (IQR). Groups will be compared using
      the Fisher exact test for categorical variables and the t test or Mann-Whitney test for
      continuous variables. A multivariate logistic regression model will be used to assess
      predictors of poor outcome of CDI. The odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were
      calculated. A p value <0.05 will be considered significant.

      Based on data from our center, for the retrospective part of the study, the total number of
      hematological patients with CDI corresponding to the study period is approximately 200
      patients, all of them will be studied, the sample size for controls will be of 200 patients
      (ratio 1:1).

      For the prospective study, also based in data from our center, approximately 50 patients will
      be enrolled.
    
  