
    
      Chronic intestinal failure (CIF) is defined as the malabsorption and nutrients deficiency
      mainly caused by severe gastrointestinal benign diseases such as intestinal ﬁstula, short
      bowel, and mechanical obstruction and some malignant diseases such as end-stage
      intra-abdominal or pelvic cancers . CIF is one of the rarest of organ failures all over the
      world and patients suffer from CIF often requires a prolonged time to recover .
      Hypercatabolism caused by diseases stress, inflammation and reduced nutrient intake indicates
      that patients with CIF need long-term nutritional support .

      Patients who are suffer from CIF often develop muscle wasting because of hypercatabolism.
      Moreover, studies showed that low muscle mass and muscle wasting during critical illness are
      associated with poor clinical outcomes and hampered rehabilitation. Except Resistance
      training, sufficient nutrients supplement also play important roles in maintaining the
      skeletal muscle mass. Guidelines recommended that nutritional support regimens in patients
      should be individualized and adjusted over time based on formal nutritional assessment .
      However, almost all guidelines only recommended the total energy and protein requirements
      based on the results of basal metabolic rate (BMR) and nitrogen balance rather than the lean
      body mass . The relationship between different nutrition support formulas and lean body mass
      is still unclear.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between nutrition support and
      muscle mass and attempt to find the nutrients which will benefit lean body mass in patients
      with CIF.

      All adult CIF patients (age ≥18 years) receiving nutrition support were included. The
      exclusion criteria were hepatic insufficiency (alanine transaminase/aspartate transaminase
      ratio 200% above normal range or bilirubin >3 mg/dL), renal insufficiency (serum creatinine
      [Scr] >1.5 mg/dL), acute or life-threatening diseases (e.g., shock, collapse, stroke, coma of
      unknown etiology, or recent cardiac infarction), and pregnant or breast-feeding women. The
      study was approved by the ethics committee of Jinling Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing
      University.

      The lean body mass include soft lean mass (SLM), skeletal muscle mass (SMM) and fat free mass
      (FFM) which were measured and recorded by body composition analyzer (InBody S10, Biospace) at
      the time of admission and discharge respectively.The deviation of lean body mass was
      calculated by the difference between admission and discharge, and then symbolized as ∆SLM,
      ∆SMM and ∆FFM. Basic and nutritional information of CIF patients was measured weekly after
      hospital admission, including age, sex, BMI, NRS-2002 score, SGA grade, etiology of
      malnutrition, daily energy & protein intake via EN & PN.
    
  