
    
      Over 300,000 neonates worldwide die in their first month of life due to a congenital birth
      defect. Thanks to advancements in diagnostic technology and imaging, the field of fetal
      surgery was developed to treat some of these conditions in utero. Results have demonstrated
      improved short and long-term outcomes following surgery, especially for those fetuses
      diagnosed with congenital diaphragmatic hernia, lower urinary tract obstruction and spina
      bifida. However, over 30% of the surgical cases will have preterm labor, leading to
      complications related to neonatal prematurity. The cause of this surgery-induced preterm
      birth is unknown; however, disruption in fetal-maternal tolerance may lead to immune
      activation and inflammation of the maternal and fetal immune systems. Maintaining immunologic
      tolerance is essential during pregnancy, as a women shares only half of her genetic material
      with the fetus. Previous work has demonstrated that fetal surgery leads to an increase in
      maternal cells identified in cord blood. Animal studies have also shown that in utero
      intervention leads to the activation of maternal cells against fetal (paternal) antigen.
      Based on this previous data, it is hypothesized that surgical trauma following in utero
      intervention results in mixing of maternal and fetal cells leading to activation of systemic
      (adaptive maternal immunity) and regional (fetal placental macrophages) immune responses that
      disrupt fetal-maternal tolerance, which can result in preterm birth. Blood will be collected
      from pregnant women and their partners. Blood and placental tissue will be collected from
      infants that do and do not undergo in utero surgery to determine whether maternal T cells
      specific to fetal antigen are activated and expand after in utero intervention; and 2) to
      determine whether placental macrophages (Hofbauer Cells) and histology in the maternal-fetal
      interface exhibit increased activation and inflammation in surgical cases born preterm (<37
      weeks) compared to term. Should this exploratory study reveal activation of maternal and/or
      fetal immune responses following in utero surgery, modalities aimed at therapeutically
      suppressing these acute responses may prolong gestation, significantly benefiting newborns
      diagnosed with a congenital anomaly.
    
  