
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the result of damage to the lungs, making it
      hard for someone with COPD to breathe. The two most common forms of COPD are emphysema and
      chronic bronchitis, which can cause respiratory failure and irreversible damage to the lungs.
      There is no cure for COPD, but interventions that help patients understand their disease and
      how to manage it themselves can improve patient quality of life and prevent crises that would
      require urgent care. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and World Health
      Organization's Global Health Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) recommend
      multiple components for maintaining care of patients with COPD, including regular patient
      assessment, education concerning COPD, effective communication between patients and their
      health care providers, patient compliance with treatment plans, implementation of behavioral
      change models for increasing health, and social support for patients and caregivers. Evidence
      suggests that these guidelines are not used widely, possibly because they are labor intensive
      and expensive and require frequent visits to a medical facility. Because effective
      interventions are not being used by patients and because previous studies show
      telecommunication technologies are successful in patient self-care, this study will develop a
      home automated telemanagement (HAT) system incorporating many of the GOLD guidelines for use
      in patients' homes.

      HAT will be an Internet-based system providing ongoing education for patients about COPD,
      helping patients follow their self-care plans, and helping health care providers monitor
      patients' self-management through daily access. The system will consist of three pieces: (1)
      patient units that include a computer or palmtop Internet accessible device equipped with a
      disease-specific testing device, (2) a HAT server to analyze and store self-testing results,
      and (3) clinician units that can review patient results on the Internet. By incorporating
      text, audio, and visual components, the system will provide advice on self-care plans
      tailored to each patient and will notify health care providers of each patient's plan
      compliance.

      This study has two phases. In the first, a HAT system for COPD will be refined based on user
      interviews and focus groups. In the second, researchers will test its effectiveness in
      keeping people with COPD healthy and ensuring they follow their self-care plans.

      During the second phase of the study, which will last 18 months, all participants will be
      provided with an Internet-capable computer. All participants will continue seeing their own
      doctors and following a regular treatment plan prescribed by their doctors. Some will be
      randomly assigned to also receive the HAT system. Those given the HAT system will take a
      1-hour training course on its use and be expected to use it daily for a 10- to 15-minute
      self-assessment and disease diary entry. The HAT system will also have other assessment,
      counseling, and education tools that participants can use. Participants will be assessed
      seven times, with four assessments at the research site and three at the home of each
      participant. Assessments will be conducted every 3 months, with those at the research site
      scheduled at baseline and Months 6, 12, and 18. Participants will complete questionnaires and
      be interviewed at each assessment to measure the severity of their disease, well-being, and
      attitudes toward the disease. During the assessments at the research site, additional tests
      in breathing and physical fitness will be performed.
    
  