
    
      Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of a personal experience and personal initiation
      program on the health prevention activities of the health providers and the following impact
      on their patients compared with a control (no-intervention) group.

      Methods: A randomized controlled trial Randomization: Health providers of all disciplines
      will be recruited from 10 clinics of Clalit Health Services, Dan district and randomized
      using cluster (by clinic) randomization, into an intervention and a control group. In each
      clinic 15 health care providers and 50 patients will be interviewed providing a total of 150
      health care providers and 500 patients.

      Intervention: The intervention will be delivered by psychologists and social workers trained
      in group facilitation and experimental learning. The program is based on theories of
      experimental learning and Bridges model of change. In each intervention clinic 5 workshops on
      the initiation of health prevention projects in each clinic will be organized by the
      intervention team and than the clinic will be followed by the intervention team for 6 months.
      No intervention will be provided to the control clinics.

      Outcomes: changes in quality measurements of both intervention and non-intervention clinics.
      Among health providers changes in attitudes, personal views and life style as well as health
      prevention activities will be assessed by questionnaires. A random sample of 50 patients age
      21-50 from each of the participating clinics will be selected and interviewed using a
      questionnaire. The questionnaires will include questions regarding the administration of
      screening tests, treatment of abnormal measurements, life style changes and satisfaction with
      the performance of the clinic and health care providers. The evaluation for both health care
      providers and patients will be performed at baseline and after 6 months.
    
  