
    
      TRIAL AIMS

      The pilot phase of PROSPECT is interested in investigating the a) acceptability and
      feasibility of establishing the cohort of men, i.e. putting the questions of Point of Consent
      One to men being referred for investigation of prostate cancer, and b) observing the cohort
      over the study period and collecting data on the participants pertaining to their disease,
      their treatment and their health status.

      A) Acceptability

      AIM 1.1: To determine what proportion of men with a clinical suspicion for prostate cancer
      will participate in an cmRCT.

      OBJECTIVE 1.1a: To evaluate proportion of patients approached who agree to participate in the
      longitudinal cohort. This will be done by calculating the participation rates from men
      approached for invitation to PROSPECT.

      AIM 1.2: To explore barriers and facilitators to implementation of a cmRCT in order to
      improve and inform patient and/or physician trial information, study processes,
      interventions, and recruitment and retention of patients. This will be carried out by
      qualitative assessments in the following areas.

      OBJECTIVE 1.2a: To investigate by interview the patient experiences and perspectives on;

        -  Trial participation,

        -  The point at which men are approached by the research team to enter the cohort,

        -  Barriers and facilitators to consent to participate in the cohort,

        -  Barriers and facilitators to consent to future random selection to undergo a new
           healthcare intervention,

        -  Acceptability of monitoring of health status and the tools used to do this in the
           cohort.

      OBJECTIVE 1.2b: To investigate by interview the experiences and perspectives of healthcare
      professionals (doctors, nurses and admin staff) on;

        -  Trial design and information to patients and healthcare professionals,

        -  Feasibility of future random invitation of participants to interventions,

        -  Tools used for measuring health status.

      B) FEASIBILITY

      AIM 2.1: To determine the feasibility of recruitment and logistical implementation of
      PROSPECT in different data collecting centres based in different institutions. This will be
      broken down into the following sub-questions;

      OBJECTIVE 2.1a: Evaluating how the patients are successfully identified and the option of how
      inclusion in the trial is presented to them.

      OBJECTIVE 2.1b: Evaluate patient questionnaire response rates for pre-treatment quality of
      life.

      OBJECTIVE 2.1c: Evaluate patient questionnaire response rates at pre-determined intervals
      following on from the point of recruitment into the trial to determine how to promote optimal
      patient response rate and improve data collection.

      OBJECTIVE 2.1d: To evaluate completeness and fidelity of clinical data on the men who
      participate in the cohort.

      STUDY DESIGN

      Design

      The key features of a cmRCT are;

        1. Explicitly consented recruitment of a large cohort of patients with the condition of
           interest.

        2. Regular measurement of relevant outcome measures for the whole cohort prospectively in
           the long-term.

        3. Facility to re-approach cohort participants, who are randomly selected from eligible
           patients within the cohort, inviting them to undergo intervention of interest to
           researchers with eligible patients not randomly selected entering the control standard
           care group (see study flowchart 3.3 / 3.4).

        4. "Patient-centred" informed consent. The consent process aims to replicate that used in
           the routine health care setting. Once the patient has been randomly selected for a
           randomised novel intervention from the eligible patients within the cohort, the second
           consent process should include detailed and specific information pertaining to the
           particular intervention or change in management they are being invited to undergo for
           comparison. Such information will be written and advised using patient representatives
           and undergo review following submission to REC.

        5. Comparison of the outcomes in the randomly selected patients with the outcomes in
           eligible patients not randomly selected.

        6. Capacity for multiple randomised controlled trials over time within the cohort
           simultaneously.

      CONSENT

      For men who are participating in the cmRCT there are two points of consent:

      POINT OF CONSENT ONE

      At Point of Consent One men who are referred for investigation of prostate cancer will be
      asked two questions. The first question relates to whether they are willing to join the
      cohort and have data collected directly from them over time on a regular basis. This data
      will include health-related quality-of-life data (at recruitment, 0-6, 6, 12, 18 & 24 months
      post recruitment), linkage to their medical records so that researchers can know what happens
      to them over time, and access to other data about them held on national health registry
      databases. Also, at point of consent one, prospective participants will be asked (second
      question) whether they agree to being randomly selected in the future to interventions or
      changes in management in order to compare to standard care. It will be explained that this
      second invitation will be on a random basis. In other words, everyone eligible within the
      cohort will have the same chance of being randomly selected. The patient would still have the
      option of saying 'no' after the random selection when they are approached.

      POINT OF CONSENT TWO

      The second point of consent is the invitation to undergo an intervention or change in
      management that the research team wishes to compare to standard care. Participants will have
      already agreed to the possibility of being invited to undergo intervention at Point of
      Consent One (i.e. enrolment into the cmRCT). The participant will have been randomly selected
      from amongst all the eligible men for the given intervention from within the large cmRCT
      cohort prior to being approached by the trial team. Then, the trial team will approach the
      participant and invite him to undergo the intervention. This will entail a comprehensive
      consent process that pertains directly to the intervention being proposed in a
      patient-centred manner. The participant can agree or refuse to undergo the intervention. If
      he does not wish to undergo the treatment he will continue under follow-up in PROSPECT.

      Participants undergoing intervention will continue to have follow-up in the same manner as
      men who have not been randomised from within the cohort and thus provide outcome data to form
      the control arm. Comparison of the outcomes of those men who underwent trial intervention
      against those who did not will allow us to analyse the effectiveness of the intervention in
      as robust a manner as possible given that the key feature of randomisation when creating the
      control vs. the intervention arms has been preserved. As such, the control arm of the cmRCT
      will be similar to the intervention arm in all features, known and unknown, except the
      intervention of interest. This will allow for the maintenance of epistemological superiority
      of the data produced for evaluating new tests or treatments whilst getting to this point in a
      way that might be more acceptable to patients and therefore more likely to be successful and
      efficient for researchers.

      The second stage of PROSPECT will be to investigate and evaluate in a similarly careful
      manner the feasibility and acceptability of randomising men from the cohort of eligible men
      to interventions or changes in management that require evaluation, following submission to
      REC. As part of the cmRCT design, these men randomly selected are re-approached and invited
      to consider undergoing the intervention of interest. Patients who are randomly allocated to
      the control arm will also receive standard of care, and are not informed about their
      participation in the control arm. This additional consent will be obtained at the time of
      consent for the cohort study.

      STUDY SETTING AND POPULATION

      All men referred for investigation of prostate cancer. The inclusion criteria for this cohort
      is deliberately broad.
    
  