
    
      Brain Injury can be devastating for both patients and family members and can result in
      chronic difficulties in vocational, social, financial, as well as physical functioning.The
      occurrence of emotional and neurobehavioral challenges in individuals with brain injury is
      also common with research consistently showing links between these challenges and a person's
      overall rehabilitation outcome. Additionally, family functioning and caregiver well-being has
      been shown to influence rehabilitation outcome for a survivor after brain injury.In fact,
      individuals with families and caregivers who receive support and services, as well as learn
      adaptive coping strategies, are less likely to exhibit these marked levels of psychological
      distress.

      In order to provide patients and caregivers greater support and teach adaptive coping
      strategies, the authors of this grant designed and studied a coping skills group specifically
      for brain injury survivors and their caregivers at the Rehabilitation Hospital of Indiana
      (RHI) called the Brain Injury Coping Skills group (BICS). BICS is a 12 session (one session
      per week), manualized, cognitive-behavioral treatment group designed to provide support,
      coping skills, and psychoeducation aimed to improve perceived self-efficacy (PSE) and
      emotional functioning. Perceived self-efficacy is the belief or confidence in one's ability
      to deal with the challenges related to a specific situation (e.g., brain injury). PSE has
      been found to be strongly linked to social participation, increased positive regard toward
      the caregiving role, and was found to be the greatest contributing factor to predicting life
      satisfaction. Cicerone and Azulay found that the greatest contribution to predicting life
      satisfaction was the person's PSE for managing their cognitive challenges.

      Fourteen participants will be recruited. Participants with brain injury or caregivers of
      brain injury survivors who meet inclusion/exclusion criteria will be recruited by the
      research associate. At baseline, participants will be asked to come to the Rehabilitation
      Hospital of Indiana's Neuro Rehabilitation Center (RHI NRC) to collect study equipment and
      complete baseline data collection. First, participants will be provided an IPad and training
      on using the IPad and study software. Specifically, participants will be trained on turning
      on the IPad, finding the app for the study groups, signing into the app, and using the app to
      participate in the group sessions. A simulation session will also be provided to ensure
      participants can login, access the software, and interact during a session. After training,
      participants will be provided take home instructions and contact information for the research
      assistant for at home troubleshooting if needed. Also after training, the research assistant
      will ask participants to provide feedback on the training. The research assistant will also
      ask participants to complete some questionnaires during this visit including a survey
      including demographics as well as primary and secondary outcome measures. The visit is
      expected to take between one and two hours and this portion of the study will be completed
      face to face. Participants will then be asked to participate in BICS-T. BICS-T is a group
      intervention that will take place over telemedicine software on the IPad provided to
      participants. Sessions will occur once a week for 12 weeks. Each session will last two hours.
      This portion of the study is completed 100% on the IPad and will not require any
      transportation to NRC. After BICS-T is over (after all 12 sessions = 12 weeks), participants
      will be asked to return to RHI NRC to complete post-test surveys and return the equipment
      that participants receive after participants have completed the program. This final session
      is expected to take approximately two hours.
    
  