
    
      The prognosis for patients with locally advanced or metastatic disease (ABC) remains poor,
      with a median survival of 2-4 years. About 10% of newly diagnosed BC patients present with
      ABC, and 30% to 50% of patients diagnosed at earlier stages will subsequently develop
      metastatic disease.

      In the first-line treatment of HER2 (Human Epidermal Growth factor Receptor 2) negative ABC
      patients, various chemotherapy regimens can be used including taxanes, which are among the
      most active agents in BC. Single agent response rates range from 20 to 50%. However,
      eventually all patients will progress with a median time to progression of 5 to 7 months. A
      weekly (qw) over a three-weekly (q3w) administration schedule of paclitaxel has been shown to
      be more effective in the metastatic as well as in the adjuvant setting after standard
      chemotherapy

      The VEX regimen was recently investigated within a phase II trial currently ongoing at the
      European Institute of Oncology (IEO) (IEO number IEOS582/111; EudraCT Number: 2010-024266-21;
      title: "A phase II study of metronomic oral chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide plus
      capecitabine and vinorelbine in metastatic breast cancer patients"). Patients received
      vinorelbine 40 mg orally on days 1, 3 and 5 every week, cyclophosphamide 50 mg daily and
      capecitabine 500 mg 3 times a day.

      Given the promising activity of the VEX regimen in a pre-treated population of advanced
      breast cancer patients and the good tolerability, the aim of the present trial is to
      investigate whether the VEX schedule may improve efficacy and tolerability as compared to
      standard paclitaxel treatment in advanced or metastatic ER-positive/HER2-negative breast
      cancer patients.

      The concept of the VEX metronomic treatment is to administer the combination for as long as
      the patient has the possibility of deriving a benefit from it. The time to treatment failure
      (TTF) has been chosen as primary endpoint for this trial. TTF is defined as time from the
      date of randomization to the date when the final dose of trial treatment is administered.
      Chemotherapy may need to be stopped due to lack of tolerability, lack of efficacy or patient
      preference through subjective symptom assessment. TTF is a composite endpoint combining all
      these feasibility aspects of a treatment. It is therefore uniquely suited to the research
      question of the current trial. The secondary endpoints progression-free survival, disease
      control and safety will allow further assessment of the feasibility of the VEX metronomic
      treatment versus the paclitaxel monotherapy regimen.
    
  