
    
      Individuals with psychosis often experience delusions, hallucinations and disorganised
      thinking. Clinicians call these 'positive symptoms' as they are seen as an addition to
      regular functioning. Psychosis can also lead to loss of some functions such as lower
      motivation and decreased interest in activities; these are called 'negative symptoms'. Even
      though most people receive medication for psychosis, psychological therapies such as
      Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for psychosis (CBTp) are also important in terms of managing
      symptoms and increasing well-being. Standard CBTp is made up of different treatment
      components and in therapy, different treatment components can be included or excluded
      depending on the needs of the individual. In this study the investigators are looking to
      identify treatment components that are beneficial to CBTp. In particular, the aim is to test
      whether adding some newly developed treatment components to CBTp can lead to additional
      benefits to patients, in terms of reducing unhelpful thinking styles. This will be done
      through a double-blind randomized case-series design, where participants will either receive
      standard CBTp or standard CBTp with added treatment components.

      Four weeks before the intervention starts, throughout therapy, as well as four weeks after
      therapy, participants will complete weekly questionnaires to assess symptoms and thinking
      patterns. This will allow the researcher to measure weekly changes before, during and after
      the therapy. Additional questionnaires and interviews as well as computer tasks will also be
      completed before the therapy starts (baseline), mid-therapy and post-therapy to gain more
      insight into changes in mood, quality of life, thinking patterns and symptoms. In addition,
      to study the long-term effect of the intervention, participants will be asked to complete a
      follow-up assessment session 12 weeks after the therapy is completed. Participants and
      clinicians will also be given the opportunity to give feedback on their experience of having
      received/delivered the therapy. This will be done through an interview with the researcher,
      and will give us further insight into how future therapies for psychosis might be improved,
      both from a clinician and patient perspective.
    
  