
    
      Patients with advanced illness report feeling a sense of hopelessness, loss of autonomy and
      relationships, and a lack of purpose in life. These feelings of psychological suffering have
      been described as "existential distress" and are associated with poor outcomes, including
      decreased medication adherence and quality of life, increased desire for hastened death and
      rates of suicide, and has been identified as a primary reason why individuals pursue medical
      assistance in dying (MAiD).

      Current treatments for psychological and existential suffering have low efficacy and are
      challenging to use in a palliative context. Pharmacological approaches for treating
      psychological suffering may reduce symptoms of depression and anxiety, but evidence to
      support their efficacy in palliative care (PC) is underwhelming. Antidepressant and
      anxiolytic medications also take time to work and can cause serious side effects such as
      falls and confusion, which can be substantial deterrents for patients. Similarly, results
      from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and meta-analyses have demonstrated
      psychotherapeutic interventions show limited benefit in a PC population. Further,
      psychotherapy can be time consuming and slow to work, which is not ideal for patients with
      limited life expectancy. Given the burden of psychological and existential distress among
      patients followed by PC providers, there is a need to develop scalable, brief, and rapidly
      effective therapeutic approaches to reduce this distress.

      Psychedelic medications offer an innovative, safe, complementary approach to address
      psychological and existential suffering in patients receiving PC. Studies from the 1950's
      showed serotonergic hallucinogens ("psychedelics") improved depression and anxiety symptoms
      in cancer patients. However, legislative changes restricted the use of these medications in
      clinical care and research. Interest in psychedelic medications has been rekindled by two
      recently published RCTs that studied the use of psilocybin (a mushroom-derived 5HT2A agonist)
      during a single psychotherapeutic session in cancer patients with anxiety and/or depression.
      These trials demonstrated rapid, clinically meaningful, and long-lasting reductions in
      depressed mood and/or anxiety symptoms and improvements in quality of life and death
      acceptance. There is also evidence suggesting psilocybin microdosing - taking
      sub-hallucinogenic doses continuously over longer time periods, rather than a one-time
      hallucinogenic dose - can improve mood and anxiety. The effects of microdosing, however, have
      not been rigorously evaluated, particularly in patients with life limiting illness.

      Results from recent trials are encouraging but knowledge gaps remain. First, studies to date
      primarily enrolled patients with localized disease who experience different distress than
      that of patients with advanced disease who are near the end of life. Second, it is unclear if
      Canadians would find psilocybin an attractive option in the context of MAiD legalization,
      which provides an alternative option for patients with severe psychological suffering. Third,
      there is no empirical research on the therapeutic effects of psilocybin microdosing, as most
      studies have followed macrodosing protocols. While preliminary efficacy of macrodosing has
      been demonstrated, there are important barriers to administering this therapy in a PC
      context. Previous trials had slow recruitment rates, suggesting there may be barriers related
      to the acceptability of psilocybin macrodosing from the perspectives of patients and
      families. Macrodosing requires the patient to dedicate an entire day to participating in a
      guided hallucinogenic experience and remain in an acute care setting where they can be
      closely monitored. It also requires patients to engage in preparatory sessions with monitors
      and a post-therapy session. In a PC context, this time commitment may not be acceptable or
      feasible for patients who are nearing the end of life. Additionally, macrodosing requires at
      least two trained moderators to guide the patient through their psychedelic experience and
      facilitate the pre- and post-dosing sessions. In most PC settings, it is not feasible to have
      clinicians dedicate two days to a single patient, thus limiting the scalability of this
      intervention.

      Psilocybin microdosing has the potential to overcome barriers to the feasibility and
      acceptability of macrodosing. By removing the requirement for trained moderators, minimizing
      the time commitment required of patients, eliminating the hallucinogenic effects of the
      therapy, and allowing patients to receive treatment either as an inpatient or in the
      community, microdosing may be a more acceptable option to patients and families and allow
      psychedelic therapy to be scalable across various PC settings. Psilocybin microdosing is a
      novel, complementary therapy that, while still unproven for patients near the end of life,
      has the potential to fundamentally change the way psychological and existential distress is
      responded to in PC, improving the lives of the 30% of patients who experience this suffering
      at the end of life.

      Objective

      To determine if psilocybin microdosing is a safe, feasible, and efficacious treatment for
      psychological distress among patients nearing the end of life followed by palliative care
      providers. All participants will receive a 4-week psilocybin microdosing intervention.

      Sample Size

      As this is a feasibility study, no formal sample size calculation was performed to determine
      the number of patients required to reach a level of precision on any study endpoint. Rather,
      the goal of this study is to provide estimates, along with their margins of error, of the
      recruitment rate and efficacy outcomes which will inform a subsequent two-arm randomized
      controlled trial. Participating sites see approximately 5,300 patients per year. It is
      anticipated that 30% will have psychological distress. Assuming a minimum of 1 in 6 patients
      are eligible and 15% of eligible patients will enroll, the goal is to enroll a sample of 40
      participants over a 1-year period.

      Statistical Analysis

      Analyses will adopt an intent-to-treat approach. Because the goal of this trial is to
      demonstrate feasibility and preliminary measures of efficacy, the main analyses will include
      calculation of feasibility outcomes using descriptive statistics and 95% confidence intervals
      (CIs), as well as effect sizes with 95% CIs for primary and secondary efficacy measures,
      comparing patients' 4-week follow-up assessments to baseline assessments. Participants will
      also be stratified based on demographic and clinical characteristics to assess trends in
      outcomes. Notably, there is some evidence that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors
      (SSRIs) in particular may attenuate the effects of psilocybin. As such, sub-analyses will
      evaluate outcomes in participants taking an SSRI medication versus those who are not. A
      sub-group analysis by setting of care (inpatient vs outpatient/community) will also be
      conducted.

      Analyses of safety data will include the mean and standard deviation of the peak effect
      observed (i.e. highest observed blood pressure, heart rate) and proportion of participants
      experiencing adverse mood and behaviour events. The incidence of delirium and serotonin
      syndrome will also be recorded.

      Details of Eligibility, Intervention Protocol, and Outcome Measures are provided elsewhere.
    
  