
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the effectiveness of a state-wide, telemedicine intervention with standard care
           in cancer patients with clinical depression and/or cancer-related pain.

        -  Compare improvement in clinical depression and/or cancer-related pain in patients
           undergoing these interventions.

      Secondary

        -  Compare health-related quality of life, functional status, and patient satisfaction with
           treatment in patients undergoing these interventions.

        -  Compare the economic benefits of these interventions in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, longitudinal, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to study site and type of symptom (pain only vs depression only vs pain and
      depression). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (standard care): Patients receive treatment for pain, depression, and other
           symptoms from their oncologist.

        -  Arm II (telemedicine intervention): Patients undergo automated, home-based symptom
           monitoring either by telephone or the Internet, depending on preference, coupled with
           telephonic care management by a clinical specialist. Patients complete questionnaires
           via the Internet or undergo standardized interviews via telephone measuring depression,
           pain, quality of life, and other patient-reported variables twice weekly for
           approximately 1 month, once weekly for 2 months, twice a month for 3 months, and then
           once a month for 6 months. A clinical specialist trained in treating the symptoms of
           pain and depression also contacts the patient by phone to assess symptom severity and
           initiate treatment. A follow-up call is made at 1-2 weeks to assess symptom severity,
           adherence, and adverse effects. Patients with depression receive 2 additional follow-up
           calls in the first 12 weeks. The clinical specialist also calls the patient when
           automated monitoring indicates inadequate symptom improvement or side effects, or the
           patient requests to be contacted. The clinical specialist works with the patient's
           regular doctor in adjusting medicines and treatment for symptoms as needed. Patients who
           do not complete their scheduled assessments receive an automated call or e-mail message
           reminding them to complete the symptoms questionnaires. Patients who do not respond to
           this reminder within 24 hours are contacted by the clinical specialist.

      In both arms, patients are interviewed at baseline, 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. Patients are
      asked questions about pain, depression, other physical and emotional symptoms, work
      activities, quality of life, and satisfaction with treatment.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 480 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  