
    
      The objective of this pilot study is to establish the rate of cardiovascular events in
      patients with elevated troponins levels post major, non-cardiac surgery and to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of ticagrelor treatment compared to aspirin in these patients.

      Data from current studies suggest that myocardial injury detected by minor elevations in
      troponin levels within 3 days after non-cardiac surgery may occur in 10-24% of patients and
      is associated with an increased risk of mortality at 30 days and 1 year. There are no current
      guidelines for care of patients with elevated troponin levels in the absence of acute
      coronary syndrome (ACS) and it is not certain if this is a modifiable disease process.
      Ticagrelor is a direct, reversible inhibitor of the platelet P2Y12ADP-receptor. It has been
      shown to be superior to clopidogrel in the setting of ACS. The clinical benefit of treating
      patients with port-operative troponin elevation with antiplatelet agents remains unexplored.
      The short half-life of ticagrelor makes it favorable to use in this setting.

      This is an open label, randomized, parallel group study comparing ticagrelor to aspirin in
      patients who experience troponin elevations post major non-cardiac surgery. Patients will be
      randomized in an open-label fashion to receive either ticagrelor 90 mg twice daily or aspirin
      81 mg once daily. Patients will be followed for 13 months post randomization (12 months of
      treatment and a phone call 30 days after study drug discontinuation). The maximum duration of
      treatment will be 12 months.

      Follow-up visits will occur at Month 1, Month 6, and Month 12. Phone calls will be made at
      Month 3, Month 9, and at 30 days after study drug discontinuation.

      Up to 1000 patients with post-operative troponin elevation ≥2x ULN within first 7
      postoperative days, will be enrolled in the study.
    
  