
    
      1. Multimodal Image Recognition System of Glioma Molecular imaging is the use of imaging
           methods to display specific molecules at the tissue level, cellular level, and
           subcellular level, reflecting changes in the molecular level in the living state, and
           performing qualitative and quantitative researches on the biological behavior of the
           imaging aspect. Multimodal Image Recognition System includes Positron Emission Computed
           Tomography (PET), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Magnetic Resonance Hydrogen
           Proton Spectroscopy (1H-MRS). 1H-MRS quantifies the choline (Cho) and creatine (Cr) in
           the spectrum, N-acetylaspartate acid (NAA), qualification (Lip) and lactic acid (Lac)
           and other substances to reflect changes in cell metabolites, and then speculate on the
           occurrence and development of tumors. Imaging of the glucose analog 18F-labeled
           fluorodeoxyglucose (18FDG) by positron emission tomography (PET) is the gold standard
           for the assessment of cerebral glucose metabolism in vivo. However, single imaging
           method often has limitations, and it is difficult to meet the requirements for
           sensitivity, specificity, and target at the same time. Combing PET / CT with 1H- MRS of
           new generation imaging technologies can overcome the shortcomings of a single imaging
           method and achieve complementary advantages and provide effective informations

        2. Risks and Benefits of Participants (1) Risks: In addition to collecting information
           above, the main risk is discomfort that may occur during the conversation. Since this
           study will not intervene in routine diagnosis and treatment, there are no other special
           risks other than the possible discomfort and adverse reactions mentioned above expected
           during treatment. (2) Benefits: No direct benefits, but may provide useful informations
           for disease research.

        3. Statistical Methods All data (clinical data, imaging data) will be established in a
           special database. In order to control the imbalance of many different confounding
           factors in the formed population, the test will use the propensity score method to
           achieve the purpose of controlling confounding and improve the quality of real-world
           evidence, close to the effect of randomization.

        4. Criteria for aborting trials and ending clinical trials

      1. Criteria for aborting trials The investigator judges that continuing the trial is not good
      for the patient; During the course of the study, the patient is unwilling to continue the
      clinical study, and makes a withdrawal request to the competent doctor and requests to cancel
      the informed consent.

      2. Criteria for ending clinical research: If serious safety problems occur during the study,
      the study should be terminated in time; The ethics committee requested to terminate the trial
      after the study; The health administrative department ordered the termination of clinical
      research for some reason; Significant deviations have occurred in the design or
      implementation of the study protocol and it is difficult to evaluate the results.

      5. Participant's Code, Storage Procedure of Case Report, Data Management and Guarantee of
      Test Reliability

        1. After the participants enter the cohort after signing the informed consent, they will be
           sorted and assigned a serial number by the research secretary according to the time when
           the informed consent is signed. Therefore, the first patient enrolled is coded 001.

        2. The patient's case report form will be made into a special patient manual, which will be
           kept by the research secretary and clinical staff for data collection and follow-up. Any
           observations and inspection results during the test should be entered into the form and
           database in a timely, accurate, complete, clear, standardized, and true manner. After
           the subject's follow-up is over, hand over and perform data collection and analysis. The
           subject's imaging data will be regularly uploaded by the research secretary to the
           intelligent IT virtual storage system based on the cluster. The system divides
           neurosurgery and subjects into specific storage partitions.

        3. Each researcher has the authority to consult and modify the subject's storage partition.
           The storage system automatically records the changes of the stored data, thus ensuring
           the traceability of the data. The investigator should agree to keep all research data
           (including original records, informed consent of all patients, all case report forms,
           etc.), and the special counter shall be locked and stored until 5 years after the end of
           the trial.

      6. Safety

        1. Serious adverse event: death; medical personnel believe what is life-threatening; events
           requiring hospitalization or extension of hospital stay; persistent or severe disability
           or disability.

        2. Reporting methods and measures after the occurrence of the adverse events above, the
           medical staff should first report to the main investigator and fill out the adverse
           event report form. The adverse reaction report includes the diagnosis and treatment of
           the patient, the time of the event, the cause of the event and the treatment after the
           event. Provide timely diagnosis and treatment after serious adverse events, and report
           to the ethics committee within 24 hours. Report regularly according to the requirements
           of the ethics committee.

      7. Ethical requirements

        1. Follow the Declaration of Helsinki.

        2. Recruitment and informed process: The main investigator and his team members will
           recruit the subjects in the clinics or wards, inform the research content and related
           matters in detail, and read and sign the informed consent form before enrollment.

        3. All trials will be conducted after obtaining the approval of the Ethics Committee of
           Qian Foshan Hospital in Shandong Province as well as follow-up review.
    
  