
    
      Resources for management of HIV-positive individuals are extremely limited in the West
      African country of Liberia, and many knowledge gaps exist about the nature of the HIV
      epidemic in this country. While the prevalence is likely low compared to other regions in
      Sub- Saharan Africa, the burden of disease is likely high given the current state of the
      Liberian health care system, despite attempts to improve HIV treatment services and coverage.
      The Ebola epidemic of 2014-2016 created tremendous strain on a health care system already
      weakened by years of civil strife, and it is suspected that care for many HIV-positive
      individuals was disrupted by this event. Currently, clinicians do not have regular access to
      measurements of CD4 levels or viral loads, making management of people living with HIV in
      Liberia difficult. While there is some access to antiretroviral (ARV) medications through the
      National AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) Control Program, several details,
      including the extent of this access and the impact on disease outcomes, remain unknown. This
      cohort study will examine these basic factors; attempt to characterize major
      social/demographic, clinical, immunologic, and virologic features of HIV/AIDS; and
      investigate the course of HIV disease, including rates of hospitalization, frequencies of ARV
      regimen modifications, and incidence of certain opportunistic diseases, STIs, other
      co-infections, and non-AIDS comorbidities among those who are enrolled. Study participants
      will attend periodic study visits over 3 years. Clinical information will be collected, as
      will blood and urine samples for clinical and research tests. This protocol is not designed
      to estimate the prevalence of HIV infection; however, it provides a unique opportunity to
      generate quality data to understand the course and epidemiology of HIV and AIDS in Liberia.
      It also provides an opportunity to contribute to the quality and impact of HIV prevention,
      treatment, and care programs in Liberia.
    
  