
    
      Background: Stroke survivors face a range of mental health challenges during the adjustment
      process post-stroke. It is not always easy for stroke survivors to access treatment to help
      them face these challenges, due to the lack of interventions and access to clinical
      psychologists. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) has good theoretical underpinning to
      support adjustment post stroke. The potential benefits of ACT may be further increased by
      group delivery.

      The investigators have worked with stroke survivors, expert clinicians and researchers to
      develop an ACT intervention to be delivered remotely to groups, to support their adjustment
      and wellbeing post-stroke. The investigators have also developed a remote staff training and
      clinical supervision programme to equip paraprofessionals (Stroke Association coordinators)
      to deliver the course.

      Aims: The study aims to explore feasibility and acceptability of paraprofessionals delivering
      the adapted ACT intervention to stroke survivors in community settings in the context of a
      modified pilot randomised consent trial, with a non-randomised no-treatment group and a
      randomised active comparator arm (attention control) that is also delivered by
      paraprofessionals.

      Methods: There are three work packages described that, whilst distinct, do overlap in terms
      of participants and timelines. All methods and study materials have been informed through
      collaboration with stroke survivors and carers through the WAterS Research User Group (RUG):

        -  Work package 1 (staff training): remotely training paraprofessionals to deliver either
           the remote ACT intervention or attention control. Through qualitative research and
           competency exercises, explore whether this equips staff with confidence and skills to
           deliver the study components.

        -  Work package 2 (pilot trial): a modified randomised consent design allows for
           exploration of the acceptability of outcomes data collection separate to the
           acceptability of delivering remote group interventions and other study components.
           Eligible stroke survivors are recruited with baseline clinical and demographic
           information collected. They are invited to contribute self-report outcomes data about
           their psychological wellbeing, every three months for up to 12 months. Participants
           groups will include a no-treatment group, and a group that is randomised and
           subsequently invited to participate in either the ACT intervention (8 short weekly
           sessions delivered by zoom) or an attention control group (involving social attention;
           time-matched sessions). Stroke survivors randomised and attending groups (intervention
           or attention control) will be asked to complete additional self-report outcomes data in
           weeks 1 and weeks 8 of the groups.

        -  Work package 3 (process evaluation; runs in parallel with pilot trial): observation and
           filming of groups (intervention and attention control) will facilitate monitoring of
           fidelity, as well as provide opportunities for paraprofessional facilitators to reflect
           on delivery and competency during ongoing clinical supervision. In addition, the
           acceptability of course content to stroke survivor attendees will be explored through
           postal or online feedback questionnaires and qualitative interviews.

      Participants. Up to 10 paraprofessionals (Stroke Association Coordinators) with some
      experience of supporting stroke survivors and facilitating existing social support groups
      will be recruited for training in Work Package 1 and subsequent facilitation of groups.
      Paraprofessionals will be recruited from sites across the North of England. For Work packages
      2 and 3: up to 60 stroke survivors who are at least four months post-stroke and experiencing
      difficulties with adjustment and psychological distress will be recruited across the UK using
      a variety of methods to explore optimal recruitment routes over a 12 month period.

      The study is underpinned by United Kingdom Medical Research Council (MRC) guidance on
      developing and evaluating complex interventions. MRC advises that feasibility work can
      uncover and explore problems of acceptability, compliance, delivery, recruitment and
      retention; and they recommend that process evaluations are embedded to increase understanding
      of the intervention and optimise its design and evaluation. At the feasibility stage, process
      evaluation is an active and iterative process, and changes can and should be made and acted
      upon while the trial is on-going. As such, the methodological principles are outlined in this
      record, but it is likely that some specifics may be adjusted as data are collected and
      learning is implemented.

      All data (including recordings) will be handled in line with University of Manchester
      approved protocols and Study-specific Data Management Plan to ensure the safety and security
      of data.
    
  