
    
      Ultrasound guidance has become a reliable adjunct for brachial plexus, femoral, and sciatic
      nerve blocks. Furthermore, US can also be used to anesthetize purely sensory nerves such as
      the lateral femoral cutaneous and saphenous nerves. The superficial cervical plexus (SCP), a
      sensory neural plexus, supplies the skin overlying the ear, neck, angle of the mandible,
      shoulder, and clavicle. Traditionally, the SCP is blocked using a subcutaneous infiltration
      of local anesthetics along the posterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle. Unlike
      brachial plexus, sciatic nerve, etc., the SCP often cannot be displayed directly under
      ultrasound. The purpose of ultrasound guidance was to inject the local anesthetic solution
      into the correct intermuscular plane between the sternocleidomastoid and scalene muscles. In
      previous studies, the midpoint of the posterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle was
      often selected as the puncture point. Studies of ultrasound-guided superficial cervical
      plexus block are mostly unsatisfactory. Ultrasound guidance does not increase the success
      rate of SCP block compared with traditional technique.

      The conventional landmark ultrasound guidance technique (LM group) selects the midpoint of
      the posterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle as the puncture point, but the
      anatomical difference of the individual cannot be considered. It may be the reason why
      ultrasound guidance cannot improve the success rate of the SCP block.

      The great auricular nerve is the largest branch of the SCP and can be identified under
      ultrasound. This study intends to indirectly locate the SCP by ultrasound scanning of the
      point where the great auricular nerve emerges the posterior border of the sternocleidomastoid
      muscle (GAN Point). The method of precise SCP block at GAN Point under ultrasound guidance
      (GAN Group) was explored and compared with the LM Group.
    
  