
    
      Fibromyalgia (FM) is a chronic musculoskeletal pain syndrome that causes substantial physical
      and psychological impairment and costs over $25 billion annually. Current pharmacological
      therapies may be expensive, cause serious adverse effects, and fail to effectively improve
      pain and function. Finding new and effective non-pharmacological treatments for FM patients
      is urgently needed.

      We propose to conduct the first comparative effectiveness trial of Tai Chi vs. aerobic
      exercise (a recommended component of the current standard of care) and to evaluate
      effectiveness under different Tai Chi dosing schedules in a large FM population. We aim to
      (1) demonstrate that, compared to aerobic exercise, Tai Chi is a more effective intervention
      for managing the pain and improving the functional limitations that impact quality of life
      for FM patients, and 2) determine the optimal frequency and duration of a supervised Tai Chi
      intervention in relation to short and long-term effectiveness. To achieve this goal, we will
      conduct a single-blind, randomized controlled trial of Tai Chi vs. aerobic exercise in 216
      patients who meet the American College of Rheumatology criteria for FM. Patients will be
      randomized to one of four Tai Chi intervention groups: 12 or 24 weeks of supervised Tai Chi
      given once or twice per week, or a supervised aerobic exercise control: 2x/week for 24 weeks.
      All groups will have a 52-week follow-up. The primary outcome will be the FM Impact
      Questionnaire total score at 24 weeks. Secondary outcomes include the measures of widespread
      pain, functional performance, psychological functioning, self-efficacy, sleep quality, and
      quality of life at 12, 24, and 52 weeks.

      Successful completion of the proposed study will determine the ideal regimen of Tai Chi and
      demonstrate that Tai Chi can be a simple, effective, and durable treatment for this
      therapeutically challenging disorder.
    
  