
    
      This open-label, multicenter, randomized study will consist of 2 phases:

        -  Phase Ib: a safety run-in period with 3 ascending doses of eribulin;

        -  Phase II: a randomized 2-arm design. Phase Ib Patients will be recruited into cohorts,
           with a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 6 patients per cohort. All patients will receive
           the same dose of gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2 on Days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle) and
           cisplatin (70 mg/m2 on Day 1) in combination with eribulin (administered on Days 1 and 8
           of the cycle). All patients in a cohort will receive the same dose level of eribulin.

      The dose level of eribulin will be escalated for additional cohorts unless greater than 2
      dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) are reported at the lower dose level(s) prior to enrollment
      of the next dose level. If one DLT occurs at any dose level, the cohort will be expanded to
      include up to a maximum of 6 patients.

      A Dose Escalation Committee will determine when no further dose escalation is appropriate and
      whether the MTD will be defined as a preceding dose or an intermediate dose.

      Phase II Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either eribulin in combination
      with gemcitabine plus cisplatin (Arm 1) or gemcitabine plus cisplatin alone (Arm 2). The
      eribulin dose will be 1.0 mg/m2 administered on Days 1 and 8 of each 21-day treatment cycle,
      the recommended Phase II dose for eribulin when administered in combination gemcitabine plus
      cisplatin, as determined in the Phase Ib portion of the study.

      Allocation of patients will be stratified based on metastatic disease status (patients with
      visceral metastases versus patients with non-visceral metastases). This stratified
      randomization will be centrally allocated across all centers via an Interactive Voice
      Activated Response System (IVRS).

      For both the Phase Ib and Phase II portions, 1 cycle of therapy will last 21 days, with a
      maximum number of 6 gemcitabine plus cisplatin cycles. Radiologic examinations including a
      computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis as appropriate (and CT or
      magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] scan as appropriate), will be performed during Screening and
      after every 6 weeks while on therapy. In the case of dose delays, scans should be performed
      according to the original Cycle 1 Day 1 schedule (ie, scans should not be delayed).
      Radiographic assessments should be repeated at withdrawal if the last assessment was obtained
      greater than 3 weeks from withdrawal of therapy. Patients will be followed until death
      following completion of therapy. Scans will be required every 2 months until documentation of
      PD or the start of a next line of therapy, whichever occurs first. In patients experiencing
      PD, follow-up will be for survival only and radiographic scans are not required.
    
  