
    
      The aim of this observational, non-interventional study was to observe and document for a
      1-year period, the long-term use of galantamine and nootropics (memory enhancing drugs) over
      a 1 year period under conditions of daily routine in a typical patient population of patients
      with mild or moderate Alzheimer's dementia or with mixed dementia, i.e. Alzheimer's and
      cerebrovascular disease. The design of this prospective study was non-interventional and
      thus, there were no predefined specifications of diagnostic and therapeutic measures. The
      decision for treatment with either galantamine or a nootropic agent had to be made by the
      treating physician prior to the start of documentation. Patients were observed over a period
      of 12 months or until end of documentation (visit 1 = baseline; visit 2, 3 and 4 after
      approximately 2, 6 and 9 months, respectively; visit 5 after approximately 12 months or final
      visit at end of documentation). The following measures were to be documented: safety by
      documenting adverse and serious adverse events together with severity, outcome and causality
      to the treatment; tolerability; vital functions; Global Deterioration Scale (GDS) staging
      system assessing global functioning; Mini-Mental State Examination assessing cognitive
      functions; dementia-associated behavioural symptoms (unstable walking, vertigo, awakening at
      night, shouting/screaming at night, perambulating at night, aggressiveness, agitation,
      apathy/social retreat, delusions, hallucinations, behavior that poses a risk to self or
      others, and daytime tiredness); frequency of admissions to nursing homes or nursing services;
      caregiver's burden and time spent on caregiving (based on daily and weekly caregiving tasks);
      final evaluation of the therapy with galantamine or nootropics through the treating
      physician. Furthermore, this study aimed to gather knowledge on the differentiated use of the
      two treatment strategies considering the specific diagnosis of dementia (e.g. Alzheimer's
      disease only or mixed dementia, i.e. Alzheimer's disease and cerebrovascular disease) and
      risk profiles. Therapeutic measures were not predefined in the protocol but remained at the
      discretion of the treating physician. Therapy decisions were to be based on medical needs.
      The treatment regimen of galantamine (8 mg,16 mg, 24 mg retard capsule) or nootropic agents
      (e.g. ginkgo biloba, dihydroergotoxine, nicergoline, piracetam, or others) was to be in
      accordance with the recommendations given in the summary of product characteristics (SmPC).
    
  