
    
      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that the combination of intensive insulin therapy, autologous
      umbilical cord blood (UCB), Vitamin D, and Omega 3 fatty acids administered to children with
      T1D will preserve residual c-peptide when compared to children receiving intensive insulin
      therapy alone

      Specific Aims:

        1. Randomize 15 children with recent onset T1D and available autologous cord blood such
           that 10 receive a combination of intensive insulin therapy, autologous UCB infusion, and
           daily Vitamin D while 5 receive intensive insulin therapy alone

        2. Document safety of combination therapy

        3. Study potential changes in glucose metabolism

        4. Study potential changes in immune function

      Preliminary Studies: Our group has already performed autologous cord blood infusion in 23
      children with T1D and has documented the safety of this approach. While conclusive data
      regarding the efficacy of the infusion in preserving beta cell function are lacking, our
      pilot study has demonstrated a potential for cord blood to low the rate of c-peptide decline
      (a measure of beta cell function/mass) in these young children with T1D. As documented above,
      considerable work both here and other institutions suggests the potential for a combination
      of Vitamin D and DHA to further augment the autoimmune response. Given the safety and
      potential efficacy of such an approach, we feel that a pilot study of the combination of UCB
      infusion, vitamin D supplementation, and DHA supplementation is warranted.

      Screening: Only subjects who are still making at least a small amount of detectable insulin
      will be eligible for this study. To determine if a child is still making insulin, they will
      undergo a mixed meal tolerance test. This involves placing an IV in the morning prior to
      eating. The subject then drinks a "mixed meal" (the nutritional supplement Boost is used)and
      blood is taken via the IV at timepoints over the next 2 hours to determine if insulin is
      still being produced.

      Randomization: If a potential subject "passes" the screening test, they will then be
      randomized to either receiving the study intervention or to being a control. Subjects WILL be
      told what arm of the study they are randomized to.

      Infusion: Those randomized to infusion will return to the University of Florida for a single
      autologous cord blood infusion and will be given vitamin D and Omega 3 supplements

      Follow-up: Both Control and Intervention subjects will return at 3, 6, and 12 months after
      the infusion/screening visit to have blood drawn for a repeat mixed meal tolerance test,
      measurement of HbA1c, and other immune studies.
    
  