
    
      During the continuing SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) pandemic, several studies have reported a
      significant difference in the rate of severe cases between adult females and adult males (42%
      vs 58%). Among children under the age of 14, the rate of severe cases was reported to be
      extremely low. To explain this difference, several theories have been proposed including
      cigarette smoking and lifestyle habits. However, no theory fits both the gender difference in
      severe cases as well as reduced risk in pre-pubescent children. Our past research on male
      androgenetic alopecia (AGA) has led us to investigate an association between androgens and
      COVID-19 pathogenesis. In normal subjects, androgen expression demonstrates significant
      variation between men and women as well as between adults and pre-pubescent children.

      SARS-CoV-2 primarily infects type II pneumocytes in the human lung. SARS-CoV-2 enters
      pneumocytes, by anchoring to the ACE2 cell surface receptor. Prior to receptor binding, viral
      spike proteins undergo proteolytic priming by the transmembrane protease, serine 2 (TMPRSS2).
      TMPRSS2 inhibition or knock down reduces ability of SARS-CoV-1 (a related virus to
      SARS-CoV-2) to infect cells in vitro.Additionally, TMPRSS2 also facilitates entry of
      influenza A and influenza B into primary human airway cells and type II pneumocytes.

      The human TMPRSS2 gene has a 15 bp androgen response element and in humans, androgens are the
      only known transcription promoters for the TMPRSS2 gene. In a study of androgen-stimulated
      prostate cancer cells (LNCaP), TMPRSS2 mRNA expression increase was mediated by the androgen
      receptor. Further, the ACE2 receptor, also critical for SARS-CoV-2 viral infectivity, is
      affected by male sex hormones with higher activity found in males.

      Previously, the investigators have reported the results from two retrospective cohort
      analysis demonstrating the protective effect of 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors (5ARi) for men
      with COVID-19. In a study of 77 men hospitalized with COVID-19 the investigators found among
      men taking 5ARis, 8% were admitted to the ICU compared to 58% of men not taking 5ARis (P =
      0.0015). In the cohort, 5ARis were associated with reduced risk for ICU admissions RR 0.14
      (95% CI: 0.02-0.94).Similarly, the investigators have demonstrated that the frequency of
      COVID-19 symptoms was drastically reduced for men using 5ARis in an outpatient setting. A
      statistically significant (p<0.05) reduction in the frequency of 20 of the 29 clinical
      symptoms was observed in AGA men using 5ARis compared to AGA men not using 5ARis. For
      example, 38% and 2% of men presented with low-grade fever, 60% and 6% with dry cough, and 88%
      and 15% reported anosmia in the non-5ARi and 5ARi groups, respectively.18

      One limitation of 5ARis is the time course required to achieve systemic DHT reductions. As
      such, the investigators explored the use of a novel second generation androgen receptor
      antagonist Proxalutamide as a means for rapid reduction in AR activity. Proxalutamide
      (GT0918) demonstrates a dual mechanism of action. It is highly effective in inhibiting AR as
      well as exhibiting pharmacological effects of inducing the down-regulation of AR expression;
      the mechanism that is not present in bicalutamide and enzalutamide. Because of the dual
      mechanism of action, it is expected to be a more effective and less toxic second-generation
      anti-androgen drug therapy. Clinical evidence has demonstrated that Proxalutamide lowers AR
      expression and activity. Additionally, it has been reported that Proxalutamide lowers the
      expression of ACE2. Both would be beneficial for preventing SARS-CoV-2 entry into lung cells.
      In addition, none of the 5ARis currently approved by the US FDA have been tested in phase I
      studies in women. As such, thet are not recommended for women. Phase I studies for
      Proxalutamide have been successfully completed in both men and women.

      In December 2020, the investigators completed a double-blinded, randomized, prospective,
      investigational study of Proxalutamide Treatment for Non-Hospitalized COVID-19 Male Patients
      (NCT04446429). The length of the study was 30 days. Proxalutamide was administered 200mg q.d.
      for 15 days. Men enrolled in the study were 50 years and older. Two hundred and sixty two men
      completed the study. 134 men were assigned to the Proxalutamide group and 128 men were
      assigned to the control group. Thirty five subjects were hospitalized in the control group
      compared to zero in the Proxalutamide group. The proportion of COVID-19 patients hospitalized
      was significantly different between the Proxalutamide and control arms; χ2 (1) = 42.051,
      p<.0001. The difference in proportions was 27.30% with a 95%CI: [19.79%, 35.59%]. No subject
      receiving Proxalutamide died compared to 2 (1.56%) in the control group. There were no
      treatment related adverse event reported during the course of the study.

      Based on the results of the Proxalutamide Treatment for Non-Hospitalized COVID-19 Male
      Patients study (NCT04446429), the purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety
      of Proxalutamide as a treatment for COVID-19 patients in the intensive care unit
    
  