
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare overall survival in patients with locally advanced, metastatic, or recurrent
      colorectal cancer treated with fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, oxaliplatin, and bevacizumab
      vs capecitabine, oxaliplatin, and bevacizumab.

      II. Compare progression-free survival and time to treatment failure in patients treated with
      these regimens.

      III. Compare the response of patients with measurable disease treated with these regimens.

      IV.Compare toxicity rates of these regimens in these patients. V. Compare patient-reported
      functional status and convenience of therapy in patients treated with these regimens.

      VI. Correlate germline polymorphisms of DNA repair (e.g., ERCC-1, XRCC1, GST-P1, XPD, and
      ribonucleotide reductase), target enzymes (e.g., thymidylate synthase, dihydropyrimidine
      dehydrogenase, and thymidine phosphorylase), angiogenesis (e.g., vascular endothelial growth
      factor), and growth factors (e.g., epithelial growth factor receptor) with survival,
      progression-free survival, and toxicity from chemotherapy in patients treated with these
      regimens.

      VII. Correlate tumor mRNA expression levels of similar DNA repair enzymes as well as enzymes
      involved in angiogenesis with survival and progression-free survival in patients treated with
      these regimens.Correlate tumor mRNA expression levels of similar target enzymes before
      treatment with survival, progression-free survival, and toxicity in patients treated with
      these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to Zubrod
      performance status (0 or 1 vs 2) and prior adjuvant therapy (yes vs no). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on
      day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46-48 hours beginning on day 1. Patients are
      further randomized to receive bevacizumab or placebo* IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Courses
      repeat every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. NOTE:
      *As of 11/15/04, placebo is no longer part of treatment plan; all patients receive
      bevacizumab.

      ARM II: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and oral capecitabine on days
      1-15. Patients are further randomized to receive bevacizumab or placebo* as in arm I. Courses
      repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. NOTE:
      *As of 11/15/04, placebo is no longer part of treatment plan; all patients receive
      bevacizumab.

      Patients are followed every 3 months until disease progression. After disease progression,
      patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually for up to 4 years after
      study entry.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,200 patients (1,100 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 3 years.
    
  