
    
      MVA-BN®-HER2 is a candidate breast cancer immunotherapy product comprised of a highly
      attenuated non-replicating vaccinia virus, MVA-BN®, engineered to encode a modified form of
      the HER-2 protein.

      MVA-BN® is a well-characterized, clonal strain of modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) being
      developed as a smallpox vaccine, suitable for use in high-risk (e.g., immunocompromised)
      individuals. MVA-BN®-derived vectors encoding heterologous antigens are being developed for
      use as vaccines for infectious diseases such as HIV, and for the treatment of cancer. A large
      database exists from safety evaluations in animals and in humans for MVA-BN®, and
      MVA-BN®-derived vectors.

      HER-2 is overexpressed in 20-30% of human breast cancers. It is an oncogene/growth factor
      receptor critical for the malignant phenotype of HER-2- expressing tumors. It is an
      immunogenic target, and immune responses to this protein have been shown to mediate potent
      anti-tumor activity in multiple animal models. Means to stimulate anti-HER-2 reactivity are
      now being studied clinically. Sponsor, collaborators, and others have used both Protein and
      DNA vaccine forms of HER-2, and a safety database is developed and no significant adverse
      events have resulted from HER-2 directed vaccination.

      MVA-BN®-HER2 encodes a modified form of the HER-2 protein, hereinafter referred to as HER2.
      HER2 contains the extracellular domain of HER-2 but lacks the intracellular, cell signaling
      domain. In addition, HER2 includes two universal T-cell epitopes from tetanus toxin to
      facilitate the stimulation of an immune response to HER-2, a self-protein.

      The current trial, BNIT-BR-003, will evaluate the safety and biological activity of a fixed
      dose of MVA-BN®-HER2 following adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with breast cancers which
      overexpress HER-2.

      Patients will receive 6 subcutaneous vaccinations at 4-week intervals and will have blood
      drawn for immune function analysis.
    
  