
    
      STUDY PROGRAM The study will consist of a previous examination and 4 visits during the
      follow-up period.

      Previous visit: pre-admission (Duration approximately 40 minutes)

        1. Participants who meet the inclusion criteria will be selected. These will be captured
           through advertising.

        2. Participants will be informed of the characteristics of the study, the risks and the
           benefits expected after the dietary intervention.

        3. Anthropometric and body composition measurements will be made.

        4. History of food frequency

        5. A blood sample will be taken for the determination of glucose, insulin, total
           cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, creatinine and urea nitrogen (BUN) in
           serum.

        6. The consent letter will be signed by the participants. Subsequently according to the
           previous visit if insulin resistance is diagnosed according to the HOMA index (IR-HOMA),
           The patient will be included in the visit one of the research protocol.

      Visit one:

      a) Nutritional assessment (Ambulatory Patient Unit)

        1. A clinical-nutritional history

        2. The determination of anthropometric measurements such as weight, height and waist
           circumference and body composition by bioimpedance.

        3. Resting energy expenditure will be determined by indirect calorimetry

        4. A glucose tolerance curve will be performed for 2 hours to determine the area under the
           insulin and glucose curve and determination of the insulinemic and glycemic indexes.

        5. A whole blood sample will be taken for the determination of the serum concentration of
           glucose, total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, c reactive
           protein (CRP), insulin, leptin, and plasma amino acid profile.

        6. A sample will be taken to isolate leukocytes, for the determination of the expression of
           enzymes related to branched-chain amino acids in leukocytes (BCAT and BCKDH).

        7. The physical activity questionnaire will be carried out (IPAQ long version). The patient
           will be advised not to change the level of habitual physical activity

        8. Patients will start consuming the diet corresponding to their group. The different menus
           will be delivered and explained to the patients.

      7. A food guide will be given so that they have food exchange options. 8. You will be taught
      to fill the feed log. 9. Patients will be cited within a week.

      Visit two:

        1. A 24-hour dietary record.

        2. Food logs will be collected and new ones will be delivered.

        3. They will be given and explained the corresponding treatment menus.

        4. They will be summoned in a week.

      Visit three:

        1. A 24-hours dietary record

        2. Food logs will be collected and new ones will be delivered.

        3. They will be given and explained the corresponding treatment menus.

        4. They will be summoned in a week.

      Visit four:

      a) Nutritional assessment

        1. The determination of anthropometric measurements such as weight, waist circumference and
           body composition measurement will be made by means of bioimpedance.

        2. The resting energy expenditure will be determined by indirect calorimetry.

        3. A glucose tolerance curve will be carried out for 2 hours to determine the area under
           the insulin and glucose curve and determination of the insulinemic and glycemic indexes.

        4. A whole blood sample will be taken to determine the serum concentration of glucose,
           total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, c-reactive protein
           (CRP), insulin, leptin, adiponectin and plasma amino acid profile.

      6. There will be a 24-hour reminder. 7. The physical activity questionnaire will be carried
      out (IPAQ long version). The patient will be advised not to change the level of habitual
      physical activity.

      8. Full feed logs will be collected. 9. It will be scheduled within fifteen days for delivery
      of results. Actions that will be carried out at the end of the study to maintain the
      continuity of the treatment

      All patients after the end of the study, will be cited at 15 days where:

      1. You will be given the results
    
  