
    
      Esophageal cancer is the eighth most common cancer and the sixth leading cause of cancer
      related mortality worldwide. Most patients have lost chance of surgical resection when they
      are initially diagnosed, because of late stage cancer or metastasis. Dysphagia is the major
      symptom of patients with advanced esophageal cancer. The two most commonly used strategies
      for relieving the dysphagia are stent placement and intraluminal brachytherapy. Stent
      placement provides a fast improvement of dysphagia, while intraluminal brachytherapy provides
      a more durable effect on dysphagia. To combine the advantages of the immediate relief of
      esophageal dysphagia with stent placement and long-term benefit with brachytherapy, a novel
      irradiation stent loaded with 125I seeds has been developed in the authors' institute.
      Recently, a multicentre randomized clinical trial demonstrated this novel irradiation stent
      can relieve the dysphagia rapidly and prolong the survival of patients with advanced
      esophageal cancer. However, this irradiation stent only provides a slightly longer relief of
      dysphagia and cannot reduce the total stent stenosis rate, because partly covered stent with
      uncoated flanges on both ends for anchoring the stent are used. In the past few years, fully
      covered retrievable stents which allow less tissue overgrowth have been used in patients with
      longer life expectancy, especially if they are receiving additional palliative therapy like
      brachytherapy. In order to provide a further longer relief of dysphagia and prevent stent
      migration caused by tumor regresses with brachytherapy, a fully covered segmented retrievable
      irradiation stent has been developed. The aim of the current study is to evaluate the
      clinical efficacy, particularly focus on stent stenosis and stent migration, and safety of
      this newly developed irradiation stent in patients with unresectable malignant dysphagia.
    
  