
    
      5% Human Albumin is used for fluid therapy during surgery. This study evaluate whether
      affected coagulation competence induced by Human Albumin leads to a significant perioperative
      blood loss when compared to administration of lactated Ringer´s solution.

      Data are gathered by the investigators, analysed by the sponsor, and remain confidential
      throughout the process. The investigators shall be involved in all stages of the study
      development and vouch for the completeness and accuracy of the data. No third part shall
      influence the protocol, trial conduct, data analysis, or reporting.

      The investigators will include 40 patients undergoing cystectomy. Heart rate, mean arterial
      pressure, cardiac output are measured after induction of anaesthesia and insertion of the
      arterial catheter (T0), after establishing normovolaemia but before surgery (T1), after
      resection of the urinary bladder (T2), at the end of the surgery (T3), and two hours
      thereafter in the recovery room (T4).

      Arterial blood is drawn for whole blood viscoelastic haemostatic assays to record clot
      initiation (R-Time), formation (Maximal Amplitude, MA), alpha angle(α) and lysis (Ly30)
      depicting haemostatic competence (thrombelastography). The investigators analyze blood for
      haemoglobin, creatinine, platelets, and fibrinogen. Furthermore, blood is drawn from the
      central venous catheter for lactate and blood gas variables (ABL 825, Radiometer, Copenhagen,
      Denmark). To avoid excessive administration of Human Albumin, patients receive lactated
      Ringer´s solution if considered needed after the infusion 25 mL/kg of the allocated fluid
      (non-study fluid).

      The fluid balance inclusive the blood loss was calculated after cystectomy, at the end of
      surgery, and two hours thereafter. The investigators register complications postoperatively
      inclusive hospital stay until discharge.
    
  