
    
      Cervical cancer poses a significant local and global health problem. In 2017 over 1,500
      Canadian women were predicted to develop cervical cancer, and another 400 were approximated
      to die from the disease. Cervical cancer rates have steadily decreased in developed nations
      largely due to regular gynaecological screening and public human papillomavirus vaccination
      programs; however, the disease accounts for up to 12% of all female cancer diagnoses in
      developing nations, and poses a disproportionate burden on aboriginal women across Canada.
      Much work needs to be done to address disparities in care and treatment for cervical cancer,
      both in Canada and worldwide.

      FIGO stage IA - IB1 is considered localized disease and treated primarily with surgery. In
      contrast to early stage disease, tumours that extend greater than 4 cm and beyond the cervix
      are considered locally advanced. The standard of care for locally advanced cervical cancer
      defined as FIGO stages IB2 - IVA is external beam radiation therapy with concurrent
      chemotherapy followed by brachytherapy.

      Brachytherapy is a crucial component of therapeutic management that has been shown to be
      associated with improved local control. High dose rate brachytherapy involves the treatment
      of local bulky disease using a remotely loaded Iridium-192 source. Brachytherapy delivery
      exploits rapid dose fall off, allowing for the central pelvis to receive a very high dose
      while sparing the bladder, rectum, sigmoid and small bowel. This dose escalation is beyond
      what is conventionally achievable using external radiation therapy methods. More
      specifically, image guided adaptive brachytherapy employing intracavitary applicators allows
      for dose optimization and improves target dose coverage for limited size tumours.

      Intracavitary applicators have been shown to be adequate from covering symmetric small
      tumours less than 30 cc. However, for large or complex asymmetric tumours with/without
      vaginal involvement they are not sufficient to cover the target while respecting normal
      tissue tolerances. To compensate for these limitations, improvements in local control have
      been achieved using a combined interstitial and intracavitary technique for larger tumours.
      Combined intracavitary - interstitial applicators have been designed to target tumours that
      are not adequately covered by intracavitary applicators alone. The addition of the
      interstitial technique involves the insertion of catheters into the tumour enabling higher
      dose conformity and normal tissue sparing. This combined technique has been shown in large
      tumours with extensive parametrial involvement as well as in cases with unfavourable
      topography to be effective. Employing this combined technique, perineal-based interstitial
      image guided adaptive brachytherapy makes it possible to deliver higher doses to the high
      risk clinical target volume without increasing dose to the bladder, rectum or sigmoid.

      The combined interstitial and intracavitary brachytherapy workflow for locally advanced
      cervical cancer at the Odette Cancer Centre typically consists of four treatment fractions.
      The workflow begins with a pre-brachytherapy assessment MRI that is taken before
      brachytherapy treatment to assist in preplanning of catheter depth and location. At the time
      of this MRI the patient will have a vaginal cylinder in place. 1-2 weeks after the MRI, the
      implant and treatment is performed. Prior to the implantation procedure, the patient is given
      light sedation and a spinal anesthetic, subsequently a vaginal cylinder (Best Medical
      Systems, Inc, Springfield VA) is inserted into the patient. A perineal template that contains
      a central opening is fit on the vaginal cylinder. The template is then advanced until it is
      appositional on the perineum of the patient. Plastic catheters (6F 24 cm) containing metal
      stylets are inserted through the template and along the grooves of the vaginal cylinder
      thereby penetrating the perineum and the vagina, respectively. The number, position and depth
      of the catheters that are used are based on the pre-brachytherapy assessment MRI. After the
      implantation procedure the template is sutured to the patient and the patient is transferred
      to an MRI suite where an image of her anatomy is acquired with the catheters and applicators
      in place. The patient is then sent for a CT scan that is to be used for treatment planning.

      Treatment planning involves the registration of the CT and MR datasets. The MR images are
      used to identify the soft tissue organs at risk and the targets. The CT is used to identify
      the catheters implanted in the patient. Using the knowledge of where the applicator/catheters
      are with respect to the targets and organs at risk, a dose distribution is designed to target
      the cancer while sparing normal tissue. On the same day as the implantation, one treatment
      fraction is delivered and the patient is admitted overnight. The next day the patient may as
      a standard of care, depending on the clinical indication undergo one or two additional
      fractions, separated by at least 6 hours. A week later the same process for the first two
      fractions will be repeated for the remaining two fractions.

      During the insertion of catheters, it has been recognized that they can converge or diverge
      as they pierce stiff tissues along the implantation path. Without proper image guidance, a
      template guided interstitial implant could result in an increase in risk of normal tissue
      complications. Real-time image guidance for catheter insertion is institution dependent, at
      the Odette Cancer Centre trans-abdominal ultrasound is used for placement of the tandem and
      more recently the trans-rectal ultrasound has been investigated for catheter placement. Other
      forms of real-time catheter guidance used at different centres include fluoroscopy, computed
      tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      The quality of interstitial brachytherapy implants has been reported to be an important
      predictive factor for local control and late toxicity. The quality of the implant is
      dependent on the geometry of the catheters, and real time image guidance for interstitial
      cervical brachytherapy is markedly lacking.

      At the Odette Cancer Centre, a four-patient study was conducted to characterize the amount of
      catheter deflection and angulation during gynaecological high-dose-rate interstitial
      brachytherapy. Results from this study demonstrated that the mean value of the maximum
      catheter deflection at the level of the GTV was 9.1 mm +/- 3.2 mm (range 3.0 - 18.4 mm) and
      can approach as much as 2 cm at the level of the GTV. Although the catheter deflection
      observed in this study did not result in any significant dosimetric impact the sample size
      was small and the authors of the study suggested that further investigation into real-time
      catheter guidance may be necessary into alleviating this deviation to prevent suboptimal plan
      quality.

      Electromagnetic tracking can minimize the uncertainties related to implant quality. The
      operation of an electromagnetic tracking device depends on a field generator producing a
      magnetic field that extends across the anatomy of interest. The tracked sensor in this system
      induces a distance-dependent voltage that is used to determine the spatial position of the
      sensor within the volume of interest. This technology is extensively used in clinical
      practice, examples include, surgical interventions, guidance of biopsies, and motion
      monitoring.

      Electromagnetic navigation can be incorporated into the cervical interstitial brachytherapy
      workflow as a form of real-time catheter guidance. By incorporating this guidance into the
      current workflow it is possible that a higher degree of accuracy in catheter placement will
      be achieved when used in conjunction with image-guided brachytherapy. This study seeks to
      evaluate the efficacy of electromagnetic navigation on the perineal-based interstitial cervix
      image-guided brachytherapy workflow as part of a phase I clinical trial.
    
  