
    
      Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an uncommon, but often deadly complication of
      myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN). Post-MPN AML is aggressive and resistant to conventional
      treatment with median survival of 3-5 months. Although allogeneic stem cell transplantation
      (alloSCT) have some prospective of promise in these patient, most of them are ineligible for
      alloSCT because of advanced age at diagnosis, comorbidities and scarcity of a compatible
      donor. Therefore, there is an urgent need for new therapeutic strategy for post-MPN AML.

      Cytogenetic and/or molecular abnormalities associated with poor prognosis are quite common in
      patients with post-MPN AML. Although these findings likely contribute to the aggressive
      natural history and resistance to standard therapies, the genetic complexity of post-MPN AML
      may ultimately permit targeted therapy. Among these abnormalities, Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) has
      come to the fore recently. JAK2 V617F mutation, which is a hallmark of MPN, has been reported
      to be carried in approximately 35-50% of patients with post-MPN AML. We believe that this
      mutation be the most oncogenic driver in post-MPN AML.

      In fact, BCR/ABL(+) acute leukemia (either blast crisis of CML or Ph+ ALL) is a similar
      disease model of the post-MPN AML. The clinical outcome of these disease has improved
      dramatically with ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), such as imatinib, and nilotinib. It
      is a standard practice to give ABL TKI along with cytotoxic chemotherapy to BCR/ABL(+) acute
      leukemia. On the other hand, in BCR/ABL(+) acute leukemia, it is well known that single agent
      ABL TKI is not sufficient to control disease.

      Likewise, ruxolitinib, which is a targeted agent for JAK2, have a great possibility to show
      efficacy for post-MPN AML when combined with cytotoxic agents. In a previous investigational
      study of ruxolitinib for refractory/relapsed leukemias, 2 of 3 AML patients evolving from MPN
      achieved complete remission with two cycles of ruxolitinib. In fact, many clinical trials are
      ongoing to investigate the therapeutic efficacy of ruxolitinib in post-MPN AML as a single
      agent.

      However, considering a lesson from BCR/ABL(+) acute leukemia, ruxolitinib as a single agent
      may not be enough to cure these patients with post-MPN AML. Hence, for patients who are fit
      for intensive chemotherapy, it would easily conjectured that ruxolitinib in combination with
      cytotoxic chemotherapy would be better for these patients. Therefore, combination of
      ruxolitinib and cytotoxic chemotherapy would be an optimal treatment for post-MPN AML. From
      an epidemiologic perspective, it is true that post-MPN AML develops in elderly patients
      frequently. However, patients who fit for intensive chemotherapy are also encountered in the
      clinic for post-MPN AML not infrequently, justifying this study design. NCCN guideline also
      recommend intensive induction treatment for patients > 60 years when there performance and
      comorbidity allows intensive treatment.

      In this study, the therapeutic efficacy of ruxolitinib in combination with cytotoxic
      chemotherapy for post-MPN AML will be investigated. Unlike other clinical trials induction
      and consolidation treatment should include cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents in addition to
      ruxolitinib.
    
  