
    
      Neuroblastoma relapses during or after intensive therapy most likely result from the presence
      of primary or acquired drug resistance. Therefore, new therapeutic modalities for salvage
      therapies are urgently needed.

      The historical Kaplan-Meier curves of 218 unselected high risk patients after the first
      recurrence (from CR) or after the first progression (from PR/SD) demonstrate a 1 year event
      free survival rate of 25.2 ± 2.9% and a 1 year overall survival rate of 42.7 ± 3.3%.

      Today cancer is widely considered as a multicomponent disease. One novel strategy likely to
      target the complexity of tumor cells and tumor environment is metronomic scheduling of
      anticancer treatment or "metronomic treatment" (MT). Low doses of chemotherapeutic drugs are
      continuously administered to cancer patients. The higher frequency and lower dose targets
      distinct aspects of cancer's functionality. Effects on tumor-angiogenesis, anti-cancer
      immunity and tumor stroma have been shown. Additionally low-dose metronomic treatment is
      often combined with modern antiinflammatory or antiangiogenic drugs, which specifically
      interact e.g. in tumor growth or angiogenesis pathways.

      The rationale of this trial is the efficacy of metronomic therapy in heavily pre-treated
      refractory neuroblastoma patients.This trial protocol proposes a metronomic schedule of low
      dose chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, etoposide and vinblastine, in combination with
      propranolol, a non-selective blocker of β adrenergic receptors and celecoxib, a selective
      cyclooxygenase type 2 (COX-2) inhibitor.

      Patients enrolled in this study may benefit for two reasons. In the palliative situation,
      metronomic treatment may result in disease stabilization (SD) and a significant improvement
      of the quality of life (QOL) of patients e.g. by the decrease of pain through the treatment.
      For this reason, QOL including pain module is assessed as a separate secondary objective/
      outcome measure. In the case of tumor response (PR, CR), the patients may qualify for a
      subsequent treatment approach aiming at further disease stabilization or even a long-term
      benefit.
    
  