
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of subjects with persistent or recurrent high grade
      endometrioid or serous ovarian carcinoma who demonstrate a downregulation of monocarboxylate
      transporter 4 (MCT4) in the ovarian stroma in response to exposure to topotecan (topotecan
      hydrochloride) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC) (acetylcysteine) as compared to topotecan alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the expression levels of caveolin 1 (Cav-1), solute carrier family 16
      (monocarboxylate transporter), member 1 (MCT1), translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane
      20 homolog (yeast) (TOMM20), fatty acid binding protein 4, adipocyte (FABP4), hypoxia
      inducible factor 1, alpha subunit (HIF-1 alpha) and NF kappaB activating protein (NFκB) in
      pathological samples of tumors after therapy with NAC relative to samples taken at time of
      initial diagnosis.

      II. To assess the potential impact of NAC on progression free survival, overall survival,
      objective tumor response- complete or partial, and duration of response.

      III. To estimate the proportion of subjects who survive progression free for at least 6
      months and the proportion of patients who have objective tumor response, complete or partial
      in response to therapy IV. To assess safety and tolerability of NAC plus topotecan treatment
      in subjects with endometrioid or serous ovarian carcinoma by Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.0 criteria.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1,
      8, and 15 (+/- 1 day window for each treatment day). Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride as in Arm I. Patients also receive
      acetylcysteine IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 (+/- 1 day window for each
      treatment day) and acetylcysteine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 2-7, 9-14, 16-21, and
      23-28, unless administration window was utilized. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 24 months.
    
  