
    
      Patients diagnosed with a chronic venous ulceration will be assessed for study eligibility
      during their initial clinical evaluation. Patients who meet the eligibility requirements will
      be asked to enroll into the study (see Subject Recruitment). Subjects will be asked to sign
      the informed consent form and receive a copy of the informed consent. The study will be
      conducted in the following manner:

      Prescreening, Screening, and Enrollment

        -  Obtain informed consent

        -  Assess patients for eligibility based on inclusion/exclusion criteria

        -  Initial quality of life questionnaire completed

        -  Target ulcer

           • If more than 1 wound is present on either leg; the target ulcer will be the one that
           is the largest in overall dimensions. All other ulcers will be treated per Standard of
           Care.

        -  Photo/wound measurements

        -  Venous studies (if necessary to confirm diagnosis)

        -  Case Record Form (CRF) completed

        -  Subjects will continue with Standard of Care until treatment initiation visit

             -  If a patient is currently undergoing pump or pneumatic compression therapy, they
                must discontinue this treatment at least 2 week before the treatment initiation
                visit

      Treatment Initiation Visit and Randomization

        -  Begin 2 weeks after the above enrollment visit - Confirm continued eligibility:

             -  Photo/wound measurements (to be performed before and after debridement)

             -  Exclude if wound size has decreased > 35% - Randomization into the 2 treatment
                groups

                  1. ActiV.A.C. System Negative Pressure Therapy + Compression Therapy

                  2. Compression Therapy - Quality of life questionnaires completed

                     - CRF completed Subjects will have 1 visit in the clinic and 1 visit by a home
                     nurse to change the dressing and Acti V.A.C ( if applicable) weekly

                     Weekly Follow-Up

        -  Visits must be ± 2 days of scheduled appointment

             -  Photo/wound measurements (to be performed before and after debridement)

             -  Change ActiV.A.C. System+ Compression Therapy or Compression Therapy

             -  Quality of life questionnaires to be completed at weeks 4, 6

             -  CRF completed

             -  If the subject is has not healed or healed, and the wound is not ready for a Split
                Thickness Skin Graft (STSG) or Bio-engineered Alternative Tissue (BAT)at the 6 week
                time point, then the patient will be exited from the study (see Close-Out)

             -  If the subject has not healed within the 6 week interventional phase, but the wound
                is ready for a Split Thickness Skin Graft or Bio-engineered Alternative Tissue
                (BAT), they will be scheduled for a Split Thickness Skin Graft (STSG) or
                Bio-engineered Alternative Tissue (BAT)

      Close-Out

        -  If the subject has not healed, they will be exited from the study at the 6 week time
           point

        -  Photo/wound measurements (to be performed before and after debridement)

        -  Close-out specific CRF completed

        -  Complete quality of life questionnaires

        -  Follow-up treatment plan with individual investigator

      Confirmatory Visit

        -  If the target wound has healed within the 6 week interventional period, the subject will
           be scheduled for this confirmatory visit 2 weeks after wound has been deemed to be
           healed

        -  Photo/wound measurements (to be performed before and after debridement)

        -  Close-out specific CRF completed

        -  Complete quality of life questionnaires

        -  Follow-up treatment plan with individual investigator

      Split Thickness Skin Graft (STSG) or Bio-engineered Alternative Tissue (BAT)- If the wound is
      deemed ready for Split Thickness Skin Graft (STSG) or Bio-engineered Alternative Tissue (BAT)
      then the subject will either:

        -  Be scheduled for surgery for application of a Split Thickness Skin Graft within 4 weeks

        -  Have Bio-engineered Alternative Tissue (BAT)applied in the clinic within 4 weeks

             -  Subject will continue with their intervention until the date of surgery

             -  After Split Thickness Skin Graft, subjects will receive Standard of Care (SOC)
                utilizing the ActiV.A.C. ™ + Compression Therapy

             -  After Bio-engineered Alternative Tissue (BAT), subjects will receive Standard of
                Care utilizing compression therapy

             -  Photo/Wound Measurements (to be performed before and after debridement)

             -  CRF completed

             -  Subjects will have a f/u visit within 5-7 days for dressing change per Standard of
                Care

      Close-Out/Confirmatory Visit for Split Thickness Skin Graft (STSG) or Bio-engineered
      Alternative Tissue (BAT)

      *2 weeks from the date of surgery (Split Thickness Skin Graft) or clinic application
      (Bio-engineered Alternative Tissue)

        -  Regardless if the target wound is healed or not, the subject will be exited from the
           study

        -  Photo/Wound measurements

        -  Percent adherence for subjects who received a Split Thickness Skin Graft

        -  Close-out specific CRF completed

        -  Complete quality of life questionnaires

        -  Follow-up treatment plan with individual investigator

      Application of Devices/Dressing

      The usual consent forms that are part of the Standard of Care will be utilized per the Center
      for Wound Healing at Georgetown University Hospital. All costs associated with the clinic
      visit consistent with the Standard of Care will be billed in the customary fashion.

      Standard of Care Wound Therapy (Debridement, Infection Control)

      The surface of the venous wound will be washed and rinsed with a wound cleanser at every
      visit per Standard of Care. The need for debridement (utilizing a scalpel and/or curette)
      will be dependent of the amount of nonviable tissue and/or biofilm detected on the surface of
      the wound. The decision to debride will be made by the individual investigator at each visit.
      The use of topical enzymatic debriding agents will be at the discretion of the investigator.
      Further, the investigator may use topical antimicrobials as needed. The use of oral
      antibiotics will also be at the discretion of the individual investigator. No other wound
      healing modalities including topically applied treatments will be allowed.

      ActiV.A.C.® Therapy System

      The ActiV.A.C.® Therapy System is an FDA approved device for the treatment of venous
      ulcerations. The ActiV.A.C.® System will be applied in a customary manner per manufacturer's
      recommendations. Acticoat Flex 7™ will be applied as the contact layer on the wound surface.
      Acticoat Flex 7™ is a fenestrated, silver-coated (anti-microbial), knitted polyester material
      that is routinely used as a contact layer dressing for chronic wounds. The open cell foam is
      then applied over the top of the Acticoat Flex 7™ (cut to shape of the wound). The adherent
      transparent occlusive material will be applied over the open cell foam. The tubing is then
      attached after cutting a small aperture through the occlusive material. Negative pressure
      will be set at 125 millimeters of mercury (mmHg) on continuous suction. The sponge and
      canister will be replaced 2 times per week. This dressing change will take place once in the
      clinic and once by the visiting home nurses. These nurses have had in-service training on the
      proper application of negative pressure therapy and have experience with its use.

      Compression Therapy

      Profore™ multi-layered compression bandaging system will be utilized. This includes the
      application of a contact layer dressing using Acticoat Flex 7™. The compression bandage will
      be applied per manufacturer's recommendations. The dressings will be changed 2 times per
      week. This dressing change will take place once in the clinic and once by the visiting home
      nurses. These nurses have had in-service training on the proper application of the
      compressive dressing and have experience with its use.

      Standard of Care Post Split-Thickness Skin Graft or Application of a Bio-engineered
      Alternative Tissue (BAT)-

      The application of a Split Thickness Skin Graft (STSG) or Bio-engineered Alternative Tissue
      (BAT) will follow the Standard of Care. This Standard of Care applies to both interventional
      groups. Split Thickness Skin Grafts will be applied in the operating room after debridement
      of the venous wound which will be conducted per Standard Of Care. After the placement of the
      Split Thickness Skin Graft onto the wound surface, a nonadherent dressing is placed onto the
      graft followed by a silver impregnated dressing layer. The ActiV.A.C.™ open celled foam will
      then be placed over the silver impregnated dressing in the customary fashion. Compressive
      dressing will then be placed over the ActiV.A.C.™ occlusive material. The postoperative
      dressings will be removed within 5-7 days. The wound site will then be redressed with a
      nonadherent dressing as the contact layer, silver impregnated dressing, and Profore™. The
      application of a BAT will take place in the outpatient clinic. This includes the debridement
      of the wound and the application of a Bio-engineered Alternative Tissue (BAT) onto the wound
      surface. The dressings include a nonadherent contact layer, followed by a silver impregnated
      dressing, and finally a Profore™ compressive dressing.
    
  