
    
      MDR-TB is a growing threat to international health. A recent report from WHO estimated that
      over 440,000 new cases of MDR-TB occurred in 127 countries in 2008, causing 150,000 deaths;
      this represents a 55% increase in the number of cases since 2000. Current treatment regimens
      have only a 58-67% success rate, and as many as 20% of those who fail to respond to treatment
      die of tuberculosis; those who do not die become chronic carriers and spread MDR-TB to
      others.

      Fluoroquinolones (FQ) are an essential part of regimens for the treatment of MDR-TB;
      substantially better outcomes have consistently been seen in patients with MDR-TB who are
      treated with FQ, and newer FQ (levofloxacin, gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin) are the most
      potent antituberculosis agents available for MDR-TB treatment. However, gatifloxacin has been
      taken off the market because of dysglycemic reactions and moxifloxacin produces marked QT
      prolongation, increasing risk of fatal arrhythmia. In contrast, QT studies of levofloxacin
      have found minimal prolongation at doses up to 20mg/kg. Levofloxacin is currently given for
      TB at doses of 11-14 mg/kg/day and has been well tolerated at doses up to 20 mg/kg. Although
      the efficacy of levofloxacin increases as exposure increases both in animal studies of TB and
      in human studies of gram-negative bacteria, its efficacy at higher doses against TB in humans
      has not been studied. Thus, determination of the most efficacious and well-tolerated dose of
      levofloxacin is an important research priority. In this Phase 2 study, we will determine the
      levofloxacin dose and exposure that achieve the greatest reduction in mycobacterial burden
      with acceptable tolerability by studying 120 adults with smear- and culture-positive
      pulmonary MDR-TB at sites in Peru and South Africa. Levofloxacin will be administered with an
      optimized background regimen (OBR) to address the following Specific

      Aims:

      Specific Aim 1: To determine the levofloxacin AUC/MIC that provides the shortest time to
      sputum culture conversion in solid medium.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine the highest levofloxacin AUC that is both safe and associated
      with fewer than 25% of patients discontinuing or reducing their dose of levofloxacin.

      Specific Aim 3: To develop a dosing algorithm to achieve the levofloxacin AUC associated with
      maximal efficacy and acceptable safety/tolerability.

      This clinical trial will increase our ability to cure MDR-TB and prevent the emergence of
      resistance to new TB drug classes by optimizing dosing and improving the effectiveness of an
      existing antimycobacterial agent, using a novel and versatile study design which more rapidly
      and efficiently identifies advances in this critical area. Construction of an algorithm to
      predict the optimal levofloxacin dose will allow more effective use of levofloxacin,
      particularly in areas with limited resources, where the burden of MDR-TB is the greatest.
    
  