
    
      Recombinant hyaluronidase is an established therapeutic principle to facilitate the infusion
      of large volumes of fluids subcutaneously (e.g. Ringer solution and antibodies such as IG,
      rituximab, trastuzumab).

      HyQvia is a product consisting of recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20, Hylenex®), and a
      human normal immunoglobulin (IG). The subcutaneous (SC) IG is a 10% solution prepared from
      human plasma consisting of at least 98% immunoglobulin G, which contains a broad spectrum of
      antibodies.

      The two components are packaged together as a dual vial unit: IG provides the therapeutic
      effect and the recombinant human hyaluronidase facilitates the dispersion, which alters the
      kinetics of absorption and increases the bioavailability of the IG.

      HyQvia is marketed in the European Union (EU) since July 2013 and in the USA since September
      2014. In the EU, HyQvia is indicated as replacement therapy in patients of all age groups in
      primary immunodeficiency syndromes (PID), and in myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia
      with severe secondary hypogammaglobulinaemia and recurrent infections (secondary
      immunodeficiency syndromes, SID), as well as hypogammaglobulinaemia and pre- and
      post-allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

      HyQvia was investigated in one pivotal study lasting over a year, involving 89 patients with
      PID who had already had treatment with human normal IG for at least three months. The number
      of acute serious bacterial infections (SBI) as main efficacy outcomes was 0.025 per year.
      This was below the FDA predefined number needed to show efficacy (SBI rate <1.0 per subject
      per year at the 0.01 level of significance), and was similar to that seen with other licensed
      human normal IG products. In the pivotal study and its extension, 188 patient years under
      HyQvia treatment have been documented. HyQvia was efficacious, safe, and bioequivalent to
      intravenous IG at the same administration intervals, but it caused fewer systemic reactions.
      Tolerability was good despite high infusion volumes and rates. There are no preclinical data
      that suggest an increased risk of mutagenicity, teratogenicity, fertility or neuronal
      development.

      The most current and comprehensive data on real-life utilisation and outcomes of various IgG
      preparations is available from the German SIGNS registry. This registry confirmed the
      effectiveness of IgG substitution or treatment in terms of reduction of infections (PID and
      SID), as well as stabilization or improvement of the clinical condition in neurological and
      autoimmune diseases. In a cohort of 24 PID and SID patients on HyQvia in the German SIGNS
      study, the preparation was well tolerated and treatment satisfaction was high. In other
      countries, data on the utilisation and outcomes of HyQvia under clinical practice conditions
      are sparse or completely missing.

      The present study aims to fill these gaps and to provide a detailed and complete description
      of the utilisation of under everyday clinical practice conditions.
    
  