
    
      Study population:

      A validated case definition of multiple sclerosis (MS) will be applied to the health
      administrative data to identify all MS patients in 5 Canadian provinces (British Columbia,
      Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Saskatchewan and Alberta; Studies 1,2,4-6). Developed in Manitoba, the
      positive predictive value was 80.5% and negative predictive value (NPV) was 75.5% among a
      population of persons with ≥1 claim for any demyelinating disease. The NPV would be >99% at
      the general population level where more than 98% of individuals have no claims for
      demyelinating disease. The algorithm has been successfully applied in British Columbia, Nova
      Scotia and Saskatchewan.

      When MS-specific clinical data are used (British Columbia, Manitoba, Nova Scotia; Study 3),
      the diagnosis is neurologist confirmed, according to the prevailing international criteria.

      Study period:

      The earliest study start is Jan/1996 (the 1st full year that DMDs were available and the
      first year of available administrative and DMD-related data), and the latest study end is
      March 31, 2018; this represents >2 decades of drug and patient-related follow-up.

      Study entry:

      Most recent of 1-Jan-1996, an individual's 18th birthday, date of 1st MS-related claim or
      date of 1st MS clinic visit (when clinical data are accessed [Study 3]).

      Study end:

      Earliest of death, emigration from the respective province, last MS clinic visit (when
      clinical data are accessed [Study 3]), or 31-December-2017 (British Columbia, Manitoba, Nova
      Scotia, Alberta) or 31-March-2018 (Saskatchewan).

      DMD exposure:

      DMD use, as identified using prescription data. An individual's exposure status can change
      over time and will be dynamically classified as: 1) no DMD, 2) any DMD, then by generation:
      2a) any 1st or 2b) 2nd generation DMD. When possible, the individual drug classes will be
      explored (beta-interferon [as one class], glatiramer acetate, natalizumab, fingolimod,
      dimethyl fumarate, teriflunomide, alemtuzumab).

      Time perspective:

      Analyses of prospectively recorded health administrative, prescription and clinical data.
    
  