
    
      The study team's current proposed study uses the same investigational agent, B-FAHF-2, being
      studied for food allergy under an active IND, and seeks to determine if this formula is safe
      for the treatment of mild-to-moderate CD. The study team's major goal focuses on safety,
      tolerability, beneficial immunomodulatory effect, and preliminary clinical efficacy of
      B-FAHF-2 to maintain remission in subjects with mild-to-moderate CD. B-FAHF-2 is currently
      undergoing a phase II clinical trial for treatment of food allergy, thus increasing the ease
      of obtaining an FDA IND for B-FAHF-2 use in CD. Preliminary data were generated in the study
      team's ongoing FAHF-2 and B-FAHF-2 studies on food allergy and IBD. In developing a botanical
      drug from a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formula, standardization of product is key to
      ensure safety, consistency, and potency. An IND for B-FAHF-2 has been accepted by the FDA,
      and is documented that the product's quality, safety and standardized methodology have been
      demonstrated. To date, the study team has demonstrated the safety of B-FAHF-2 in animal
      models and the safety and tolerability of B-FAHF-2 in patients, including adults and children
      with food allergy. The most specific data relevant to this proposal are the suppression by
      FAHF-2/B-FAHF-2 of TNF-alpha production by PBMC's and intestinal specimens from children with
      CD and the abrogation of colitis in a murine model.

      CD is a life-long chronic, relapsing, immune mediated inflammatory disease characterized by
      inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. Treatment is aimed at controlling mucosal
      inflammation, and thus symptoms of the disease, by inducing and then maintaining remission.
      Since CD causes abdominal pain, decreased appetite, malabsorption and diarrhea, children are
      particularly vulnerable because inadequate nutrition can lead to potentially irreversible
      growth stunting and delayed maturity. There is a lack of maintenance therapies for children
      and adults with mild-to-moderate disease since many of the medications used to treat CD.
      including steroids, immunomodulators and biological therapies are geared towards treating
      moderate-to-severe disease. The most commonly used medications for treatment and maintenance
      of remission in mild-to-moderate CD are 5-ASA compounds and antibiotics but they are not FDA
      approved and the literature does not support their utility in CD. Based on the inhibition of
      TNF-alpha by B-FAHF-2 and FAHF-2 in vitro, the study team hypothesizes that B-FAHF-2 will be
      safe and effective therapy that will fill this therapeutic void. The study team proposes to
      test the safety and tolerability of B-FAHF-2 in subjects with recently diagnosed
      mild-to-moderate CD that responds to induction with Entocort EC. To minimize any potential
      risk by exposing a large number of subjects to treatment: the study team will conduct the
      study in subjects 18-30 years old to assess for safety, tolerability and determine
      immunological and/or efficacy signals (subjective and objective measures). Since B-FAHF-2 is
      likely to be slow to work, subjects will be induced with Entocort EC for 8 weeks. Responders
      will then be enrolled in the trial. The safety and tolerability trial is eight weeks long,
      double blind, placebo controlled dose escalation trial of B-FAHF-2 in subjects who responded
      to induction therapy with Entocort EC. This portion of the study will serve to ensure safety
      and tolerability of B-FAHF-2. Subjects will be seen every 2 weeks and contacted by phone in
      between study visits to assess for any adverse events (AEs). This will be followed by a 6
      month long, open-label exploratory extension trial of B-FAHF-2 monotherapy to ensure the
      sub-chronic safety as well as determine of there is any efficacy or immunologic alteration to
      pursue in randomized efficacy trials. During this phase, subjects will have follow-up visits
      every 4 weeks to assess for AEs and efficacy outcomes. In addition, a subset of 4 subjects
      will participate in PK studies for one of the visits during this phase. The exploratory
      efficacy phase of the study will be conducted in a population of subjects naive to
      immunomodulators, systemic steroids and biologics. This study population will provide us with
      an opportunity to determine the safety and immunologic effects of B-FAHF-2 in CD without the
      interference of systemic immunomodulating medications.
    
  