
    
      STUDY POPULATION The target population is patients admitted to HGM Oncology Service for
      cervical cancer screening through self-sampling and sampling by a service provider. Sample
      size is 444 valid patients

      PROCESS Visit 1 is an inclusion visit. Participant will be included in the research protocol
      in accordance with the inclusion and exclusion criteria established by the protocol, and the
      signed informed consent will be collected. Patient will be randomized and sample will also be
      taken with the corresponding method and the patient will be completed to certify that the
      device did not cause damage or lacerations in the vaginal canal.

      Visit 2 will be on the third day after taking the first sample. In this visit, the sample
      will be taken with the corresponding method according to the randomization and the patient
      will be completed to certify that the device did not cause damage or lacerations in the
      vaginal canal. In addition, the acceptability survey will be completed.

      Visit 3 will take place 21 calendar days after the second visit, the results will be
      delivered to the patient, all women with positive results of CINtec Plus (p16 & ki67) will be
      referred for colposcopy and biopsy; said biopsies will be submitted for the analysis of
      over-expression of p16 protein. At this last visit, the patient will be informed of the
      importance and need to discuss her results with a specialist doctor for guidance and
      indications.

      STATISTIC ANALYSIS The information to be analyzed are the results and the final diagnosis
      obtained by the self-test method (XytoTest device) and the service provider of the Oncology
      Service of the Hospital General de México "Eduardo Liceaga".

      To determine the non-inferiority of both samples, the Kappa index will be used and to
      determine the significance through the Wilcoxon T.

      ETHICAL AND BIOSAFETY ASPECTS The study complies with the ethical considerations
      corresponding to the 1964 Helsinki World Assembly and with their respective modifications in
      the World Medical Assembly, Hong Kong, September 1989 and Edinburgh, Scotland, October 2000
      and the Clarification note of Paragraph 29, added by the General Assembly of the WMA,
      Washington 2002.

      The informed consent format is authorized by the ethics and research committee and strictly
      adhere to the general health law and its regulations on research and the guidelines of the
      international conference on Harmonization (ICH) on good clinical practice ( GCP).

      The subject is considered enrolled in the study when they have signed the informed consent
      form, no form must be completed or any research or study procedure must be completed before
      obtaining the written informed consent.

      Any decision that might influence the subject's decision to remain in the study should be
      made known to investigator immediately.

      Confidentiality of the subject will be maintained, all persons involved in the research who
      have access to the information, are obliged to refrain from disclosing the subject's
      information or any personal information.

      This study is subject to be audited by Mexican regulatory authorities, with or without prior
      notice to the research site.
    
  