
    
      To date, primaquine (PQ), an 8-aminoquinoline, is the only currently registered product able
      to clear P. falciparum mature gametocytes. However, its use has been and is still limited by
      its haematological toxicity (haemolytic anaemia), particularly but not exclusively in
      individuals with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PDd), in whom haemolysis can
      occur after a single PQ dose. Such an effect is dose-dependent. Considering that the current
      recommended dose was established several decades ago on a small number of experimentally
      challenged volunteers, it may be possible to obtain the same effect with a lower dose and
      hence decrease the risk of haemolysis. The proposed study is a four-arm, open label,
      randomized, controlled trial. G6PD-normal asymptomatic P. falciparum infected individuals
      identified through population screening will be randomized to receive either a complete
      course of dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DHA-PPQ) alone (control arm) or a complete course
      of DHA-PPQ plus a single dose of PQ at 3 differing dose strengths (intervention arms), i.e.
      0.75mg/kg, 0.4mg base/kg and 0.2mg base/kg.

      The study is planned to enroll 1,200 individuals with an asymptomatic malaria infection
      during the rainy /transmission season (June - December) from villages around the MRC's field
      stations at Walikunda and Basse in The Gambia. Asymptomatic parasite carriers identified by
      qualitative (RDT) and quantitative (parasites counts >20/µl by slide microscopy) methods
      during population screening exercises at the villages will be invited for a written informed
      consent and further screening to confirm eligibility, including tests for qualitative G6PD
      enzyme function (fluorescence spot test) and haemoglobin. If eligible, they will be assigned
      to one of four study arms using a block randomization scheme in a 1:1:1:1 ratio ensuring a
      balance in enrollment between the four groups. Enrolled participants will receive ACT
      treatment on days 0, 1 and 2. On day 2, participants allocated to the PQ arms will receive a
      dose of primaquine based on determined body weight.

      Each participant involvement consists of a maximum of 11 visits over a 42 day period after
      initiation of treatment. The primary end point is the prevalence of P. falciparum gametocyte
      carriers at day 7, as determined by QT-NASBA.
    
  