
    
      Before the research starts (screening): After signing the consent form, the participant will
      be asked to undergo some screening tests or procedures to find out if they can be in the
      research study. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be part of regular cGVHD
      care and may be done even if it turns out that the participant does not take part in the
      research study. If the participant has had some of these tests or procedures recently, they
      may or may not have to be repeated.

        -  Complete Medical History and Physical Examination

        -  Blood Collection: 3-4 tablespoons of blood will be drawn to measure the participants
           complete blood counts, kidney, liver and thyroid function

        -  Disease Assessment: Depending on what organs are affected by their cGVHD the participant
           may undergo blood tests or a skin exam or an eye exam or a dental exam.

        -  Electrocardiogram (EKG): a noninvasive test that measures the electrical activity of the
           participant's heart

        -  A tuberculin skin test and a quantiferon blood test to rule out tuberculosis

        -  Pregnancy testing if applicable

        -  HIV and Hepatitis blood test: 2-3 teaspoons of blood will be collected to perform an HIV
           test. The participant will be asked to sign a separate consent form for this test. The
           participant's doctor will discuss the results of this test with the participant and the
           results will become a part of their permanent medical record. The participant may seek
           private HIV testing prior to consenting, and based on the results may choose whether or
           not to participate in this study or have the HIV test become part of their medical
           records.

      If these tests show that the participant is eligible to participate in the research study,
      the participant will begin the study treatment. If the participant does not meet the
      eligibility criteria, the participant will not be able to participate in this research study.

      Additional research procedures to be performed at the time of screening:

      - Research blood testing: to study measures of the participant's immune system

      After the screening procedures confirm that the participant is eligible to participate in the
      research study:

        -  Since the investigators are looking for the highest dose of the study drug that can be
           administered safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that
           have abatacept, not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the
           same dose of the study drug. The dose the participant gets will depend on the number of
           participants who have been enrolled in the study before the participant and how well
           they have tolerated their doses.

        -  The total duration of treatment on this study is approximately 113 days or 6 treatments.
           Doses 1-3 will be administered every two weeks. One month following Dose 3, abatacept
           will be administered every four weeks for the remaining three doses (Doses 4-6.) The
           treatment will be given intravenously on these days. One month following your last dose
           of treatment, the participant will be seen in clinic. The participant will be seen in
           the clinic weekly through dose 4, then every 2 weeks for follow up even if the
           participant doesn't have treatment.

        -  The first group of participants will be treated with a lower dose of abatacept. If this
           dose is determined to be safe then the second group will be treated at a higher dose.

      During treatment the participant will be seen in the clinic every two weeks. At every visit
      the following will be performed:

        -  Complete Medical History and Physical Examination

        -  Blood Collection: 3-4 tablespoons of blood will be drawn to measure their complete blood
           counts, kidney, liver and thyroid function

        -  Research blood testing: to study measures of the participant's immune system

        -  On the days of treatment the participant will undergo an assessment of cGVHD depending
           on what organs are affected

      After the final dose of the study drug:

      After the participant has completed taking the drug on the study, the following procedures
      and tests will take place:

        -  Safety assessment 28 days after the last dose of the study drug.

        -  Complete Medical History and Physical Examination

        -  Blood Collection: 3-4 tablespoons of blood will be drawn to measure the participant's
           complete blood counts, kidney, liver and thyroid function

        -  Disease Assessment: by physical exam and blood tests if the participant has leukemia or
           multiple myeloma, or physical exam and PET/CT or CT scan if the participant has
           lymphoma. These will be done at the safety assessment visit and at the 3 and 6 month
           follow up visits.

        -  Electrocardiogram

        -  Research blood testing: to study measures of your immune system

        -  Once the participant has completed treatment on study they will be followed monthly for
           6 months
    
  