
    
      DCRI will utilize data on patients with ASCVD from the Cerner's health systems who have
      agreed to participate in the Learning Registry. Cerner will de-identify the data and place it
      into a cloud-based server hosted by Amazon Web Services that is password-protected and
      accessible only to DCRI researchers.

      The research goals for the Learning Registry are,

        1. Evaluate treatment patterns and gaps in care for patients with atherosclerotic
           cardiovascular disease.

           Across adults with ASCVD, treatment patterns for those groups will be evaluated,
           including aspirin, beta blockers, ace inhibitors, P2Y12 inhibitors, statins, and other
           antithrombotics. Factors associated with appropriate therapy use will be assessed,
           including patient level factors (age, race, sex, insurance status), clinical factors
           (type of ASCVD, comorbidities including kidney disease, atrial fibrillation,
           hypertension, diabetes, duration since last event), and system level factors (type of
           provider seen, frequency of contact with the healthcare system). Stratified analyses
           will include, but is not limited to, adults with PAD and adults who would have been
           eligible for the COMPASS trial.

        2. Estimate the attributable risk of modifiable risk factors on recurrent cardiovascular
           events in adults with established ASCVD.

      Patients who present with myocardial infarction, unstable angina, stroke, and TIA will be
      identified. Those who have been previously seen in the outpatient setting will be evaluated
      for the presence of pre-existing cardiovascular disease to identify those with CVD prior to
      their event. Risk factor control prior to the event will be assessed. The amount of disease
      potentially preventable by risk factor control, as well as utilization of novel secondary
      preventive therapies including rivaroxaban will be evaluated.
    
  