
    
      Trabectedin improves progression-free survival in un-resectable advanced soft tissue sarcoma,
      in particular lipo- and leiomyo- sarcomas after failure of conventional chemotherapy, with a
      low level of reported grade 3 symptomatic toxicity for many patients. However objective
      responses are infrequent, with the largest proportion of patients who benefit using
      traditional oncological response criteria having a delay in progression with the cancer
      stable. Trabectedin may improve the duration of cancer control by the modulation of cancer
      growth as measured by the growth modulation index (GMI).

      Patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) are central to understanding the impact of cancer
      therapies which may shrink cancers or control their growth, and even sometimes modestly
      improve the length of life, but at the expense of disruption of lifestyle, and of toxicities.

      It is very important to use PROMs to evaluate the balance between these risks and benefits to
      understand the overall impact of the therapy. It remains poorly described whether patients
      report improved outcomes during palliative chemotherapy with trabectedin, using validated
      questionnaires, and how this may vary with the clinical efficacy and duration of the
      treatment and the demographic and clinical characteristics of the patient. Therefore the
      investigators intend to examine the feasibility of collecting patient reported outcome
      measures using validated instruments prospectively during English NHS administration of
      Trabectedin and with this to explore the pattern of patient reported outcomes, such as is the
      trajectory in PROMs distinct comparing groups by the size or symptoms from tumour masses.

      The study will aim deliver Patient Reported Outcomes Measures (PROMs) data in patients with
      advanced tissue sarcoma. The recruitment target is a total of 30 patients over a 2 year
      period. Patients' quality of life (QoL) will be captured using a validated QoL questionnaire
      (EORTC QLQ-C30) during their treatment with Trabectedin. The questionnaire takes
      approximately 12 minutes and the patient will complete this unaided. Patients will be
      required to complete the electronic questionnaire using Q-Tool. Q-Tool is a web-based piece
      of software. Patients will be required to complete this questionnaire alongside receiving
      standard of care treatment with Trabectedin in the following pattern: On the day of
      administration of the 1st of treatment with Trabectedin; before the 2nd treatment of
      Trabectedin; before the 4th treatment of Trabectedin; prior to the 7th treatment of
      Trabectedin; prior to the 10th treatment of Trabectedin and then will continue in 3 weekly
      cycles until the end of treatment with Trabectedin. Patients will complete the questionnaire
      on the computer terminals available in the outpatient clinic before they see the doctor and
      nurses and prior to treatment on each of these days.

      Patients at the end of treatment with Trabectedin will complete a short exit questionnaire.
      This will assess their experiences of completing the QoL questionnaire and ease of using
      Q-Tool. The exit questionnaire will take approximately 5 minutes to complete. This will be
      completed in the outpatient area and provided to the patient by the Research Nurse.
    
  