
    
      Compared with patients with methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) bacteremia,
      patients with MRSA bacteremia remained in the hospital for two more days on average and had a
      median attributable increment in hospital charges of approximately $7000.

      MRSA status is a determinant of bed allocation, especially in shared-room settings, which
      represent the most common organization in the US and globally. Based on guidelines from the
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, once patients are designated as having had a
      positive MRSA culture (either colonized or from a clinical isolate), they require Contact
      Precautions. This requirement translates into either cohorting with other patients with
      similar precautions status (i.e., two patients with MRSA share a room) or placement in a
      private room in the hospital. Cohorting is not the preferred infection control method, but in
      shared-room settings, it is the most common scenario, particularly in hospitals with high
      occupancy.

      Individuals can clear MRSA colonization spontaneously. In fact, up to 38% of patients with
      MRSA-positive cultures taken greater than 3 months prior were found to be MRSA-negative
      during a re-screening program conducted by the Massachusetts General Hospital Infection
      Control Unit from 2004-2006. Other studies have demonstrated that a majority of patients are
      likely to clear colonization at various time points from original documentation of MRSA
      infection or colonization. There is currently no standardized approach or accepted guidelines
      for addressing screening for clearance of colonization in the growing pool of patients who
      have previous MRSA colonization/infection. Many organizations do provide guidelines for
      screening, but these guidelines are not based on rigorous study, have a variety of
      permutations, and have neither consensus acceptance nor adequate implementation among the
      medical community.

      The status quo limits bed availability and delays patient discharge to rehabilitation
      facilities, adversely affecting quality and efficiency, and resulting in use of additional
      hospital resources. In addition to problems associated with patient flow for admissions and
      discharges, precaution status results in additional disruptions of patient care through "bed
      moves" to accommodate the use of shared rooms by like patients needing Contact Precautions.

      A patient's precaution status affects his/her care from admission through discharge. During
      pre-admission, patients identified as previously having MRSA are affected by bed shortages
      and delays to admission while in emergency departments. While admitted, under current
      practices, patients who have in fact cleared MRSA may be cohorted with those who have active
      infection or persistent colonization, putting them at risk of recolonization and hospital
      acquired infection (HAI). Finally, patients who are on precautions for MRSA often have
      delayed discharge to rehabilitation or nursing facilities because of bed constraints similar
      to those experienced by acute care facilities.

      We hypothesize that the use of more sensitive Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) methods
      detecting MRSA in nasal swabs can facilitate identification of true negative patients and can
      reliably do so with a single negative test in a shorter period of time, thereby greatly
      facilitating the ability to complete testing on a larger proportion of patients.
    
  