
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To develop a better understanding of why low-grade glioma tumors develop in children and
           adolescents.

        -  To study genetic profiles that may predict response to treatment and provide clues to
           how these tumors developed initially using tumor and blood samples from these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Retrospective data collection (for participants recruited from study SIOP-LGG1): During
           a follow-up appointment for study SIOP-LGG1, both biological parents* are asked to
           complete a questionnaire about their family's cancer history. They may complete the
           questionnaire either in the clinic or in their home. Participants may complete and
           return the questionnaires at any time throughout the study.

        -  Prospective data collection (for participants recruited from study SIOP-LGG-2004): Both
           biological parents* are asked to complete a family history questionnaire and provide
           information about their family's cancer history. Participants may complete and return
           the questionnaires at any time throughout the study.

      NOTE: *In circumstances where either or both biological parents are unable to complete the
      questionnaire, it may be completed by the patient diagnosed with low grade glioma (if they
      are over 16 years old) or adoptive parents or guardians, if they feel they have the knowledge
      to complete the questionnaire.

      Tumor tissue and blood samples collected on SIOP-LGG1 or SIOP-LGG-2004 are analyzed for
      genetic profiles predictive of response to treatment and for different patterns of tumor
      development, natural tumor behavior, and tumor sensitivity to cancer therapies. Collected
      family data are anonymised and linked to the biological sample collected. Samples are then
      stored for future molecular genetic studies.
    
  