
    
      SPOON Mexico is an innovative strategy to prevent undernutrition and obesity in children aged
      0-24 months living in marginalized areas of Tepic City, Nayarit. The SPOON program aims to
      improve infant and young children feeding practices, including exclusive breastfeeding, and
      promote the use of home-fortification with peanut-based SQ-LNS (small quantity lipid-based
      nutrient supplements) through a novel behavior change strategy.

      The study will recruit children between 0 and 6 months of age as well as pregnant women in
      the third trimester. Mothers or caregivers of eligible children will be invited to
      participate and a consent form obtain. Participation will start at 0-6 months and the
      intervention will last until children are up to 24 months. Participants will be randomly
      assigned at the household level to one of two groups: a control group and a treatment group.
      Participants in the control group will receive the standard services provided by their local
      health clinics according to the national protocol. Participants in Treatment Group 1 will
      receive SQ-LNS supplement from 6-24 months and an innovative behavioral change strategy
      designed using ethnographic and marketing methods to promote adequate infant and young child
      feeding practices and the use of SQ-LNS. The strategy will be delivered to mothers or
      caregivers through individual home-visits and group sessions.

      A sample size of 600 children per group has been calculated to detect a minimum effect size
      of 0.18 with 95% level of significance and a 80% power. Additionally, a 20% attrition has
      been included in the sample size calculation.

      Main outcomes include infant and young child feeding practices, height, weight, hemoglobin,
      prevalence of anemia, prevalence of stunting, prevalence of obesity, and weight gain rate. A
      baseline and final survey will be conducted to collect data for these variables, as well as
      sociodemographic information. Impact estimation will be done comparing the average results
      and the distribution of indicators between the treatment and control group. Differences of
      simple means and regression models including co-variables of the child's age and sex, and
      characteristics of the primary caregiver and household will be estimated. In addition to
      potential changes in indicator averages, changes in the distribution of variables will be
      explored under the hypothesis that the intervention might not only improve average value for
      a given indicator, but compress the distribution over a range of values closer to an optimal
      range. Changes to distributions will be checked by applying the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.
    
  