
    
      Interstitial lung diseases (ILD) are a group of chronic, progressive lung disorders. The most
      common ILD is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) with a average survival ranging between
      2.5-5 years after diagnosis. The term pulmonary fibrosis means scarring of the lung tissue
      and is the cause of worsening shortness of breath. IPF can frequently affect the tissue
      between the air sacs in the lung called the interstitium and many other areas in lung (blood
      vessels and air passage ways). Earlier diagnosis of ILD is a prerequisite for better
      long-term outcomes. However, disease detection and assessment of progression are reliant on
      many varying host and environmental influences. As a result, patients with ILD are often
      misdiagnosed early in the disease process. Moreover, patients diagnosed with ILD have
      different disease courses and predicting which patient is at risk of progression is a
      challenging problem. Many personalized medicine approaches are being developed but there is a
      lack of available biomarkers in clinical practice. Biomarkers comes from a new experimental
      technique called metabolomics which is becoming widely used in medicine and biology for
      studying living organisms. The method measures the levels of large numbers of naturally
      occurring small molecules (called metabolites) that are present in the blood, saliva, breath
      and tissues. The pattern, or fingerprint, of metabolites in human samples can be used to
      learn about the health of an organism and perhaps allow physicians to diagnose, treat, and
      follow the progress of specific diseases. Clinical and functional models lack predictive
      ability to detect patients at risk of disease progression. Thus, there is an urgent need to
      develop accurate prediction models for disease diagnosis and assess treatment effects.

      CT-derived ventilation (CT-V) imaging includes quantitative lung function imaging and lung
      compliance imaging. CT-V is a newer image processing based technique that uses mathematical
      modeling and scientific computing to gather changes in lung tissue volumes during the
      breathing cycle. Beaumont is currently using CT-V for radiotherapy planning. CT-V produces a
      full 3D map of ventilation/breathing, has better image resolution, provides pertinent
      measurable imaging information, and does not require a contrast agent. Thus, high-resolution
      anatomical and functional information can be derived using CT-V.

      To better understand the functional and radiographic changes seen in patients with ILD, there
      is a need to further examine the downstream changes occurring at the level of proteins and
      metabolites. Metabolomics provides a "snapshot" in time of all metabolites present in a
      biological sample such as whole blood, plasma, serum, urine and many other specimens.
      Proteins alone or integrated with other systems, is a particularly informative tool for
      understanding disease biology in ILD patients.Using an untargeted metabolomics platform and
      profiling serum, saliva and urine from the patients will determine if additional or more
      robust biomarkers of disease can be identified and, in conjunction with the assessment of
      regional ventilation differences through CT-V, will provide a better insight into disease
      process and further help with accurate prognostication.

      Participants who have consented for the study and have meet all the inclusion criteria and
      none of the exclusion criteria will have one full inspiration and expiration CT, and two
      4D-CT scans under two different pressures (5 and 10 cm water), except for healthy volunteers.
      They will have their breath profiled using Owlstone platform and serum, saliva and urine
      collected within one week period. Participants will be asked to refrain from smoking one day
      prior to the study date. All study related sampling will be done in a single visit if
      possible and if not possible all study procedures and samples will be collected within a one
      week period.

      Screening / Visit 1 (to be collected on the same day or within one week period)

        1. Review the study with the subject (subject's legal representative) and obtain written
           informed consent and HIPAA authorization and assent, if appropriate.

        2. Assign the subject a unique screening number.

        3. Record demographics data.

        4. Record medical history, including a history of ILD, COPD, diagnosis date, and
           treatments.

        5. Record concomitant medications.

        6. Perform a complete physical examination.

        7. Perform and record vital signs.

        8. Perform and record pulmonary function study if not done within 3 months (Standard of
           care).

        9. Collect breath sample using Owlstone platform.

       10. Collect blood, saliva, urine for metabolomics testing.

       11. Perform CT Ventilation study with four-dimensional (4D) CT and Inspiration - Expiration
           CT scan.

      Final Visit/Visit 2 (12 months from 4DCT)- Spirometry testing

      Disease progression will be assessed using chart review over the next 24 months to assess
      standard of care pulmonary function evaluation and corresponding CT features respiratory
      hospitalizations and mortality.
    
  