
    
      Distal Radius Fractures and Medico-socioeconomic Impact

      Fractures of the distal radius account for approximately 380,000 fractures in the United
      States each year and occur in 15% of women older than 50 years of age. These fractures are a
      particular health concern amongst the elderly, who are at risk of fragility fractures, and
      are associated with long-term functional impairment, pain and a variety of complications.
      Over the past 10 years, there has been increased popularity of surgical interventions for the
      treatment of distal radius fractures, especially with the introduction of volar locking
      plates in 2000. Current medical costs for distal radius fractures are estimated to exceed USD
      535 million each year and projected to rise as the incidence and use of internal fixation
      increases.

      The Concept of Impaired Postural Stability and Prevention of Fall

      The occurrence of distal radius fractures is well known to be a sentinel event as these
      fractures are associated with 2 to 4 times increased risk of subsequent hip fractures in
      elderly patients. This is an important concept as it is well established that these patients
      have an increased risk of falling. Fall prevention is therefore crucial to decrease further
      morbidity and mortality. Studies have shown a significantly increased degree of postural sway
      in patients with distal radius fractures, in both anteroposterior and lateral directions,
      which is strongly characterized in older subjects for recurrent falls. A recent study has
      also revealed that older adults have significantly impaired postural stability by using
      objective measurements from computerized instruments. Despite on-going studies on distal
      radius fractures, the latest Cochrane systematic review shows a lack of evidence on the
      effectiveness of current rehabilitation interventions. The American Academy of Orthopaedic
      Surgeons (AAOS) position statement also recommends patients with fragility fractures to
      undergo evaluation of osteoporosis and treatment to prevent future fractures. Notably, there
      are no recommendations on the role of balance training or physical conditioning.
      Consequently, the evaluation and treatment of fall risks have been largely overlooked.
      Further research that target rehabilitation and treat postural instability after distal
      radius fracture to reduce fall rates are therefore warranted.

      Low-magnitude High-Frequency Vibration as a Rehabilitation Intervention to Improve Postural
      Instability and Prevent Fall

      Low-magnitude high-frequency vibration (LMHFV) is a biophysical intervention that provides
      non-invasive, systemic mechanical stimulation and has been shown to improve muscle strength
      and balancing abilities in healthy, independent and active elderly women in our previous
      institute's study. Furthermore, our animal studies have also shown the ability of LMHFV to
      promote myogenic proliferation and hypertrophy, muscle contractibility, and increase
      fast-fiber switching to muscle fiber type IIA compared with control. Numerous other studies
      have reported whole body vibration to have positive effects on blood circulation in lower
      extremities and enhanced muscle performance including muscle strength in the elderly.

      Previous rehabilitation studies have mainly used clinical functional performance tests, which
      lack sensitivity and specificity in predicting impaired postural control in osteoporotic
      patients. Therefore, the use of more objective measures to assess instability and fall risk
      derived from computerized instruments have been recommended. The Biodex Balance System SD
      (Biodex Medical Systems Inc, Shirley, NY) consists of a dynamic balance platform interfaced
      with computer software that provides up to 20° tilt from horizontal in a 360° range of
      motion. The system offers objective and reliable tests for postural stability and fall risk,
      which have been shown in multiple studies and in elderly patients.

      In order to provide effective rehabilitation regimens for our patients, the validation of our
      interventions using objective outcomes is essential. To our knowledge, this is the first
      study to use an objective device to assess and validate our rehabilitation tool to prevent
      falls in patients after a distal radius fracture.
    
  