
    
      This paediatric trial has the objective to make gabapentin available for children with severe
      chronic neuropathic or mixed pain. This study will be conducted in full conformance with the
      ethical principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki, consistent with ICH-GCP
      (including ICH Topic E11 guideline) and applicable regulatory requirements including the
      Paediatric Recommendations (CE/2008).

      Gabapentin has been successfully used to treat neuropathic pain in adults. In absence of
      specific paediatric studies it is not approved for the same condition in children.

      The paediatric use of gabapentin is hampered by: a) the lack of a suitable paediatric
      formulation, b) the significant variability of gabapentin PK profile and c) efficacy and
      safety data in this specific population.

      GABA-2 is a superiority trial designed to assess the potential benefit of gabapentin oral
      solution in augmenting the analgesic effect of morphine in children affected by severe
      chronic pain thus preventing or decreasing opioid tolerance, as it has been reported to
      happen in adults. Thus GABA-2 study is an randomized, double blind, placebo controlled,
      multi-centre study to evaluate the efficacy of gabapentin added to morphine in paediatric
      patients suffering from severe chronic pain (neuropathic or mixed with ascertained
      neuropathic component). The trial will include 66 patients aged from 3 months to less than 18
      years affected by severe chronic neuropathic or mixed pain and in need of morphine.

      Children from 3 months to <3 years of age will participate to GABA-2 on the basis of the
      nature of the underlying disease suggestive of a neuropathic component.

      A block randomisation will be applied to assign children to gabapentin and morphine
      (intervention group) or gabapentin placebo and morphine (control group) in a 1:1 ratio.

      Randomisation will be stratified by age-group as follows:

        -  3 months - < 3 years;

        -  3 years - < 8 years;

        -  8 years - < 18 years.

      Recruitment will start with patients ≥ 3 years of age. Patients < than 3 years of age will be
      recruited when results from the ongoing non-clinical toxicological study in juvenile rats
      will confirm the safety of gabapentin in the age subset 3 months-3 years.

      The protocol has been designed to ensure double-blind conditions at randomisation and
      throughout the treatment period. Blinding (children, caregiver, outcome assessor) will be
      ensured by elaborating an identical (matching) gabapentin placebo.

      The study comprises 3 stages over 18 to 22 weeks: 1st stage ( screening period of 1 week,
      wash out phase of max 3 days and baseline assessment of 3 days ), 2nd stage ( treatment
      period including an optimization phase of 3 weeks and 12 weeks of maintenance), 3rd stage
      (study taper lasting from 0 to 4 weeks and 1 week follow up).

      The proposed formulation of the IMP test is a liquid oral formulation (syrup) containing 75
      mg/ml of gabapentin. The IMP comparator is the placebo. The background therapy is morphine
      presented as immediate and extended-release tablets and a liquid, oral formulation. Every
      participant will be administered morphine and the active product or placebo.

      For both study drugs, dosing will initiate at a starting dose in mg/kg/day and will be
      increased according to a predefined matrix to a maximum dose in mg/kg/day. Dosing will be
      flexibly optimised in order to maximise the potential benefits while minimising risk of AEs.
      There will be a maximum of 5 possible dose adjustments during the 3 weeks optimisation
      period.

      Dosing for gabapentin during the optimization period will be defined according to two weight
      groups (5-15kg and >15kg). Current dosing schedule for gabapentin is the following:

        -  Day 1 starting dose in mg/kg/day;

        -  Day 3 2 times the starting dose in mg/kg/day;

        -  Day 5 3 times the starting dose in mg/kg/day;

        -  Day 14 2 times the dose of Day 5 in mg/kg/day;

        -  Day 21 3 times the dose of Day 5 in mg/kg/day.

      Dosing of morphine is largely based on the "WHO guidelines on the pharmacological treatment
      of persisting pain in children with medical illnesses", 2012. The guidelines recommended
      starting dose for immediate release formulation of morphine are '80-200 mcg/kg every 4 hours
      for infants and 200-500 mcg/kg in 6 divided doses in older children. ' However, due to
      compliance issues a four times daily regimen (q.i.d) will be used during the titration phase
      of this protocol for children with body weight >30kg and throughout this study for patients
      with <30kg body weight.

      The morphine starting dose in this study reflects the lower end of the WHO recommendation
      with a titration scheduled to reach a maximum daily dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day. Patients < 30kg BW
      will have the liquid morphine formulation, 4 times daily throughout the study and patients >
      30kg will receive immediate release tablet 4 times daily, during the titration phase and
      extended release tablets 2 times daily during the maintenance phase.

      All subjects that are completing the study or are withdrawn early must be tapered off of the
      gabapentin. At the visit of Early Termination or End Of Study visit, subjects will be
      dispensed a taper dose based on their current dose level (the dose of the medicinal product
      taken during the maintenance period) and should follow the dose tapering as described in the
      protocol.

      Concomitant use of some medications that could interfere with the study will be prohibited.
      Unrestricted use of paracetamol and/or ibuprofen alone or in combination will be used as
      rescue therapy any time the patient experiences pain (pain level >4/10 measured with age-
      appropriate pain scales FLACC, FPS-R or NRS-11) This study includes pharmacokinetic analysis
      to establish a population pharmacokinetic model adequate to describe the time-course and
      variability of plasma concentrations of gabapentin and gabapentin plus morphine following
      repeat dosing in children with chronic pain.

      The study includes also an optional exploratory pharmacogenomics study which requires a
      separate Informed Consent if the parent of the subject agrees to participate. The aims of the
      exploratory pharmacogenomic research is to better understand inherited genetic factors and
      their association with clinical assessments, which may include pharmacokinetics of
      gabapentin, relative susceptibility to drug-drug interactions, predisposition to side
      effects, and/or patients' response to treatment with gabapentin.

      The study foresees also an exploratory metabolomic study that may provide insight in the
      mechanism of neuropathic pain and the inter-individual variation in drug response.

      During this study, it is expected that a maximum of 15.9 mL of blood will be taken from every
      subject (male and female). Additional 2.0 ml of blood will be required from females of child
      bearing age for pregnancy testing.

      The primary analysis of efficacy will be conducted using ANCOVA with baseline average pain
      score as a covariate.

      The study will be conducted under the supervision of an independent Data Safety Monitoring
      Committee (DSMC).
    
  