
    
      Treatment in details:

      Dendritic cell (DC) vaccination The DC vaccine consists of adherent monocytes collected by
      leukapheresis. Monocytes are stimulated with GM-CSF and IL-4, and IL-1β, TNFα, IL-6 and PGE2
      are used for further maturation.

      DCs are transfected with PSA, PAP, survivin and hTERT mRNA. DC vaccines will only be given to
      patients in ARM A

      Docetaxel:

      Docetaxel will be given as an i.v. infusion every third week, 75 mg/m2 according to standard
      treatment. Patients will be pretreated with prednisolon before infusion with Docetaxel.
      Continuous treatment with prednisolon will not be administered.

      Treatment schedule:

      The DC vaccination will be administered once a week in two out of three weeks for the first
      12 weeks. After 12 weeks the DC vaccination will be given once every three weeks as long as
      Docetaxel is given. If the disease does not progress but the patient stop treatment with
      Docetaxel (because of side effects) the vaccine treatment can continue until disease
      progression.

      Evaluation in details:

      Immunological evaluation:

      Blood tests:

      100 ml blood will be drawn from the patient together with the first (baseline), the third and
      the fourth infusion of Docetaxel, and every third month thereafter.

      DTH:

      DTH with 3 i.d. injections consisting of media (neg. test), naked DCs and mRNA transfected
      DCs will be performed at baseline (together with 1st vaccine), together with the 5th vaccine
      and after three months of treatment (8th vaccine). 48 hours after the DTH at 5th vaccine a
      biopsy will be taken from the DTH area.

      Clinical evaluation:

      PSA:

      Patients will be evaluated with PSA measurements during the treatment. All patients will
      receive at least 4 treatments with Docetaxel even if PSA is rising.

      18F-NaF ("bone") PET/CT scan: All patients will have a bone-PET/CT scan at baseline. For
      patients with measurable lesions a PET/CT scan will be performed every three months.
    
  