
    
      BACKGROUND Skin tears were firstly defined by Payne RL and Martin ML, and thereafter by more
      recent studies, as traumatic wounds occurring principally on the upper limbs, as a result of
      friction alone or shearing and friction forces, which separate the epidermis from the dermis
      (partial thickness wounds) or which separate both the epidermis and the dermis from
      underlying structures (full thickness wounds). Skin tears are reported to be a common wound
      especially on fragile exposed skin, which can be often encountered among older adult,
      disabled populations and neonates. Skin tears can be found on all areas of the body and are
      particularly common on the extremities. Skin tears may be also very common in public hospital
      (PH) inpatients and residents of residential care facilities (RCF) with prevalence up to 41%
      in these settings.

      Skin Tears can cause psychological problems for the patient and represent an economic problem
      with important effects on both the patient and the community.

      The risk factors hitherto hypothesized are many and include: advanced age, spasticity or
      rigidity, enticement, cognitive decline, long-term drug therapies, inadequate nutritional
      intake, etc but none of them, individually and independently, was found to be strongly
      correlated onset of skin tears, in such a way as to be able to effectively associate it with
      their onset.

      Many evidences have correlated, in various physiological or pathological conditions, the role
      of estrogens with functions and skin aging.

      The serum level of estrogens, and in particular estrone and estradiol, and the peripheral
      expression, in the tissues, of the related estrogenic receptors, estrogen α receptors,
      estrogen β receptors (ER- α, ER-β) and G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER) may be
      related to skin tears.

      AIM The aim of the project is to study the correlation between serum estrogen levels and the
      expression of the related receptors, with the development of skin tears.

      METHODOLOGY The project will develop on the analysis of populations of residents coming from
      ACF belonging to the national territory between a minimum of 10 and a maximum of 30. Each RCF
      will have to provide a number of subjects between 10 and 40.

      The total patient sample will therefore be between a minimum of 100 and a maximum of 1200
      subjects.

      Therefore, two populations of guests assisted in the RCF will be recruited. A group of
      subjects affected by skin tears (group A) and a control group of subjects without skin tears
      (group B).

      Patients will be included in both groups via a simple randomization procedure. The informed
      consent of the patient is required. A group of peripheral venous blood will be made to both
      groups to measure the levels of estrone and estradiol and a skin biopsy on the intact skin
      area near the lesion in group A and on a thin layer of healthy skin (Shave Biopsy) in the
      area of the arm in the control group (group B).

      EXPECTED RESULTS Primary Endpoint The primary endpoint will be the correlation between serum
      estrogen levels, receptor expression and skin tears.

      Secondary Endpoint. Correlation between receptorial structure and clinical staging of skin
      tears.
    
  