
    
      Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis can occur at any age, but usually affects children and
      young adults. The mean age of clinical presentation in pediatric cohorts ranges from 5 to 8
      years. The annual incidence of Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis is reported to be 0.4-0.8
      per 100,000 and the disease more commonly affects children and young adults, probably related
      to the high frequency of exanthematous and other infections and vaccination in this age
      group.Initial symptoms and signs of Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis usually begin within
      2 days to 4 weeks after a viral infection or vaccination, and include a rapid onset
      encephalopathy (behavioral change or altered consciousness) associated with a combination of
      multifocal neurological deficits, leading to hospitalization within a week. Typically Acute
      disseminated encephalomyelitis presents with systemic symptoms such as fever, malaise,
      headache, nausea, and vomiting, which may occur shortly before the appearance of neurological
      signs and symptoms. The clinical course is rapidly progressive, developing maximum deficits
      within a few days (mean 4.5 days) . A wide variety of neurological deficits have been
      described in pediatric patients with Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, including:
      obtundation and depressed consciousness (invariable); unilateral or bilateral long tract
      signs (60-95%); acute hemiplegia (76%); ataxia (18-59%); meningismus (26-31%); seizures
      (13-35%); spinal cord involvement (24%); visual involvement (7-23%); and speech impairment or
      aphasia (5-21%). Cerebellar mutism and prolonged focal motor seizures in the context of Acute
      disseminated encephalomyelitis have been mainly reported in children younger than 5 years of
      age.Acute combined peripheral nervous system demyelination is not rare in children with Acute
      disseminated encephalomyelitis whereas it is more frequently described in adult patients,
      with a reported frequency of 44% in one study. A particular Acute disseminated
      encephalomyelitis phenotype affecting young children has been reported in association with
      group A beta hemolytic streptococcal infection. Prominent behavioral disturbances, dystonic
      movements, and basal ganglia abnormalities on MRI (in addition to typical white matter
      lesions) characterize this syndrome.

      Supportive care in the acute stage is critical and early antiviral treatment with acyclovir
      (30 mg/kg/ day) is highly recommended on admission, considering that viral encephalitis and
      particularly herpes simplex encephalitis is the usual primary diagnosis in a child with
      fever, encephalopathy, seizures, and focal neurological signs. The treatment for Acute
      disseminated encephalomyelitis includes primarily the management of acute attacks.
      Corticosteroid treatment at high doses is the most widely reported therapy. Most authors
      recommend a brief (3-5 days) high-dose intravenous steroid course, usually methylprednisolone
      given at 20-30 mg/kg/day to a maximum dose of 1 g/day, or dexamethasone given at 1 mg/kg/day,
      followed by oral prednisone taper for 4-6 weeks . Reported treatment approaches show a wide
      variety in the specific steroid formulation employed, as well as in the dosing, routes of
      administration, and tapering regimens. Treatment with corticosteroids requires careful
      monitoring of blood pressure, urine glucose, and serum potassium, and administration of
      gastric protection. The use of immunoglobulin has been reported in several case studies
      either alone or in combination with corticosteroids. The recommended total dose of
      immunoglobulin is 2 g/kg, administered over 2-5 days. The usefulness of immunoglobulin has
      been reported both as a second-line treatment in steroid-unresponsive Acute disseminated
      encephalomyelitis cases and in patients showing recurrent or steroid-dependent demyelination.

      The use of plasma exchange has been recently established as possibly effective and it may be
      considered as escalation therapy for steroid-unresponsive acute fulminant demyelinating
      diseases including Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, multiple sclerosis, and transverse
      myelitis, . Plasmapheresis should be started as soon as the treatment failure is recognized.
      The use of this procedure in Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis has been reported in only a
      small number of severe cases. A median number of seven exchanges (range 2 to 20) were
      reported in one study. Moderate to severe anemia, symptomatic hypotension, hypocalcemia,
      potential transfusion reactions or transmission of transfusion-related diseases, and
      heparin-associated thrombocytopenia have been described in relation to therapeutic plasma
      exchange. There is also a risk of catheter-related complications, including thrombosis,
      septic infections or pneumothorax.

      Acute hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis is often considered the most acute and severe form of
      Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, with a universally fatal course within hours to days
      after the onset of neurological symptoms without treatment. Survival in pediatric patients
      has been reported with combined therapy including high-dose intravenous corticosteroid,
      immunoglobulin, Therapeutic plasma exchange, and decompressive craniotomies. Aggressive
      treatment strategies such as surgical decompression have to be considered and performed in
      patients with fulminant variants of Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, with evidence of
      continued clinical deterioration due to increased intracranial pressure, unresponsive to
      conventional medical treatment and critical care measures.
    
  