
    
      Erlotinib hydrochloride is designed to help block the activity of an enzyme that is believed
      to play an important role in cell growth. Researchers want to find out if blocking these
      enzymes will slow tumor growth. Bexarotene is designed to control cancer cell growth and
      division.

      In order to enroll in this study, you must also be enrolled in Protocol 2005-0823
      (NCT00409968): A Biomarker-integrated study in Chemorefractory Patients with Advanced
      Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Protocol 2005-0823 (NCT00409968) is the screening study in a
      group of studies called the BATTLE program. Participants in Protocol 2005-0823(NCT00409968)
      are assigned to one of the research studies. The results of your tumor analysis helped the
      study doctor determine to assign you to this particular research study.

      While on study, you will take erlotinib hydrochloride and bexarotene by mouth once a day.
      Erlotinib hydrochloride tablets should be taken preferably in the morning 1 hour before or 2
      hours after a meal with no more than 7 ounces of water. If you forget to take a dose, the
      last missed dose should be taken as soon as you remember, as long as it is at least 12 hours
      before the next dose is due to be taken. The next day, you should take the scheduled dose at
      the usual time.

      Bexarotene capsules should be taken with or immediately after a meal. If you miss a dose,
      take it as soon as possible, with food. However, if it is nearly time for your next dose,
      skip the missed dose and continue your dose schedule as before.

      Every attempt should be made to keep from vomiting the medication for at least 30 minutes
      after taking it. For example, if you feel nauseated before or after taking the medication,
      anti-nausea medications should be used.

      The erlotinib hydrochloride tablets and bexarotene capsules should be stored at room
      temperature. Bexarotene capsules should not be stored near heating devices, high temperatures
      or humidity, or where children or pets have access to them. Bexarotene capsules should be
      protected from sunlight.

      Every 4 weeks (1 cycle) your medical history will be recorded and you will have a physical
      exam, including measurement of vital signs (blood pressure, pulse, temperature, and breathing
      rate) and weight. You will have routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) and a performance
      status evaluation (questions about your ability to perform everyday activities). You will
      have blood drawn (about 1-2 teaspoons) to check you thyroid function. You will also have
      blood drawn (about 1-2 teaspoons) to check your lipid profile weekly for the first 4 weeks
      and then every cycle after that. Your study doctor will also ask you about any medications
      you are taking and your smoking history.

      Every 2 cycles, your tumor will be evaluated by chest x-ray and computed tomography (CT) or
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans to evaluate the status of the disease. If you are
      taking Coumadin® (warfarin), you will have blood drawn (about 1-2 teaspoons) to check your
      blood clotting function weekly for the first 5 weeks of treatment and then every cycle after
      that.

      You may continue receiving erlotinib hydrochloride and bexarotene for as long as the cancer
      responds to study treatment. Your doctor may decide to take you off this study if you
      experience intolerable side effects, your medical condition gets worse, or you are unable to
      comply with study requirements. If you stop study treatment, you may be able to enroll in 1
      of the remaining 3 protocols of the BATTLE program.

      After you have stopped taking the study treatment, you will have a physical exam, including
      measurement of vital signs. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine
      tests. You will also have blood drawn (about 1-2 teaspoons) to check your blood clotting
      function. You will have a performance status evaluation, a chest x-ray, and a CT or MRI scan.
      Following this evaluation, you will be contacted by telephone every 3 months for up to 3
      years, to see how you are doing.

      This is an investigational study. Erlotinib hydrochloride is approved by the FDA for
      treatment of NSCLC in patients who have relapsed. Bexarotene is approved by the FDA for the
      treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). Their use together in this study is
      investigational. Up to 72 patients will take part in this multicenter study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  