
    
      Corneal neovascularisation is a very common problem affecting both sexes at all ages and
      induced by differing underlying causes. It is considered to be the single most important risk
      factor for graft rejection. The process of angiogenesis, i.e. the formation of new blood
      vessels, is similar in any part of the body. Hence principles adopted to alleviate new blood
      vessels in one area can be applied to blood vessels in other areas using similar drugs.

      Over the past 8 years a component necessary for angiogenesis, i.e Vascular endothelial growth
      factor (VEGF) has been targeted to induce regression of blood vessels in patients with cancer
      with an intravenous dosage of an anti-VEGF.

      More recently, anti-VEGF therapies have targeted eye related neovascularisation, especially
      in the treatment of age related macular degeneration. This role has been expanded to include
      all other structures in the eye affected by angiogenesis such as neovascular glaucoma(Iris)
      and diabetic retinopathy(Retina).

      Over the past few years attention has been drawn to the use of antiVEGF therapies to the
      surface of the eye. Many reports in international peer reviewed literature have commented on
      the use of anti VEGF therapy in the form of drops or injections on the surface of the eye,
      subconjunctivally and within the cornea. They have found drops and injections are safe,
      although injections appear to act more favourably. Avastin has been investigated for treating
      corneal new vessels and was proved to be both safe and effective.

      Fine needle diathermy (FND) is a routine method for occluding corneal vessels that was
      developed in our department in 2000 and is used worldwide. It has been established that this
      technique is suitable for active and mature vessels.

      However, the consequent transient tissue injury and inflammation can trigger further new
      vessel formation. Avastin is effective in occlusion of the active vessels only.It does not
      affect the established mature vessels. Hence if FND is combined with Avastin it is expected
      and hypothesized that a more efficient and lasting occlusion of vessels will be obtained. In
      this study, the investigators aim to investigate the combined action of Avastin and fine
      needle diathermy in occlusion of corneal vessels. The actual incidence of corneal
      neovascularisation in the UK is unknown but American studies suggest up to 1.4 million people
      are affected with sight threatening complications on annual basis. These blood vessels arise
      from a multitude of causes, including viral infections, corneal injuries, chronic
      inflammation and as a result of corneal transplantation. Conventional therapies at the
      present time include surgical occlusion of the blood vessels with a diathermy or laser or
      chronic use of steroids. The latter option is a associated with potential sight threatening
      complications such as glaucoma.

      This study will generate data to inform further controlled studies towards establishing
      Avastin and fine needle diathermy as the treatment of choice for corneal new vessels.
    
  