
    
      This is a prospective, multi-center, observational study designed to determine if
      pre-operative exposure to anti-TNF agents is an independent risk factor for post-operative
      infectious complications within 30 days of surgery in subjects with IBD.

      Patient Assessments:

      Patient assessments will occur at the Screening/Baseline Visit, Discharge Day, and 30-Day
      Telephone Follow-up (see Figure 1). Potential pre-operative predictors of post-operative
      infections will be assessed at the Screening/Baseline Visit through a brief patient interview
      and abstraction of medical records. Data will be entered into the electronic case report
      forms (eCRF). A second data abstraction will occur on the Discharge Day. At this time, all
      data from the day of surgery will be available including finalized operative reports,
      anesthesia records, and pathology. The post-operative medical record will also be reviewed
      for potential confounding factors related to post-operative infection (i.e. presence of
      central lines, foley catheters, antibiotic use, etc.). Additionally, the medical record will
      be reviewed for the occurrence of post-operative infection and the other non-infectious
      outcomes being studied. Data will be entered into the eCRF. The final assessment will occur
      on post-operative day 30 (within 1 week). A telephone interview will be conducted. The
      purpose of the interview is to assess for the occurrence of post-operative infection and
      non-infectious outcomes. If an infection has been identified, relevant medical records will
      be requested to confirm infection and abstract information pertaining to the infection. Data
      will be entered into the eCRF.

      Assessment of Anti-TNF Exposure:

      Exposure to anti-TNF agents will be defined in two different ways. The primary analysis will
      define anti-TNF exposure as patient report of use within 12 weeks of surgery pre-operatively.
      Confirmation of patient report will be through medical record abstraction. This definition of
      anti-TNF exposure is consistent with many of the retrospective, single center studies on
      post-operative infections related to IBD surgery. The 12-week cutoff point has been chosen to
      account for the washout of infliximab before surgery based on its half-life. However, the
      different anti-TNF agents have varying half-lives. Date of last administration prior to
      surgery will be recorded so that different cutoff points to define exposure such as 4 weeks
      and 8 weeks may be explored.

      The secondary analysis will define anti-TNF exposure by measured peri-operative levels in
      patients with a history of anti-TNF use in the six months preceding surgery. Anti-TNF levels
      and anti-drug antibodies will be checked at two time points in patients with recent anti-TNF
      use. An initial level will be drawn at the screening visit, which may occur peri-operatively
      up to post-op day 4. A second level will be drawn anytime between post-op day 4 and post-op
      day 7. The serum from these blood draws will be stored at -80 Celsius until the third year of
      the study at which time samples will be tested for drug levels and antibodies.
    
  