
    
      The investigators will recruit 80 adult participants (20 to 80 years old) with periodontal
      disease who do not receive a regular periodontal course of treatment, or who are unable to
      receive the regular periodontal treatment completely, using a split-mouth design, meaning
      that participants are treated with photodynamic therapy of the area for the experimental
      area, while the mouth corresponding to the location of the area without violations of
      periodontal disease control area. Participants signed the consent form, the first full-mouth
      calculus removal and oral hygiene education, and in the experimental area after a week to
      start photodynamic therapy. The investigators will inject indocyanine in the experimental
      area, and the wavelength of 810 nm, the energy density of 4.5-9 J / cm2 of the diode laser
      irradiation; indocyanine and will be cleared after the completion of irradiation, the control
      area will not For any treatment. After the first treatment, a second, identical treatment
      will be performed at intervals of 7-10 days. If there is no improvement after 6 weeks, the
      participant will be treated for the third time.

      Participants underwent periodontal examinations in the experimental and control areas at the
      beginning of the first photodynamic therapy (T0), after six weeks (T1), and six months later
      (T2), and record the periodontal pocket depth Gingival recession, plaque index and gingivitis
      index were measured, and the gingival crevicular fluid was obtained by sterilizing the paper
      needle. The gingival crevicular gingival crevicular gingival crevicular gingival crevicular
      Fluid, and the use of a periodontal curette to obtain subgingival plaque. The gingival
      crevicular fluid was quantified using the Periotron 8100 and the concentration of
      proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-1, IL-10, MMP-8, etc. in the gingival crevicular fluid
      was analyzed by ELISA kits; DNA was extracted and the periodontal pathogens such as P.
      gingivalis and T. denticola were detected by Realtime PCR.

      In addition, pain assessment was performed with a visual analogue scale at the time of
      initiation of photodynamic therapy, weekly during the first 6 weeks after initiation of
      photodynamic therapy, and at 6 months after initiation of treatment . Through these clinical,
      physiological indicators, as well as the subject experience records, more effective and
      objective assessment of photodynamic therapy and the establishment of adjuvant therapeutic
      mechanism.
    
  