
    
      Background:

      Autologous chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells have changed the therapeutic landscape in
      haematological malignancies. Nevertheless, the use of allogeneic CAR T cells from donors has
      many potential advantages over autologous approaches, such as the immediate availability of
      cryopreserved batches for patient treatment, possible standardization of the CAR-T cell
      product, time for multiple cell modifications, redosing or combination of CAR T cells
      directed against different targets, and decreased cost using an industrialized process. The T
      cells currently used for CAR-T cell manufacturing are mainly derived from peripheral blood
      mono-nuclear cells (PBMCs) .The manufacture of allogeneic CAR T cells from PBMCs collected
      from healthy donors is associated with the ability to make multiple vials from a single
      apheresis product. Allogeneic CAR T cells are created from healthy donors, they are generated
      from immune cells that have not been impacted by the immune effects of cancer or by exposure
      to chemotherapeutic agents, in contrast to autologous T cells from patients. The selection of
      donors on the basis of their immune characteristics is likely to be a key factor in
      decreasing the heterogeneity of the final cell product

      Objectives:

        -  To produce allogeneic CAR T cells with different targets and other cell products by
           using PBMCs from healthy subjects.

        -  To develop and optimize the methodology for the response or quality determination of
           cell Immunotherapy products.

      Design:

      All subjects are required to sign a written informed consent form for the study. After the
      signing of informed consent form, participants will be screened with a series of vital signs,
      physical examinations and laboratory tests. Demographic data and medical history of the
      subjects will also be documented. In addition, 30 mL peripheral venous blood sample will be
      collected to evaluate the biological characteristics of each subject. Participants will
      undergo a routine blood test within 24 hours before the apheresis to reconfirm their
      eligibility and 3-5 mL blood samples are to be drawn for the development of detection methods
      of cell-based immunotherapy. Subjects who meet all the inclusion criteria and do not meet any
      exclusion criteria are qualified to donate peripheral blood mono-nuclear cells (PBMCs) by
      means of apheresis. 6×10[9] of cells for each healthy person are preferred. 172 healthy
      subjects are to be enrolled through the whole study.
    
  