
    
      Although the benefit of aspirin use for secondary prevention is well established, its role in
      the primary prevention of cardiovascular diseases remains controversial. Differences in
      primary prevention guidelines may lead to underuse of aspirin in high-risk patients and
      overuse in low-risk patients. This study aims to describe the demographic characteristics and
      current status of the aspirin use for primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular
      diseases in a large, multicenter nationwide study. The ASSOS trial (Appropriateness of
      Aspirin Use in Medical Outpatients: A Multicenter, Observational Study) will be an
      observational, multicenter, and non-interventional study conducted in Turkey. Approximately
      5000 patients will be enrolled in this non-interventional study. All the data will be
      collected at one point in time and current clinical practice will be evaluated.

      The investigators will enroll all consecutive patients admitted to the outpatient cardiology
      clinics from January 30, 2018, through May 30, 2018, who were at least 18 years of age,
      provided written informed consent, and currently treated with aspirin (80-325 mg)within the
      last 30 days. Hospital-based cardiologists in public units will be invited to participate in
      the study. Patients will be stratified into 2 categories based on the presence or absence of
      atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease; secondary prevention group and primary prevention
      group, respectively. Appropriateness of aspirin use in primary prevention group will be
      evaluated according to the US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and European Society of
      Cardiology (ESC) guidelines. Physicians will complete a standardized survey form to collect
      information on patient clinical characteristics, cardiovascular risk factors, medical
      history, clinical examination, laboratory test results, and medications. Patients' risk
      factors for colorectal cancer and gastrointestinal bleeding will also be questioned.

      ASSOS registry will be the largest and most comprehensive study in Turkey evaluating aspirin
      use. The results of this study will provide valuable information regarding the potential
      misuse of aspirin in a real-world setting.
    
  