
    
      The European Strategy for the Homeless People states that homelessness is the most extreme
      form of poverty and exclusion, which violates human dignity and poses a risk to health and
      life. Women constitute a particularly vulnerable subgroup among homeless people. Women living
      homeless show significant deterioration in their psychological welfare and mental health,
      which, among other aspects, is an obstacle in the access to care resources and inclusion
      processes.

      There is a growing interest in the effectiveness and efficiency of intervention techniques to
      address mental health problems. The high comorbidity between mental health disorders, and
      especially emotional disorders, has promoted the development and consolidation of a
      transdiagnostic perspective. This perspective raises the existence of common mechanisms
      involved in the maintenance of different disorders, so that there would be a preamble to
      cognitive and/or behavioral processes shared by various psychological disorders. The design
      of a transdiagnostic treatment strategy allows a more inclusive approach to mental health and
      facilitates the design of similar treatment programs applicable to a wide range of mental
      disorders. Therefore, the transdiagnostic treatment could be a feasible and effective
      alternative to address some of the most common problems in mental health among women in a
      homeless situation. This approach could be useful to improve a diversity of symptoms in the
      own context of homeless living women and facilitate a systematic evaluation of its
      effectiveness.

      The overall objective of this project is the development of a feasible and effective
      intervention adapted to the needs of women in a homeless situation and the service resources
      where they are attended. Moreover, the project aims to compare the group versus individual
      delivery of the UP among women in a homeless situation. This research is based on the
      hypothesis that the UP adaptation, both in group and individual delivery, will be effective
      in reducing anxiety and depression symptoms, decreasing negative affect and increasing
      psychological well-being, health state, positive affect, social support and quality of life.
      Strengths but also barriers and difficulties encountered in each format of intervention will
      be examined. This knowledge will be key to develop specific and adapted materials that enable
      effective interventions practices in the services resources for homeless people.

      The UP intervention will consist of 12 weekly sessions lasting an hour and a half, applied in
      different centers for homeless people in Madrid. There will be several assessment moments:
      before the intervention, twelve intersession assessments (i.e., one per session), after the
      intervention, and 3 months, 6 months and 9 months follow-ups. The psychological intervention
      will be carried out by therapists with a background in psychology.

      With this research it is expected to achieve results with impact at the technical level (in
      the design of effective interventions for psychological treatment of women in a homeless
      situation), on a scientific level (expanding knowledge about the effectiveness of
      intervention programs for women in social exclusion situations), and, especially, at the
      social level (affecting the quality of life and the processes of social inclusion of women in
      a homeless situation).
    
  