
    
      Intra-ovarian placement of platelet rich plasma (PRP) has already been demonstrated in
      several series to return peri-menopausal and early post-menopausal hormone levels towards
      pre-menopausal levels and pre-menopausal cyclic behavior, even resulting in pregnancies and
      deliveries of healthy infants. The intent of this trial is to evaluate the utility of PRP to
      improve hormonal status and clinical symptomatology in peri-menopausal and early
      post-menopausal women, and in women with non-Turner's premature ovarian failure, by
      documenting the improvements in biochemical/hormonal parameters, bone density, and physical
      and mental health related quality of life, as well as comparing the duration and
      effectiveness of this PRP procedure with the intra-ovarian placement of biocellular
      physiologically active cellular and cytokine elements contained within the adipose
      tissue-derived Stromal Vascular Fraction (tSVF).

      It should be noted that rate of loss of bone density in women is maximal in the 12 months
      prior and 24 months following menopause. The absolute and relative percentage amounts of body
      fat and muscle change in adverse ways - with increasing fat and falling muscle bulk, with the
      most dramatic changes also occurring in the menopausal transition period. This study
      therefore provides the potential to document measurable cessation of bone density loss or
      reduction in rate of bone density loss compared to well established known patterns and
      historical controls as a result of the proposed relatively innocuous interventions. The same
      technology to be used for bone density evaluation, single photon absorptiometry, will also be
      used to quantify fat versus muscle body composition at baseline and 18 months.

      SVF can be further characterized as either cellular SVF or tissue SVF (cSVF or tSVF). Tissue
      SVF (tSVF) is obtained by a small volume manual closed syringe microcannula aspiration of
      subcutaneous fatty tissue (approximately 10+ teaspoons), followed by closed system decanting
      to remove the infranatant fluids followed by emulsification of the remnant to the required
      degree of homogeneity and reduced particulate size to permit injection through a conventional
      gauge needle bores. Tissue SVF is characterized by retention of a proportion of the
      non-cellular matrix of collagenous and fine vascular remnants, which together form a matrix
      that retains and provides structure to the biocellular elements that are embedded within.
      Cellular SVF (cSVF) begins with the same mini-aspiration, but is characterized by closed
      system centrifugation, followed enzymatic digestion to isolate./concentrate the cellular SVF
      (cSVF). Following enzyme neutralization and rinsing, the resultant concentrate of viable
      stem/stromal nucleated cells, are prepared for guided placement into the ovarian parenchymal
      tissue. A sample of each injectate is tested and quantified using standard laser flow
      cytometry, including viability and numbers of cells within each sample.

      The study includes use of PRP (Emcyte II Pure PRP, Florida, USA) PRP per manufacturer's
      instructions) alone as control in first treatment limb (ARM), which will volumetrically be
      the same as the other injectates, for guided placement documented within the ovaries. A
      comparative second ARM composed of PRP will be combined with emulsified tSVF (Sterile Tulip
      Nanofat Disposable, San Diego, California (CA), USA) . In a third ARM, PRP plus emulsified
      tSVF will be combined with both concentrated cSVF. This arm is to determine effects of higher
      cellular concentration than achieved in second ARM using the cellular concentrates achieve
      using the Centricyte 1000 (Healeon Medical Inc, Newbury Park, CA, USA). The primary outcomes
      for each of these optional procedures will be compared, and evaluated as to safety, clinical
      efficacy in enhancing return of ovarian function to determine the preferred methodology to
      achieve maximal outcomes.

      Baseline and monitored patient characteristics are as follows:

        -  Baseline status of all patients will determined utilizing relevant biochemical indices,
           including serum levels of Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH), Anti-Mullerian Hormone
           (AMH), Luteinizing Hormone (LH), Estradiol (E2), and Progesterone (PRG). These will be
           repeated at 30 and 90 days, and then every 3 months for an additional 15 months, total
           follow up 18 months. Comprehensive Blood Panel (SMA 12), Complete blood count (CBC),
           lipid profiles and clotting indices will be obtained at baseline and repeated (without
           clotting indices) at 12 months.

        -  As bone density begins to decline at a significant rate in the peri-menopausal period, a
           bone density determination with single photon absorptiometry will be obtained at
           baseline, and again at 12 and/or 18 months. Body composition fat/muscle proportions will
           be evaluated with the same technology at the same sitting.

        -  Physical and mental health related quality of life will be evaluated with the quality of
           life surveys at baseline, 6 and 12 months.

        -  Ovarian volume will be assessed at baseline by endovaginal sonography, along with the
           size and number of follicles present, and then every 6 months.

        -  Journal recording of menstrual cycles - frequency/interval, days, and duration.

      In ARM 1, PRP alone will be placed within the ovaries. In ARM 2, PRP will be combined with
      tSVF. In ARM 3, tSVF will be combined with both cSVF and PRP. Matched volumes of injectate
      will be used in each ARM to avoid question of potential interference to ovarian parenchyma
      impacting the outcome due to volume variable effects. The primary outcomes for each of these
      arms will be compared, informing us of a preferred methodology for further evaluation, and
      ultimately, clinical practice.

      Autologous Platelet Rich Plasma is an established treatment modality which utilizes FDA
      approved methodologies and kits, and has developed into a mature treatment modality for a
      variety of orthopedic and soft tissue pathologies. As noted, its safety and utility in
      ovarian rejuvenation and reversal of infertility has already been established in peer
      reviewed, case series.

      Safety of use of certain allogeneic human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC) has been proposed and
      limitedly tested for efficacy in some prior studies. The products tested have variable
      protocols in isolating and documenting content and cellular viabilities.

      Autologous stem-stromal cells (contained within cSVF) have been reported safe and effective
      in many applications/studies and in clinical trials currently underway in other body systems
      and pathologies. These cells are easily obtained and isolated/concentrated in a closed system
      from patient's adipose derived stromal vascular fraction (tSVF). This is important as such
      tissues are the patient's own, genetically unique cells and, in theory, potentially safer
      than the allogeneic human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) which are potentially genetically
      foreign and bear the risk of contamination in processing and delivery.

      A combined approach may allow the implementation of a suitably larger number of cells, growth
      factors, exosomes/microvesicles without the need for culture expansion.

      Contents of the cSVF contains a heterogeneous population of undesignated (stem-like) and
      supportive cells (stromal). This combination of adult, autologous cells, along with stromal
      cells are felt to offer important therapeutic and regenerative qualities based cellular
      differentiation features and the paracrine (secretory communication signals and responses to
      niche) in varying degrees. It is believed that such signaling may constitute the body's own
      mechanism for homeostasis and regeneration. Interaction of these complex biochemical signals,
      are proposed to further recruit or activate reparative processes with interaction with the
      native host cells and tissues. Furthermore, this reparative process may become important
      specific host activities and needs in the location into which the therapeutic combination is
      placed. The precise mechanisms underlying these reparative processes are under intensive
      investigations.

      In all cases, the platelet and biocellular materials for intra-ovarian injection will be
      placed under conventional imaging guidance utilizing endovaginal sonography. Specially
      designed modified needles will be utilized to accurate deliver the biological products to the
      targeted intra-ovarian parenchymal tissues. The methodology required is very similar overall
      to oocyte retrieval in infertility treatments, which are performed worldwide, with minimal
      risk of adverse effects millions of times every year.

      The procedures are known to result in minimal discomfort,with patient preparation varying
      from none to mild supportive anxiolysis. Post procedure pain, if any, can be effectively
      managed with acetaminophen. Patients are observed post procedure for 60-120 minutes, and then
      discharged with suitable post-procedure written instructions to periodically return for
      clinical and laboratory follow up per protocol outlined in the outcomes analysis. The goal of
      this study seeks to compare the duration of hormonal, clinical, and quality of life
      improvement among the 3 arms of the study.

      For the minority of study participants in whom ovaries are not readily accessible by
      endovaginal ultrasound, a subset of patients may require use of laparoscopic guidance. In all
      such cases, the interventions will take place in hospital settings, with the Investigator
      preparing the injectate and gynecologic or other suitable specialist surgeons performing the
      laparoscopic procedure utilizing standard procedures as the guidance.
    
  