
    
      The novel coronavirus (COVID 19) is responsible for the current pandemic with the numbers of
      diagnoses and fatalities rising daily. It is reported that of those requiring medical
      intensive care almost 49% will expire prior hospital discharge. The initial peak of
      hospitalized patients in Boston, MA occurred on April 15, 2020 however new presentations
      continue to manifest at a local and national level.

      The exact pathophysiology is still not clear. There are various theories that explain the
      pathophysiology which includes but is not limited to direct viral damage via the
      angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 receptor, systemic inflammatory response with cytokine storm,
      and aggravated hypoxia.

      Recently, it has been observed that signs and symptoms of severe COVID 19 describe
      complement-mediated TMA rather than the sepsis induced coagulopathy. This strengthens the
      hypothesis that complement inhibition by C5a inhibitor, Ultomiris (ravulizumab) could
      ameliorate COVID 19 induced TMA, improve renal function, shorten the hospital stay and reduce
      the overall mortality.

      In those affected with severe or fatal COVID-19, there is evidence of end-organ damage with
      acute kidney injury which has heightened the interest in studying the excessive cytokine
      release and its overall effect in the form of multi-organ failure.

      Ultomiris (Ravulizumab) is a long acting second generation monoclonal antibody against a
      terminal complement product C5a and is FDA approved for the treatment of Paroxysmal Nocturnal
      Hemoglobinuria (PNH) and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome.The benefit of Ultomiris has not
      been clinically evaluated in COVID 19 induced TMA.

      Recently, ravulizumab has been utilized in the setting of a phase 3 clinical trial for the
      treatment of COVID 19 induced pneumonia, acute lung injury and acute respiratory distress. As
      it binds to C5 and impedes the cleavage of C5 by C5 convertase to generate C5a and membrane
      attack complex, ravulizumab could possibly improve the renal function in COVID 19 induced TMA
      and potentially improve overall survival, due to similar pathophysiology in the
      microvasculature of the kidney. More so, studies are being conducted to determine renal and
      cardiovascular sequelae of COVID-19 infection, which further enhances the interest to closely
      examine and evaluate those patients presenting 30-60 days after COVID-19 infection with signs
      of renal failure. There remains an unmet clinical need to investigate this approach with a
      randomized controlled trial to determine if complement cascade inhibition can improve the
      clinical outcome for COVID 19 induced acute kidney injury as measured by improvement of renal
      function and decline in the overall morbidity and mortality.
    
  