
    
      Patients entering the study will attend for implantation of a CRT pacemaker device with one
      lead positioned on the His bundle. This will be performed either at the patient's local
      hospital or at Imperial College NHS healthcare Trust, no later than 4 months after the
      patient's screening visit.

      All patients will be implanted with a Pacemaker or Implantable cardioverter defibrillator
      (ICD). In all patients a pacing lead will be positioned in the right atrium (typically the
      right atrial appendage). All patients will have a pacemaker lead positioned on the His bundle
      in order to obtain direct His-bundle capture. If it is not possible to successfully implant a
      His-bundle lead with selective direct His bundle capture or non-selective capture with < 40ms
      prolongation of the QRS duration, then a lead will be implanted in a lateral branch of the
      coronary sinus.

      In patients who do not have an indication for an Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD)
      a second ventricular lead will be implanted in a lateral branch of the coronary sinus. If
      direct His pacing has not been successfully achieved then a further lead will be positioned
      at the RV apex. In patients who do have an indication for an Implantable cardioverter
      defibrillator the ICD lead will be positioned in the right ventricle (either RV apex or RV
      septum).

      AV delay optimisation will be performed using acute non-invasive blood pressure acquired
      using the Finometer device (Finapres Medical systems, Netherlands). The BHF (British Heart
      Foundation) alternation protocol will be used in order to minimise the effect of background
      noise.

      After implantation of the device there will be a 2 month run-in period prior to
      randomisation, the device will be programmed not to deliver His bundle pacing therapy during
      this period.(Back up only pacing and defibrillator function will be enabled).

      Two months after patients are implanted with their device, patients will be randomised to
      either receive active pacing treatment or back up only pacing (pacemaker programmed to VVI 30
      bpm). After a further 6 months they will be crossed over to the alternative treatment arm.
      Treatment allocation will be obtained using an Interactive Web Response System (IWRS)
      programmed with a randomisation schedule provided by the trial statistician. Appropriate
      blocking will be used.
    
  