
    
      Open Trial: The primary focus of the open trial is to gather feasibility and acceptability
      data from up to 12 participants, though clinical effect will also be evaluated using select
      measures outlined below. Feasibility metrics will be internally monitored. Participant
      feedback on the acceptability of E-PST will be gathered following each treatment session.
      Qualitative data will be analyzed using rapid qualitative analysis. Given the small sample,
      clinical effect will be descriptively explored. Individual line graphs of pre-post Brief
      Symptom Inventory-18 (BSI-18) scores will be generated, and mean differences in BSI-18 scores
      will be compared. Trends in change scores will be visually inspected to evaluate evidence of
      a preliminary clinical effect.

      Randomized Trial: The focus of the randomized trial is threefold: a) to estimate a
      preliminary effect size for the primary outcome measure (BSI-18); b) determine the
      feasibility of the assessment plan; and c) establish feasibility of recruitment and retention
      in order to guide the design of a future multi-site efficacy trial. BSI-18 data will be
      described with means, standard deviations, and confidence intervals at each time point and
      condition. To show central tendency, variation and potential trends over time, means and 95%
      confidence intervals will be plotted across time for each condition. To assist in developing
      a larger trial, an effect size will be calculated at post-treatment to describe the
      standardized difference between conditions. All participants who are randomized and complete
      a baseline assessment will be included in our analysis. Evaluation of measurement feasibility
      will focus primarily on descriptive statistics (e.g., frequencies of missing/ incomplete
      measures). Recruitment and retention over the study duration will be plotted based on the
      number of participants enrolled into the study and compared to the anticipated rate of
      recruitment. Veteran feedback on the acceptability of E-PST and treatment satisfaction will
      be analyzed using rapid qualitative analysis.
    
  