
    
      Rationale:

      Complicated obesity: In weight loss-targeted treatment of obesity, current therapeutic
      choices include lifestyle modification, drug therapy, and bariatric surgery. For
      uncomplicated obesity, all the above comprise legitimate means. Attempted weight loss is
      traditionally initiated by targeting lifestyle, but unfortunately, the long term effect of
      this approach is limited as regards success rate, the extent of the achieved weight loss and
      the ability to sustain the achieved weight loss. The use of drugs is mostly reserved for
      cases where a limited weight loss of 5-10% is considered satisfactory. The safety of
      drug-assisted weight loss in older obese subjects with co-morbidities such as fluid
      retention, nephropathy, and heart failure remains insufficiently studied. Even for older
      subjects without such dominant conditions, data is scarce. For example, two trials (using
      phentermine/topiramate and liraglutide) have documented efficacy analyses between older
      adults and their younger, but enrolled only 7% (n= 5254) and 6.9% (n= 5232) older adults,
      respectively, among their study subjects. It is now well established that in non-elderly
      subjects, bariatric surgery is followed by substantial weight loss and leads to the cure of
      obesity and at least to a temporary amelioration/delay/cure of its sequels, including
      diabetes and hypertension.

      However, weight loss is often most critically needed in subjects with complicated obesity, in
      whom an overall poor health state precludes bariatric surgery altogether. Individuals with
      long-standing obesity complicated by previous cardiovascular events, diabetes, renal
      impairment, fluid retention due to renal disease, the use of vasodilator drugs needed to
      control hypertension (alpha-blockers, calcium channel blocker), left ventricular diastolic
      dysfunction, respiratory dysfunction including obstructive sleep apnea, pulmonary
      hypertension, and restrictive lung disease. Such patients are generally too sick to be
      considered for bariatric surgery. In such patients concomitant weight loss from two body
      compartments could be extremely beneficial: reduction in fat mass and, often more critical in
      immediate terms, rapid loss of excess body fluids. In obesity complicated by clinically
      significant fluid retention, most of the excessive fluid volume is extra-vascular, residing
      in the extracellular tissue compartment, with only a small, though critical excess, occupying
      the intracellular compartment. Diuretics are the key tool to reduce volume overload, but they
      acutely lower the volume of the intravascular fluid compartment, which leads to impairment in
      renal, myocardial and general tissue arterial perfusion, thus often exacerbating renal
      failure and overall tissue hypoperfusion, including cerebral, myocardial and hepatic blood
      supply.

      Most older and significantly obese subjects have had sustained obesity for several decades,
      which has allowed the cumulative evolution of at least some additional comorbidities such as
      the metabolic syndrome, diabetes, hyperlipidemia coronary heart disease, carotid artery
      stenosis and/or uncontrolled hypertension, congestive heart failure and renal disease.
      Paradoxically, then, those older subjects with a complex disease profile, who obviously
      comprise poor candidates for bariatric surgery, are also the group with the greatest
      immediate need to lose weight. It is therefore noteworthy that in Israel, individuals over
      the age of 65 cannot undergo bariatric surgery on the basis of obesity per se, unless
      approved by a special committee. Although European guidelines for the treatment of obesity in
      the elderly have concluded that the elderly should not be denied bariatric surgery solely on
      age grounds, long-term evidence in support of this statement is lacking such that both
      patients and physicians often consider bariatric surgery at this stage as too risky. Thus,
      current standard medical practice has little to offer to the complicated older obese patient
      who, on one hand is burdened with incapacitating obesity and its complications, and, on the
      other hand, is beyond the reach of the only tool to permanently alleviate obesity, i.e.,
      bariatric surgery.

      Intermittent and or short term fasting in humans: There is truly a lack of solid work on the
      safety and efficacy of fasting as a tool to lose weight in humans. The largest medical
      database on fasting has been collected on subjects practicing religious fast, such as the
      Ramadan. However, these forms of fasting are almost uniformly compensated for by excessive
      feeding either in the beginning or the end of the fast, or both. Insights on the effects of
      true fasting, longer than 24h, under medical supervision in humans is hard to find in
      published reports. In one study where caloric restriction for most of the week was combined
      with one day/week of nearly complete fasting (125Kcal), the intervention was deemed effective
      and unassociated with untoward effects in 54 obese women over a period of 24 weeks. A recent
      review included 16 studies of intermittent fasting in humans, of which 11 were carried out in
      overweight or obese subjects. Duration of the trials varied from 24h to 6 months. In two
      studies, fasting was daily and lasted from 11 and 16 hours within each day. There were 7
      studies lasting 8-12 weeks, with alternate-day fasting, in which fasting was defined as
      consuming 20-30% of the required caloric intake on the fasting day. In two studies, caloric
      restriction was defined as consuming 25% less calories on the fasting day. As compared to a
      variety of more standard dietary measures, intermittent fasting appears to result in some
      modestly larger weight reduction. Among 16 intervention trials included in review, 11
      reported statistically significant weight loss. However, in most of the reviewed intervention
      trials, complete fasting was either not attempted or restricted to 16 hours only, or less.

      Complete intermittent fasting (excluding water) in humans: Despite the lack of data on the
      effects of complete intermittent fasting, however, a day of fasting is semi/non-intentionally
      practiced in many subjects undergoing investigative diagnostic procedures such as combined
      endoscopy and colonoscopy conducted in the afternoon or surgery unexpectedly postponed to the
      evening hours and many other medical conditions. Unfortunately, this unwanted form of fasting
      was never studied in depth. However, as early as the late 50s and early 60s of the previous
      century, it was noted that 5-7 days of complete fasting was associated with diuresis,
      natriuresis, and weight loss and appeared an effective mode of treatment of the failing
      heart, in otherwise treatment-refractory subjects who were, at that time, already "fully
      digitalized". An unexpected finding was the observation that water and salt excretion was
      enhanced during fasting: one of the fasting patients with heart failure lost 7.3 kg in 5
      days, and the average daily weight loss of his 10 original subjects 0.85 kg to 1.5 kg per
      day, way above what might have been expected by the effect of negative caloric balance on fat
      and lean tissue loss alone.

      Fasting diuresis and fasting as an ancillary tool to lower fluid overload Although it is well
      known that fasting in obese subjects is associated with natriuresis and development of
      cumulative negative sodium balance, the mechanism of increased urinary sodium excretion
      remains largely obscure. The leading hypothesis in recent decades was that reduction in
      insulin ameliorated increased insulin-driven re-absorption of sodium in the kidney, but
      overall, following the initial discovery of this phenomenon, it has attracted little
      research. It is also well established that the obese state, even uncomplicated by renal
      disease or congestive heart failure, is accompanied by a diminished ability to excrete salt.

      During starvation, there appears to be an obligatory sodium loss in linkage to the
      metabolically generated organic anions, which further enhances fasting related natriuresis.
      Notably, unlike the action of diuretics and the tubular inhibition of sodium reabsorption,
      which lowers intravascular volume, the formation of organic anions during starvation takes
      place in the extravascular compartment, particularly in fat tissue, and would therefore allow
      the recruitment of tissue sodium (coupled to organic anions formed during lipolysis, and
      water), followed by the shift of sodium and water from the extravascular compartment to the
      intravascular compartment, and only then, excretion via the kidney. The latter process,
      therefore, does not lower intravascular fluid volume and should not impair renal perfusion
      and function. In support of this concept is the apparent dissociation between sodium and
      chloride excretion that has been reported with a relatively minimal increase in chloride
      excretion during the first week of fasting when sodium excretion is rapidly increasing. In
      fact, during the initial 3 days of fast in obese humans, natriuresis was proportional to
      urinary 3beta hydroxybutyrate excretion while urinary ammonium had not yet increased, thus
      indicating that the organic acids generated during lipolysis are the driving force in the
      shift of sodium from the body, outwards through the kidneys.
    
  