
    
      Mastocytosis are a group of disorders characterized by clonal accumulation of mast cells in
      various organs. Diagnosis of mastocytosis is challenging and patients remain undiagnosed for
      years. Using the diagnostic criteria defined by the World Health Organization (WHO)
      mastocytosis can be divided between Cutaneous Mastocytosis (CM) and Systemic Mastocytosis
      (SM).

      Study suggested that measurement of tryptase in plasma from a Bone Marrow Aspirate (from BMA)
      could be useful for the diagnosis of SM. Results from a preliminary study at Toulouse
      University Hospital suggested that a Bone Marrow Tryptase Level (MT) of 50 µg/L or more may
      be a more sensitive diagnostic criterion (sensitivity of 94.7%) than the histological result
      of BMB (the major diagnostic criterion for SM with a sensitivity of 68 to 80% in expert
      centers) for diagnosis of SM in patients with mastocytosis in skin.

      Because this preliminary study was done on a limited number of patients and in a single
      center, the diagnostic value of MT for the diagnosis of SM, has to be confirmed on a larger
      and more representative population.

      In addition, the investigators propose to evaluate:

        -  The diagnostic accuracy of MT for diagnosis of SM in patients without mastocytosis in
           skin;

        -  The diagnostic accuracy of absolute and corrected MT for diagnosis of SM with and
           without mastocytosis in skin;

        -  The diagnostic accuracy of MT/ST ratio for diagnosis of SM with and without mastocytosis
           in skin;

        -  The diagnostic accuracy of flow cytometry performed on cells collected by BMA and
           maintained in a preservative solution for diagnosis of SM with and without mastocytosis
           in skin;

        -  The diagnostic accuracy of quantification of the fraction of KIT mutation-positive cells
           in peripheral blood for diagnosis of SM with and without mastocytosis in skin;

        -  Correlation the results of quantification of the fraction of KIT mutation-positive cells
           in peripheral blood with results of MT level, results of MT/ST ratio and results of
           absolute and corrected MT;

        -  Correlation the results of the CF performed both on the EDTA/TransFix® tubes and on
           sodium heparin tubes and validate the transport conditions (20-25°C within 24 to 96H)
           for the CF; these analyzes will be performed on the first 50 samples of BMA.

      The samples for these diagnosis tests will be made on the day of inclusion. For each enrolled
      patient, one 5 mL sample of peripheral blood (EDTA) and 1 mL samples of BM aspirate (0,5 mL
      in a EDTA/TransFix® tube et 0,5 mL in a sodium heparinate tube) will be collected the same
      day, and shipped in less than 24 to 96H (+20-25°C) to a central laboratory.

      For each patient, genomic DNA from total leucocytes will be purified from the peripheral
      blood EDTA samples, and used later for the quantification of the kit mutations by real-time
      qPCR. The plasma tryptase level will be measured from the peripheral blood EDTA sample after
      an aliquot has been taken for DNA extraction. The bone marrow aspirate sample will be used
      first for immunophenotyping of BM mastocytes by flow cytometry (FC), and then, after
      centrifugation, for measurement of BM tryptase level. The degree of dilution of the BM
      aspirate by peripheral blood will be estimated by comparing the percentage of CD16bright vs.
      CD16low granulocytes in BM samples, and used to adjust the BM tryptase. Tryptase measurements
      will be made from EDTA or Na, heparinate plasma, using a standardized fluoro enzyme
      immunoassay on an automated analyzer. Immunophenotyping of BM mastocytes will be performed on
      BM aspiration stabilized by TransFix® (a Cellular Antigen Stabilisation Reagent) (and for
      firsts 50 samples on BM aspiration in Na, heparinate) using a pre-defined mixture of
      anti-CD45/CD117/CD34/CD2/CD25/CD16 antibodies, coupled to appropriate fluorochromes. Genomic
      DNA from BM leucocytes will be extracted from 300-500µL of peripheral blood (both anti
      coagulated with EDTA) using a Promega DNA automated extractor, and subsequently stored at
      +4°C. Quantitative PCR will be performed using a pre-validated qPCR assay (Life Technologies,
      Foster City, CA) with a 7900HT Fast Real-Time PCR System (Life Technologies).

      The end of study visit is performed the same day that the patient is seen to be made aware of
      the results of the clinical and laboratory investigations made. This is also the day when the
      planned medical management of mastocytosis is discussed.
    
  