
    
      Study Description: We will study if corticospinal excitability (primary outcome measure)
      varies across different sensorimotor alpha EEG waveform oscillation phases in healthy older
      adults and chronic stroke patients. Sensorimotor cortical neuronal spiking is highest at
      sensorimotor alpha oscillation troughs and lowest at sensorimotor alpha oscillation peaks,
      suggesting that cortical excitability is higher at sensorimotor alpha oscillation troughs
      relative to peaks. We will address these questions using closed-loop TMS. Based on this
      previous work, we hypothesize that corticospinal excitability (primary outcome measure) will
      be increased at sensorimotor alpha oscillation troughs compared to peaks in healthy older
      adults (Experiment 1), and chronic stroke patients (Experiment 2).

      Objectives: Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a potential adjunct therapy for
      post-stroke neurorehabilitation. So far, it has been customarily applied uncoupled from brain
      oscillatory activity (as measured using EEG waveforms), resulting in variability in the
      biological response to each stimulus, small effect sizes and significant inter-individual
      variability. Brain oscillatory activity (i.e., EEG waveform oscillatory activity) in the
      alpha band (8-12 Hz) is linked to cortical inhibition, motor function and cognitive
      processing, and therefore influences brain function. For example, corticospinal excitability
      (as measured with TMS) in healthy humans varies depending on the sensorimotor alpha
      oscillatory phase during which TMS is delivered: corticospinal excitability is higher when
      TMS is delivered during sensorimotor alpha oscillation troughs (i.e., maximum surface
      negativity) and lower when TMS is delivered during sensorimotor alpha oscillation peaks
      (i.e., maximum surface positivity). We recently replicated this result in young healthy
      adults. We therefore aim to extend these findings to two new populations: healthy older
      adults (Experiment 1) and patients with chronic stroke (Experiment 2). Previous studies have
      demonstrated that older adults exhibit significant differences in motor cortical physiology
      compared to young adults, so Experiment 1 will be performed to determine whether an
      association between sensorimotor alpha oscillatory phase and corticospinal excitability is
      present in healthy aging. Additionally, Experiment 2 will be performed to determine if the
      expected association between sensorimotor alpha oscillatory phase and corticospinal
      excitability is also present after chronic stroke. Importantly, acquiring information
      regarding how the aged and damaged brain respond to EEG waveform oscillation-dependent
      closed-loop TMS will be critical for developing more effective TMS-based (i.e., closed-loop)
      interventions. In both experiments, TMS delivery will be timed to specific sensorimotor alpha
      oscillation phases. We expect the results of this work to provide new insights into how
      corticospinal excitability is affected by sensorimotor alpha oscillation phase in the aged
      and post-stroke brain, which could lead to more effective use of sensorimotor alpha
      oscillation-dependent neuromodulatory TMS protocols in the future.

      Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a potential adjunct therapy for post-stroke
      neurorehabilitation. So far, it has been customarily applied uncoupled from brain oscillatory
      activity (as measured using EEG waveforms), resulting in variability in the biological
      response to each stimulus, small effect sizes and significant inter-individual variability.
      Brain oscillatory activity (i.e., EEG waveform oscillatory activity) in the alpha band (8-12
      Hz) is linked to cortical inhibition, motor function and cognitive processing, and therefore
      influences brain function.

      For example, corticospinal excitability (as measured with TMS) in healthy humans varies
      depending on the sensorimotor alpha oscillatory phase during which TMS is delivered:
      corticospinal excitability is higher when TMS is delivered during sensorimotor alpha
      oscillation troughs (i.e., maximum surface negativity) and lower when TMS is delivered during
      sensorimotor alpha oscillation peaks (i.e., maximum surface positivity); We recently
      replicated this result in young healthy adults. We therefore aim to extend these findings to
      two new populations: healthy older adults (Experiment 1) and patients with chronic stroke
      (Experiment 2). Previous studies have demonstrated that older adults exhibit significant
      differences in motor cortical physiology compared to young adults, so Experiment 1 will be
      performed to determine whether an association between sensorimotor alpha oscillatory phase
      and corticospinal excitability is present in healthy aging. Additionally, Experiment 2 will
      be performed to determine if the expected association between sensorimotor alpha oscillatory
      phase and corticospinal excitability is also present after chronic stroke. Importantly,
      acquiring information regarding how the aged and damaged brain respond to EEG waveform
      oscillation-dependent closed-loop TMS will be critical for developing more effective
      TMS-based (i.e., closed-loop) interventions. In both experiments, TMS delivery will be timed
      to specific sensorimotor alpha oscillation phases. We expect the results of this work to
      provide new insights into how corticospinal excitability is affected by sensorimotor alpha
      oscillation phase, which could lead to more effective use of sensorimotor alpha
      oscillation-dependent

      neuro-modulatory TMS protocols in the future.

      Endpoints: For both experiments, the primary outcome measure is corticospinal excitability.
      Exploratory outcome measures include MEP amplitude variability, and TMS-induced oscillations.

      Study Population: Up to 24 older healthy volunteers (ages 50 and older) and up to 28 stroke
      patients (age 18 and older).

      Phase: N/A

      Description of Sites /Facilities Enrolling Participants: This is a single-center study, being
      performed at the NIH Clinical Center

      Description of Study Intervention: N/A

      Study Duration: 6 years

      Participant Duration: Up to 1 year
    
  