
    
      Pain management remains a primary concern for many patients following thoracic surgery.
      Suboptimal analgesia leads to numerous postoperative complications like reduced cardiac,
      respiratory and gastrointestinal functions, more septic and thromboembolic complications,
      increased incidence of developing chronic pain states, increased mortality in high-risk
      patients with multiple comorbidities, and many others.

      Opioids have a distinct role in the postoperative analgesia. Although opioids have positively
      affected surgery for decades, they are associated with a number of potentially severe side
      effects including prolonged ileus, nausea, vomiting, central nervous system and respiratory
      depression, development of hyperalgesia, and the risk of dependency and abuse. These adverse
      effects increase the overall cost of treatment for these patients and can potentially result
      in longer hospital stays.

      Local infiltration and regional blocks of local anesthetics are increasingly utilized during
      thoracic surgery procedures as an alternative to epidural analgesia. Bupivacaine is widely
      used for intercostal nerve blocks but its utility is limited by its short duration of action
      (<6 hours). Perineural catheters for continuous infusion of bupivacaine have been used to
      overcome this limitation but the need of expensive pumps and the risk of significant
      complications associated with the use of catheters (i.e. infection, septicemia, intravascular
      migration etc) has limited its use.

      Encapsulation of local anesthetics into liposomes is a novel method which extends drug
      delivery. The use of multivesicular liposomes has been shown to provide a slow and steady
      release of local anesthetics for several days after nonvascular administration. Liposomal
      bupivacaine is a novel formulary of bupivacaine, is designed for a single-dose local
      infiltration into the surgical site and produces postsurgical analgesia for up to 72-96
      hours.

      Liposomal bupivacaine is not currently licensed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for
      peripheral nerve block but has been approved for single-dose infiltration into the surgical
      site. However, it has been shown in two retrospective studies of patients with open
      thoracotomies for lung, pleural or mediastinal pathologies that liposomal bupivacaine
      intercostal nerve blockade is associated with increased pain control and decreased length of
      hospital stay compared to thoracic epidural analgesia.

      This is a single-blind randomized prospective research study comparing pain control and
      postoperative outcomes following intercostal neural blockade with liposomal bupivacaine
      versus plain bupivacaine plus epinephrine during video-assisted thoracoscopic surgical
      procedures. Eligible patients would be all patients aged older than 18 years who undergo a
      video-assisted thoracoscopic lung resection at Massachusetts General Hospital. Pregnant
      women, prisoners, emergent cases, patients under 18 years, and patients with chronic pain,
      documented alcohol or drug abuse and allergies to bupivacaine will be excluded from this
      study.

      Primary end point will be self-reported pain score on a visual analog scale from 0 to 10 at
      postoperative day #1. By utilizing a mean difference in self-reported pain scores of 1 point
      with a standard deviation of 2.5 points, a sample size of 100 patients per group would be
      needed for a power (beta) of 0.8 and probability level (alpha) of 0.05. All patients would be
      enrolled at Massachusetts General Hospital.

      The video-assisted thoracoscopic surgeries and intercostal nerve blockade with plain
      bupivacaine plus epinephrine or liposomal bupivacaine will be performed by all thoracic
      surgeons at Massachusetts General Hospital. In the operating room after induction of general
      anesthesia patients will be positioned in a lateral decubitus position, prepared and draped
      in a sterile fashion. Under thoracoscopic guidance, a posterior intercostal nerve block will
      be performed with liposomal bupivacaine (13.3 mg/ml) or 0.5% bupivacaine with 1% epinephrine.
      In the liposomal bupivacaine group, a total dose of 266 mg of liposomal bupivacaine (one 20
      ml vial of 13.3 mg/ml) per patient will be diluted to a total volume of 40 ml using 20 ml
      normal saline. In the bupivacaine group 20 ml of 0.5% bupivacaine with 1% epinephrine will be
      diluted to a total volume of 40 ml using 20 ml normal saline. From those 40 ml, 30 ml will be
      used for the posterior intercostal nerve block and 10 ml will be injected locally into the
      surgical wounds.

      If immediate postoperative pain scores were rated 4/10 or greater, an intravenous patient
      controlled analgesia device will be provided with hydromorphone 0.2 mg every 10 minutes or
      nonopioid analgesics as needed. No narcotics will be given in the spinal space. Oral
      metoclopramide or ondansetron will be given as needed to combat the side effects of the
      narcotics.
    
  