
    
      Background: Preliminary results from the Randomised Evaluation of COVid-19 thERapY (RECOVERY)
      trial have reported a reduction in 28-day mortality with low-dose dexamethasone (6 mg) once
      daily versus no intervention in hospitalised patients with COVID-19; an effect that may have
      been more pronounced in patients with increasing hypoxia. Yet, higher doses of dexamethasone
      may be beneficial in patients with non-COVID-19 acute respiratory distress syndrome. At
      present, it is unclear what dose of dexamethasone is most beneficial in patients with
      COVID-19 and severe hypoxia, and clinical equipoise exists.

      Objective: We aim to assess the effects of higher (12 mg) vs lower doses (6 mg) of
      intravenous dexamethasone on the number of days alive without life-support in adult patients
      with COVID-19 and severe hypoxia.

      Design: International, parallel-group, centrally randomised, stratified, blinded, clinical
      trial.

      Population: Adult patients with documented COVID-19 receiving at least 10 L/min of oxygen
      independent of delivery system OR mechanical ventilation.

      Experimental intervention: Dexamethasone 12 mg once daily for up to 10 days in addition to
      standard care.

      Control intervention: Dexamethasone 6 mg once daily for up to 10 days in addition to standard
      care.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome is days alive without life support (i.e. mechanical
      ventilation, circulatory support, or renal replacement therapy) at day 28. Secondary outcomes
      are serious adverse reactions (i.e. anaphylactic reaction to hydrocortisone, new episode of
      septic shock, invasive fungal infection or clinically important gastrointestinal bleeding) at
      day 28; days alive without life support at day 90; days alive and out of hospital at day 90;
      all-cause mortality at day 28, 90 and 180; and health-related quality of life at day 180.

      Sample size: A total of 1000 participants will be randomised in order to detect a 15%
      relative reduction in 28-day mortality combined with a 10% reduction in time on life support
      among the survivors with a power of 85%.
    
  