
    
      Central nervous system (CNS) diseases can be acquired (such as stroke, spinal cord injury,
      and traumatic brain injury) or non-acquired (such as multiple sclerosis). Many diseases that
      affect the CNS can be fatal or cause sequelae, which affect the sensorimotor,
      cardiorespiratory and the quality of life of the individual. Subjects with neurological
      lesions present low resistance to exercise, a factor that can be attributed to decreased
      muscle recruitment, oxidative and metabolic capacity reduction, low aerobic resistance and
      increased energy expenditure. With that in mind, treatment proposals such as aerobic training
      and gait training with or without weight loss can maximize and restore the individual's
      functional abilities through active learning. Cardiorespiratory fitness in this patient
      profile has benefits in terms of fatigue retardation, gait improvement and regulation of the
      autonomic nervous system. Aerobic exercises change the heart rhythm, increase vascularity and
      provide oxygen. The association of these factors promote cerebral neuroprotective effect,
      stimulate the production of endogenous neutrotransmitters related to general well-being and
      favor neuroplasticity. Low-intensity laser therapy, especially transcranial
      photobiomodulation, has shown benefits in animals and humans such as cognitive and memory
      improvement, improvement in the behavioral picture, such as attenuation of depression and
      anxiety, and cortical oxygenation.

      The study design is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial that will compare
      the effect of cardiorespiratory rehabilitation, cardiorespiratory rehabilitation and
      low-intensity laser therapy, cardiorespiratory rehabilitation and placebo laser. It is worth
      mentioning that the use of a Placebo Therapy is restricted to Low Power Laser irradiation.
      This means that the three experimental groups will effectively be treated with
      cardiorespiratory rehabilitation, a therapy that improves physical fitness. The treatment
      with transcranial photobiomodulation irradiation aims to verify the effects and aggregates
      greater beneficial to the volunteers. In this case, the magnitude of the laser effect must be
      calculated by the difference (if any) of the group treated with "cardiorespiratory
      rehabilitation + laser" subtracted from the group treated with "cardiorespiratory
      rehabilitation + laser Placebo".
    
  