
    
      Specific Aims. The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial with 240 FMIs.
      Intervention participants will attend a weekly peer group session over 12 months. Control
      group participants will receive a bimonthly check-in call. All will be surveyed using
      validated instruments and give hair samples gathered at baseline and 12 months. A subset will
      be interviewed, and group sessions will be documented. Data will be triangulated using
      different methods with a QUAL⇒QUAN simultaneous data collection and analysis approach to
      integrate, converge, and elaborate findings in a way that would not be feasible using only
      one method.

      Aim 1. To measure whether a culturally situated peer group intervention will reduce
      depression and stress associated with the experience of immigration. Question: Does an
      intervention design that reproduces culturally important interactions, activities, and
      constructs lost through immigration result in decreased participant depression and stress?
      Hypothesis: Incorporating peer-to-peer social interaction, food sharing, and storytelling
      into the design of a nonclinical peer support group intervention will leverage positive
      aspects of participant culture and create an experiential context that will (a) decrease
      participant depression scores by at least 6.5 points more on the Center for Epidemiologic
      Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) as compared to controls (effect size Cohen's d = 0.43), and
      (b) lower stress scores in participants more than in controls with d ≥ 0.5 as measured by the
      Perceived Stress Scale (PSS). The investigators will also assess stress using a cutting-edge
      biological assessment of hair cortisol as a biomarker for chronic stress.

      Aim 2. To test whether an intervention using a "women's funds of knowledge" approach results
      in improved resilience, knowledge and empowerment. Question: Does an intervention design that
      encourages participants to share knowledge they developed through life experience and that
      values this knowledge as a form of expertise nurture protective factors (resilience and
      knowledge/empowerment) to help FMIs adapt to the immigration context and disrupt the
      mechanisms that produce health disparities? Hypothesis: Incorporating, valuing and validating
      women's knowledge and experience in the design of a peer support group intervention will
      improve participant capacity to adapt to the immigrant context and provide participants with
      empowering knowledge to deal with new situations. Intervention participants will have higher
      scores at 12 months and have a larger increase over time as compared to controls (d = 0.5) on
      the Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale-25 (CD-RISC 25). Knowledge and empowerment will be
      assessed at 12 months and expect to find high scores with the Trauma-Informed Practice (TIP)
      Scale (which is designed for post-use).

      Aim 3. To investigate whether a culturally situated peer group intervention using a women's
      funds of knowledge approach can give participants' a sense and experience of social and
      physical connection ("emplacement") that is lost in the process of immigration. Question: Can
      the proposed peer support group intervention recreate social and physical connections lost
      through immigration and strengthen participant social networks? Hypothesis: The peer group
      will create a culturally appropriate context for establishing interpersonal connections
      between group members and will give participants a sense of belonging within a social and
      contextual milieu. At study end, (a) experimental participants will have a marked increase in
      social support scores v.s. the control group using the Medical Outcomes Study Social Support
      Survey (MOS SSS) (d ≥ 0.5), and (b) stronger, more dense social connections as described by a
      social network analysis.

      Project Outcomes. This intervention with FMIs will test an innovative intervention to reduce
      social isolation as a mechanism for reducing depression by leveraging positive cultural
      dynamics and women's funds of knowledge to nurture social connectedness, knowledge, and
      resiliency factors in the lives of participants in a transformative way. Generalizability.
      This trial of TERTULIAS will create a replicable, scalable model for culturally appropriate
      health promotion with FMIs that has implications for health promotion work with other women
      from recent and first generation immigrant populations.
    
  