
    
      Study design This study is a randomized, blinded, pretest-posttest control group experimental
      design comparing the effects of pelvic alignment vs. diaphragmatic breathing on Glenohumeral
      Internal Rotation Deficit (GIRD). Protection of the subjects' rights will be secured through
      a signed informed consent form approved by the university Institutional Review Board.

      Subject selection, randomization, and blinding process: Using statistical power analysis 45
      healthy, college aged participants are needed for this study. These subjects will be
      volunteers and recruited by word of mouth by campus professors, coaches and physical therapy
      students and faculty.

      Intervention timeline: Baseline assessment (pretest), five treatment sessions and a posttest.
      The time required by subjects will be between five and seven days total with each immediately
      succeeding the next. Treatment sessions will be approximately 10 minutes each. If any portion
      of this timeline happens to fall outside of the university operational hours, then the
      intervention will resume the following day. Subjects will be informed of their rights to
      receive the results of their assessments following the conclusion of the study. Two of the
      investigators will perform the initial screenings, groups assignments and treatments for all
      subjects. The other two investigators, who are blinded on participant's group assignment will
      perform all pretest and posttest measurements. Intraclass Correlation Coefficient model (3,3)
      will be used, in a pilot study, to assess inter-rater and intra-rater reliability for all
      testing procedures.

      Testing Procedures:

      The primary measurements include Ober's test, assessment of shoulder internal rotation range
      of motion, and spirometry measurements of maximal expiratory rate.

      Range of motion assessment: A Cybex isokinetic table will be used to measure passive shoulder
      internal rotation range of motion. The Cybex will provide standardized arm position and
      accurate digital measurement of the shoulder internal rotation bilaterally. All pretest and
      posttest ROM measurements will be performed by the same examiners.

      Pelvic alignment assessment: Ober's test will be used to assess pelvic alignment. Although
      this test is widely known as an assessment of iliotibial band/fascia lata length, it was
      originally used to assess pelvic alignment. It has been suggested that a unilateral positive
      Ober's test is indicative of hemipelvic anterior tilt and forward rotation, which leads to a
      bony block of the rim of the acetabulum on the femoral neck. This bony block would decrease
      the amount of adduction, leading to a positive Ober's test.

      Craig's test will be used during the screening process to assess presence of excessive
      femoral anteversion angle.

      Spirometry: A digital spirometer is used for measuring maximal expiratory rate.

      Treatment Procedures:

      Neuromuscular Exercise for combined Pelvic Alignment and Diaphragmatic Breathing:

      Pelvic alignment and diaphragmatic breathing exercise included simultaneous activation of the
      hamstring, hip adductor and transverse abdominal muscles with forceful exhalation.

      Pelvic Alignment Exercises: Pelvic alignment involves simultaneous activation of the
      hamstring muscles and hip adductors to reset pelvic symmetry.

      Diaphragmatic Breathing exercise: Diaphragmatic breathing involves subject education for
      simultaneous rise of chest and abdominal wall with inhalation.
    
  