
    
      The METABIOTE study will be systematically proposed to patients selected for sporadic CRC
      surgery during the first preoperative outpatient visit. The attending surgeon will
      double-check all inclusion and exclusion criteria. An oral and written information will be
      given to patients, presenting the study.

      Then, the following data will be collected propectively:

        -  Socio-demographic and medical data (personal and familial medical history, current
           treatments, comorbidities, allergies, Body Mass Index (BMI), ASA score…)

        -  Blood tests results, including nutritional, hepatic assessment and exploration of a
           lipidic abnormality.

        -  Body composition profile: Metabolic syndrome screening, BMI, waist circumference,
           sarcopenia (skeletal muscle index calculation on CT scan).

        -  Thoraco-abdomino-pelvic CT scan: sarcopenia, hepatic and splenic density, thanks to a
           dedicated software (Slice-O-Matic).

      Following surgery will be collected :

        -  Pathological data (TNM stage, MSI, RAS and BRAF status…)

        -  Surgical results (30-day postoperative medical and surgical morbidity and 90-day
           postoperative mortality)

        -  Oncologic results (Overall survival, Disease free survival…)

        -  Metabolic profile evolution: sarcopenia (SMI), BMI and waist circumference after 3, 6,
           12 and 36 months, postoperatively.

      Intraoperatively, samples of peritumoral mucosa and tumor specimen and rectal stools will be
      frozen (-80°) and moved to the research unit for microbiota analysis. Interest bacteria will
      be grown on selective gelosis and pathogenic E coli will be identified using PCR as well as
      other specific bacteria involved in CRC. Moreover, global microbiota modifications will be
      observed using high-throughput sequencing of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene. These data will be
      associated with body composition profile, clinical data, surgical and oncologic results, and
      pathological data thanks to a multivariate analysis.

      The patients will be monitored according to the Digestive Oncology french recommendations
      (TNCD).
    
  