
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of melphalan when administered as an isolated
           limb infusion in combination with a systemic infusion of buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) in
           patients with persistent or recurrent stage IIIB or IIIC in-transit malignant melanoma.

      Secondary

        -  To define the dose-limiting toxicity of regional melphalan when administered with
           systemic BSO in these patients.

        -  To determine whether the combination of systemic BSO and regional melphalan can yield
           clinical responses in patients who have not responded well to prior melphalan-based
           regional treatment.

        -  To determine the effectiveness of systemic BSO in decreasing tumor glutathione (GSH)
           levels and its effect on GST activity and GST expression.

        -  To examine the correlation between tumor GSH levels and GSH levels in peripheral blood
           mononuclear cells to determine if the latter can serve as a surrogate marker for tumor
           GSH depletion.

        -  To determine the pharmacokinetics of systemic BSO and regional melphalan in these
           patients.

        -  To determine if BSO alters the mRNA expression signature of melphalan resistance.

        -  To determine, preliminarily, the efficacy of systemic BSO and regional melphalan in
           these patients.

        -  To correlate baseline mRNA expression signature of melphalan resistance with treatment
           efficacy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of melphalan.

      Patients receive buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) IV continuously on days 1-3 and melphalan as an
      isolated limb infusion (ILI) over 30 minutes on day 2 in the absence of progressive disease
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo biopsies and blood sample collection at baseline, immediately before and
      during ILI, and then at 12 weeks after ILI or at the time of disease progression. Samples are
      analyzed for GST genotype, tumor glutathione (GSH) levels (by enzymatic assay or
      HPLC/fluorescence detection [FLD]), drug pharmacokinetics, and mRNA expression signature of
      melphalan resistance.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 2, 6, and 12 weeks, every 3
      months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for up to 2 years.
    
  