
    
      Rationale Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is an umbrella term which identifies a group of
      neurodegenerative diseases characterized by language deficits. By definition, language
      disorders are isolated for at least two years; subsequently the disease extends to other
      cognitive areas leading to a global dementia. Usually PPA affects relatively young patients
      between 50 and 65 years of age. The outcome is fatal after 10 to 15 years. No treatment is
      currently available. Three variants of PPA have been described: progressive nonfluent aphasia
      (PNFA), fluent PPA or semantic dementia (SD), and logopenic progressive aphasia (LPA). These
      variants are characterized by differences in the nature of the language deficits, the
      patterns of brain atrophy and the underlying pathology, comprising Alzheimer's pathology in
      about 30% of patients with PPA . In spite of the growing interest, the cognitive, anatomic
      and biologic characterization of the 3 PPA variants remains incomplete and the available data
      derive from studies on small patient samples. However, such a three-fold characterisation is
      essential in order to provide the rationale for therapeutic interventions comprising both
      specific rehabilitation of language and pharmacological treatments. In particular, the
      pharmacological approach crucially depends on a better knowledge of the underlying
      histopathology (e.g., the existence of Alzheimer pathology), as well as on the understanding
      of the damaged neural networks that may provide evidence for the implication of specific
      neurotransmitters. Our aim is to address these issues through exploring a large population of
      patients with PPA associating psycholinguistic tools, cutting-edge techniques of
      neuroimaging, CSF biomarker analyses and genetic screening. The study will provide a
      cross-sectional and longitudinal assessment of PPA patients involving 17 memory centres
      qualified in the domain of PPA.

      Main objective Providing an comprehensive characterisation of the 3 PPA variants through a
      cross-sectional and longitudinal approach investigating 1) the cognitive features
      (psycholinguistic), 2) the anatomic/metabolic substrates (structural MRI, DTI-based
      tractography, functional connectivity - resting state, 18FDG-PET), and 3) the biologic
      aspects (CSF biomarkers [amyloid-β and tau], genetic screening for mutations in the
      progranulin gene, apolipoprotein E genotyping).

      Secondary objectives

      1) Identification of prognostic markers (linguistic, anatomical/metabolic, biologic) for each
      PPA variant. 2) Identification of predictive markers (linguistic, neuroimaging) for the
      underlying histopathology (correlation analyses among linguistic, imaging, CSF and genetic
      markers). 3) Validation of the diagnostic criteria of semantic dementia to distinguish the
      fluent/semantic variant of PPA and forms with multimodal disorders of semantics (verbal and
      visual).

      Perspectives Providing the rationale for drug trials and for specific language
      rehabilitations.

      Methodology One hundred twenty-five PPA patients and 40 healthy age-matched controls will be
      included in the study. Patients will be recruited from a national network including the
      "national center of reference for rare dementias" and 10 associated "Centers of competence" ,
      as well as six additional hospitals, all experienced in the domain of PPA.

      Study design: The duration of the study will be three years (18 months inclusion, 18 months
      exploration). Participants will be assessed at inclusion (M0), at 9 months (M9) and at 18
      months (M18). The explorations will be subdivided into 3 work packages, each coordinated by a
      supervisor. 1) Cognitive work package (M0, M9, M18): A) Neuropsychological and language
      testing using standardized and internationally validated batteries; B) Neuropsychological
      battery specially conceived to explore verbal and visual semantics (validation of the new
      diagnostic criteria of semantic dementia; secondary objective N° 3); C) Language assessment
      using specifically targeted paradigms based on psycholinguistic models. Imaging work package
      (M0, M18): A) MRI and MRI-based tractography to detect and quantify cortical atrophy, the
      involvement of white matter tracts and to study the functional connectivity (resting state
      fMRI); B) 18FDG-PET to study metabolic defects of the cortex and the basal ganglia. 3)
      Biologic work package (M0; no controls): Lumbar puncture for the analysis of biomarkers in
      the CSF (amyloid-β, tau); B) genetic analyses on peripheral blood: quantification of plasma
      progranulin and (according to the results) screening for mutations of the progranulin gene;
      apolipoprotein E genotyping.

      Statistics. Cross-sectional analyses for inter-group comparisons (PPA groups, healthy
      controls) and longitudinal analyses for inter-group and intra-group comparisons (M0, M9,
      M18).
    
  