
    
      Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasia (GEP-NEN) were considered for years as rare
      tumors. In last years however, their incidences are increasing (3,65 / 100.000 / year)
      [Lawrence et al., 2011; Friling et al, 2014]. These tumors are important clinical entities:
      1) 40-95% of tumors have metastasized at diagnosis, 2) evidence-based data dealing with the
      therapeutic strategy and screening are still scarce.

      A central problem remains the impossibility to adequately predict the response to surgery,
      chemotherapy, radiochemotherapy, peptid-receptor-based Radiotherapy or biotherapy, precluding
      an individualized therapy (precision medicine) [Rinke et al., 2014]. An actual research topic
      in these patients is the identification of patient markers allowing an response prediction.
      Moreover, researchers try to identify tumor markers in patients with unknown primary in order
      to locate the origin of metastases. Further, identification of tumor specific markers would
      allow the development of screening strategies in GEP-NEN. Due to the ability of these
      techniques to describe the biological heterogenity of a tumor, proteomics (protein based
      analysis methods) are promising in the present problematic [Bezabeh et al., 2014; Löhr et
      al., 2006; Pan et al., 2013].

      The present study was designed to investigate epidemiologic data of patients with GEP-NEN and
      to answer following questions using proteomic analysis (MALDI-MS) applied to existing
      pathology specimens (paraffin-embedded specimens, FFPE): is it possible to explore protein
      signatures in this type of tumors? Is the response to therapy predictable using specific
      protein signatures? Is the tumor's tendency to metastasize related to specific protein
      signatures? The present investigation explores the GEP-NEN database/register of following
      institutions: University Hospital Schleswig Holstein, University hospital of Freiburg,
      Agaplesion Hospital Rotenburg. The pathology specimens of the studied register-population,
      were identified in the biobank and pathology-institutes of the participating hospitals and
      investigated using MALDI-MS technique.
    
  