
    
      Although, current guidelines recommend a rate of inadequate bowel cleansing for colonoscopy
      not higher than 10-15%, in clinical practice poor bowel cleansing in endoscopy units ranged
      between 6.8% and 33 The patient's perception of their colon cleansing before colonoscopy has
      been stated as a predictor of cleansing quality in a limited number of studies. In such a
      way, if the agreement between the patient's reported colon cleansing and the quality during
      colonoscopy is optimal, rescue cleansing strategies such as the administration of additional
      bowel solution might be indicated. In the studies that assessed the relationship between
      patient and colonoscopy assessment of colon cleansing quality the agreement was fair. The
      main drawback of these studies is that they do not used a validated colonoscopy cleansing
      scale.

      Therefore, ideally, patient-referred information regarding the quality of colon cleaning
      could be a factor of great value in guiding rescue strategies. However, the available
      evidence of the correlation between the patient's perception of the quality of colon
      cleansing at the time of colonoscopy is scarce and has also not been adequately studied.
      Evaluating this correlation in a cohort of unselected patients referred for outpatient
      colonoscopy and using a universally accepted validated colon cleansing quality scale could
      help to determine whether this system is a good predictor of inadequate colon cleansing and
      can guide the implementation of rescue strategies.

      The researchers will offer to participate in the study to patients scheduled for a
      colonoscopy who meet all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria. The
      researchers will explain the purpose of the study and will ask to sign the informed consent.
      They will give verbal and written information. Patients will fill out a questionnaire on the
      day of colonoscopy on the perception of cleanliness based on the last stool. To do this, a
      set with 4 figures (light liquid, light liquid with lumps, dark liquid or solid particles)
      used in a previous study will be shown to the patient and the patient should indicate which
      figure is more similar to the last bowel movement. Optionally, the patient will be able to
      provide the investigating staff with a photo of their last deposition. Patients should also
      note the hour of the last stool. Four researchers will chose the set considered more
      appropriate for the study.

      In addition, three sets compound of 4 pictures of different cleansing qualities will be
      presented to a subgroup of patients to test which one is more similar to the last stool.

      Subsequently, the colonoscopy will be performed and the cleaning quality will be scored
      according to the BBPS considering suboptimal a cleaning quality of less than 2 points in a
      segment of the colon. Patients will receive any of the routinely used colonic preparations in
      the hospital, i.e. Casenglycol® (polyethylene glycol), Moviprep® (polyethylene glycol and
      ascorbic acid) and Citrafleet® (picosulfate sodium, light magnesium oxide, citric acid).The
      bowel cleansing quality following BBPS will be assessed by the endoscopist.

      The aim of this study is to test the agreement between the colon cleansing quality assessed
      by the BBPS and the patient reported colon quality.

      In our unit the percentage of colonoscopies with poor preparation in unselected population is
      about 15-20% of patients undergoing colonoscopy. For the logistic regression model it is
      necessary to include 10 patients with poor preparation for each variable. Initially
      hypothesizing that we will include 9 variables, a total of 600 patients will be required.

      The t Student test will be used to compare groups in continuous variables. All values of p
      <0.05 shall be considered significant.

      A univariate analysis will be performed comparing each of the possible predictor variables
      with the dependent variable with the cleaning quality during colonoscopy (BBPS ≥ 2 in each
      segment). Subsequently, a logistic regression analysis will be carried out to evaluate the
      predictor factors of adequate quality evaluated by the BBPS including those with a
      significance of ≤ 0.15.
    
  