
    
      The investigators will take 60-70 ml (12 teaspoonfuls) of blood from the patient to make a B
      cell line called a lymphoblastoid cell line or LCL by infecting the blood with a laboratory
      strain of EBV called B95-8. The investigators will then use this EBV infected cell line
      (which have been treated with radiation so that they cannot grow) as stimulator cells and mix
      it with more blood. This stimulation will train the T cells to kill EBV infected cells and
      result in the growth of an EBV specific T cell line. The investigators will then test the T
      cells to make sure that they kill the EBV infected cells and not normal cells and freeze
      them.

      Patients will be entered into one of three different dosing schedules being evaluated. Three
      to six patients will be evaluated on each dosing schedule. Escalation will continue until
      irreversible or life threatening side effects considered to be related to the T cells are
      seen.

      The cells will then be thawed and injected into the patients' vein over 10 minutes, after
      pretreatment with Tylenol and Benadryl. Tylenol and Benadryl are given to prevent a possible
      allergic reaction to the T cell administration. Initially, two doses of T cells will be given
      two weeks apart. If after the second infusion there is a reduction in the size of the
      patient's lymphoma on CT or MRI scan as assessed by a radiologist, the patient can receive up
      to six additional doses of the T cells. All of the treatments will be given at Texas
      Children's Hospital or the Methodist Hospital.

      Patients will be followed in the clinic after the injections. To learn more about the way the
      T cells are working and how long they last in the body, an extra 40 mls (8 teaspoonfuls) of
      blood will be taken before each infusion and then 24 hours after each infusion, 3-4 days
      after each infusion and at 1, 2, 4, and 6 weeks post infusion and then at 3, 6, 9 and 12
      months post infusion. The blood may be drawn from the central line at the time of regular
      blood tests. This blood will be used to test for the frequency and activity of EBV specific T
      cells. A total of at least 122 teaspoons (approximately 40 tablespoons) of blood will be
      collected during participation in this study.

      If the patient decide to withdraw at any time during the study both samples and data
      collected during participation will be maintained.
    
  