
    
      Aims of the study:

      The primary purpose of this double blind study is to determine in individuals with
      pre-diabetes (IGT, impaired glucose tolerance; or IFG, impaired fasting glucose) and
      drug-naïve type 2 diabetes whether ARA 290 reduces disease activity by improving oral glucose
      tolerance, and insulin secretion, and thereby improves long-term glucose control.

      Secondary objectives are to evaluate the effects of ARA 290 on insulin sensitivity; serum
      levels of inflammatory agents, e.g. cytokine levels; serum levels of gluco-regulatory
      hormones, such as glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), glucagon; and safety by registering
      reported adverse events, and by monitoring clinical chemistry parameters related to
      hematology, kidney function, liver function and lipid levels.

      Study Design:

      This is a single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to
      evaluate the effects of ARA 290 on glucose homeostasis in persons with pre-diabetes or early,
      dietary treated type 2 diabetes. The trial has two parallel arms with 12 subjects in each
      group, and with a 4-week-intervention period. At screening, a baseline investigation will
      include a physical examination and the following tests: oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT),
      and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c).

      The investigational medicinal product (ARA 290, 4.0 mg) or placebo will be self-administered
      by a once daily injection s.c. for 28 days. Participating subjects meeting inclusion
      criteria, and not fulfilling any exclusion criterion on screening, will be randomized
      double-blind within one week following screening 1:1 to either treatment with ARA 290 or with
      placebo. Before the first treatment, serum for determination of cytokines, adipokines, and
      hormones will be collected. Participants will be investigated further with OGTT, HbA1c and
      clinical assessment after 2 weeks and at study end, after 4 weeks. They should also perform a
      self-monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) curve once weekly during the treatment period, e.g.,
      altogether 6 blood glucose tests during one day. Four weeks after the last dose, patients
      will return for HbA1c and fasting blood glucose levels.

      The primary endpoint of the study is to test whether there is a significant difference
      between persons receiving ARA 290 vs. persons receiving placebo in: glucose tolerance,
      evaluated by OGTT at baseline, and after 2 and 4 weeks. . The secondary endpoints of the
      study include effects of ARA 290 on: insulin sensitivity, evaluated by HOMA-IR (homeostasis
      model assessment of insulin resistance); insulin secretion, examined both by measuring the
      early insulin response (at 15 and 30 min) in OGTT, and using the HOMA-beta (homeostasis model
      assessment of beta cell function); and long-term glucose control, determined as glycosylated
      hemoglobin, HbA1c; assessment of serum levels of inflammatory agents, e.g. cytokine levels;
      serum levels of gluco-regulatory hormones, such as glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), and
      glucagon; and safety by registering reported adverse events, and by monitoring clinical
      chemistry parameters related to hematology, kidney function, liver function and lipid levels.

      Patients:

      24 patients will be enrolled in one single center; 12 patients will be administered ARA 290
      active ingredient product as daily doses for 28 days, and 12 patients will be administered a
      placebo as daily doses for 28 days. Individuals with IGT (impaired glucose tolerance), IFG
      (impaired fasting glucose) or drug-naïve type 2 diabetes will be included in the study. The
      population will consist of individuals of either gender, males aged 40-75 years; women aged
      50-75 years and menopausal.
    
  