
    
      If the participant agree to be in this study, the investigators will ask the participant to
      do the following things:

      The participant will be asked questions about his/her physical activity (walking, running or
      other exercise) to determine if he/she are eligible to participate. If the participant is
      eligible and interested in participating, the investigators will ask hi/her to read and sign
      the consent form.

      After that, the investigators will randomly assign the participant to a research group (this
      method would be similar to drawing numbers from a hat). The result will determine which group
      the participant will belong to. The study would have three different groups:

        1. Group one will be self-motivated to be physically active (control group)

        2. The second group will receive smart daily text messages only (text group);

        3. The last group would have the Amazon Echo smart device installed in participants' homes
           and they will interact with a digital voice assist that will help them be active (Alexa
           group).

             -  All study participants will receive a Fitbit device which you can keep after the
                study.

             -  When the investigators start the study, the participant will be asked to start
                wearing wrist device immediately. For the next one week the investigators will
                monitor the participant daily number of steps to establish how active he/she is.
                The participant will not be required to change his/her daily routine in the first
                week.

             -  After the end of the first week, the investigators will ask the participant to
                increase his/her daily steps to at least 10 thousand steps per day for the next
                four weeks. In total the participant will have one week of hi/her normal daily
                routine and four weeks of trying to do 10 thousand steps per day or more.

             -  If the participant is in the control group, the investigators will ask you to try
                to do 10 thousand steps per day on his/her own.

             -  If the participant are in the text group, he/she will get smart text messages with
                healthy tips to help track his/her activities and reach his/her daily goal.

             -  If the participant is in Alexa group, a study member will visit the participant at
                his/her home before the end of the first week to install the Echo smart speaker and
                to explain to the participant how to use the voice assist to help him/her become
                more active for the next four weeks.
    
  