
    
      Rationale: Opioid abuse is rampant, can have bad consequences, and is a source of many
      individual and societal problems. Although its use fulfills a role in pain control, this
      investigation seeks to find a pain control alternative with the potential for fewer adverse
      consequences for patient undergoing surgery for ankle fracture.

      Hypothesis: A structured regimen of NSAIDs (drugs such as ibuprofen or naproxen) during and
      after ankle fracture surgery will provide adequate pain relief and cause patients to take
      fewer doses of opioid drugs.

      Methods: This will be a prospective, randomized, double-blinded, placebo controlled study of
      patients with ankle fractures who require surgical treatment by several NSLIJ orthopaedic
      surgeons at North Shore University Hospital and Long Island Jewish Medical Center. There will
      be two groups of patients: one getting NSAIDs to take at regularly scheduled times plus a
      traditional prescription for opioid medication and one receiving the traditional prescription
      for opioid medication and a placebo. Patients will be assigned to a group from a
      computer-generated program. Neither the patients nor their doctors or nurses will know what
      group they are in, only the pharmacist will have that information. Patients in both groups
      will have the opportunity to take opioid medications if the pain becomes unmanageable. We are
      evaluating whether patients in the NSAIDs group will a) have no more pain than patients who
      are prescribed opioid pain killers for the same surgery and b) if the amount of opioid pain
      killers can be reduced by having patients take scheduled doses of NSAIDs. We will also
      describe how well or poorly patients heal, looking at several timepoints after surgery, using
      Xrays to evaluate formation of new bone.

      The test (experimental) group will be given a dose of IV (intravenous) ketorolac, which is an
      NSAID, during surgery, and will be given naproxen 500mg orally two times per day to take on a
      regular basis after surgery for four weeks. This group will be given percocet 5/325 (an
      opioid medication) 1-2 pills orally every 4 hours to take as pain medication if the naproxen
      is not providing adequate pain relief.

      The control group will be administered a saline dose during surgery as an equivalent to the
      IV ketorolac. These patients will take placebo pain pills on a regular basis two times per
      day for four weeks, and will take percocet for pain relief. This is equivalent to the common
      pain protocol that is given to patients after ankle fracture surgery, where they are given
      percocet to be taken on an as-needed basis.

      The placebo and naproxen medication will be in unidentifiable capsule form in unmarked
      bottles. The maximum daily dose of percocet will be 8 pills, so as not to exceed 2.6g
      acetaminophen daily.

      Both groups will take aspirin (ASA) 325mg orally daily for two weeks to prevent blood clots.
      All patients will take pantoprazole 40mg orally once daily. Pantoprazole is a proton pump
      inhibitor (PPI) that suppresses the production of stomach acid, to prevent the development of
      gastrointestinal ulcers.

      We will collect demographic data about the patients. We will also collect data about the
      surgery: surgery time, treating surgeon, type of surgery, location and complexity of
      fracture.

      W are studying the following outcomes: pain relief, opioid use and bone healing. To measure
      these outcomes, we will use a pain scale called the VAS to look for differences between the
      group. A change of 10 millimeters on a scale of 100 millimeters will considered to be the
      important pain difference. We will also ask patients to fill out journals of their medication
      use, we will perform pill counts, examine Xrays and ask patients to respond to the FFI, a
      questionnaire to evaluate how well they are functioning.

      Patients will be seen for followup at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 2 months, 6 months, and 1 year after
      surgery, all but the last visit are the usual and standard visits scheduled after ankle
      fracture surgery. At each visit, Xrays will be taken of the ankle to evaluate ankle position,
      and to determine whether bone healing has occurred. Patients will not incur any extra expense
      as a result of participating in the study.

      Since patients will not know which group they have been assigned to -- test (experimental) or
      control -- the investigators will carefully explain how to determine the need for taking the
      prescribed opioid pain medication such that patients are not subjected to unnecessary pain.
      Since both groups will have access to opioid pain medications, the study is designed to
      determine if those patients in the NSAIDs group already getting the relief from pain will
      experience pain at lower levels, which we will only be able to determine after the study is
      completed and the blind is broken.
    
  