
    
      Pain during gait is the most common and problematic symptom in individuals with
      osteoarthritis (OA) of knee joints. Limited range of motion, reduced walking speed, and a
      shortened stride length are also occasionally observed. These changes may be secondary or
      compensatory phenomena adopted by individuals to lessen the load on the OA-affected knees.

      It is generally agreed that medial plica can produce symptoms in the knee joint, and can be
      successfully treated by arthroscopic resection when it becomes inflamed, thickened, and
      fibrotic. In 2006, Lyu and Hsu reported that medial plica had strong correlation with medial
      compartment osteoarthritis of knees. In their further studies disclosing the kinematic
      relationship of the medial plica with the medial femoral condyle found that medial plica
      might cause some degree of abrasion on the surface of medial femoral condyle during knee
      motion. The repeated injuries elicited by this abrasion phenomenon might trigger some
      inflammatory process to gradually damage the cartilage of knee.

      Based on these findings, Lyu developed a concept of arthroscopic cartilage regeneration
      facilitating procedure (ACRFP) by arthroscopic resection of the medial plica, in addition to
      both medial and lateral capsular release, for the treatment of osteoarthritis of the knee
      joint. The clinical outcome of this procedure by eradication of the abrasion phenomenon
      caused by the tight, fibrotic, and hypertrophied medial plica, with decompression of the
      patellofemoral joint, the pain in most patients could be reduced, and the degenerative
      process in the medial compartment of some patients might be decelerated or arrested.

      During the ACRFP, additional procedures such as synovectomy, abrasiochondroplasty, or partial
      menisectomy may also be carried out when necessary. It has been found that the elimination of
      the existing detrimental factors may provide a preferable environment for regeneration of the
      damaged cartilage.

      Although the results of ACRFP for treatment of osteoarthritis of knee has been supported by
      several researches as being an effective method, it still lacks investigations on the gait
      pattern after such procedure. Therefore, the aim of this study is to discuss the
      effectiveness of the ACRFP for the patients with osteoarthritis of knee joints, specifically
      focused on their gait pattern.
    
  