
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Apolipoprotein (apo) A-I is the major protein constituent of plasma high density lipoproteins
      (HDL). HDL has been shown to promote cholesterol efflux from cells in vitro. Decreased plasma
      concentrations of HDL cholesterol and Apo A-I have been associated with premature coronary
      artery disease due to atherosclerosis in our society. A genetic HDL deficiency, familial
      hypoalphalipoproteinemia, appears to be fairly common in patients with premature coronary
      artery disease. The gene for Apo A-I has been isolated and characterized. Preliminary studies
      indicate that a specific Apo A-I gene polymorphism, detected following Pst I restriction
      enzyme digestion utilizing a specific probe, is significantly more common in subjects with
      premature coronary artery disease than in normal control subjects, and in some kindreds is
      associated with genetic HDL deficiency. This Apo A-I gene polymorphism is due to an
      alteration in the Apo A-I, Apo C-III intergenic region, near the 3' end of the coding region
      for Apo A-I. These observations have important implications for the detection of individuals
      genetically predisposed to premature coronary disease, as well as for providing insights into
      the mechanism leading to atherosclerosis.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Questionnaires were used to obtain information from each patient on known risk factors and
      diet. Fasting blood samples were obtained for lipoprotein analysis. Standard clinical and
      cardiological information and fasting blood samples were also collected for the cases. Blood
      was drawn for the DNA studies. A determination was made as to whether the Pst I Apo A-I gene
      polymorphism was associated with diminished levels of plasma Apo A-I or HDL cholesterol, by
      analysis of the distribution of these variables in cases and controls, after controlling for
      other known risk factors. Linkage analysis was used to determine whether the Pst I Apo A-I
      gene polymorphism co-segregates with premature coronary disease, or with diminished levels of
      plasma Apo A-I, or HDL cholesterol in 50 kindreds. A characterization was made of the
      abnormality in the Apo A-I, Apo C-III, Apo A-IV gene complex in patients with HDL deficiency,
      premature coronary disease, and the Pst I Apo A-I gene polymorphism.
    
  