
    
      SURGICAL TECHNIQUES

        1. Anterior cervical fusion The technique of anterior cervical discectomy and arthrodesis
           of the spine has been previously described by Smith-Robinson (ref) and is an accepted
           technique for anterior cervical fusion. Upon completion of adequate decompression, a
           gentle distraction maneuver may be performed by using either Caspar distraction pins or
           an interbody spreading device, taking care to avoid injury to the endplates.

           The endplates are then prepared with the use of a rasp or high speed burr taken to both
           superior and inferior endplates to remove the cartilagenous material and identify the
           bony endplate. Once hemostasis is obtained, the appropriate size allograft implant is
           chosen. That implant is then defrosted and brought into the surgical field.
           Concurrently, rhBMP-2 ((INFUSE®) Medtronic, Inc. Minneapolis, MN) has been reconstituted
           with sterile water, placed on an absorbable (type I bovine) collage sponge (ACS), cut to
           deliver the appropriate dose to each spinal level and is on the field as well. The
           partial BMP/ACS sponge is inserted into each disc space level, posterior to the
           structural implant. The dosage of rhBMP-2 used is approximately 0.525 mg per disc level
           or interbody space treated.

           The interbody device utilized is LifeNet Health's VertiGraft® VG2®. In the case of these
           allograft intervertebral implants, product safety and efficacy has been validated and
           patented by LifeNet Health using both an Allowash® and Allowash XG® technology. This is
           an intensive decontamination, disinfection and scrubbing regimen to remove and
           inactivate both viruses and bacteria which may be present from the donor harvesting
           process. The Allowash® process removes virtually all cellular elements of the bone
           thereby providing an additional line of defense against infectious disease. The second
           step consists of terminal sterilization of the cortico-cancellous allograft tissue.
           These processes have been validated and render the tissue sterile without compromising
           either the biomechanical or biochemical properties of allograft tissue intended for
           spinal applications.

           Plate fixation with the Atlantis® Cervical Plate (Medtronic, Inc. Minneapolis, MN) is
           carried out by serially drilling each of the screw holes and placing the appropriate
           length (3.5 x 14-15 mm) screw into each of the holes. The locking screw mechanism on the
           plate is then secured and a lateral cervical radiograph is called for to confirm
           appropriate levels and instrumentation placement. A medium Hemovac drain is placed in
           the anterior prevertebral space and brought out through a separate stab incision.
           Routine closure is then carried out.

        2. Posterior Cervical Arthrodesis A longitudinal incision is made in the midline of the
           posterior neck, directly over the involved spinal level(s). The fascia and muscle are
           gently divided, exposing the spinous processes and lamina. An x-ray is obtained to
           confirm the appropriate spinal levels to be fused. A laminectomy and foraminotomy can be
           performed if necessary. Two (3.5 mm x 14mm) cortical screws ((Vertex (TM) Medtronic,
           Inc. Minneapolis, MN) are affixed to each lateral mass in the method previous described
           by Magerl (ref) and connected with a titanium rod on each side of the spine. The bony
           surfaces and facet joints are then decorticated. One sponge of the BMP/ACS product is
           placed over the decorticated bone surfaces on each side. The bone removed during the
           decompresion laminectomy is morsellized and placed in and around the facet joints. The
           amount of rh-BMP-2 used will be a total of 2.1 mg placed bilaterally, to a total of
           4.2mg.

        3. Combined Anterior-Posterior Cervical Arthrodesis This surgical procedure combines a
           posterior cervical decompression and fusion with an anterior cervical fusion. The
           techniques described for the individual surgical procedures are applicable to the
           combined Anterior-Posterior procedure. In an anterior-posterior surgery, the amount and
           positioning of rhBMP-2 will be similar to the anterior surgery (0.525 mg placed
           anteriorly at each level) or similar to the posterior surgery (2.4 mg across the entire
           lateral mass on each side posteriorly).
    
  