
    
      STUDY HYPOTHESIS The aim of this trial is to test the safety of an Active Surveillance
      protocol comparing current practice to standardized triggers for initiation of curative
      treatment, based on Magnetic Resonance Imaging or biopsy pathology. The study hypothesis is
      that standardized triggers will reduce overtreatment without increasing disease progression
      and prostate cancer mortality.

      STUDY DESIGN Randomized multi-centre open-label clinical trial.

      INTERVENTIONS Patients within 12 months of a diagnosis of prostate cancer will be approached
      and consented to the study. Computerised randomisation (1:1) will assign participants to
      either the control (Arm 1) or intervention arm (Arm 2). In the control arm, patients will be
      treated according to active surveillance protocol at the trial centre; in the intervention
      arm patients will follow standardised active surveillance protocol applying specific criteria
      for repeat biopsies and the initiation of curative treatment. Patients are stratified by
      centre and Gleason score.

      FOLLOW UP In both arms, patients will followed up for 10 years with the following schedule: a
      PSA test every 6 months, clinical examination (with PSA test) and Quality of Life (QoL)
      questionnaire annually, and MRI every second year. Re-biopsy and/or initiation of curative
      treatment depends on the trial arm patients are randomised to.

      Repeat biopsies

      Arm 1 (control arm): according to current practice (urologists' judgement)

      Arm 2 (intervention arm): standardised triggers

        -  A systematic repeat biopsy if PSA density increases to > 0.2 ng/ml/cc, and then at every
           0.1 ng/ml/cc increase

        -  MRI progression in men with previously only Gleason grade 3+3: 5 mm or more increase in
           size in any dimension of a measurable lesion, increase in PI-RADS score to 3-5, a new
           lesion with PI-RADS score 3-5, or high or very high suspicion of extra-capsular
           extension or seminal vesicle invasion

        -  MRI progression in men with Gleason grade 3+4: 5 mm or more increase in size in any
           dimension of a measurable lesion, or a new lesion with PI-RADS score 3-5

      Curative treatment

      Arm 1 (control arm): According to current practice (urologists judgement)

      Arm 2 (intervention arm): standardised triggers

        -  MRI progression in lesions with confirmed Gleason grade 4: increase in PI-RADS score to
           4 or 5, or high or very high suspicion of extra-capsular extension or seminal vesicle
           invasion

        -  Pathological progression: Gleason pattern 5, primary Gleason pattern 4 in any core with
           5 mm or more cancer, Gleason 3+4 in 3 or more cores or 30% if more than 10 cores are
           taken, or Gleason 3+4 in 10 mm or more cancer

      Patients will remain on trial unless they end Active Surveillance due to initiation of
      treatment, development of metastases, transition to watchful waiting, or death of any cause.
      After the initiation of curative treatment, watchful waiting, or palliative treatment for
      cancer progression, the patient is treated according to the standard protocol of the
      participating centre.
    
  