
    
      Minimal residual disease detection in the bone marrow is highly prognostic for disease
      relapse in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and is determined based on a
      single bone marrow aspirate sample. Our anecdotal experience over the past decade in the
      Pediatric Oncology Branch (POB) has led us to believe that a bone marrow aspirate as the only
      metric for disease detection may not be adequate, but a systematic review detailing our
      experience and reporting on instances where we have identified discrepancies in disease
      status has not been performed to confirm our hypothesis. Additionally, patients with ALL also
      may have CNS involvement by disease. Current standard of care assessment of disease in the
      central nervous system (CNS) consists of cerebrospinal (CSF) fluid sampling and evaluation
      for blasts by cytology only, which may not identify occult levels of CNS disease.

      Flow cytometry-based CSF testing is highly dependent on the media used for CNS specimens and
      the expertise of the center performing these studies. NCI Flow cytometry has established
      expertise in CNS disease evaluation. In evaluation of patients with ALL for POB treatment
      protocols, we have observed cases where there is a discrepancy between cytopathology and flow
      cytometry results. Recent literature in ALL indicates that subclinical CNS disease may be
      relevant to patient outcomes. With a primary goal of identifying the optimal methods for
      disease detection in ALL, this protocol is a retrospective chart review of bone marrow
      evaluations and cerebrospinal fluid results in patients with ALL or lymphoblastic lymphoma
      (LBL) who underwent treatment or evaluation in the Pediatric Oncology Branch of the National
      Cancer Institute. This study will not involve the use of specimens or participant contact.
      All data that is needed has already been collected and is available in CRIS records. Data
      will only be collected on patients with ALL or LBL where routine PET scans to follow EM
      disease, bone marrow and/or CSF evaluations were done as standard of care or on study and
      will largely be from trials where Dr. Nirali Shah is or has served as the PI (e.g.,
      12-C-0112, 15-C-0029.)
    
  