
    
      Title Phase II study of oral PRednisone 5 mg bid plus EVerolimus in patients with metastatic
      renal cell cancer after failure of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-tyrosine
      kinase inhibitor (PREV study).

      Short Title/ Acronym PREV Protocol Code IRST189.04 Phase Phase 2 Study Design This is a
      multicenter prospective study that includes all patients with metastatic RCC pre- treated
      with VEGFR TKI in eight Italian cancer centers.

      Study Duration 2 years of recruitment and 1 year of follow-up Study Center(s) multi-center: 8
      centers involved

      Objectives Primary objective:

      To evaluate the safety and tolerability of prednisone 5 mg bid and everolimus 10 mg/day in
      RCC.

      Secondary objectives:

      To evaluate the activity and the clinical outcome of these patients.

      Exploratory objectives:

      To evaluate the influence of prednisone on trough concentration of everolimus and correlation
      with the incidence of side effects, in particular stomatitis and non-infectious pneumonitis.

      Infiammation markers such as pentraxin 3 (PTX3), IL-6, TGF-β and neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio
      will be correlated with clinical outcome (ORR, PFS, OS).

      Number of Subjects 42 subjects Diagnosis and Main Inclusion Criteria Patients with mRCC who
      failed at least one VEGFR TKI.

      Main Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients with renal cell carcinoma who failed at least one VEGFR TKI

        -  Patients with adequate bone marrow function

        -  Patients with adequate liver function

        -  Patients with adequate renal function Diagnosis and Main Inclusion Criteria (continued)
           Main exclusion criteria:

        -  CNS disease OR patients with presence or history of central nervous system (CNS)
           lymphoma

        -  Patients receiving chronic, systemic treatment with corticosteroids or another
           immunosuppressive agent (except corticosteroids with a daily dosage equivalent to
           prednisone ≤ 20 mg for adrenal insufficiency). However, patients receiving
           corticosteroids must be on a stable dose for ≥ 4 weeks prior to the first dose of
           everolimus. Topical or inhaled corticosteroids are permitted.

        -  Patients with a known hypersensitivity to everolimus or other rapamycins (sirolimus,
           temsirolimus) or to its excipients

        -  Patients with uncontrolled hyperlipidemia (≥ Grade 3 hyperlipidemia despite optimal
           supportive medical therapy)

        -  Patients with an active, bleeding diathesis

        -  Previous organ transplantation

        -  Patients who have any severe and/or uncontrolled medical conditions or other conditions
           that could affect their participation in the study Study Product, Dose, Route, Regimen
           and duration of administration Everolimus is formulated as tablets of 5-10 mg strength,
           blister-packed under aluminium foil in units of 10 tablets. Prednisone will be dispensed
           to patients at the dose of 5 mg twice daily (BID). Everolimus at dose of 10 mg (one 10
           mg tablet or two 5 mg tablets). Both drugs will be self-administered orally,
           continuously from Day 1 (Visit 2) until progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity,
           death or discontinuation for any other reason.

      A treatment cycle consists of 28 days. Reference therapy Not applicable Statistical
      Methodology This is a multicenter prospective study that includes all patients with
      metastatic RCC pre- treated with VEGFR TKI in eight Italian cancer centers.

      The study will be analyzed on an intent-to-treat basis. Secondary parameters will be analyzed
      exploratively for the intent-to-treat population.
    
  