
    
      Background

      Breast cancer is the second leading cause of death in women around the world. According to
      WHO statistics, 571,000 women passed away in 2015 due to breast cancer alone. In Hong Kong,
      breast cancer is the most common cancer among women.

      Currently, the standard protocol in breast cancer treatment consists of surgery (mastectomy),
      chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and possibly hormone therapy or targeted therapy depending on the
      presence or absence in tumor cells of certain hormone receptors such as estrogen receptors
      (ER), progesterone receptors (PR), or human epidermal receptor 2 (HER2). The standard
      protocol aims to remove the tumor and kill any remaining tumor cells. The treatment is
      usually adjusted based on the patients' tolerance and general health status. The standard
      protocol has so far been very effective in treating patients with early-stage breast cancers.
      The 5-year relative survival rate can be higher than 90% if patients are treated early
      enough. But it is still very challenging to treat patients with middle- or late-stage breast
      cancers, especially those with metastatic disease. For patients with metastases, the 5-year
      relative survival rate drops to around 20%. There are two major reasons for this drop.

      While all breast cancers start from the same organ, the evolution of cancer cells shows
      different patterns in different patients. This is especially true when breast cancers are
      advanced into the middle or late stages. The standard protocol, however, is based on averaged
      patient statistics and does not fully account for the uniqueness of individuals. For example,
      patients with different genomic backgrounds respond differently to the same drug dosage and
      experience different side effects. Thus, population-based treatment strategies cannot provide
      effective, optimal treatment for every patient, especially for patients with middle- or
      late-stage breast cancer.

      The clinical gold standard for cancer diagnosis is multi-modality imaging: mammogram and
      ultrasound, plus pathology of biopsied tissue. Imaging has been effective in detecting
      primary breast cancers but it becomes less effective for monitoring patients post-treatment
      because their primary tumors and affected lymph nodes have been removed. While physicians
      still rely on image-based screening of organs such as the lungs and liver where metastases
      have become established to monitor their patients post-treatment, such screening tests are
      not sensitive enough. Patients with greater risk of metastasis often miss the best window of
      opportunity for therapy adjustment before the secondary onset. When metastasis is observed in
      other parts of the body a few years later, often it is already too late for any effective
      intervention.

      For patients whose breast cancers are at the early stage, the standard protocol is very
      helpful. But for patients whose breast cancers are already more advanced, the standard
      protocol and the post-treatment monitoring tools may not be sufficient to effectively control
      the cancer's further development and to avoid secondary onset or metastasis. If we can
      accurately predict the occurrence of metastasis after treating the primary cancer, the
      investigators may be able to adjust the course of intervention during the time window between
      the primary tumor treatment and the secondary onset. Potentially, the investigators may be
      able to delay or even avoid metastasis.

      Many studies have shown that genomic alterations are among the most important drivers
      initiating cancer and controlling its progression, and metastases. To identify such
      mutations, sequencing projects such as the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the International
      Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) have systematically studied the genomes and transcriptomes of
      thousands of cancers. As a result, many mutations which drive breast cancer have been
      identified. But the roles of those mutations in breast cancer metastasis are still unclear.

      Clinically, there are some associations between primary tumor treatments and the risk of
      secondary onset. For example, women who receive radiotherapy after mastectomy are known to
      have a higher risk of lung cancer. Such associations are weak, however, and have no
      clinically-actionable implications.

      In this study, our team specializing in surgery, oncology, radiology, pathology, machine
      learning, medical image analysis, single cell genomics, genomic data analysis and cancer
      evolution will tackle the challenge of predicting post-treatment metastasis in breast cancer
      patients. Our team members have established clinical expertise and a strong track record of
      relevant work in areas including breast cancer treatment and prognosis, multi-modality image
      analysis for cancer detection and diagnosis, and prediction of glioblastoma relapse by
      identifying key features of cancer evolution. Based on our extensive experience, the
      investigators hypothesize that combining multi-modality imaging data and genomic data,
      collected both at the time of diagnosis and during the post-treatment follow-up period, will
      provide sufficient information to predict the risk of metastasis despite an incomplete
      understanding of the underlying biological mechanisms. Machine learning-based methods have
      already shown great potential in tackling the issue of heterogeneity among cancer patients,
      making it possible to build a unified tool to predict the risk of post-treatment metastasis.

      Such a prediction model, once developed and validated, will enable physicians to make
      adjustments in patients' treatment. Before gaining complete insight into the biological
      mechanism behind metastasis, such a prediction tool would offer an effective way to choose
      the best treatment for improving each patient's quality of life and extending their life
      span.

      More importantly, such a prediction technique should potentially be generalizable to other
      types of cancer. If so, it would have an enormous impact on clinical practice in cancer
      treatment and post-treatment monitoring.

      Methodology and Collaboration Plan

        1. Study design To maximize the use of existing data, the investigators will carry out a
           retrospective study mixed with the pilot phase of a prospective study. In the
           retrospective study the investigators will use publically-available images and genomic
           data of breast cancer patients before and after treatment to perform image analysis,
           feature selection, and predictor building. To compensate for the lack of matched image
           and genomic data in the public database, the investigators will supplement it with new
           data collected in a pilot prospective study for which the investigators will recruit 400
           breast cancer patients. All will have undergone surgical treatment plus chemotherapy
           and/or radiotherapy, and images and genomic data will have been collected at the time of
           diagnosis. Matched genomic data for those patients will then be collected annually for
           up to 4 years. Assuming an incidence of metastasis of 15% within 5 years, about 60 of
           the patients will experience metastasis during the study. The data collected and the
           clinical outcome metadata will be used to evaluate the predication model's accuracy and
           in future studies.

        2. Data collection BGI Ltd. is sponsoring this project. As is explained in their supporting
           letter, BGI will provide imaging data and genomic data from 200 breast cancer patients
           for us to build the prediction model. That support will provide a solid foundation for
           obtaining sufficient data.

           Dr. Wing Cheong Chan is a breast surgeon at the North District Hospital (NDH) and is
           also the surgeon in charge of breast surgery for the Hospital Authority's entire New
           Territories East Cluster (NTEC). As a Honorary Clinical Assistant Professor in the
           Department of Surgery at CUHK, Dr. Chan has already been working closely with Prof. Yeo
           and Dr. Tse on breast cancer diagnosis and treatment for a long time. His division
           carries out surgeries on about 260 breast cancer patients every year. He will be
           responsible for recruiting 200 breast cancer patients with ER/PR positive or negative
           status on a rolling basis, providing fresh tumor tissue and blood samples for genomic
           data acquisition. Prof. Winnie Yeo is a clinical oncologist at the Prince of Wales
           Hospital (PWH) of CUHK. She manages on average more than 500 breast cancer patients
           every year, including those operated on at the NDH. She will be responsible for
           monitoring the 200 breast cancer patients recruited after their surgeries and other
           treatment, and will collect blood samples during the follow-up period. She will provide
           relevant anonymized clinical data for building the prediction tool and will also provide
           clinical feedback on the predictive features that the HKUST team will extract from the
           images and genomic data.

           Prof. Winnie Chu, a radiologist, and Dr. Gary Tse, a pathologist, both at PWH, will
           provide labeled mammograms, ultrasound images and images of biopsied tissue along with
           biomarker data for the same 200 patients. They will then provide subsequent images and
           other screening test data at intervals. Some patients will receive MRI scans, which will
           also be included in the data for image-based prediction. All of the patient data will be
           anonymized. Dr. Chan and Prof. YEO will provide clinical feedback on predictive
           features. Please see Appendix 2 for the standard image acquisition protocol.

           Prof. Angela Wu, a genomics and technology development expert in the Division of Life
           Science and the Dept. of Chemical and Biological Engineering at the HKUST, will work on
           sample preparation and genome data collection. She will collect the genomic data for the
           analysis team. Prof. Wu has extensive experience in genomics, and in particular in the
           area of genomic assay and technology development, as evidenced by her publications. Her
           team will perform whole-exome sequencing (WES) and bulk RNA sequencing of patients'
           tumors to allow identification of key mutations in protein coding regions and the
           relationship between those mutations and gene expression. The WES and RNA-seq pipeline
           will employ standard DNA and RNA extraction procedures followed by paired-end Illumina
           sequencing. Cell-free DNA sequencing will also be performed annually for each patient
           post-surgery to quantify tumor DNA in the patient's blood. The investigators will
           attempt to correlate the results with morphological changes over time as described by
           imaging. Cell-free DNA will be extracted using protocols adapted from which have been
           optimized and validated in Prof. Wu's lab.

        3. Data analysis and predictor building The analysis team consists of four professors in
           engineering and life sciences. They will analyze the multi-modality imaging data and the
           genomic data, build a unified predictor, and evaluate its performance.

             1. Image analysis Prof. Tim Cheng is an expert image content analysis using machine
                learning. His team has recently developed convolutional neural networks for
                detecting and diagnosing prostate cancer from MRI images. Prof. Albert Chung
                specializes in medical image analysis with about 20 years of experience. Prof.
                Weichuan Yu is expert in the analysis of ultrasound images. They will jointly
                analyze the mammograms, ultrasound images, pathology images, and possibly MRI
                images aiming to extract metastasis-associated image features which can be used in
                the predictor. Candidates are 2D wavelet transform coefficients, gray level
                co-occurrence matrix, and local binary and ternary patterns which have proved
                useful in detecting abnormalities. Using images which have the ground-truth,
                representative image features will be extracted to help differentiate normal,
                benign and malignant tissues. We also will investigate different classifiers such
                as artificial neural networks, random forest, and support vector machine for their
                effectiveness in segmenting breast images based on the extracted features. The
                investigators will use deep convolutional neural networks such as U-net and ResNet
                to perform the image segmentation. The segmentation results obtained from
                feature-based methods and from the deep learning-based methods will be fused under
                a probabilistic framework such as the Markov random field method. That should allow
                coupling their output in the predictor.

                In short, the investigators will deploy a toolbox containing state-of-the-art
                medical image analysis methods and combine them. The investigators will discuss the
                extracted image features with the clinical team for feedback.

             2. Genomic data analysis The genome data will be analyzed by a team consisting of
                Prof. Jiguang Wang, a computational biologist, and Prof. Weichuan Yu, with
                expertise in genome-wide association. Profs. Tim Cheng and Albert Chung will also
                contribute to this part of the study by applying machine learning to the genome
                data. Prof. Wang has shown that certain brain tumors mutations seen early in the
                cancer's development can be used to predict treatment outcomes. Those methods will
                be adapted to the breast cancer data to predict tumor metastasis. In addition, the
                investigators found in a preliminary study that a copy number change in ERBB2 in
                breast cancer shows strong association with brain metastasis. This observation will
                be further validated and justified by follow-up work in this proposed study. After
                the investigators select the genome features as targets, the investigators will
                work with the clinical team together to sort out the medical implications.

             3. Building a metastasis predictor The investigators plan to formulate the prediction
                task as a statistical inference problem with a Bayesian probabilistic framework.
                All of the measurements and their uncertainty levels can then be consistently
                modelled and mathematically integrated. For example, all measurements can be
                represented as observations in a graphical probabilistic model and the predication
                outcome can be inferred by estimating the maximum a posteriori (MAP) solution. As
                the investigators will be collecting data annotated by clinicians, the
                investigators expect that model parameters can be initialized and trained
                effectively. The investigators will also explore formulating the prediction task as
                a classification problem and investigate using multiple, jointly co-trained
                convolutional neural networks, each of which processes only image or genome data,
                for performing the classification.

        4. Evaluation The area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) will
           be the main criterion to evaluate the prediction accuracy of our metastasis predication
           tool. Currently, the best performance of breast cancer metastasis prediction by only
           using imaging data is reported, the area under the curve (AUC) was about 55% for PAM50
           gene assay-based risk of relapse and proliferation. Based on our survey, no method has
           yet been proposed to use genomic data for breast cancer metastasis prediction, although
           the genomic evolution of breast cancer metastasis and relapse has been actively
           investigated. The investigators expect that the prediction accuracy should increase by
           at least 5% to 10% after the investigators combine both imaging data and genomic data.

      Recently, Mobadersany et al. has reported that the survival convolutional neural network
      (SCNN) can surpass manual histologic-grade baseline model by combining pathology images and
      genomic biomarkers in predicting the glioma outcome. The authors used the Harrell's c index
      from the survival analysis perspective to measure the prediction accuracy. The median c index
      has achieved 0.75 using the SCNN. While breast cancer is very different from glioma and AUC
      is different from the Harrell's c index, this paper has demonstrated a positive example of
      combining image data and genomic data in the prediction of cancer outcome.

      Please note that it will take much longer to observe the complete clinical outcomes of the
      400 patients the investigators plan to recruit in this project. The investigators plan to
      seek additional funding to continue our study after finishing this project.
    
  