
    
      Introduction: chronic SDHs are some of the most frequently encountered neurosurgical
      emergencies. The gold standard treatment of symptomatic chronic SDHs is burr-hole surgery
      followed by temporary closed system drainage. Post-operative recurrence rates may be as high
      as 10 to 20% and are a major source of morbidity and repeated surgery. MMA embolization is a
      promising minimally invasive procedure recently proposed as a treatment of chronic SDH. It is
      hypothesized that post-operative MMA embolization may reduce recurrence rate in patients at
      high risk of recurrence.

      Aims: the primary objective of the trial is to assess the efficacy of MMA embolization in
      reducing the risk of chronic SDH recurrence at 6 months after burr-hole surgery as compared
      with standard medical treatment in patients at high risk of post-operative recurrence.
      Secondary objectives include evaluating the impact of post-operative MMA embolization on rate
      of recurrence requiring new surgery (at 6 months), rate of functional dependency (at 1 and 6
      months) , mortality (at 1 and 6 months) , cumulative hospital stay duration, related to the
      SDH, and complication rate at 6 months.

      Methods: multicenter open label randomized controlled trial. Eligible patients will be
      assigned either to the intervention or a control arm through blocked randomization with
      randomblock sizes and stratified on the center, antiplatelet/anticoagulant therapy and
      unilateral vs bilateral SDH. Patients in the intervention group will undergo a CT angiography
      scan of the supra aortic trunks, followed by MMA embolization procedure within 7 days of the
      burr-hole surgery in addition to standard medical care. Patients in the control group will
      receive standard medical care only. Outcomes will be evaluated at 1 and 6 months. The primary
      outcome measure will be the rate of chronic SDH recurrence 6 months after index burr-hole
      surgery, as defined bellow. In order to demonstrate a decrease in recurrence rate from 15 to
      5% between the intervention and control arms with a power of 80%, bilateral global alpha risk
      of 5%, with two planned sequential tests according to the method of Lan & Demets, and 20%
      patients lost to follow-up, 342 patients are required, 171 in each arm. The primary outcome
      will be analyzed according to intention to treat.
    
  