
    
      Background Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) is a group of artificial colloid solutions widely used
      for plasma expansion and volume resuscitation. HES consist of branched chains of hydroxylated
      glucose molecules defined by average molecular weight, degree of hydroxyethylation, and C2/C6
      ratio. Several clinical reports and in vitro experiments have documented an impaired
      coagulation system induced by haemodilution with HES and other colloid plasma expanders. The
      exact mechanisms responsible for HES induced coagulopahty are not fully understood although
      reduced levels of von Willebrand factor (vWF), acquired platelet dysfunction, reduced factor
      VIII levels, and dysfunctional fibrinogen polymerization seems to reflect an important aspect
      of the pathogenesis.

      Experimental laboratory studies performed in our centre and verified by several other
      research groups have shown successful reversal of the colloid plasma expander induced
      coagulopathy by fibrinogen concentrate.10-13 So far, the present knowledge are based on
      laboratory experiments and animal studies. Hence, it appears desirable to perform a
      comprehensive description of haemostasis parameters following HES induced dilutional
      coagulopathy in an acute clinical bleeding situation.

      Materials and Methods

      Study design: Clinical, prospective, double-blind, randomised, place-controlled trial. Blood
      samples:

      Primary end point:

      Dynamic whole blood clot formation

      Secondary end points:

      A) Single coagulation factor activities B) Platelet function C) Whole blood clot stability.
      D) Thrombin generation

      Perspectives:

      Serious surgical and traumatic bleedings are common and associated with a high mortality
      rate. The present study can significantly contribute to our overall understanding of the
      mechanisms involved in HES induced dilutional coagulopathy.
    
  