
    
      Congenital heart diseases (ConHD) represent 28% of all congenital abnormalities.This
      population has experienced an increased life expectancy due to improvements in medical
      services and surgical techniques. Currently, around 90% of them will reach adulthood. Due to
      the complexity of these disorders, children with ConHD have to be under continuing follow-up.
      However, when they reach 18 years, they will be transferred to adult care. In order to help
      the adolescent in the transitions to adulthood and adult care, transitions programs have been
      proposed as a complex intervention with the objective of maximizing lifelong functioning and
      potential through appropriate healthcare services.

      Patient empowerment is recognized as an essential element of transition interventions.Through
      the promotion of patient empowerment the adolescents can become active partners in their care
      and have the knowledge and capacity to make decisions that affect their life and health
      status.

      While the importance of transition programs has been mentioned previously, high level
      evidence on the effectiveness of these interventions is limited. The purpose of this study is
      to assess the effectiveness of a transition program for adolescents with congenital heart
      disease. In order to asses the effectiveness of the transition program the investigators
      proposed a hybrid experimental design where a randomized controlled trial is embedded in a
      longitudinal, observational study.

      During the course of the study, participants will be part of a transition program or receive
      usual care before being transferred to adult care. The primary outcome is level of
      empowerment and secondary outcomes include patient-reported health, illness perception,
      quality of life, health behaviors, knowledge on congenital heart disease, transition
      readiness, parental uncertainty and parenting.

      The investigators will assess the effectiveness of the transition program by comparing the
      level of empowerment between the participants who received usual care and those who
      participated in the transition program. A higher level of empowerment from the group part of
      the intervention it's expected.

      A process and economic evaluation of the intervention will also be undertaken. The process
      evaluation will evaluate the process of care delivery within the transition program. This
      information will helped describe the mechanism of impact, explore potential expansion to
      other chronic conditions and to prepare permanent implementation of the transition program in
      Sweden.

      The economic evaluation entails an impact budget assessment and a cost-effectiveness
      analysis.
    
  