
    
      PAP is a rare syndrome of surfactant accumulation and resulting hypoxemic respiratory failure
      that occurs in a number of diseases classified pathogenically into three groups: primary PAP
      (caused by disruption of GM-CSF signaling - autoimmune PAP, hereditary PAP), secondary PAP
      (caused by reduction in alveolar macrophage numbers and/or functions), and surfactant
      dysfunction-related PAP (caused by mutations in genes required for normal surfactant
      production). In current clinical practice, PAP is diagnosed based on a lung biopsy; an
      approach that is not able to identify the PAP-causing disease in anyone. Current therapy
      involves the physical removal of surfactant by a procedure in which the lungs are repeatedly
      filled with saline and emptied - whole lung lavage, which is invasive, inefficient, and not
      widely available, especially for children. Importantly, research advances have elucidated the
      pathogenesis of diseases causing PAP in most patients and have identified new diagnostic and
      therapeutic approaches. Simple blood-based research tests can now identify the PAP-causing
      disease in about 95% of patients. Further, several promising potential disease-specific
      therapies are currently in development. The long-term goals of the Rare Lung Diseases
      Consortium include improving the diagnosis and therapy of people with PAP. A major goal of
      this protocol is to establish a National PAP Registry. Our central hypothesis is that a
      nationwide campaign to enroll and communicate with a large cohort of PAP patients will have
      important benefits including 1) accelerating the translation of research diagnostics into
      clinical practice, 2) increasing knowledge among patient and healthcare communities about
      PAP, and 3) engagement of PAP patients and doctors in planning and conducting PAP research.
      The specific objectives of this study are to: 1) determine the ability of the DBSC GMAb Test
      to correctly identify autoimmune PAP among people with PAP of any type, 2) estimate the
      prevalence of autoimmune PAP, 3) increase communication and knowledge about PAP-causing
      diseases, PAP research advances, and future research studies among PAP patients, healthcare
      providers, the medical community, the PAP Foundation, the Translational Pulmonary Science
      Center (TPSC) and the general public, 4) evaluate the ability of DBSC-based test to correctly
      identify genetic factors that increase the risk of developing PAP; and 5) to evaluate the
      ability of the DBSC GMAb Test to correctly identify autoimmune PAP among people with PAP of
      any type, or another lung diseases, and healthy controls. The target population is any person
      diagnosed with PAP. The study design will involve recruitment, screening, and enrollment of
      Participants via short telephone-based study visits, completion of questionnaires, and
      collection of capillary blood from the fingertip by Participants in their home using a DBSC,
      which are then sent by US mail to the TPSC for evaluation. The experimental approach will
      compare GMAb levels from DBSCs from Participants diagnosed with PAP and determine the
      fraction of autoimmune PAP patients among individuals with PAP. DBSC-based genetic testing
      will be compared to current blood-based methods for identification of known genetic risk
      factors for developing PAP. Lastly, DBSC GMAb values will be compared to GMAb values from
      healthy and lung disease controls to determine the ability of the DBSC GMAb test to identify
      patients with autoimmune PAP. Anticipated results will establish a National PAP registry,
      validate tests for diagnosis of diseases causing PAP in more than 90% of patients, increase
      awareness and understanding of PAP among patients and healthcare providers, and provide for a
      patient voice in PAP research. These results will impact the field by: 1) transforming how
      PAP is diagnosed, 2) increasing access to diagnostic testing - of special importance to those
      in remote locations, and 3) engaging PAP patient and healthcare communities in planning and
      implementing PAP research including a prospective natural history study and clinical trials
      evaluating several potential, disease-specific therapies.
    
  