
    
      The investigators have developed a method of collecting exhaled breath condensate pH
      continually from ventilated patients, which (1) takes samples from an exhaust port on the
      outside of the ventilator circuit, and (2) possesses no measurable resistance to the
      ventilator circuit (and, therefore the sampling procedure in no way affects the patient).

      Now, additionally, we have performed the continuous collection process on 10 patients in the
      intensive care units, none of whom have had any ill effects from the collection process.

      The placement of the exhaled breath condensate collection device on the ventilator exhaust
      port offers a simplified, accurate, and safe method of investigating the relationships
      between airway pH and various pulmonary inflammatory disease processes in intubated patients
      of all ages.

      In order to further extend our study of airway pH in intubated subjects, we believe it is
      necessary to obtain more frequent exhaled breath condensate pH measurements from intubated
      subjects. To that end, we have developed a collection system that will also measure the pH of
      the collected exhaled breath condensate in a fashion similar to the methodology used for
      thousands of assays in our laboratory and other laboratories globally. This involves
      deaeration of the sample to remove carbon dioxide. In the lab environment, this is performed
      with Argon. In the ICU setting, we will accomplish the same effect by using wall oxygen.

      The continuous exhaled breath condensate pH collection and assay system consists of a
      condenser attached to the exhaust port of the ventilator. The condenser is kept chilled to
      slightly above freezing temperature by a refrigeration system commonly employed in ICU
      settings. The collection device stays attached to the exhalation port of the ventilator
      continuously, for hours to days.

      Collected exhaled breath condensate is channeled into two deaeration chambers, through which
      wall oxygen is bubbled (total flow of 1 liter/min). In the second deaeration chamber, a micro
      pH electrode is inserted. This pH electrode is attached to a pH recorder that has internal
      memory that can record essentially an infinite number of measurements, allowing for any
      length duration of monitoring. This recorder has been evaluated by clinical engineering for
      radio frequency and other interference and is cleared for hospital use.

      After measurement of pH, exhaled breath condensate is channeled into a waste chamber.

      The breath condensate collection system is maintained chilled by a "hospital grade"
      Electri-Cool II model 767 refrigerated cooling system (or near-equivalent) that is clinically
      approved for use in the intensive care units. This device is approximately 30 cm on a side,
      and is kept on a wheeled cart out of the way of any clinical activity.

      Hypothesis to be Tested: Clearly state the objectives and hypotheses and clearly define the
      primary and any secondary outcome measures.

        1. Exhaled breath condensate pH will have greater within-hour variability in subjects with
           lung disease than in subjects intubated for non-pulmonary reasons.

        2. Exhaled breath condensate pH will rise prior to readiness for extubation in infants and
           toddlers requiring mechanical ventilation for acute bronchiolitis.

        3. A decline in exhaled breath condensate pH or an increase in exhaled breath condensate pH
           variability will predict the onset of pulmonary inflammatory processes (such as
           ventilator-associated pneumonia) in those who initially require mechanical ventilation
           for non-inflammatory reasons.
    
  