
    
      Obesity/overweight has been recognized as one of the most important global health threats
      worldwide, which is closely related to metabolism syndrome including insulin resistance,
      hypertension, dyslipidemia and hyperglycemia.

      In 2013, an estimated 36.9% of men and 38.0% of women were overweight (BMI >25 kg/m2)
      worldwide, with attributable fractions for CHD as high as 25% in the United States and 58% in
      the Asia-Pacific Region. Furthermore, a strong and continuous association between body mass
      index (BMI) and coronary heart disease (CHD) has been reported for values of BMI above
      20kg/m2 .

      Numerous studies have recognized the role of physical activity in promoting moderate weight
      loss, weight loss maintenance, and having broad-reaching implications for cardiovascular
      disease mortality indices, as well as reducing healthcare expenditures. The findings of a
      recent review suggest that mild-to-moderate intensity exercises that include both aerobic and
      resistance training result in additional metabolic benefits in people with obesity or type 2
      diabetes. Although weight loss is minimal, body composition improves. Brisk walking, at an
      individual level, prove to be the physical activity most easy to maintain and could be
      progressively increased in intensity, achieving a cardiorespiratory benefit and decrease
      adiposity in the unfit.

      Several small clinical trials reported inconsistent findings of short-term exercise programs
      on brisk walking among patients with overweight/obesity. However, these studies did not
      provide comparable indices, duration and intensity. Furthermore, the brisk walking effect of
      current physical activity guidelines on obesity/overweight is uncertain.

      The current study aimed to evaluate the effects of brisk walking ( > 10000 steps, > five
      days, per week) on body components and metabolic risk factors among patients with
      overweight/obesity.
    
  