
    
      Background: Previous studies have analyzed serological responses following pneumococcal
      vaccination using 23-valent vaccination (Pneumovax) in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) patients
      that were on different therapeutic modalities including TNF-blockers and methotrexate. The
      results have shown that serological response was significantly reduced in RA patients
      receiving methotrexate compared to those receiving TNF-blockers (Rheumatology (Oxford) 2006
      Jan; 45(1):106-11).

      In contrast when using polypeptide immunisation (influenza vaccine) we found that anti-TNF
      significantly impaired the serological response compared to the methotrexate treated RA
      patients.

      The aim of this study is to analyze serological responses after PREVENAR vaccination in
      patients with RA or spondylarthropathy and to study the impact of different treatment
      modalities on serological responses.

      It will be of interest to see if the result is different compared to the one seen after
      immunizing with 23-valent nonconjugated pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine.

      Study design:

      Unblinded study in RA patients and patients with spondylarthropathies. All subjects will be
      vaccinated once with Prevenar and the serological response will be followed by blood draws.

      Patient Population to be Included:

      RA patients on methotrexate and/or other DMARDS RA patients on anti-TNF drugs as monotherapy
      RA patients on anti-TNF +MTX and/or other DMARDSs Spondylarthropathy patients on anti-TNF
      drugs as monotherapy Spondylarthropathy patients on anti-TNF drugs +MTX Spondylarthropathy
      patients on NSAIDs (There is a possibility to stratify for steroid use).

      Primary and Secondary Efficacy Endpoints:

      Serological responses to at least 2 pneumococcal serotypes included in Prevenar vaccine
      between different treatment groups.

      An ethical approval from the Ethical Review Board at Lund University is mandatory for this
      study as well as an approval from the Swedish MPA.
    
  