
    
      Baseline screening-we will screen you with a baseline review of your history, medications and
      lab values and you will need to get blood drawn for hemoglobin level, liver function panel
      and blood pregnancy test for females in child bearing age group. Women are advised strongly
      to use 2 reliable forms of contraception while in this study unless you have had tubal
      ligation or intrauterine device placement.

      You are advised to stop taking medications like nitrates (like nitroglycerin), calcium
      channel blockers (like nifedipine or amlodipine), angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors
      (like lisinopril or enalapril or captopril), angiotensin receptor blockers (like valsartan or
      candesartan) or phosphodiesterase inhibitors (like Viagra or Revatio) at least 1 week prior
      to you coming for the first visit for the study and abstain from them during study period
      unless absolutely necessary.

      Please avoid caffeine, smoking and over the counter cold remedies at least 2 days prior to
      the first visit and during the study period.

      You will be asked to go to the Clinical Research Unit( CRU) located on M 51 in Cleveland
      Clinic main campus to partake in the study and will go back there for subsequent visits at 1
      week and then at 12 weeks after having started the study.

      This is a placebo-controlled randomized trial where 15 patients will get the active
      medication and the other 5 will get a placebo (pill with no active ingredient but not harmful
      to you in any way). This means you have a 3 in 4 (75%) chance of getting the active
      medication (ambrisentan) versus the placebo- both pills will look exactly the same. This
      process is called "randomization" and is similar to flipping a coin. The patients getting the
      active medication versus placebo will be randomly selected by the computer; the medications
      will be distributed by the central pharmacy and sent to the nurses on CRU and given to you on
      your first visit to the CRU. No one will know who received the active medication versus the
      placebo till the study ends and the data is analyzed.

      Those getting the active medicine ambrisentan will initially get a dose of 5mg by mouth daily
      and then the dose will be increased to 10mg by mouth daily after 4 weeks if the medicine is
      well tolerated. This will be done by the computer for randomization/selection and the
      pharmacist for drug dispensing. If you experience any side effects, please contact us for
      further advice. You will be evaluated each visit by the nurses at weeks 0, 1 and 12 for any
      drug related problems. We will be monitoring the routine scheduled blood work results to make
      sure you do not develop any drug related problems which can be detected on blood work.

      A machine called the 'Laser Doppler Perfusion Imaging' machine will be used at each of your
      visits to the CRU at weeks 0, 1 and 12. This machine uses simple laser beams and will scan
      the top part of your non-dominant hand (the left hand for most people) to measure the blood
      flow through the blood vessels there when your hand is at room temperature (around 77'F) and
      when it has been cooled to 50'F for 2 minutes with the help of a cold flask. This is a safe
      and simple technique and does not involve any radiation exposure.

      You will also be asked to fill out 3 questionnaires at each of visits (week 0, 1 and 12) to
      the CRU-these have some simple questions regarding your degree of pain, severity of Raynaud's
      symptoms and the effect of scleroderma in your day-to-day functioning.

      Please budget at least 1-2 hours for your initial visit (week 0) to the CRU and then 1 hour
      for your visits at 1 week and 12 weeks to the CRU.
    
  