
    
      Combined spinal epidural anesthesia (CSEA) is a commonly used anesthetic methods in cesarean
      section. The main problem of CSEA is hypotension, which will cause maternal nausea and
      vomiting, reduced uteroplacental blood flow and fetal acidosis. One of the important methods
      for prevention and treatment of hypotension after CSEA is to give vasoactive drugs.

      Since 2011, phenylephrine was recommended as the preferred drug to maintain blood pressure in
      obstetric anesthesia.Phenylephrine, an α adrenoceptor agonist, can induce peripheral
      vasoconstriction to maintain blood pressure, while reflexly decrease heart rate and result in
      cardiac output (CO) reduction.Dyer et al. used bioimpedance technique to analyze the
      hemodynamic changes in normal pregnant women. A bolus of 80 ug phenylephrine was
      administrated when maternal mean arterial pressure decreased 20% after CSEA. It was found
      that cardiac output (CO) decreased significantly (14%) after phenylephrine
      administrationcompared with the baseline.And the decrease of CO induced by phenylephrine was
      in a dose dependent.All the studies referred above recruitednormal pregnant women, and the
      decreased CO did not have an adverse effect on neonatal birth. However, as we all know, the
      decrease of CO will influence uteroplacental blood, which may lead to adverse results in
      existed intrauterine distress fetal. All authors of those studies stressed that the decrease
      of CO induced by phenylephrine may increase the risks of fetal distress or other adverse
      consequences. So, it is crucial for obstetric anesthesiologist to choose a suitable
      vasoactive drugs, which can maintain both maternal blood pressure and uteroplacental
      perfusion in order to keep intrauterine environment steady.

      Norepinephrine acts not only as an α adrenoceptor receptor agonist, but also as a weaker β
      adrenergic receptor agonist. It can elevate blood pressure the same asphenylephrine,
      meanwhile produce positive inotropic effect including increasing heart rate.Thus, the
      administration of norepinephrine can maintain blood pressue and avoid the decline of CO. And
      norepinephrine is superior to phenylephrine in the respect of organ perfusion.

      There is little research about the administration of norepinephrine in obstetric
      anesthesia.Ngan Kee et al.compared phenylephrine (0.57μg/kg/min) with norepinephrine
      (0.035μg/kg/min) in the treatment of hypotension in obstetric anesthesia. CO monitored by a
      suprasternal Doppler ultrasound every 5 minutes. CO and heart rate was significantly higher
      in norepinephrine group than that in phenylephrine group, while peripheral vascular
      resistance was significantly lower in norepinephrine group than that in phenylephrine group.
      And the oxygen content in umbilical venous was significantly higher in norepinephrine group,
      which may be related to the norepinephrine induced lower peripheral vascular resistance and
      high cardiac output.Monitoring of CO can give a comprehensive understanding of hemodynamics
      in the pregnant. It enables obstetric anesthesiologist to use liquid expansion rationally and
      administrate vasoactive agents properly.Although the accuracy of suprasternal Doppler
      ultrasound was high in that study, the interval of 5min to monitor CO may miss the rapid
      changes in hemodynamics of pregnant women.In the present study, we will monitor CO
      continuously by a small diameter (6 mm) transesophageal echocardiography, which can be
      retained in the patient's esophagus.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of norepinephrine and phenylephrine on
      maternal CO in cesarean section by transesophageal echocardiography.Fetal umbilical cord
      blood, neonatal 1min Apgar score, 5 min Apgar scores and neonatal plasma catecholamine
      concentrations will be collected to understand the effects of norepinephrine and
      phenylephrine on fetal.
    
  