
    
      Ischaemic preconditioning is an endogenous mammalian mechanism whereby a brief period of
      ischaemia and reperfusion confers resistance to subsequent prolonged ischaemic insults. First
      observed in the canine heart, subsequent investigators noted that brief ischaemia in remote
      organs e.g. skeletal muscle, induced protection in key central organs e.g. the heart. This
      remote ischaemic preconditioning (RIPC) does not require direct interference with the target
      organs' blood supply. It can be induced using blood pressure cuffs to produce brief episodes
      of upper limb ischaemia and reperfusion and confers protection upon numerous organs
      simultaneously. RIPC reduces myocardial injury following aortic aneurysm repair, cardiac
      surgery and angioplasty. It also reduces adverse ischaemic events up to six months following
      percutaneous coronary intervention, implying some medium-term effect.

      To date ischaemic conditioning has been applied primarily to the heart however animal studies
      have shown pre conditioning to offer renal protection.

      Fikret et al in 2012 in the Renal Protection Trial demonstrated a protective benefit with
      RIPC from the development of CIN in high risk patients undergoing elective coronary
      angiography.Whittaker and Przyklenk in 2011 explored this concept retrospectively using data
      from patients who had undergone emergency angioplasty for ST elevation myocardial infarction.
      The original trial was a RCT which examined the protective effect of postconditioning on
      myocardial ischemia. The authors retrospectively examined if study patients treated with
      multiple coronary balloon inflations had better renal function than patients not exposed to
      this remote conditioning. They concluded that patients in the conditioning group received 25%
      more contrast volume than the control group and showed no decline in renal function as
      demonstrated by examination of glomular filtration rate at day 3 post procedure in comparison
      to the control group which saw a significant decline in renal function. The need for
      contrast-based procedures is rising, with increasing numbers of patients undergoing
      endovascular procedures, as is the incidence of postcontrast renal failure, which has a
      reported mortality of 34%. The potential use of RIPC therefore to reduce the risk of kidney
      damage needs further investigation in a prospective study and the PAD patient group who are
      routinely exposed to contrast administration in angiography are an ideal study group.
    
  