
    
      CoRDS collects contact, sociodemographic and health information about participants. This
      information is entered into CoRDS and linked to a unique coded identifier. Below are some
      examples of information requested on the Questionnaire that will be entered into CoRDS:

        -  Contact information: Name, Mailing Address, Phone Number, Email Address

        -  Sociodemographic information: Date of Birth, Place of Birth, Sex, Gender, Ethnicity

        -  Health information: Family History, Information related to Diagnosis

      De-identified information in CoRDS will be made available to researchers, if they have
      obtained approval for their research project from (1) the Institutional Review Board (IRB) at
      the researcher's institution and (2) a panel of experts.

      A subset of de-identified information collected from each profile may be shared with certain
      other databases. This is done in order to help improve understanding of rare diseases, to
      avoid the duplication of efforts and to collaborate with existing research efforts with
      organizations dedicated to rare diseases.

      Participants may elect to have their information shared with patient advocacy groups (PAGs)
      representing individuals with rare or uncommon diseases who have partnered with CoRDS. The
      PAG will sign an agreement stating that they will not use the information for Research
      purposes. CoRDS personnel will not be held responsible for the use of information by the PAG.

      The CoRDS Registry will not be paid by Researchers, Other Patient Registries or Patient
      Advocacy Groups (PAGs) for access to information in CoRDS.

      If a parent/LAR consents on behalf of a minor, CoRDS will contact the participant when he or
      she reaches the age of 18 in order to obtain consent. If this consent is not obtained in a
      timely manner, the participant will be withdrawn from CoRDS.

      CoRDS contacts participants annually to confirm continued interest in participation in CoRDS,
      and to request that participants update the information they have provided.
    
  