
    
      Complete or partial loss of respiratory muscle innervation in individuals with cervical
      (C1-8) and high thoracic (T1-6) injuries leads to inadequate ventilation and inability to
      effectively clear secretions, often prompting supportive ventilation following initial
      injury. Development of atelectasis, pneumonias and respiratory failure are the most common
      respiratory complications observed during the acute phase of injury. The role of chronic
      airway inflammation on pulmonary function in persons with SCI is unknown, although the
      investigators' recent work has shown that individuals with cervical SCI have elevated levels
      of exhaled nitric oxide (NO), comparable to those seen in mild asthma. It is now widely
      believed that in the airways of asthmatic patients, the release of NO represents a
      physiological mechanism to counteract the bronchoconstriction caused by various stimuli. In
      persons with cervical SCI, bronchoconstriction may represent a consequence of unopposed
      parasympathetic influence, but alternative mechanisms, such as recurrent infections secondary
      to impaired cough effectiveness, systemic inflammatory response following SCI, or
      extra-esophageal manifestations of underlying esophageal dysmotility and/or GERD need to be
      evaluated. In general population, it has been long recognized that esophageal dysmotility
      and/or GERD may lead to extra-esophageal manifestations. Reflux can affect both upper and
      lower respiratory systems leading to the variety of extra-esophageal manifestations, such as
      reflux asthma, chronic cough, hoarseness, chronic sinusitis, laryngitis, loss of dental
      enamel, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, recurrent pneumonia, chronic bronchitis, etc. 2
      possible mechanisms of these complications have been identified: the direct aspiration of
      reflux content and indirectly, stimulation of vagally-mediated reflexes. Regardless of the
      underlying mechanisms, treatments with acid-reducing therapies have shown improvement in GERD
      and extra-esophageal manifestations of the disease the general population. Investigators
      propose to study the effects of anti-reflux therapy (proton pump inhibition) in persons with
      SCI on objective and subjective symptoms of respiratory function to determine the underlying
      mechanisms of airway inflammation due to GERD.
    
  