
    
      High Blood Pressure (Hypertension) is the most common cause of preventable death in developed
      nations. Uncontrolled hypertension greatly increases the risk of heart disease, brain
      disease, and kidney failure. As the population ages, the incidence of hypertension will
      continue to increase if effective preventive measures are not implemented. Despite the
      availability of antihypertensive agents, hypertension is not adequately controlled; only
      about one in three patients successfully keep blood pressure normal.

      Treatment for high blood pressure includes thiazides or thiazide-like diuretics, either alone
      or as part of combination treatment. Chlorthalidone is a commercially available, orally
      administered thiazide-type diuretic agent.

      TAK-491 (azilsartan) is an angiotensin II receptor blocker being evaluated by Takeda to treat
      patients with high blood pressure (essential hypertension).

      This study will compare the safety and tolerability of azilsartan medoxomil plus
      chlorthalidone (TAK-491CLD) fixed-dose combination to olmesartan
      medoxomil-hydrochlorothiazide fixed-dose combination.

      Initially patients will undergo a Screening Visit to confirm that they are eligible to
      participate in the study. All participants will receive the study drug for up to 52 weeks.
      The dose of the study drug may be gradually increased throughout the study so that a target
      blood pressure value can be reached for each participant.

      Throughout the treatment period of the study, participants will be required to visit the
      research site for 11 visits. At these study visits participants will be required to undergo
      certain study procedures including physical examinations, vital sign measurements (blood
      pressure, heart rate, weight and height), electrocardiograms (monitoring of the heart), and
      blood and urine samples taken for clinical laboratory tests.
    
  