
    
      Primary outcome: proportion of cases (fever patients randomised to be submitted to the rapid
      test before treatment) and controls (fever patients randomised not to be submitted to the
      rapid test) with persisting fever at follow-up.

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  proportion of cases (fever patients randomised to be submitted to the rapid test before
           treatment) and controls (fever patients randomised not to be submitted to the rapid
           test) with persisting/new major clinical symptoms/signs and/or clinical complications at
           follow-up;

        -  proportion of cases and controls referred to hospital;

        -  prevalence of malaria infection among febrile and not febrile patients;

        -  attributable fraction (AF) of fever episodes to malaria infection (as established by
           subsequent microscopic examination of blood slide and determination of the parasitemia
           level);

        -  optimal cut-off level of parasitemia(treatment threshold) in order to define a case of
           malaria disease vs. a simple malaria infection (i.e., presence of malaria parasites in
           the blood but presumably not the cause of fever);

        -  performances of Paracheck® (sensitivity, specificity and predictive values) on malaria
           disease in the field, compared with expert reading;

        -  proportion of cases and controls with malaria disease that have not been treated with
           antimalarials/have been treated for other presumed causes of fever;

        -  proportion of cases and controls without malaria disease that have been treated with
           antimalarials/ have not been treated for other presumed causes of fever;

        -  proportion of cases and control receiving any other treatment, at enrolment and/or at
           follow up.

      Cost - effectiveness models will take into account all costs involved in diagnosis and
      treatment both for malaria and other conditions.

      Sample size. Sample size is determined for the main clinical outcome under study, that is,
      fever clearance. Expected freq of fever persistence at day 4th: 40 %; maximal accepted
      difference 10%; power of study 90%; alpha error 5%: sample size 814. We plan to enrol at
      least 500 subjects with fever per arm in both seasons, in order to account for loss to follow
      up.

      Expected total enrolment: 4000 (1000 fever cases and 1000 patients without fever in each
      study period). Only fever patients will be randomised to be submitted or not to the rapid
      test. Patients without fever will be consecutively enrolled and submitted to malaria slides
      and clinical questionnaire, but not to the rapid test.

      Study start: 24th April 2006.

      Second Phase: 2nd October 2006.

      In each study period at the end of the dry season and the end of the rainy season, for up to
      to three weeks in each study period, all patients > 6 months, presenting for clinical
      consultation at one of the 10 peripheral health centres participating in the study,
      responding to inclusion criteria and consenting to participate/with parental consent to
      participate, will be enrolled. All will be submitted free of charge to a thick film and a
      thin film for malaria, and a brief questionnaire on clinical history. All slides will be
      stored for further reading. Those patients with fever at presentation (axillary temperature
      >= 37.5°C), will be randomised (based on computer-generated random number lists) either to be
      submitted to a Paracheck® rapid test for malaria (cases), or to be managed the usual way,
      that is, on clinical grounds alone (controls). Only Paracheck® result will be used for
      decision on malaria treatment for cases. Treatment of controls, and treatment of any other
      condition for both cases and controls, will solely depend on the judgment of the clinical
      officer. No other formal algorithm will be followed than the national guidelines.

      Sensitisation of the study sites and information to the public has been carried out before
      the start of the intervention. A detailed information about the study purposes and
      implications will be provided to all patients attending the clinical consultation, and
      witnessed signed informed consent will be obtained.

      Inclusion criteria. All patients > 6 months presenting to clinical consultation and
      consenting to participate/with parental consent to participate.

      Exclusion criteria. Refusal to participate. Severe clinical conditions with emergency
      treatment needed as judged by the clinical officer. Pregnancy not an exclusion criterion.

      Follow-up. This will be carried out ad Day 4th after recruitment for fever patients only. The
      following main outcomes will be determined at follow-up:

        1. Duration/clearance of fever, time of fever clearance;

        2. Duration/clearance of other clinical symptoms/signs registered at entry;

        3. Appearance of new clinical symptoms/signs, including danger signs, according to a
           checklist;

        4. Patients submitted to new / modified treatment

        5. Patients needing referral to hospital

        6. Deaths.
    
  