
    
      It has previously been shown that elderly patients show signs of increased perioperative
      hemostatic activation after coronary artery bypass grafting. In particular, compared to
      younger patients, elderly patients had more extensive fibrinolysis postoperatively. The
      antifibrinolytic drug tranexamic acid has been shown to reduce fibrinolysis, bleeding, and
      the need for transfusions of blood components after various cardiac surgical procedures. In
      this study we will investigate whether tranexamic acid reduces perioperative activation of
      coagulation as measured by plasma concentrations of antithrombin, thrombin-antithrombin
      complex, and prothrombin fragment 1+2, whether tranexamic acid reduces perioperative
      fibrinolysis as measured by plasma concentrations of D-dimer, and whether tranexamic acid
      reduces platelet activation as measured by plasma concentrations of neutrophil activating
      peptide 2 and by flow cytometry in elderly (above 70 years of age) patients undergoing
      combined aortic valve replacement and coronary artery bypass surgery. The primary endpoint of
      the study will, however, be total postoperative bleeding and the need for transfusions of
      blood components during and after surgery. The need for transfusions will be registered
      during the whole hospital stay. Patients will be randomized into two groups and given either
      tranexamic acid or placebo (0.9% sodium chloride) as an intravenous bolus injection before
      start of surgery followed by an intravenous infusion during surgery. Blood samples for the
      above mentioned plasma concentration measurements will be drawn preoperatively,
      intraoperatively during CPB, and 30 minutes and 3, 5, and 20 hours postoperatively.
      Postoperative bleeding will be registered for 16 hours. The need for any transfusions of
      blood products will be registered for the whole hospital stay.
    
  