
    
      The study will be performed as a 4 week, placebo controlled, pilot trial with a one week run
      in period. Thirty participants will be randomly assigned to each group for a total enrollment
      of 60 participants. Participants will be recruited from the Children's' Hospital & Medical
      Center's Pediatrician's group. The study coordinators and Investigators will conduct
      informational lunches at selected pediatrician offices in the Omaha area. The investigators
      will introduce the topic of the colic study to participants seen for routine follow up who
      the investigators suspect may meet the diagnostic criteria for colic. The study coordinator
      will then contact the participants and assess suitability with a brief phone questionnaire.
      If participants appear to qualify and the participant is agreeable an enrollment appointment
      will be made to sign the consent, education on the product and how to administer it, teaching
      regarding diary instrument and completion of the quality of life survey. A brief medical
      history including the delivery mode and family allergy history will be collected as well as
      weight and length of the infant at the consent visit. A subset of participants will be asked
      to provide a stool sample for analysis of calprotectin level (a marker of intestinal
      inflammation) if the participants are willing to provide this. Participants will administer 5
      drops of the study product once a day with a feeding at mid-day. Participants will be
      instructed to record crying time for a 1 week run in period and then administer the provided
      drops as directed once a day and record daily crying time on 3 days each week for 4
      subsequent weeks. A follow up phone call 2 weeks after starting the product will be conducted
      to ensure compliance and assess for any adverse events. A final visit after 4 weeks will be
      conducted for collection of the diary data, completion of the quality of life survey,
      obtainment of the infant's length and weight and collection of a follow up stool sample if
      the provided one at baseline.
    
  