
    
      1. Introduction & rationale Community acquired pneumonia (CAP) is an important health
           problem with significant morbidity, mortality and cost. It is one of the main causes of
           disease and death worldwide and causes the most deaths by infection in the United
           States. Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most commonly identified pathogen in CAP.(1)

           S. pneumoniae is a gram-positive, alpha haemolytic bacterium that is surrounded by an
           external polysaccharide capsule. There is a difference in composition of this capsule
           between the 92 different serotypes of S. pneumoniae. Each serotype differs in virulence
           and prevalence. The external polysaccharide capsule is the main trigger for the specific
           antibody response and is the basis for pneumococcal vaccines. As it is impossible to
           develop a vaccine that protects children, immune compromised adults and older adults to
           all serotypes, the vaccines are based on the most common and virulent serotypes.

           Nowadays a 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, Prevnar 13 (PCV13), is used widely
           to vaccinate children. This vaccine contains the seven serotypes present in PCV7 (4, 6B,
           9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F) plus the emerging serotypes 1, 3, 5, 6A, 7F and 19A.(2) In the
           Netherlands however the 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, Synflorix (PCV10), is
           still used to vaccinate children in the national infant vaccination.(3)

           Van Mens et al investigated the contribution of S. pneumoniae in CAP by measuring
           serologic responses in patients who were hospitalized due to CAP in the Ovidius and
           Triple P study, two consecutive clinical trials initiated by the St Antonius Hospital
           Nieuwegein. This analysis showed a much higher proportion of patients with pneumococcal
           pneumonia than was diagnosed by conventional methods alone (i.e. blood cultures, sputum
           cultures or urine antigen tests). Interestingly some patients with a culture proven
           pneumococcal pneumonia did not show a serotype specific antibody response to the
           infecting serotype.(4) Possibly these patients had a temporarily low titre due to the
           infection but another explanation is that there might be a structurally impaired immune
           response against S. pneumoniae or certain serotypes.

           Borrow et al vaccinated 107 children with PCV7 after invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD)
           following a routine infant immunization schedule. Pneumococcal serotype specific
           antibody measurements were performed and showed failure to respond to the infecting
           serotype in 8 children, even though these children received 2 or more doses of PCV. Two
           children failed to respond to a serotype different than the infecting serotype.(5)

           In this study the humoral and cellular immune response after vaccination with Prevnar 13
           will be measured in patients who have had CAP with S. pneumoniae. The patients will be
           recruited from the Ovidius and Triple-P study, two consecutive clinical trials initiated
           by the St. Antonius Hospital Nieuwegein.(6,7) Patients who survived pneumococcal
           pneumonia are considered as a high-risk population for pneumococcal disease in the
           future.(8) Possibly these patients have less response to pneumococcal vaccination
           because of an impaired immune response against S. pneumoniae. Special interest goes to
           vaccination responses in the subgroup of pneumococcal pneumonia patients without a
           culture matching specific antibody response in order to investigate if this reflects the
           failure to elicit an immune response during pneumonia found by Van Mens et al.

        2. Objectives

           Primary Objective:

           • To investigate antibody response after pneumococcal vaccination in patients with
           community acquired pneumococcal pneumonia compared to pneumonia patients with another
           pathogen.

           Secondary Objective(s):

             -  To investigate antibody response after pneumococcal vaccination in patients with
                community acquired pneumococcal pneumonia who failed to elicit a specific antibody
                response.

             -  To investigate the cellular immune responses after pneumococcal vaccination in
                patients with community acquired pneumococcal pneumonia in the past compared to
                pneumonia patients with another pathogen.

             -  To investigate quality of life by the RAND-36 score in patients with community
                acquired pneumococcal pneumonia compared to pneumonia patients with another
                pathogen.

             -  To investigate the long-term mortality after community acquired pneumococcal
                pneumonia.

        3. Study design The design is a prospective cohort study in which response to pneumococcal
           vaccination and immune function after CAP with S. pneumoniae will be investigated.
           Patients who were included in the Ovidius or Triple-P study and diagnosed with
           pneumococcal pneumonia (with cultures, urine antigen test or serology) will be included.
           The control group will consist of patients who were included in the Ovidius or Triple-P
           study and diagnosed with community acquired pneumonia with another pathogen.

        4. Working plan All patients and controls will receive vaccination with Prevnar 13. During
           this visit information about the medical history, medication usage and daily status will
           be obtained. Patients are also asked to fill-in a quality of life questionnaire
           (RAND-36; section F Questionnaires). Sera will be obtained before vaccination and three
           - four weeks after vaccination to determine antibody response against different
           serotypes of S. pneumoniae. The study will end with the last visit of the last patient;
           the duration of the study will be approximately 2 months (dependent on the moment of
           inclusion of the patient).
    
  