
    
      Acupuncture is a technique that may treat symptoms by inserting very thin, solid, sterile,
      stainless steel needles into the skin at specific points.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the roll of a dice) into 1 of 3 groups.

      Group 1 will receive acupuncture during the radiation treatment period.

      Group 2 will receive acupuncture at different points on the body than those in Group 1 during
      the radiation treatment period.

      You will not know if you are assigned to Group 1 or 2.

      Group 3 will receive standard care without any kind of acupuncture during the radiation
      treatment period.

      Study Visits:

      If you are in Group 1 and 2, you will receive up to 21 acupuncture treatments with no more
      than 3 treatments per week during your regularly scheduled radiotherapy visits. It will take
      about 20 minutes to complete the acupuncture session each time.

      No matter which group you are assigned to, you will complete the following at the middle and
      end of radiotherapy treatment, and again 2-4, 5-9, 10-15 months after radiotherapy treatment
      is complete:

        -  Your vital signs will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you are taking.

        -  You will complete 9 questionnaires about your dry mouth, quality of life, and mood. It
           should take about 30 minutes in total to complete the questionnaires. If you are not
           able to complete the questionnaires during your regularly scheduled visits, you will be
           able to take the questionnaires home to complete them and will be given a postage-paid
           return envelope to mail them back to the study doctor.

        -  A saliva sample will be collected to measure the quality and amount of saliva produced
           during radiotherapy.

        -  You will complete a form about your oral hygiene that should take about 5 minutes to
           complete.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study for up to 17 months.

      Additional Information:

      After your participation on this study is complete and you are no longer enrolled in this
      study, if you were in Group 2 or 3, you will be offered to receive 3 acupuncture treatments.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 435 patients will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 193 will be enrolled at MD
      Anderson.
    
  