
    
      Thyroid hormone (TH) is a critical hormone responsible for growth, development, and
      metabolism. It maintains basal metabolic rate (BMR), improves adaptive thermogenesis, and
      thus modulates body weight by fine-tuning energy expenditure and intake. Hyperthyroidism, a
      condition with excess TH, presents a status of negative energy balance that is characterized
      by weight loss, increased energy expenditure, and accelerated lipolysis and gluconeogenesis.
      The mechanism underlying hypermetabolic status in hyperthyroidism is complicated. In
      hyperthyroidism, excess TH promotes the metabolism rate primarily by binding to TH receptor α
      or β, and in turn by further influencing diverse metabolic pathways. Recent studies have
      revealed that TH signals were involved in cross talk with a range of other metabolic
      signaling pathways in different metabolic organs. In liver, TH interacts with peroxisome
      proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) α, PPARγ, and liver X receptor α pathway; promotes
      fatty acid oxidation; decreases cholesterol; and enhances gluconeogenesis. The elements
      required for TH action are well documented, but understanding the interaction between TH and
      various pathways remains a challenge.

      Betatrophin, also known as TD26/RIFL/lipasin/ANGPTL8/C19orf80, is a novel protein
      predominantly expressed in human liver. Increasing evidence has revealed associations between
      betatrophin expression, glycemia and serum lipid profiles, particularly in patients with
      obesity or diabetes. Stimulators of betatrophin, such as insulin, thyroid hormone, irisin,
      SIRT1 and caloric intake, are usually relevant to energy expenditure or thermogenesis. A
      previous report revealed that betatrophin mRNA is induced by the thyroid hormone in HepG2
      cells. Subsequent studies confirmed that transcriptional regulation is dependent on the
      thyroid hormone receptor that binds to the betatrophin upstream element. Therefore,
      betatrophin is a novel gene dramatically activated by the thyroid hormone. However, there is
      no evidence to date showing that TH is capable of regulating betatrophin expression in human
      beings. The current study investigated the change of betatrophin levels in patients with
      hyperthyroidism before and after thionamide treatment and explored the association of serum
      betatrophin levels with hyperthyroidism.
    
  