
    
      Visceral leishamniasis (VL; known as kala-azar in the Indian Sub-continent) is a deadly
      parasitic disease if left untreated. The disease is reported from 109 districts
      (Bangladesh-45, India-52 and Nepal-12). VL elimination programme was launched in 2005 between
      the three countries with the set target to reduce the cases one in 10,000 populations. Toward
      this set target, vector control will play a significant role. Based on the experiences in the
      past during malaria eradication period Indoor residual spraying (IRS) with insecticides is
      taken as the main pillar of VL vector control. Operation like IRS is expensive,
      labour-intensive, require sustainable infrastructures, supplies of insecticide, spraying
      equipment, trained personnel and funding over a long-term of period. These doubts about the
      sustainability of IRS in poor resource settings like Bangladesh. Thus alternative of IRS
      other vector control tool is highly desired. Current research activities will explore for the
      alternatives of IRS (here defined as "insecticide"). The proposed three different types of
      alternative of IRS are: 1) Plastering of household walls with lime (a traditional method
      known in the study areas), treatment of possible sand-fly breeding places with lime and
      bleaching powder; 2) Installing durable wall lining containing deltamethrin in the main
      living room(s) of households; 3) Impregnation of existing bed-nets with slow release
      insecticide tablet containing deltamethrin.

      The study will include three different types of intervention arm and one control arm; Arm: 1)
      Indoor house walls and floors will be plastered with lime (a traditional method known in the
      study areas) including treatment of outdoor breeding places with lime and bleaching powder to
      inhibit sand fly breeding. Arm: 2) Installing of durable wall lining containing deltamethrin
      to kill immature stage of sand flies. Arm: 3) Impregnation of existing bed-nets with slow
      release insecticide, deltamethrin and 4) Control group, no intervention. VL endemic areas
      with 1200 households will be selected and identified 24 clusters based on geographic
      characteristics. Minimum distance between each cluster will be about 50 meters. Each cluster
      will have 50 households (HHs) where the different interventions will be applied. Five HHs
      will be selected randomly from each cluster to measure the intervention effect on sandfly
      density on 2 consecutive nights using CDC light traps at 4, 12, 24 and 52 weeks after
      intervention. Baseline sand fly densities will be measured at 2 weeks before introducing the
      intervention. Based on base line sandfly data the clusters will be ranked as high, moderate
      and low and from them equal number of clusters will be assigned for each intervention arm as
      well as control arm. Control HHs will receive commercial insecticide treated bed-nets after
      the study is over. This study will be a multi-centre cluster randomized trial with three
      vector control methods and will be carried out in ICDDR,B, Bangladesh, RMRI, India and in
      BPKIHS, Dahran, Nepal simultaneously during a 12 months period. A total of 3600 households in
      the three countries (Bangladesh-1200, India-1200 and Nepal-1200 HHs) will be included in the
      study.

      The cost of interventions will be assessed applying a combination of bottom-up and top-down
      costing approach from the provider's perspective only. Costs attributable to effectiveness of
      the interventions (i.e. reduction of sandfly density by intervention) will be calculated
      separately for comparison among three types of intervention. Firstly; all inputs to be
      mobilized for implementing each of the intervention will be identified, quantified and valued
      in local currency separately. Based on the relationship of the inputs to outputs, costs will
      be broadly classified into fixed cost and variable cost. Standard procedure will be followed
      for annualization of capital costs using replacement cost, useful lifetime, discounting rate
      and corresponding annualization factor taken from the standard table.

      Shadow pricing will be considered for inputs to be donated for the study purpose by partner
      agencies. Allocation factors (e.g. % time spent by staff, % used etc) will be applied to
      apportion joint costs. Summing-up the fixed and variable costs over all total cost of each
      intervention will be calculated separately. Average or unit cost will be calculated dividing
      total cost of each intervention by the corresponding number of households that received the
      intervention. Finally relationship between cost and effectiveness of corresponding
      intervention(s) will be represented by cost and effectiveness ratio for comparison.
    
  