
    
      Central line-associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI) remains a serious problem contributing
      to patient morbidity and mortality. These potentially preventable complications have high
      costs. Significant interventions focusing on insertion of catheter and care and maintenance
      protocols have been helpful in reducing CLABSI rates. One component that remains a challenge
      is early/appropriate removal of central venous catheters (CVCs). The longer the central line
      remains in the patient, the increased chance of developing a CLABSI.

      The study design is case-controlled with a control group composed of patients admitted in the
      previous year who received a CVC as part of the treatment plan and who did not received a
      midline catheter.The intervention phase of this study will involve placement of a standard of
      care, FDA approved midline catheter in patients that have a CVC. The Medical Intensive Care
      Unit (MICU) treating team will be consulted prior to approaching the patient. Written
      informed consent will be obtained from the patient or legal authorized representative prior
      to enrollment. The midline catheters will be inserted by the vascular access team within 24
      hours of CVC insertion. Midline catheters will be assessed daily for function, phlebitis, and
      infection for up to 7 days. Mechanical complications or premature line failures will be
      tracked. Data specific to blood sampling will be collected daily. If the catheter was
      identified to have failed during follow-up assessment the date and time of failure and the
      reason for failure will be documented. If the catheter failed or was removed prior to the
      follow-up assessment then the VAD failure time and the assessment of failure and reason for
      line removal will be obtained through chart review. For all failed catheters, re-insertion
      attempt data will be tracked through the medical record. If the patient is discharged prior
      to the time of follow-up assessment then the time of discharge will be documented and the VAD
      will be presumed functional until time of discharge unless otherwise noted in the chart. Some
      patients may leave the hospital with VAD in place for additional intravenous therapies. This
      information will be noted, but these patients will not receive follow-up assessments
      post-discharge for the research.If the patient has the midline longer than 7 days, the status
      of the line will be assessed via documentation in the electronic health record (EHR). The
      decision to remove the CVC is up to the treating physician.

      Midline catheters will be assessed by research staff daily for usage. The medication
      administration record will be queried for all medications given through each catheter.
      Specifically, at the bedside we will assess whether the midline catheter is being used for
      any purpose. Of interest is the use of vesicants through the midline, medications that are
      generally given via central line or considered caustic to the vessel will be noted in both
      groups. Number of doses will be recorded.

      Rates of symptomatic upper extremity superficial venous thrombosis (SVT) and deep venous
      thrombosis (DVT) rates, as confirmed by sonography will be calculated. Radiology
      interpretations will be reviewed for findings consistent with catheter-related symptomatic
      upper extremity venous thrombosis (CR-UEVT). This review will occur thirty days post patient
      discharge. Symptoms and rationale for imaging will be documented. If the patient is diagnosed
      with thrombophlebitis, the location of the thrombus will also be documented.

      Infection rate will be tracked using confirmed catheter-related blood stream infection data
      from the surveillance team within the epidemiology department. The team utilizes the CDC
      definition of laboratory-confirmed blood-stream infection (LCBSI). The IV team will assess
      all IV insertions sites for infection.

      The control data was collected as a separate IRB-approved study. Additional data for control
      and intervention groups includes but is not limited to: patient medical record number (MRN),
      sex, age, admission diagnosis (top 2), discharge diagnosis (top 2), admission from Emergency
      center/floor/transfer, Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI), date of central line placement, date
      of central line removal, location of central line, number of lumens, medications with
      particular attention to drips and vesicants, ICU length of stay, hospital length of stay,
      disposition from the ICU, CLABSI. Baseline variables will be evaluated for differences
      between cases and controls. Matching will be used to select the controls used for analysis.
    
  