
    
      Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms (rAAAs) remain one of the most emergent medical events,
      with over 90% mortality if left untreated and a prevalence of a minimum 45 patients per
      1000000 population. The 30 day mortality for emergency open repair has remained at around
      50%, and there is no consistent improvement in the outcome of the open technique over time.
      Since its development, endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR), has been increasingly used even
      in the emergency setting.

      So far there have been 4 randomized controlled trials, comparing EVAR versus open repair for
      rAAA. The first was a small trial from Nottingham followed by the Dutch trial AJAX and the
      French ECAR. The last and biggest trial with 613 patients was the UK IMPROVE trial. All these
      trials showed non inferiority of EVAR, but failed to prove benefit for EVAR with respect to
      30 day mortality. Furthermore two meta-analysisof the above RCTs, stated again, that 30 and
      90 day mortality is similar between EVAR and open surgery, with the exception of women having
      a better outcome with an endovascular approach.

      On the contrary, multiple observational studies and registries showed even a 50% risk
      reduction in mortality with EVAR. There has been huge critique and discussion of the results
      in IMPROVE trial, in which 10% of patients crossed over to the non-allocated treatment group.
      In both groups, patients who were treated with EVAR had a mortality of 25%, significantly
      lower than those who received open surgery (38%). Furthermore, two recent published studies
      that compared mortality of rAAA between Sweden, USA and UK, came to the conclusion that
      mortality is lower in centers that accept a large number of cases with rAAA, mostly treated
      with EVAR. There is an argument that these encouraging results are subject of bias, since
      there is patient selection according to haemodynamic stability and aortic morphology. A valid
      counter argument stated by Lachat and colleagues is that EVAR for rAAA in their center, in
      the moderate risk, stable patient with favourable anatomy (aortic neck length >10mm) has a
      reduced 30 day mortality of 10%, a result never demonstrated with open repair. As EVAR
      evolves, new technical features of the devices may address the current limitations of the
      technique. In addition, the anatomic suitability obstacle for EVAR has been revoked by the
      PROTAGORAS study, which led to CE mark for a commercial stent graft system, allowing
      treatment of aortic neck lengths as small as 2mm with the use of chimney technique. The
      authors in the IMPROVE trial acknowledge the fact that: "The suitability of ruptured aneurym
      for EVAR is subjective and will be defined by the aortic morphology, the experience of the
      operator and the range of resuscitation, endovascular and anaesthetic techniques available".

      It is safe to guess that haemodynamically compromised patients would benefit from a less
      invasive procedure, with minimum surgical exposure, if any, and local anaesthesia. There is
      no doubt however that for a center to adopt an EVAR only policy, poses many logistical
      challenges.

      The aim for this research study is that an "EVAR first" approach is feasible in rAAA, even in
      more complex anatomies and in patients with less physiologic reserve and at the same time
      prove that short and midterm mortality and morbidity with EVAR is significantly lower than
      open repair when compared to the mortality and morbidity rates of patients receiving open
      repair in the latest RCT "IMPROVE". This can be achieved, with implementing a treatment
      alogorithm for the pre intra and post operative time, based on already established protocols
      and relevant international standards, with single aim to avoid the factors in patient
      management that contribute to mortality and morbidity. Furthermore this research study will
      show increased applicability of EVAR in ruptured AAAs with shorter and larger in diameter
      proximal neck and with angulation >60 degrees, with the implementation of EndoAnchors
      (HeliFX). Another aim for this research study is to identify the role of the clotting
      mechanism in the overall mortality and thus to distinguish patient clotting profiles that can
      predict or alter the outcome.
    
  