
    
      Pedicle screw fixation is a widely used technique for the surgical treatment of degenerative
      lumbar diseases, which can stabilize the spine before solid fusion and restore spinal
      balance. However, because of population aging and the high rate of osteoporosis in the
      elderly with lumbar degenerative diseases, the pedicle screw loosening has become a
      frequently reported complication. The bone-screw interface in osteoporotic spine is unstable,
      leading to reduced pull-out force and cut-out force.

      Previous studies have widely reported the bone cement augmentation techniques used to
      directly strengthen the pedicle screws. It has been proved that cement-augmented pedicle
      screw fixation is associated with lower loosening rate and higher fusion rate. However, the
      use of cement can lead to cement leakage and pulmonary embolism, and need extra cost.
      Therefore, it is very important to identify the correlation between degree of osteoporosis
      and screw loosening risk , and to establish the indications for cement augmentation in
      osteoporotic patients.

      The osteoporotic patients requiring posterior lumbar fusion with pedicle screw fixation are
      prospectively enrolled and followed up. The researchers will invite appropriate patients to
      participate in the study after their surgical plans are determined. General patients data are
      collected after informed consent, such as age, gender, weight, height, bone mineral density
      measured in T-scores and Hounsfield units, the mechanical strength of the bone mass within
      the screw trajectory, detailed surgical plans, and etc. They are followed up at 3, 6, 12, and
      24 months according to our clinical routine, including lumbar x-ray and certain questions
      about the clinical outcomes. In addition, this study requires the patients to have lumbar CT
      scans because its advantage in judging the fusion status. In addition, the ODI and VAS scores
      are also routinely recorded.

      The patients undergoing conventional pedicle screw fixation without cement augmentation are
      compared with those undergoing the fixation augmented with bone cement. The primary endpoints
      are the loosening rate and fusion rate at 12 months follow-up. The secondary endpoints are
      the loosening rate and fusion rate at other time point of follow-up , and the clinical
      outcomes(ODI and VAS) at every follow-up. We also explored the correlation between the BMD
      information measured with different methods and the patients outcomes, in order to find the
      high-risk patient group.
    
  