
    
      Cesarean delivery in the obese gravida is associated with numerous perioperative risks, the
      most frequent of which is postoperative wound disruption, with a mean incidence of 15%. With
      the exception of closure of the subcutaneous adipose layer, other useful measures to decrease
      wound complications in the obese gravida have either not been studied or lack sufficient
      evidence upon which to base a recommendation.

      One such intervention is the delayed removal of surgical skin staples. Skin staplers, which
      were first introduced in the 1980's, were "grandfathered" through the United States Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA) approval process, and have since become a widely utilized technique
      for skin closure. Although neither the FDA nor device manufacturers make a specific
      recommendation, skin staples are commonly left in situ anywhere from 3 - 10 days.

      The physiologic rationale for delayed staple removal is unclear. Wound healing involves four
      main stages including hemostasis, inflammation, granulation, and remodeling. Each phase can
      be further broken down into overlapping steps. Reapproximation of the skin edges with staples
      enables epithelialization, resulting in wound closure by a thin layer of cells by 48 hours
      post-operatively. Although overall wound healing appears to be delayed in the setting of
      obesity, whether the specific process of epithelialization is affected is unknown. Therefore,
      there may not be a physiologic basis for delaying staple removal in obese women.

      Furthermore, delayed staple removal has potentially negative effects on patient care that may
      not be balanced by clinical benefits. Delayed staple removal may be associated with
      prolongation of patient discomfort, additional clinical visits and increased associated
      costs. These issues caused us to question whether the practice of delayed skin staple removal
      in obese women is warranted.

      Therefore, this clinical trial is designed to compare wound healing outcomes after cesarean
      following early (postoperative day #3) versus delayed (postoperative day #7 - 10) skin staple
      removal in the obese patient.
    
  