
    
      Pre-Screening and check of eligibility Routine clinical care patients are diagnosed and
      checked for potential eligibility of study participation based on existing data generated in
      routine clinical care which is not part of this observational study Prescription of treatment
      The decision of prescription of NIV therapy to the individual patient lies with the treating
      physician during the course of routine clinical care and is not part of this observational
      study. Diagnosis of COPD and indication of NIV therapy as well as initiation of treatment
      should follow applicable medical guidelines and local clinical care policy. Prescription and
      use of adequate ResMed NIV devices with tele-monitoring option according to Annex 1, 3. have
      to follow the current instructions for use (IFU) of each device.

      Screening and enrolment visit Patients will be screened and enrolled by contracted study
      sites only, i.e. NIV expert centres.

      Screening of potentially eligible patients will be performed within routine clinical care
      using data created within routine clinical care. Adequate staff members of the study site
      will inform potentially eligible patients about the potential use of their medical and
      telemetric data within this observational study by information documents which have been
      approved by the responsible Ethics Committee. Within this study medical care of the patient
      is not in any way touched by protocol definitions but an individual decision by the treating
      physician in routine clinical care. Only use and handling of medical and telemetric data for
      scientific purposes defined in this protocol are elements of informed consent. The patient
      will be given sufficient time to consider informed consent to data handling and to get
      answers to his questions. If the patient agrees, the informed consent form for data use will
      be provided for signature.

      After patients' signing, patients are screened and checked for eligibility according to in-
      and exclusion criteria by the participating sites, either on every day consecutively or at
      pre-defined schedules (e.g. on defined days of the week, only) to minimise selection bias.
      Medical screening includes check of COPD according to medical guidelines.

      Study relevant data will be reported in the e-CRF. The system will automatically display the
      patient ID as consecutive number across all participating study sites, i.e. without reference
      to the recruiting site.

      The following data items will be documented of each participating patient:

      Demographic data Patient's physical status Patient's social status Medical history
      Concomitant medication and diseases Data regarding COPD diagnosis Spirometry results (no
      older than 1 month) Blood gas analyses (carbon dioxide and bicarbonate concentration) during
      spontaneous breathing (pH>7.35) at date of decision making on initiation of NIV therapy Date
      of NIV therapy prescription Telemetric data of NIV device settings will be recorded as soon
      as the device has been delivered to the patient and was used for the first time Amount of
      supplemental oxygen during NIV (if needed) The patients will further be asked to answer the
      SRI questionnaire (refer to Annex 2), and the CAT questionnaire Initiation of treatment
      Initiation of NIV therapy (the device has been delivered to the patient and was used for the
      first time) after prescription should start according to local routine clinical care before
      or as soon as possible after enrolment into the study (with a maximum of 7 days before
      enrolment). Current medical guidelines and recommendations apply, however, they might differ
      in participating countries, and thus, prescription and initiation of NIV therapy is the
      decision of the treating physician and will follow local policies. Data on initiation of NIV
      therapy will be recorded by telemetric data as soon as the device has been delivered to the
      patient and was used for the first time.

      Follow-up visits In routine clinical care, a first control visit of the patient at the site
      after NIV therapy initiation should take place within the first 6 months together with
      nocturnal assessment of ventilator therapy [12]. It is recommended that subsequent control
      visits at the site should be performed at least 1-2 times a year [12]. To ensure
      comparability of FU data, at least one follow-up visit at the site within 12 months of
      follow-up should be performed (if in line with routine clinical care).

      At the FU visit at the site the following data from routine clinical care data should be
      documented in the e-CRF:

      Patient status Concomitant medication and diseases Spirometry results (no older than 3
      months) Body plethysmography (if available) Blood gas analyses (carbon dioxide, pH and
      bicarbonate concentration) during spontaneous breathing Serious adverse events since last
      site visit. History of exacerbations not leading to a hospitalisation The patient will again
      be asked to answer to the SRI and CAT questionnaires. NIV device settings and other device
      data will continuously be transferred in FU as tele-monitoring data.

      Follow-up questionnaires Every six months of follow-up short questionnaires asking for
      hospitalisations and other potential SAEs since last contact will be sent by mail to all
      patients. Closed envelopes with PID outside including the questionnaire and a free return
      envelope will be prepared and sent to site by the CRO. Site staff will forward the envelope
      to the corresponding patient who is asked to return the completed questionnaire (which
      contains pseudonymous data only) directly to CRI using the free reply envelope. In case of
      missing answer after one written reminder the study site should contact the patient by phone
      in order to obtain the required information.

      Data regarding hospitalisations or SAEs reported by the patient will be documented in the
      e-CRF primarily by the CRO on the basis of available medical data. In case a patient reports
      a hospitalisation or other SAE, the responsible study site will be informed by the CRO and
      will subsequently contact the patient's family doctor respectively the hospital where the
      patient was treated and ask for supportive documents (i.e. hospital discharge letter,
      diagnostic reports) as applicable. The study site is subsequently responsible for completion
      of event data.

      These procedures will not be performed in study patients enrolled in the ANTADIR registry in
      France and used for joined analysis in this study. Thus, analysis of hospitalisations will
      therefore be performed for patients enroled in Germany, Spain, UK and other potentially
      participating countries but not for patients
    
  