
    
      TB is the most common serious infectious complication associated with HIV in sub-Saharan
      Africa and is also the most common cause of death among HIV infected patients in developing
      countries. Furthermore, TB in an HIV infected person accelerates the progression of HIV
      disease and hastens death. This study will evaluate a combined TB and antiretroviral
      treatment (ART) strategy utilizing DOT in HIV infected people coinfected with TB. This study
      will compare two treatment strategies: TB and HIV medications given concurrently (integrated
      arm) and TB treatment completed first, followed by HIV treatment (sequential arm).

      This study has two parts. The entire study will last 24 months after participants have been
      randomly assigned to one of two arms. Arm 1 (integrated arm) participants will receive
      didanosine (ddI), efavirenz (EFV), and lamivudine (3TC) once daily concurrent with standard
      TB therapy. ART and TB medications will be provided through DOT on weekdays; participants
      will take their medications without DOT on weekends. Arm 1 participants will also attend four
      15- to 20-minute sessions of an adherence study program at study start, Week 2, Month 2, and
      1 to 3 weeks prior to the end of TB therapy.

      Arm 2 (sequential arm) participants will first receive DOT-provided TB treatment alone. After
      completion of TB treatment, participants will receive ddI, EFV, and 3TC once daily without
      DOT.

      Study visits in the first part of the study will occur at screening, study start, Weeks 1, 2,
      and 3, and every month until the end of the first part of the study at Month 12. Study visits
      will include blood collection, medical and medication history assessment, a physical exam,
      and pill counts. Patients will be asked to complete an adherence questionnaire at every study
      visit and a sexual behavior survey and quality of life questionnaire at study start and Month
      6.
    
  