
    
      Data collect: The lists of women residing in Campo Belo / MG, with and without a history of
      cancer, were used by the Municipal Health Department (MDH). Data on cancer treatment may also
      be used, if they are in the field of MDH. The information used in this study originated in a
      questionnaire developed for the study that included socioeconomic indicators,
      gynecological-obstetric history and life habits (smoking, alcohol consumption and sedentary
      lifestyle). All interviews were conducted by telephone. Other questionnaires were also used,
      all translated and validated for Brazilian Portuguese.

      SG and CG groups were matched for age and parity. Age information was collected continuously
      and grouped into class intervals from the age of 20, resulting in strata for analysis with
      cohort points at 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 and 80 years. Parity was divided into five categories
      according to the parity: nulliparous, 1 delivery, 2 delivery, 3 delivery, 4 or more
      deliveries.

      Variables

      Primary variable:

      (A) Prevalence of PFD: The Pelvic Floor Disability Index (PFDI-20) was used to evaluate the
      prevalence and symptomatology of pelvic organ prolapse (POP), anorectal symptoms and urinary
      incontinence (UI) (Barber et al., 2005; Arouca et al., 2016).

      Secondary variables:

      (A) Sexual function: The Sexual Questionnaire for Urinary Incontinence and Pelvic Organ
      Prolapse (PISQ-12) evaluated the sexual function and prevalence of sexual dysfunction in the
      sample (Rogers et al. , 2003; Santana et al., 2012).

      (B) Quality of life: The World Health Organization Quality of Life Questionnaire - Brief
      (WHOQOL-BREF) (Fleck et al., 2000) was used for the evaluation of QoL.

      (C) Functional performance: In order to evaluate the functional performance of the sample
      (real level of human function, self-care capacity and level of ambulation), the Functionality
      Assessment Flowchart (FAF) developed by Paiva et al 2015.

      (D) Influence of PFD on QoL and AVD: The Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire (PFIQ-7) was used
      to assess the impact of PFD on QoL, ADL and emotional health (Barber et al., 2005; Arouca et
      al., 2016).
    
  