
    
      Chronic disease risk, including breast cancer risk, is not uniform across race and ethnic
      groups in the United States. This variation in disease risk may be due to environmental
      exposures (including diet), genetic susceptibility, disparities in access to health
      screening, diagnosis and medical care, or combination of these factors. Here we have shown
      that Hispanic women in the U.S. are more likely to be overweight or obese compared to
      non-Hispanic whites. Some of the excess obesity risk is likely due to the lack of
      neighborhood availability and affordability of fruit, vegetables, lean protein and whole
      grains. Whether an inexpensive and widely available highly processed/refined, nutrient poor
      diet superimposed on a genetic background favoring adipose deposition (i.e., the "thrifty
      genotype") is metabolically detrimental has not been investigated. Research to test the
      metabolic response to Indigenous and Western diets in Hispanic women may provide important
      information about the etiology of obesity and obesity-related diseases in Hispanic women,
      including risk of breast cancer. Since reducing disparities in obesity-related diseases,
      including breast cancer, is an important public health goal, identifying potential programs
      for prevention should receive high priority.

      Mexicans are the largest immigrant group in the United States with an estimated 10 million
      Mexican-American women currently in the U.S. As they acculturate to this country, Mexican
      immigrants change their dietary habits from traditional (indigenous) foods with plentiful
      fruit, vegetables and complex carbohydrates rich in fiber and other compounds to a
      Western-style diet high in fat and refined carbohydrate, but low in plant foods. Particularly
      concerning is that the food choices made by Mexican immigrants, many of whom are of lower
      socio-economic status, are driven partly by their inability to procure and purchase healthy
      foods. The disparity in both food availability and purchasing power fuels a tendency to
      obtain and consume a low-cost, Western style diet. When this diet is superimposed on persons
      with a "thrifty genotype" who are evolutionarily adapted to diets high in legumes and complex
      carbohydrates, it may lead to an abnormal metabolic response that favors adipose deposition
      and numerous health risks. Thus, ancestral genetic characteristics likely have an important
      role in metabolic response to specific dietary patterns and subsequent health risks. This
      phenomenon may partly explain the tendency for Mexicans and other immigrants from the
      Americas to become obese after just one generation in the United States.
    
  