
    
      Abusive head trauma is a severe inflicted traumatic brain injury, occuring under the age of 1
      year, defined by an acute brain injury (mostly subdural or subarachnoidal haemorrhage), where
      no history or no compatible history with the clinical presentation is given.

      This is secondary to violent shaking, with or without impact, of an infant by an adult,
      sufficient to cause brain injury. The mortality rate is estimated at 20-25% and growth of
      child is extremely poor. High rates of impairment are reported : motor deficit (spastic
      hemiplegia or quadriplegia), epilepsy often intractable, microcephaly with corticosubcortical
      atrophy, visual impairment even the blindness, language disorders, cognitive (intellectual
      deficit), behavioral (agitation, aggression, attention deficit, inhibition deficit) and sleep
      disorders. Several studies on the subject highlighted that an initial severe presentation is
      associated with worse growth.

      These is very limited research on the outcome of inflicted traumatic brain injury and the
      results are heterogeneous. The study hypothesis is the prognosis of the sequelae children
      develop according to the severity criteria presented in admission to the hospital for the
      Shaken Baby Syndrome.

      This is an epidemiological, observational, prognostic and prospective study. The severity
      criteria are clinical high intracranial pressure, presence of a coma, vitreous haemorrhage,
      an age under 6 months, other injuries than subdural hematoma (parenchymal injuries, ischemia
      or cerebral oedema).

      The severity criteria were chosen by studying others studies on the subject. Children
      concerned had been admitted to hospital for Shaken Baby Syndrome between 2010 and 2014 in
      France, in the Central Region. Thus today, they are between five and eight years old. We know
      that sequelae occur after latency, in particular when children learn to read and write.

      Primary purpose is to evaluate prognostic factors to develop sequelae after an inflicted
      traumatic brain injury as the shaken baby syndrome.
    
  