
    
      The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations and the World Health
      Organization (WHO) have defined probiotics as "live micro-organisms, which when administered
      in adequate amounts, confer a health benefit to the host" (WHO 2002). They should preferably
      be of human origin, be able to temporarily colonize the gastrointestinal tract and survive in
      it. They must also be non-pathogenic and non-toxic.

      Probiotics are used in the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases and allergies
      (Hatakka and Saxelin, 2008; Salminen et al., 2010). In some countries probiotics are
      recommended for infants and adults because of their long-term enhancement of the immune
      responses. Combinations of probiotics, like Bifidobacterium lactis BB-12 (BB-12) and
      Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG), appear to be most effective in this respect (Isolauri et
      al., 2000; Rautava et al., 2009; Smith et al., 2012). Probiotics are mainly ingested orally,
      and the gastrointestinal tract is thus the primary target organ for probiotic
      micro-organisms. However, when ingested in the form of for example tablets, chewing gums,
      cheese and milk, the oral cavity is exposed to the probiotics. With the world-wide increase
      in the use of probiotics their effects of on oral health have become a hot topic.

      Many types of probiotic bacteria have been explored but the most widely studied species are
      those that belong to the genera Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium. Yogurt and fermented milk
      products are considered the simplest source of probiotic administration for humans. The
      proven effects of probiotics in general health has led to more research in the oral health
      field including dental caries, periodontal disease and halitosis. Some clinical studies have
      demonstrated a decrease in the cariogenic mutans streptococci counts and in dental plaque
      (Näse et al. 2001, Ahola et al. 2002, Nikawa et al. 2004, Caglar et al. 2007, Twetman &
      Keller 2012). Probiotics have also shown improvements in the periodontal status in patients
      with periodontal disease (Riccia et al. 2007, Shimauchi et al. 2008, Teughels et al. 2013,
      Yanine et al. 2013). Recently, Toiviainen et al. (2015) found that the combination of
      Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) and Bifidobacterium strain Bifidobacterium lactis (BB-12)
      improved the periodontal health in healthy adults by reducing the plaque amount and
      subsequently the gingival inflammation without affecting the oral microbiota.

      More evidence is necessary to confirm the efficacy of the combination of LGG and BB-12 in the
      oral health.
    
  