
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the major disabling neurologic disease of young adults,and
      represents the most common immune-mediated inflammatory and demyelinating disorder of the
      central nervous system (CNS). Active inflammatory lesions contain components that include T
      cells, macrophages, and activated microglia. Within these lesions myelin is removed, axons
      are damaged and oligodendrocytes may be lost. In lesions undergoing inflammatory
      demyelination axonal injury also occurs. The disability MS produces is underscored by the
      nearly fifty percent of patients who will require ambulatory aids within 15 years after
      disease onset.

      Currently, there is no cure for MS. Therapy is targeted at changing the short-term natural
      history of MS: to decrease attack rates and to postpone long-term disability. At present,
      interferon beta and glatiramer acetate form the foundation of therapy for relapsing MS.
      Mitoxantrone is approved for more severe cases of relapsing MS, such as those with rapidly
      accumulating neurologic impairments.

      High-dose cyclophosphamide (HDC) is a non-bone marrow transplant treatment option for those
      afflicted by severe, refractory immune-mediated illnesses by pathologic autoreactive
      lymphocytes. The goal of this therapy is to induce immunoablation without myeloablation: that
      is, to eradicate offending B and T cells responsible for the illness while sparing the
      pluripotent blood stem cell of any ill effect. Since 1966, multiple publications on numerous
      immune-mediated illnesses have shown HDC without stem-cell rescue to decrease disease
      activity and improve quality of life

      In this protocol we study HDC for severe, refractory MS. The primary goal is to assess the
      safety of HDC in this population, where no data exists regarding the tolerability of
      high-dose chemotherapy without stem-cell rescue. The treatment goal is not to induce disease
      regression (resolution of fixed neurologic deficits), but rather to stop disease progression
      without further remittive therapy.
    
  