
    
      Studies indicate that potential inappropriate prescribing (PIP) is associated with a higher
      number of admissions, increased morbidity and mortality and that medication reviews might
      decrease the prevalence of PIP. PIP has only been investigated in elderly populations and, to
      our knowledge, never in a psychiatric, general population. There is a growing body of
      evidence on the effect of medication reviews but very little research on the effect of
      medication reviews in psychiatric populations. Medication reviews are a time consuming task
      which requires an extensive clinical knowledge about the individual patient as well as
      pharmacology. Healthcare systems across the world are looking to improve quality and safety
      for the same or fewer economic resources and medication reviews are introduced as obligatory
      in more and more hospitals and other institutions. This calls for alternative use of existing
      resources.

      Nurses have most of the direct patient contact but very few studies investigate the potential
      role of nurses in improving medication quality and medication safety. Administration af drugs
      and observation for effect and sideeffects of drugs are already important aspects in nursing.
      Therefore the purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of nurse-led medication reviews
      in a controlled interventional study. Outcome measures include prevalence, type and severity
      of the identified PIP as well as the proportion of identified PIP which leads to a change in
      prescription by a physician.

      Definitions

      In this study PIP is defined as

        -  The use of drugs with a known risk of en adverse drug event or where evidence for a less
           risky, equally or more effective drug treating the same condition exists.

        -  PIP includes the use of drugs with a higher frequency or longer duration than indicated,
           concurrent use of drugs with known drug-drug interactions or interaction between drug
           and the underlying disease.

        -  PIP also includes the omission of drugs which are clinically indicated and where no
           contraindications are known.

      Design

      Prospective, controlled before- and after study where 2 acute psychiatric wards have been
      selected for intervention and control. Ahead of the intervention the nurses have received
      pharmacological training and instructions on performing medication reviews. The patients are
      included consecutively.

      Data

      The nurses in the interventional ward will perform medication reviews after the patients have
      been seen by the attending physician and thus have received usual care. This procedure was
      chosen because most of the patients are admitted through one ward. With each medication
      review the nurses fill out a structured paper form with their observations. The nurses also
      register whether interventions by the physician were based - or in parts based - on the
      nurses observations

      Data analysis

      Primary outcome is the difference in the proportion of patients receiving PIPs in the two
      wards. Two senior clinical pharmacologists will also perform medication reviews on the
      included patients. These medication reviews will serve as golden standard when the quality of
      the nurse-led medication reviews is evaluated.

      Secondary outcomes will be an analysis of the proportion of PIPs identified by nurses and the
      proportion of PIPs ending in an intervention prescribed by a physician.

      Power calculations

      The investigators anticipate a prevalence of PIP on 30% among psychiatric patients and an
      expectation of a reduction to 15% PIP due to nurse-led medication reviews. Based on these
      assumptions there will be a need for 120 patients in each group in order to sufficiently
      identify a difference (risk of type 1 error - 5% and a power of 80%)
    
  