
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Free protein S (that portion of plasma protein S which is not in complex with C4b binding
      protein) is a cofactor for the anticoagulant effect of activated protein C. Patients
      presenting with acute myocardial infarction have significantly reduced levels of free protein
      S. If the major hypothesis proved correct, patients at high risk of myocardial infarction
      could be identified and could be targeted for future studies to examine specific intervention
      therapy.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The blinded and prospective study began in 1992, although the grant was first awarded in
      1983. The goal was to determine if low levels of free protein S were associated with an
      increased incidence of myocardial infarction. Plasma samples were obtained yearly from 2,224
      men aged 50-59 years who were participants in the Second Northwick Park Heart Study sponsored
      by the British Medical Research Council Epidemiology and Medical Care Unit. Clinical
      endpoints for the study were documented fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarction. To prevent
      potential bias, this laboratory was blinded to the clinical endpoints until all samples had
      been collected and all causes of death in the study population had been adjudicated. ln
      addition to free protein S, total protein S and C4b binding protein were measured. The study
      design permitted the assessment of the temporal relationship between the development of low
      free protein S levels and the occurrence of myocardial infarction and the presence or absence
      of a biologic gradient (dose-response) between levels of free protein S and the frequency of
      infarction. These two analyses were important in assessing whether the observed association
      was causal or whether low protein S occured as a consequence of myocardial infarction. Three
      levels of free protein S had been defined prior to initiating the study to determine if the
      frequency of myocardial infarction did follow a biologic gradient. The measurement of other
      potential markers of risk by other laboratories, such as prothrombin fragment Fl+2 and factor
      X activation peptide, permitted a comprehensive evaluation of hemostatic risk factors in
      myocardial infarction. A second study was conducted in women to examine protein S as a risk
      factor for myocardial infarction.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  