
    
      Essentially, subjects will have a baseline assessment (WBV1) of their bone turnover marker
      response to a week-long period of whole body vibration (10 minutes/day), followed by a
      "washout period" of 5 weeks during which bone turnover is expected to return to normal.
      Following this, there will be a period of 6 weeks of treatment with risedronate (1
      mg/kg/week). Immediately following this will come a second assessment (WBV2) of the bone
      turnover marker response to a week-long period of whole body vibration (10 minutes/day) as
      previously.

      The subjects stand on the vibration platform for 10 minutes for 7 days on 2 occasions. The
      vibration is delivered as 4 "blocks" of 2.5 minutes each, with 30 seconds rest in between
      each block. The initial Whole Body Vibration (WBV) on day 1 will be undertaken in the
      Sheffield Children's Hospital Clinical Research Facility (SCHCRF) under supervision.
      Subsequent WBVs D2-D7 and D85-91 will be done in the participants' homes. Participants will
      be asked to record the administration and timing of WBV in a diary.

      Blood samples will be taken after an overnight fast according to the following schedule:

      Pre-WBV1 D1; D8 (postWBV); D15; D43 (immediate pre-risedronate); D85 (post-risedronate and
      pre-WBV2); D92 (post-WBV2) and D99 (final). 7 samples are taken altogether.

      The blood tests are bone turnover markers (Alkaline phosphatase[ALP], Procollagen Type 1
      N-Terminal Propeptide[P1NP] and C-Terminal Telopeptide of Type 1 Collagen[CTX]). The first
      blood test will be done by the researcher (Dr Sithambaram) in the SCHCRF and the subsequent 6
      blood tests can be done by the research nurse/researcher at the participant's home. Blood
      samples taken will be allowed to clot for ½ an hour. Samples will be spun at 2500 rpm for 10
      minutes at 4°C. The centrifuged sample will be stored in SCHCRF at -80°C. Blood tests will be
      analysed in the Mellanby Centre for Bone Research, University of Sheffield.

      Participants will be taking risedronate (oral bisphosphonate, once weekly), rounded to the
      nearest 5 mg) together with Vitamin D and calcium for 6 weeks. Vitamin D and Calcium will be
      given as Calcichew 500mg/200 IU tablets, 1 tablet for participants weighing less than 30 kg
      and 2 tablets for participants weighing 30 kg or more. Risedronate Sodium belongs to
      Bisphosphonates group of medicine. As per BNF, it is not licensed for use in children. The
      trade name is Actonel® Warner Chilcott). This study will use 5mg and 35mg film-coated
      tablets.
    
  