
    
      The hypotheses are: (1) The metabolic abnormalities linked to visceral obesity increase: i)
      the progression of aortic valve calcification and stenosis, of aortic calcification and
      stiffness, and thereby of the global hemodynamic load imposed on the LV; ii) the progression
      of myocardial hypertrophy, fibrosis, and dysfunction, iii) the loss in bone mineral density,
      and iv) the occurrence of adverse events in patients with AS. (2) Specifically, insulin
      resistance, the small, dense LDL and HDL phenotypes, enhanced oxidative stress & inflammatory
      state, and activation of the RAS act synergistically to: i) promote infiltration, retention,
      and modification of lipids within the valvular and arterial tissues, ii) enhance the
      inflammatory and osteoblastic response to oxidized lipids, iii) activate apoptosis of VICs
      and apoptosis-mediated calcification of the aortic valve and aorta, iv) promote osteoclastic
      activity and demineralization within the bone tissues (calcification paradox) (Figs. 1&6).
      These mechanisms predominate in the middle-aged patients, whereas imbalance in nuclear
      coregulators, alteration of adipokine system, dysregulation of mineral metabolism, and loss
      calcification inhibitors are the main contributing mechanisms in the elderly (Figs. 1,5,6).
      The contribution of visceral obesity to disease progression is more important in the patients
      with mildly or moderately calcified valves than in those with heavily calcified valves. In
      the latter, further progression of calcification and stenosis is predominantly influenced
      dysregulation of mineral metabolism. (3) The alteration of the myocardial energetic
      substrates and of the protein synthesis/degradation balance associated with visceral obesity
      and insulin resistance amplify the development of myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis in
      response to pressure overload and accelerates the progression to myocardial dysfunction
      (Figs. 7&8). The adverse LV remodelling and fibrosis resulting from the synergistic effects
      of pressure overload and dysmetabolism predispose to the occurrence of paradoxical low flow
      AS and cardiac events.

      The general objectives of the study are to elucidate the mechanisms implicated in the
      pathogenesis of AS and to identify the metabolic factors that determine the progression of:
      i) aortic valve calcification and stenosis; ii) aorta calcification and stiffness, iii)
      myocardial remodeling, fibrosis and dysfunction; and iv) clinical outcomes in the AS
      population.

      The specific aims of the study are:

        1. To obtain and analyze: i) the metabolic profile, ii) the progression of aortic valve,
           aorta, and coronary artery calcification measured by CT, iii) the hemodynamic
           progression of valve stenosis by Doppler-echocardiography, iv) the progression of
           myocardial remodeling, fibrosis, and dysfunction by MRI, v) the change in bone mineral
           density by DXA, vi) the occurrence of clinical outcomes (AVR or death), and vii) the
           valvular tissues explanted at the time of AVR in a series of 280 patients with AS.

        2. To perform histo-pathologic and genetic/protein expression analyses of valve tissues to
           document the lipid infiltration /retention/modification and the inflammatory and
           osteoblastic activities within the metabolic abnormalities, age, valve phenotype, and
           bone mineral density.

        3. To study the relationship between the cardio-metabolic determinants: i) traditional
           cardiovascular risk factors (hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, smoking), ii) amount of
           visceral fat and metabolic abnormalities associated with visceral obesity and the
           outcome variables: i) progression of aortic valve calcification and stenosis, aorta
           calcification and stiffening, bone mineral loss, and myocardial remodelling, fibrosis
           and dysfunction, ii) occurrence of adverse outcomes, iii) lipid infiltration/ retention/
           modification, inflammatory/osteoblastic activities in the valve

        4. To determine if the impact of these cardio-metabolic determinants on disease progression
           differ according to age, gender, BAV phenotype, and degree of aortic valve calcification
           at baseline.

        5. To examine the relationship between aortic valve/aorta/coronary (i.e. ectopic)
           calcification and bone mineral density and determine the impact of cardio-metabolic and
           mineral metabolism factors on this relationship.

        6. To examine the respective contribution of aortic valve calcification/stenosis, aorta
           calcification /stiffness, coronary calcification, bone density, and myocardial fibrosis
           to the occurrence of clinical outcomes in this AS cohort.
    
  