
    
      The Study Drug Dasatinib is designed to decrease the activity of one or more proteins that
      are responsible for the uncontrolled growth of tumor cells. This may cause the tumor cells to
      die.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take 2 dasatinib tablets
      by mouth 2 times a day for the 4 weeks before surgery (in the morning and 12 hours later).
      Dasatinib may be taken with or without food, but should be swallowed with at least 1 cup (8
      ounces) of water. A light meal is not required, but may help you avoid getting a stomach ache
      when you take your dose. Tablets must be swallowed whole and may not be broken. If vomiting
      occurs within 30 minutes of swallowing the tablet(s), you can take another dose. If you miss
      a dose of dasatinib, take it as soon as you remember on the same day. If you miss taking your
      dose for 12 hours, take your regular dose the next scheduled day (do not take double your
      regular dose to make up for the missed dose). You will be given a "pill diary" to write down
      when you take the study drug. You will be shown how to fill it out and asked to bring the
      diary with you to each clinic visit.

      Study Visits:

      On Days 21 and 28, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs and weight.

        -  You will also have a test to check the amount of oxygen in your blood.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  You will have an ECG.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn to check your how well your blood clots.

        -  You will have a PET scan to check the status of the disease. This PET scan will be
           before your surgery, the study doctor will tell you when this will be performed.

      Surgery:

      After you have taken dasatinib for 28 days, you will have surgery to remove the tumor. You
      will continue to take the dasatinib until midnight the night before the surgery. Depending on
      the status of the disease, you will have either a pleurectomy or extrapleural pneumonectomy.
      You will be given a separate consent for these procedures, which will describe the surgery
      and any risks in detail.

      Pleurectomy is the surgical procedure to remove the parietal pleura (the outermost lining
      around the lungs).

      An extrapleural pneumonectomy is a surgical procedure that removes portions of the lung, the
      parietal pleura (the lining of the lung), the pericardium (the lining of the heart), and the
      diaphragm.

      During surgery, 5-6 core biopsies, if possible, will be taken from different areas of the
      tumor for biomarker testing.

      For the CT-guided core biopsy of the lung, a tissue sample is withdrawn from an organ or
      suspected tumor mass using a very thin needle and a syringe. The needle is guided while being
      viewed by the physician on a CT scan.

      Length of Study:

      After surgery, your doctor will decide the type of treatment you should receive for your
      condition. If the disease responded well to the 4 weeks of dasatinib, you may be eligible to
      continue taking dasatinib once a day starting 4-6 weeks after your surgery. The doctor may
      also decide that you can take dasatinib once a day starting 4-6 weeks after receiving
      radiation therapy. You may continue to take dasatinib as long as you are benefitting. You
      will be taken off study if intolerable side effects occur or the disease gets worse.

      Follow-up Visits:

      If you continue to receive the study drug after surgery, you will have a physical exam and a
      PET or CT scan every 8 weeks.

      If you are taken off study for any reason, you will continue to be followed by the study team
      to see how you are doing.

      This is an investigational study. Dasatinib is an investigational agent and ongoing clinical
      trials are using this drug in malignant mesothelioma. However, these studies have only
      recently started, and there is no information so far that shows the drug is effective in
      malignant mesothelioma. Dasatinib is FDA approved and commercially available for the
      treatment of acute lymphoid and chronic myeloid leukemia.

      However, its use in this research study is investigational.

      Up to 60 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  