
    
      The DFOS is a dance-specific, lower extremity and low back functional outcome measure, the
      first and only existing at the moment.

      The DFOS-IT questionnaire will be developed involving forward-backward translation, a final
      re-evaluation made by a representative multidisciplinary expert committee and the realization
      of a prefinal version to establish a proper correspondence with the original English latest
      version.

      A factor analysis and analyses of internal consistency, construct validity, internal
      responsiveness and sensitivity will be conducted. The reliability will be measured for
      internal consistency (Cronbach α) and a factor analysis will be applied to analyse the
      internal structure. The divergent validity will be measured by comparing the data obtained
      from the compilation of the DFOS-IT with those of the SF-36 to evaluate the psychometric
      properties and the equivalence of the results adapted to the Italian language and culture.

      The validation of the psychometric properties of the instrument will start after it will been
      administered digitally, via a link to a website built using LimeSurvey, an application based
      on a MySQL database that allows the realization of online surveys, to a sample population of
      at least 140 dancers (10 subjects for each item of DFOS-IT) professionals or
      pre-professionals of age recruited through companies, professional academies, dance high
      schools and health professionals working with dancers. Through this link, from the time it
      will be online up to 30 September 2019, the dancers who will give their informed consent to
      their voluntary participation, will be able to access the online questionnaire.

      Upon enrollment, dancers will answer a demographics questionnaire, the DFOS-IT, and the
      SF-36. If they will take part in the reliability portion, then they filled out the DFOS-IT a
      second time within 4 to 9 days and, if in the responsiveness testing, a third time after
      4-months.

      For the statistical analysis standard psychometric techniques will be used, such as
      reliability assessments, convergent and discriminant validity tests of each item and of the
      construct in its entirety, empirical validity tests in relation to the clinical status and
      formal tests to assess their accuracy to ends to test the hypotheses.

      The investigators hypothesize to be able to reproduce a tool that reflects the
      characteristics of the DOFS in the original language and therefore it will prove to have,
      even in its Italian version, an acceptable psychometric performance as an outcome and
      screening measure for dancers. The DFOS-IT will show to be a useful tool to monitor both
      healthy state and functional limitation following lower extremity or low back injury in adult
      ballet and modern dancers.
    
  