
    
      Eligible patients will include African Americans, Latinos and AANHPIs who were diagnosed with
      a first primary, pathologically confirmed MM within the previous five years and who were at
      least 21 years of age at the time of diagnosis. Investigators will also include, as a
      comparison group, non-Hispanic White patients. Patients must have been diagnosed in one of
      the 48 counties of California. Patients must be alive at the time of study and able to
      provide informed consent. The research team will not include those who are unable to consent,
      pregnant women, or prisoners.

      Initially, investigators will randomly select 100 eligible patients from each race/ethnicity
      mentioned above to participate in the pilot study. Once the pilot is completed, the
      investigators will aim to contact all eligible patients reported to the Cancer Registry of
      Greater California (CRGC) until 2024.

      Drs. Carvajal-Carmona and Cress have coordinated with MEDULLA investigators and CRGC research
      staff to develop a questionnaire for racial/ethnic minorities with Multiple Myeloma. The
      survey focuses on demographics, risk factors, cancer treatment, quality of life, and social
      determinants of health. All survey items are adapted from previously tested and validated
      surveys. The survey is expected to take approximately 30-45 minutes to complete.

      CRGC staff, under Dr. Cress supervision, will identify eligible participants using the
      criteria described above based on diagnostic information in the CRGC database. The research
      team will be following California Cancer Registry policies and procedures for release of
      data. CRGC staff will extract patients contact information from the registry and will provide
      this information to research staff at UC Davis, who will work under Dr. Carvajal-Carmona's
      supervision.

      The UC Davis Research team will initially mail each eligible participants a postcard and a
      survey study packet that will include: 1) Simple instruction sheet 2) An introductory letter
      that details the study 3) Information sheet that details on informed consent 4) Survey
      instruction sheet 5) A paper copy of the survey 5) Incentive selection sheet and option to
      continue to the second part of study 6) Brochures about the cancer registry and the UC Davis
      Comprehensive Cancer Center, and return pre-paid envelope.
    
  