
    
      All study measurements were performed under standardized conditions in a quiet examination
      room with 10 min rest in the supine position before measurements. Ankle-brachial index (ABI)
      was measured manually by Doppler and automatically by the oscillometric device in randomized
      order by a single investigator. Manual Doppler ABI was measured according to the American
      Heart Association guidelines using a continuous wave Doppler device (Hadeco Bidop ES-100V3,
      Kawasaki, Japan) with a 8 MHz probe. Systolic blood pressure was defined with a standard
      mercury sphygmomanometer by the first Doppler flow signal while deflating the cuff from a
      suprasystolic level in brachial, dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial arteries. Systolic
      pressure was determined sequentially for brachial, dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial
      arteries for each side and ABI was calculated for each leg by dividing the highest ankle
      pressure to the highest arm pressure. Automated ABI measurement was performed using a
      validated oscillometric blood pressure monitor designed for professional use in the office
      (WatchBP Office device; Microlife, Widnau, Switzerland). This device allows automated
      simultaneous both arms or arm and leg blood pressure measurements and thereby the calculation
      of ABI. The ABI results are displayed on the device screen.

      The study protocol included three steps: (i) an introductory familiarization automated ABI
      measurement, (ii) three simultaneous oscillometric both arms blood pressure measurements; in
      case of a consistent inter-arm difference ≥12 mmHg, the arm with the higher blood pressure
      was selected for the subsequent oscillometric ABI measurements (otherwise the right arm was
      used) and (iii) Doppler and automated ABI measurement in randomized order; Doppler ABI was
      measured once, whereas automated ABI calculation included triplicate simultaneous arm-leg
      measurements performed for each side. The occurrence of five sequential oscillometric errors
      was defined as a failure of the oscillometric device to measure ABI.
    
  