
    
      Background:

      Endometrial cancer arises from the inner lining of the uterus and is one of the most common
      malignancies in women, representing 3.6% of all new cancer cases in the US. It is estimated
      that there are more than 60,000 new cases of endometrial cancer and more than 10,000 people
      will die of this malignancy in 2016. It is most frequently diagnosed among women aged 55-64.
      Cervical cancer starts in the cervix, the lower part of the uterus. Its prevalence is lower
      compared with endometrial cancer thank to effective screening and early disease detection
      with the Pap smear. In 2016, it is estimated that there will be more than 12,000 new cases of
      cervical cancer and more than 4,000 patients will die of this disease in the US.

      Positron Emission Tomography (PET) combined with Computed Tomography (CT) is an essential
      part of the workup for many malignancies. F-18 FDG PET/CT is currently the standard-of-care
      (SOC) PET/CT modality for staging and restaging of pelvic malignancies in women. But there
      are certain diagnostic limitations related to F-18 FDG because it is mainly eliminated by the
      kidneys and often interferes with the detection of cancer lesions, particularly in the
      abdominal and pelvic regions. On the other hand, the recently FDA approved F-18 Fluciclovine
      is only minimally eliminated by the kidneys and therefore the image interpretation is not
      affected by nonspecific urine activity in the ureters and bladder, which is advantageous for
      pelvic imaging. Recent literature suggests that Fluciclovine PET has diagnostic potential for
      a variety of solid tumors, thus, allowing new opportunities for noninvasive probing of
      glutamine metabolism and clinical use in patient management.

      Current literature indicates that amino acid transporters including that of glutamine are
      upregulated in endometrial and cervical cancer so that Fluciclovine PET may have clinical
      potentials. The hypothesis is that Fluciclovine PET provides better imaging properties and
      greater diagnostic confidence and accuracy than FDG PET does in pelvic malignancies.

      Given the lack of current clinical data, a pilot study providing a direct comparison of
      Fluciclovine PET with FDG PET is warranted.

      Objective:

      The investigators seek to conduct a pilot study to evaluate the clinical utility of
      Fluciclovine PET for staging of cervical cancer and endometrial cancer. This research will
      focus on pelvic imaging comparing the diagnostic performance of the research Fluciclovine
      PET/MRI with SOC FDG PET/CT as an exploratory endpoint. Dynamic PET imaging on a hybrid
      PET/MR scanner will provide valuable pharmacokinetic information that can be used to identify
      the optimal time window for the detection and characterization of the primary tumor and
      pelvic nodal disease. Additional abdominal imaging will allow for further correlation with
      FDG PET/CT in terms of nodal disease and distant metastasis detection. As previously
      demonstrated in prostate cancer, the Fluciclovine uptake can be heterogeneous which may have
      diagnostic and prognostic implications. Therefore, this pilot study will provide valuable
      information on potential Fluciclovine heterogeneity in cervical and uterine cancer. Textural
      heterogeneity of the primary will be compared between Fluciclovine and FDG PET. The initial
      experience gained with this pilot study will provide valuable insights into the
      pharmacokinetics and textural heterogeneity of Fluciclovine PET in cervical and uterine
      cancers, and presents the first data on the potential strengths and weaknesses of
      Fluciclovine PET/MR compared with FDG PET/CT.

        1. The investigators hypothesize that Fluciclovine PET is non-inferior to FDG PET regarding
           detection of the primary tumor.

        2. It is hypothesized that nodal disease staging is more accurate with Fluciclovine than
           with FDG PET because of the low level of nonspecific urinary bladder and ureter
           activity.

        3. It is hypothesized that the dynamic uptake pattern of the primary lesion correlates with
           the tumor grading on histopathology.

        4. It is hypothesized that textural heterogeneity is different between Fluciclovine and FDG
           PET.

      Specific Aims:

        -  To study the pharmacokinetics of Fluciclovine PET in women with cervical and uterine
           cancers

        -  To characterize physiologic uptake pattern of the uterus and ovaries when these are not
           affected by tumor.

        -  To identify the optimal time window for the quantitative analysis of Fluciclovine
           primary and pelvic nodal disease

        -  To correlate the time-activity curve pattern of the primary lesion with histopathologic
           tumor grading

        -  To compare diagnostic performance of Fluciclovine PET and FDG PET

        -  To compare textural heterogeneity of the primary between Fluciclovine PET and FDG PET

      Significance:

      The initial experience gained with this pilot study will provide valuable insights into the
      pharmacokinetics, lesion detectability and textural heterogeneity of Fluciclovine PET in
      cervical cancer and uterine cancer. The study provides preliminary data on the potential
      strengths and weaknesses of Fluciclovine PET/MR compared with the SOC FDG PET/CT.

      Fluciclovine PET may provide a significant improvement in the TNM staging compared with FDG
      PET as it is not affected by nonspecific urine activity in the ureters and bladder, which is
      a common diagnostic problem for FDG PET. By combining the excellent soft-tissue contrast of
      MRI with Fluciclovine PET, the hybrid PET/MR scanning could be a convenient and effective
      one-stop imaging procedure providing both pelvic TNM staging and whole-body M staging.
      Moreover, valuable prognostic information may be derived from Fluciclovine PET
      pharmacokinetics and heterogeneity assessment as well as multi-parametric PET/MR evaluation.
    
  