
    
      Over the past few years it has become evident that cancer cells can be recognized by the
      patient's own immune system. The immunological mechanisms at play are often referred to as
      the "cancer immune cycle" (Chen and Mellman 2013; Mellman 2013; Chen and Mellman 2017).
      Remarkable anti-tumor activity has been achieved by blocking the inhibitory T-cell receptor
      CTLA-4 and/or the PD-1/-L1 axis. Immune checkpoint inhibition by monoclonal antibody (mAb)
      therapy has become a standard of care in patients with advanced melanoma, renal cell
      carcinoma, non-small cell lung carcinoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma and bladder cancer. Indications
      are still expanding. Activity of PD-1 and CTLA-4 inhibition has been correlated with
      hallmarks of pre-existing anti-tumor T-cell response (e.g. presence of cytotoxic T
      lymphocytes (CTL) in the tumor microenvironment (TME), PD-L1 expression in response to T-cell
      secreted IFN-gamma and transcriptional evidence for CTL-activity), mutational load of the
      cancer cells and presence of highly immunogenic neo-epitopes in the cancer cell genome
      (Tumeh, Harview et al. 2014). In immune-evasive tumors a pivotal role has been attributed to
      myeloid dendritic cells (myDC) in regulating the activity of anti-tumor CTL activity within
      the TME (Broz, Binnewies et al. 2014). In animal models, myDC have been demonstrated to play
      an essential role in "licensing" anti-tumor CTLs to eradicate tumor cells. Activation of
      oncogenic signaling pathways such as the WNT/beta-Catenin pathway can lead to the exclusion
      of myeloid DC's from the TMZ (Spranger, Bao et al. 2015; Spranger and Gajewski 2016). Absence
      of myDCs at the invasive margin and within metastases has been correlated with defective CTL
      activation allowing the metastasis to escape the anti-tumor immune response (Salmon, Idoyaga
      et al. 2016). These myDC also migrate to tumor-draining lymph nodes and present tumor
      antigens to T-cells in these secondary lymphoid organs (Roberts, Broz et al. 2016). Presence
      of myeloid DC's was more strongly correlated with T-cell infiltration into tumors as compared
      to neo-antigen load in 266 melanomas from The Cancer Genome Atlas(Spranger, Luke et al.
      2016). Human myDCs exist in two subsets that are differentiated by expression of either the
      BDCA-1 or BDCA-3 surface marker. The CD1c (BDCA-1)+ antigen is specifically expressed on
      human dendritic cells, which are CD11chighCD123low and represent the major subset of myDCs in
      human blood (about 0.6 % of all peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)). CD1c (BDCA-1)+
      myDC have a monocytoid morphology and express myeloid markers such as CD13 and CD33 as well
      as Fc receptors such as CD32, CD64, and FceRI. Furthermore, myDC are determined to be CD4+,
      Lin (CD3, CD16, CD19, CD20, CD56)-, CD2+, CD45RO+, CD141 (BDCA-3)-low, CD303 (BDCA-2)-, and
      CD304 (BDCA-4/Neuropilin-1)-. A proportion of CD1c (BDCA-1)+ myDC co-expresses CD14 and
      CD11b. These dual positive cells for CD14+ and CD1c (BDCA-1) have immunosuppressive capacity
      and inhibit T-cell proliferation in vitro. Depletion of this cell type is preferred prior to
      using CD1c (BDCA-1)+ cells for immunostimulatory purposes (Bakdash, Buschow et al. 2016;
      Schroder, Melum et al. 2016). CD1c (BDCA-1)+ myDC play an important role in the
      cross-presentation of tumor antigens following immunogenic cell death (Di Blasio, Wortel et
      al. 2016). Under conditions of tumor growth, myDC will be poorly recruited to the tumor
      microenvironment, do not get activated and thereby fail to efficiently coordinate anti-tumor
      immunity within the tumor micro-environment and present tumor associated antigens within
      tumor-draining lymph nodes. When activated appropriately, human CD1c (BDCA-1)+ dendritic
      cells secrete high levels of IL-12 and potently prime CTL responses (Nizzoli, Krietsch et al.
      2013). In vitro, IL-12 production by CD1c (BDCA-1)+ myDC can be boosted by exogenous
      IFN-gamma. (Nizzoli, Krietsch et al. 2013) CD1c (BDCA-1)+ myDC spontaneously "partially
      mature" within 12 hours following their isolation. Optimal maturation with secretion of
      IFN-gamma as well as the orientation of stimulated T-lymphocytes towards a Th1 phenotype is
      only achieved following Toll-like receptor stimulation.(Skold, van Beek et al. 2015)
      Talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC; Imlygic) is a first-in-class oncolytic virus based on a
      modified herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 1 designed to selectively replicate in and lyse
      tumor cells while promoting regional and systemic antitumor immunity. T-VEC is modified
      through the deletion of two nonessential viral genes. Functional deletion of the herpes virus
      neurovirulence factor gene (ICP34.5) attenuates viral pathogenicity and enhances
      tumor-selective replication. T-VEC is further modified by deletion of the ICP47 gene to
      reduce virally mediated suppression of antigen presentation and increase the expression of
      the HSV US11 gene. Insertion and expression of the gene encoding human granulocyte macrophage
      colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) results in local GM-CSF production to recruit and activate
      antigen presenting cells with subsequent induction of tumor-specific T cell responses. T-VEC
      has been evaluated in early-phase studies, which demonstrated intratumoral replication and
      expression of GM-CSF and an acceptable safety profile (low-grade fever, chills, myalgias, and
      injection site reactions) after intralesional administration. In a single arm phase II study,
      an overall response rate (ORR) of 26% was reported in patients with stage IIIc to IV
      melanoma, with responses observed in both injected and non-injected lesions, including
      visceral lesions. Biopsy of regressing lesions suggested an association between response and
      presence of IFN- producing MART-1-specific CD8+ T cells and reduction in CD4+ FoxP3+
      regulatory T cells, consistent with induction of host antitumor immunity. The efficacy and
      toxicity of T-VEC in advanced melanoma was evaluated in a randomized phase III trial
      comparing intratumoral T-VEC injections with subcutaneous GM-CSF injections. With T-VEC, the
      primary end point of durable response rate (DRR; continuous response lasting > 6 months) was
      significantly higher (16% vs 2%; odds ratio, 8.9; P,.001), ORR improved (26% vs 6%), and the
      overall survival (OS) improved numerically but not statistically by 4.4 months (hazard ratio,
      0.79; 95% CI, 0.62 to 1.00; P = .051). Tumor regression was seen in tumors both injected and
      not injected with T-VEC. The incidence of grade 3/4 T-VEC-related adverse events (AEs) was
      11%. (Andtbacka, Kaufman et al. 2015) In an open-label, multicenter, phase Ib trial, the
      combination of T-VEC with ipilimumab had a tolerable safety profile, and the combination
      appeared to have greater efficacy than either T-VEC or ipilimumab monotherapy.(Puzanov,
      Milhem et al. 2016) The combination of T-VEC plus pembrolizumab (an anti-PD1 monoclonal
      antibody) was associated with clinical benefit in advanced melanoma, as assessed by ORR and
      CR rate (Ribas, Dummer et al. 2017). A randomized, double-blind phase 3 trial of T-VEC plus
      pembrolizumab vs T-VEC placebo plus pembrolizumab is ongoing. In this phase I clinical trial
      we propose to investigate the safety of intratumoral injection of autologous CD1c (BDCA-1)+
      myDC in non-visceral metastases of melanoma plus intratumoral injection of T-VEC (at its
      approved dose and regimen for the treatment of melanoma).

      We hypothesize that CD1c (BDCA-1)+ myDC in the T-VEC inflamed tumor microenvironment of the
      metastasis will capture tumor antigens in vivo and through cross-presentation of these
      antigens coordinate an effective anti-tumor T-cell response.
    
  