
    
      Participants may be referred for screening at Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW) in two
      possible mechanisms: participant contact study staff from information on Clinical Trials
      Science Institute (CTSI) FACT website or referral from treating Hematologist or Oncologist.
      At MCW, an EPIC report will be generated to identify people with catheter related thrombosis
      (CRT). The treating provider would then be contacted to determine if referral to the study
      was appropriate. Subjects at Ohio State University (OSU) will be referred from the treating
      Hematologist or Oncologist. A report generated in Epic will be used to identify people with
      CRT. The treating provider would then be contacted to determine if referral to the study was
      appropriate. Participants will be given printed information about the study or verbal
      explanation using the informational flyer. Verbal consent will be obtained to be screened for
      participation and contacted by study personnel. Screening will be completed by BloodCenter of
      Wisconsin (BCW) nurse coordinator. We aim to consent and enroll patients after diagnosis of
      catheter-related thrombosis and prior to catheter removal. Consent and enrollment (Visit 1)
      must occur prior to discontinuation of anticoagulation. Participants will be treated with
      either enoxaparin for one month following catheter removal, or direct oral anticoagulant
      treatment (apixaban, rivaroxaban, dabigatran, or edoxaban). Anticoagulation will be continued
      for 1 month after catheter removal. The minimum duration of anticoagulation will be one month
      and maximum duration is 7 months. The cost of enoxaparin will be the responsibility of the
      participant as use of the medication is part of routine care. Subjects will be contacted by
      telephone prior to discontinuation of anticoagulation to review study protocol, assess for
      bleeding, and see if any continuation rules apply and arrange for research visit 2 in the
      following 1-2 weeks. Visits 3 and 4 will occur 3 and 6 months after catheter removal,
      respectively. At visits 3 & 4, Medical history, cancer history, and medications will be
      updated. At each visit, participants will be assessed for post-thrombotic syndrome using the
      modified Villalta scale and functional limitation using the DASH questionnaire. At MCW,
      surveys will be administered by the research coordinator and/or Translational Research Unit
      (TRU) staff and physical examination will be completed by BCW nurse coordinator. At OSU,
      surveys will be administered by research coordinators and physical examination will be
      administered by research nurse coordinator. Laboratory samples will be obtained for MCW
      participants only.
    
  