
    
      Design:

      This is a double blind, controlled, randomised, cross-over, single center clinical trial.

      Product(s) to be tested:

      Food items (butter, cheese and biscuits) manufactured using (i) an experimental milk fat and
      (ii) a mixture of vegetable oils (including partially hydrogenated oils), used as control.
      Both fats are balanced for their trans fatty acid content and saturated fatty acids content.
      The main difference of these two experimental fats (milk fat and control fat) is the
      distribution of trans fatty acids (TFA). The experimental milk fat, entitled "vaccenic acid
      enriched milk fat" (VAMF), has been obtained by feeding cows with a diet containing sunflower
      oil. The distribution (the quality) of monounsaturated C18:1 TFA in the VAMF is therefore
      close to the usual milk fat, but with higher levels (enriched milk).The experimental control
      fat, shorted CTRL, has been obtained by mixing partially hydrogenated vegetable oils (PHVO)
      and vegetable oils and fats.

      Amount, dosage, route of administration, duration of treatment:

      During the 1-week run-in period, subjects should eat daily the same products as the
      experimental ones (butter, cheese and biscuits) but manufactured using usual milk collected
      in France. The subjects should then eat daily for 3 weeks butter, cheese and biscuits
      containing one of the 2 experimental fats (milk fat or control fat, cross-over with 1-week
      wash-out period) so that they eat daily about 54 g of the experimental fat, which contain
      about 20-22% of TFA. The total study duration for each subject is 8 weeks: 1-week run-in
      period, 3-week experimental fat diet in cross-over with 1-week wash-out period between both
      experimental periods.

      All the measurements and blood samplings will be done on the first day of week 1, 3, 4, 5, 7
      and 8.

      Primary outcome:

      HDL-Cholesterol (HDL-C) levels

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  Triglycerides, total cholesterol, Apo A1 , Apo B, factor VII and factor VIIa, fibrinogen
           levels. Lp(a) and CETP, measured on plasma by fluorimetry. LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) will
           be calculated

        -  LDL, HDL and VLDL levels and subclasses

      Other outcome:

      evaluation of the fatty acid profiles of plasma cholesteryl esters and phospholipids
    
  