
    
      Approximately 60 to 70 million adults in the United States alone are affected by insomnia.
      Daytime symptoms of insomnia include tiredness, lack of energy, difficulty concentrating, and
      irritability. Recent epidemiologic research focusing on quality of life has identified
      significant insomnia-related morbidities that relate to work productivity, health care
      utilization, and risk of depression. Insomnia is also associated with diminished work output,
      absenteeism, and greater rates of accidents. Gamma-aminobutyric acid is the major inhibitory
      transmitter in the central nervous system and most currently prescribed sleep agents are
      benzodiazepine receptor agonists, which induce sleep by binding to the benzodiazepine
      receptor site of the gamma-aminobutyric acid -A receptor complex. In addition to sleep,
      benzodiazepine receptor agonists can cause a wide range of ancillary effects not directly
      related to sleep, including sedative, anxiolytic, muscle-relaxant, and amnesic effects, and
      have risks of tolerance, dependence, and abuse potential.

      Doxepin is one of a class of psychotherapeutic agents known as dibenzoxepin tricyclic
      compounds. Doxepin is indicated for the treatment of depression, anxiety, and psychotic
      depressive disorders. The most common adverse event associated with the use of doxepin is
      drowsiness. A limited number of controlled studies have been performed to examine the effects
      of low doxepin on insomnia.

      TAK-375 (Ramelteon) is a melatonin receptor agonist with affinity for the human melatonin
      receptor subtype 1 (MT1), melatonin receptor subtype 2 (MT2) and selectivity over the
      melatonin receptor subtype 3 (MT3) receptor.

      This trial will determine if the co-administration of ramelteon and doxepin will decrease
      both latency to persistent sleep and wake time after sleep onset. Study participation is
      anticipated to be about 2 months.
    
  