
    
      In this single-dose study conducted at a single center, the effect of food on the
      pharmacokinetics of levofloxacin was studied in 24 healthy men and women aged 18 to 55 years
      old. Subjects were assigned different treatments based on chance; both the researcher and the
      study participant knew the treatment being administered. The study consisted of 3 phases: a
      screening phase, an open-label treatment phase consisting of 2 treatment periods, and a
      post-treatment phase. Subjects who met the prestudy eligibility criteria were randomly
      assigned to 1 of 2 treatment sequence groups. In each treatment period, subjects were
      admitted to the study facility the evening before study drug administration and housed
      through 48 hours after dosing with study drug. Subjects received levofloxacin as a single
      oral dose of 500 mg under both fed (within 10 minutes after completion of a high-fat,
      high-caloric breakfast) and fasted (10-hour overnight fast) conditions according to their
      randomized treatment sequence. Each dosing day was separated by a washout period of at least
      4 days. In each treatment period, pharmacokinetic blood samples were collected immediately
      prior to dosing and at 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 4, 6, 10, 14, 24, 30, 36, and 48 hours
      after dosing for determination of plasma concentrations of levofloxacin. Safety evaluations,
      including adverse event monitoring, standard clinical laboratory evaluations (hematology,
      serum chemistry, and urinalysis), vital sign monitoring, and physical examinations were
      performed on Days 1 and 3 of each treatment period. The post-treatment phase consisted of
      safety evaluations performed after collection of the final pharmacokinetic blood sampling in
      the second treatment period. Adverse events were monitored from the time of the first
      study-related procedure through completion of post-treatment study procedures, or until the
      time of early withdrawal from the study. Levofloxacin solution administered as 2 single oral
      doses of 500 mg each, 1 in each treatment period, administered at least 4 days apart.
    
  