
    
      This is a single-arm, phase II, multi-centre study of the safety and efficacy of the
      programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) inhibitor, nivolumab, as second-line or third-line
      salvage therapy, and in particular as a bridge to stem cell transplant (SCT) in relapsed/
      refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma patients not achieving a complete metabolic response
      (CMR) on fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scan post 2 cycles of
      first or second line salvage therapy.

      Approximately 120 patients with relapsed/refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma will be
      registered while undergoing first or second line salvage therapy (first line is preferred).

      Patients will have a centrally reviewed PET CT scan after 2 cycles of the salvage therapy
      they are receiving (or 4 cycles if they are undergoing treatment with brentuximab vedotin).
      Those with complete metabolic response (CMR) on PET CT scan (Deauville score 1-3) will not be
      eligible for trial treatment. They will be followed up for trial data collection purposes,
      and further management will be at their treating clinician's discretion.

      Patients achieving less than CMR on central review of FDG-PET (Deauville score 4-5) will be
      eligible to receive up to 8 x 2-weekly nivolumab infusions. 30 patients will be treated on
      the trial.

      After 4 courses of nivolumab, patients will have an additional centrally reviewed PET-CT scan
      (PET4). Patients achieving CMR will stop trial treatment, and enter follow up. Further
      treatment will be at their clinician's discretion but is likely to be stem cell transplant
      (SCT).Patients with partial metabolic response (PMR) or stable disease (SD) on PET4 will
      receive a further 4 cycles of nivolumab, again followed by a centrally reviewed PET-CT scan
      (PET8) to assess final response.

      Further management after PET8 will be at the discretion of the treating clinician, although
      it is anticipated that those with CMR or PMR will proceed to SCT. If PET8 shows less than CMR
      (i.e. PMR or SD), patients who consent will have a further biopsy to exclude false positive
      PET signal; this will be centrally reviewed.

      Patients with progressive metabolic disease (PMD) on nivolumab at any point will stop trial
      treatment. If a repeat biopsy is obtained to confirm progressive disease histologically, the
      biopsy material will be centrally reviewed.

      Patients will be followed up for a minimum of 3 years.
    
  