
    
      Study design This is an open pilot study: all participants will receive the light-based
      treatment (visits 1-6 inclusive). Ten participants with at least one digital ulcer (more than
      one digital ulcer may be assessed in the study if located on the same hand) will be
      recruited.

      Justification of sample size There are no pilot data to inform a power calculation. Paired
      measurements on 10 participants gives 90% power to detect a clinically meaningful change in
      VAS of 2 points at the 5% significance level, provided that the observed standard deviation
      in paired differences is 1.7 or less. If the observed standard deviation is 2.0, this sample
      size gives 80% power to detect such a change at the stated significance level.

      Methods of data collection

      Study visits schedule Participants will attend a total of 8 study visits over two months.
      Light treatment will be administered twice weekly for three weeks (i.e. the first 6 study
      visits only). Follow-up visits will be at 1 month (visit 7) and 2 months (visit 8).

      Preparation Participants will be asked to abstain from caffeine-containing drinks and from
      smoking for at least 4 hours prior to study. Sterile gauze and/or water may be used by the
      investigators (using gloves) to clean the surface of the wound of any debris that could
      potentially interfere with the light-based treatment.

      Application of the light-based device to the digital ulcer Both the participant and
      investigators will wear appropriate safety goggles (as advised by Medical Physics at Salford
      Royal NHS Foundation Trust [SRFT]) at all times whilst the light-based device is in
      operation. The participant will place their hand within the treatment area of the light-based
      device (total treatment area approximately 15cm2), aiming to centralise the digital ulcer/s
      to the centre of the treatment region. The device will be controlled by a custom-built
      computer interface. At each study visit, the device will undergo a period of (automatic)
      calibration before use. All three wavelengths (red, infrared and blue) will be delivered
      simultaneously in combination, with the fluence of the device set at [3J/cm2] (treatment
      duration approximately 10 to 15 minutes). Performance data on the light-based treatment
      (including the total dose delivered and the performance of the LEDs will be recorded. In the
      event of catastrophic failure of the device (e.g. failure of multiple LEDs), the device will
      automatically shut down.

      Participant and investigator assessment of feasibility Participant and the investigators
      opinion of the feasibility of light-based treatment will be recorded (at the end of the first
      and last treatment study visit).

      Participant and investigator assessment of tolerability Participant and investigator opinion
      of the tolerability of light-based treatment will be recorded (at the end of the first and
      last treatment study visit).

      Participant and investigator opinion Participant and investigator global assessments of the
      digital ulcer will be performed on a visual analogue scale (0-10, 10 being most severe) at
      each study visit. A clinical photograph (see immediately below) will be independently scored
      at a later date by another investigator.

      Clinical Photography The Clinical Photography department at SRFT will take a photograph of
      the digital ulcer/s at the end of each study visit.

      High-frequency ultrasound (HFUS) Will be performed immediately by the investigator after the
      light-treatment has been delivered and at the follow up visits. The investigator will perform
      two 'scans' along the short and long axis of the ulcer and use these to make measurements
      (basal and superficial width/length and volume).

      Laser Doppler imaging (LDI) Will be performed by the investigator immediately before and
      directly after treatment (at the digital ulcer site and the corresponding contralateral arm
      position) at all visits to measure ulcer perfusion.
    
  