
    
      There are indications that phosphatidic acid (PA) supplementation is capable of enhancing
      gains in strength and muscle mass in response to strength training, although the literature
      is still incipient and controversial. The present study will adopt a randomized,
      double-blind, parallel group and placebo-controlled design, with the objective of evaluating
      the effectiveness of chronic phosphatidic acid supplementation in gaining maximum dynamic
      muscle strength, body composition and muscle cross-sectional area in trained adult
      individuals submitted to a strength training program.

      About 45 men will be randomly allocated to one of the three treatments, in the proportion 1:
      1: 1: PA 750mg per day, PA 375 per day, or placebo (corn starch, 750 per day), for 8 weeks.
      The allocation of participants to the experimental groups will be randomized using software
      (www.random.org). In addition to the pairing, the groups will be equalized by the maximum
      dynamic force (sum of the upper and lower limb loads) of the participants at the PRE moment.
      For randomization, proportional distribution between groups and equalization by maximum
      force, participants will be recruited in blocks of 6 or 9 participants, which will be ranked
      based on their maximum strength, with these procedures being carried out within each block.
      Random sequences of numbers 1, 2 and 3, representing the treatments PA high dose, PA low dose
      and placebo, will be randomly distributed to each three participants within each block,
      respecting the ranking by maximum force.

      All participants will be submitted to a 8-week strength training program, 3 times a week,
      totaling 24 sessions, which will start at the beginning of supplementation. The training will
      follow the daily wavy periodization model.In this model, the weekly training sessions are
      called A, B and C, with the total volume changed at each session, as follows: in sessions A,
      participants will do 3 sets of each exercise, in sessions B, 4 sets of each exercise and, in
      sessions C, again 3 sets of each exercise. Participants will perform the following exercises:
      bench press, 45ยบ leg-press, pulley pull, squat on the guided bar and leg extension in the
      extension chair. The interval between sets will be 60 seconds and, between exercises, 90
      seconds. The loads will be individually adjusted for each series, in such a way that the
      participants are able to perform between 8 and 12 maximum repetitions (until the concentric
      failure or until the participant cannot maintain an adequate pattern of movement).

      Before and after treatments, participants will be evaluated for the following parameters:
      body composition, maximum dynamic strength of upper limbs (1RM supine) and lower limbs (1RM
      leg-press), dynamic strength resistance of upper and lower limbs, cross-sectional area of the
      vastus lateralis and rectus femoris muscles via ultrasound.The following blood parameters
      will also be evaluated: CK, LDH, free testosterone, IGF-1, GH and cortisol through
      immunoenzymatic, colorimetric enzymatic or fluorimetric enzymatic assays. Additional blood
      collections will be performed 48 hours after the first and last sessions training for
      specific determination of blood muscle damage markers: CK and LDH.

      The assessment of maximum strength will be performed on leg-press equipment, for the lower
      limbs, and supine, for the upper limbs. The tests for assessing maximum dynamic strength
      (1RM) will follow methods proposed by the American Society for Exercise Physiology (Brown &
      Weir, 2001). The evaluation of dynamic strength endurance will be performed in leg-press and
      bench press exercises where the volunteers must perform repetitions until fatigue with a load
      equivalent to 70% of 1RM, which will be previously determined in the maximum strength test.
      Participants will have to perform the maximum number of repetitions until reaching the
      concentric failure. Each individual will perform 3 sets with an interval of 2 minutes between
      them.

      Body composition will be assessed by dual emission densitometry with X-ray source (DXA),
      using the Hologic QDR 4500 Discovery Densitometer (Hologic Inc., Bedford, MA, USA).

      The architecture of the vastus lateralis and rectus femoris muscles will be evaluated with a
      B-mode ultrasound, with a linear vector transducer and a frequency of 7.5 MHz (Samsung,
      Sonaance R3). The images obtained will be assembled in such a way that the cross-sectional
      area of the vast side is established, which will be subsequently evaluated by the Madena
      3.2.1 free-use image digitization software.

      The evaluation of food consumption will be carried out through food diaries of 3
      non-consecutive days, two of which are weekdays, and one weekend. Energy and macronutrient
      consumption will be calculated using the Nutritionist Pro software.

      The data obtained in the PRE-intervention period will be compared between the groups using
      one-way ANOVA after confirmation of the normality of the data distribution, which will be
      done using the Shapiro-Wilk test. If the distribution is not normal, the Kruskal-Wallis
      non-parametric test will be used. All study variables will be evaluated following the mixed
      2-factor model (time and group), with two levels in the time factor (PRE vs. POST) and three
      levels in the treatment factor (high dose vs. low dose BP vs. Placebo). Participants will be
      random factors. Four different covariance matrix structures will be tested and the one that
      demonstrates the best fit to each data set will be used (lowest BIC, or Bayes information
      criterion). If there is a statistically significant interaction effect, a hypothesis-guided
      contrast analysis of degree of freedom will be conducted to locate intra- and inter-subject
      differences.

      Post-pre deltas will also be calculated, both in percentage and absolute terms, for all
      variables. These data will be compared between groups by means of one-way ANOVA, or by
      Kruskal-Wallis test, if they do not present a normal distribution. The data will be presented
      in mean and standard deviation. The analyzes will be made using the SAS 9.3 software. The
      level of significance adopted will be 5%.

      The sample size was determined with the aid of the G-Power software (v. 3.1.9.2) considering
      the F test model (ANOVA with repeated measures), with comparisons within and between, with
      three groups being evaluated twice in time. The input parameters were: significance level =
      5%; effect size = 0.25 (small); power (1-ฮฒ) = 0.8, which resulted in a total sample size of
      42 participants. To account for probable sample losses and dropouts, around 45 participants
      will be recruited for this study.
    
  