
    
      Diabetes-attributed deaths, mostly type 2 diabetes (T2D), total more than 40,000 per year,
      out of which 80% are secondary to cardiovascular disease and stroke. Research from the
      investigators' lab and others suggest that elevated atherogenic apoB-lipoproteins may not be
      a mere consequence of T2D but also a cause. They reported that high number of
      apoB-lipoproteins (apoB) may directly induce subcutaneous white adipose tissue dysfunction
      and related risk factors for T2D in humans; however underlying mechanisms were yet unclear.

      Strong evidence implicates a specific innate immunity complex, the NLRP3 inflammasome (NLRP3
      for Nucleotide-binding domain and Leucine-rich repeat Receptor, containing a Pyrin domain 3)
      in white adipose tissue dysfunction and associated metabolic anomalies in mice and humans.
      Preliminary evidence from the investigators lab and their collaborator (Dr Maya Saleh, at
      McGill University) indicated that native apoB-lipoproteins activate the NLRP3 inflammasome in
      murine bone marrow derived macrophages. On the other hand, omega-3 fatty acids were reported
      to inhibit the NLRP3 inflammasome in immune cells.

      Thus the hypotheses that were examined in this study were that:

      Primary hypothesis:

        1. Subjects with high plasma apoB have higher NLRP3 inflammasome activity in white adipose
           tissue indicated by higher interleukin 1 beta (IL-1β) secretion.

           Higher white adipose tissue IL-1β secretion was expected to be associated with risk
           factors for T2D documented in subjects with high plasma apoB, namely white adipose
           tissue dysfunction, systemic inflammation, postprandial hypertriglyceridemia, insulin
           resistance and hyperinsulinemia

           Secondary hypotheses:

        2. Twelve-week supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids (2.7 g/day, eicosapentaenoic acid
           (EPA) and docosahexaenoic (DHA), 2:1) induces a greater reduction in white adipose
           tissue NLRP3 inflammasome activity and related risk factors for T2D in subjects with
           high plasma apoB.

        3. Subject native LDL (representing > 90% of apoB-lipoproteins) directly prime and/or
           activate the NLRP3 inflammasome in subject own white adipose tissue ex vivo, while
           EPA/DHA inhibit it.

      Forty-one subjects (34% men) were enrolled in the study, of whom 33 subjects completed the
      12-week omega-3 intervention (drop out/exclusion rate = 20%). Baseline and post-intervention
      risk factors for T2D measured in these subjects were; white adipose tissue and systemic NLRP3
      inflammasome activity, dietary fat clearance (after a high fat meal), adipose tissue function
      (ex vivo after a subcutaneous adipose tissue needle biopsy), and insulin secretion and
      sensitivity (by gold-standard Botnia clamp technique).
    
  