
    
      WRAPPED2 (Women's Responses to Adjusted Product Placement and its Effects on Diet - 2) is a
      natural experiment with a prospective matched controlled cluster design. The setting is a
      discount supermarket chain in the United Kingdom regularly used by disadvantaged families for
      their main shop. The intervention is a store refurbishment programme that involves creation
      of a new fresh fruit and vegetable section in the store entrance. Control stores keep the
      existing layout with a limited range of fresh fruit and vegetables and placement of fresh
      fruit and vegetables at the back of the store.

      A total of 45 participants will be recruited from each of 18 intervention and 18 matched
      control stores through the retailer's loyalty card scheme (postal letter) and shop floor
      recruitment; these methods proved effective during the pilot. Participants will be women aged
      18-45 years who shopped at a study store in the 12 weeks before recruitment. This study is
      unique in its collection of individual level sales data, as well as demographic and dietary
      information, and is the first to collect outcome data for more than one family member.
      Participant's weekly sales data will be obtained through the retailer's loyalty card scheme
      and will cover 3 months before refurbishment, plus 0-3 months and 3-6 months after. Change in
      women's fresh fruit and vegetable purchasing from baseline to 3 months is the primary
      outcome. Secondary outcome data about women's diets, their young child's diet (2-6 years),
      food shopping habits, perceptions of supermarket environment, and psychosocial and
      demographic characteristics will be collected by telephone survey before refurbishment, and
      1, 3 and 6 months after. Weekly sales data for study stores will be provided by the retailer.

      Cost-effectiveness will be assessed from individual, retailer and societal perspectives.
      Process evaluation will assess implementation, mechanisms of impact and context.

      This study is politically and scientifically important being one of the first field studies
      of this kind. The findings could provide strong evidence for future public health policy
      interventions to help address inequalities in diet and non-communicable disease risk by
      supporting development of a healthy store layout that could be adopted more widely in food
      retail outlets.
    
  