
    
      Due to the aging of the United States population, age-related cognitive problems resulting
      from Alzheimer's disease and other causes of dementia are increasingly prevalent. Before
      individuals are diagnosed with dementia, they typically exhibit a period of "mild cognitive
      impairment" (MCI). Mild cognitive problems associated with MCI frequently impact an
      individual's ability to perform everyday tasks, including working, independent living, and
      medication adherence. Veterans are at increased risk of cognitive decline, and the Veterans
      Healthcare Administration (VA) is now providing health care to surging numbers of older
      Veterans with MCI who report significant cognitive complaints, difficulties with everyday
      functioning, and concerns about impending dementia. Despite high patient demand, few
      cognitive rehabilitation interventions exist that specifically address the needs of older
      Veterans with MCI that are widely accessible, patient-centered, and evidence-based. To the
      investigators' knowledge, no randomized controlled trials have been conducted that evaluate
      the efficacy of manualized, brief and inexpensive, yet comprehensive (multi-modal) cognitive
      rehabilitation interventions for older Veterans with MCI. Hence, the primary objective of
      this study is to evaluate the efficacy of Motivationally Enhanced Compensatory Cognitive
      Training (ME-CCT), a manualized cognitive rehabilitation group treatment for older Veterans
      with MCI. The study's specific aims are to determine whether ME-CCT is effective for: 1)
      improving objective cognitive performance and functional capacity, 2) improving subjective
      cognitive complaints, subjective functioning, and collateral measures of everyday function,
      and 3) increasing modifiable protective factors (e.g., diet, exercise) associated with
      reduced risk for MCI. The investigators will also explore mediators and moderators of
      treatment effects. The overall goal is to evaluate a manualized group treatment for the
      symptoms of MCI that can be readily implemented in VA treatment settings. The study design
      makes use of the convergent availability of resources at the two participating VA Healthcare
      Systems in San Diego, California and Portland, Oregon to conduct a randomized controlled
      trial of ME-CCT. The study will recruit a sample of 216 Veterans (108 at each site) who meet
      criteria for MCI. Inclusion criteria will be: 1) Veterans 55 years old or older enrolled at
      one of the participating VAs who are able to provide informed consent, 2) Independently
      living, 3) Meet criteria for MCI based on previously published criteria (Petersen, 2004;
      Petersen, 2011), and 4) Willingness to participate in audio-recorded group sessions.
      Exclusion criteria will be: 1) Current substance use disorder with less than 30 days
      abstinence, 2) History of schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or other primary psychotic
      disorder, 3) History of significant head trauma with loss of consciousness >30 minutes, and
      4) Auditory or visual impairments that would prevent ability to participate in the cognitive
      rehabilitation group. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to either the ME-CCT or
      an active control group, Goal-focused Supportive Contact (SC). The SC group will provide the
      same frequency and amount of therapist and peer contact as ME-CCT, but without specific
      training in cognitive strategies, lifestyle strategies, or motivational enhancement. 8 2-hour
      long weekly sessions will be delivered in both conditions. Both groups will undergo
      evaluations at baseline, 4 weeks (midway through the intervention), 8 weeks (immediately
      following the end of the intervention), and 21 weeks (3 months after completion of the
      intervention).
    
  