
    
      1. Screening lncrnas that regulate DPN inflammatory response and bind to miR-146a

           ① Experimental grouping The experiment was divided into T2DM group and DPN group. T2DM
           group was simple type 2 diabetes, without complications and other basic diseases; DPN
           group was simple T2DM patients with DPN. The diagnostic criteria for T2DM patients were
           in accordance with the Chinese guidelines for the prevention and treatment of type 2
           diabetes (2017 Edition). The screening criteria for T2DM patients with DPN are as
           follows: 1. Clear history of type 2 diabetes mellitus. 2. Neuropathy at or after the
           diagnosis of diabetes. 3. The clinical symptoms and signs were consistent with those of
           DPN. Clinical symptoms include: numbness or sensation; tingling or tingling; pain;
           abnormal sensitivity or tenderness after touching. 4. Examination: A. abnormal
           temperature sense; B. 10 g nylon thread examination, foot sensation decreased or
           disappeared; C. abnormal vibration sense; D. ankle reflex disappeared; e. two or more
           items of nerve conduction velocity were slowed down (electromyography or sensory
           threshold measurement). 5. Nerve injury caused by other diseases or drugs was excluded.
           Two of the above five items were abnormal, or clinical symptoms + 1 item were abnormal.
           ② Under the condition of full informed consent, 3ml plasma samples were collected from
           T2DM group and DPN group, 4 copies in each group, and stored in refrigerator at - 80 ℃.
           ③ Screening of lncrnas and mRNAs differentially expressed in two groups of samples by
           gene sequencing.

           Total RNA was extracted from tissue samples. The concentration and purity of RNA were
           detected by Nanodrop2000. The integrity of RNA was detected by agarose gel
           electrophoresis, and RIN value was determined by Agilent2100. The total RNA of a single
           library was 2 UG, the concentration was more than 100 ng / μ L, od260 / 280 was between
           1.8 ~ 2.2, and rRNA was removed. Using metal ions, the mRNA was randomly broken into
           small fragments of about 200 bp. Under the action of reverse transcriptase, a single
           strand of cDNA was synthesized by using random primers and using mRNA as template.

           The second strand of cDNA was synthesized by substituting dUTP for dTTP. The structure
           of the double stranded cDNA is a sticky end. The end repair mix is added to make up the
           flat end, and then an a base is added at the 3 'end to connect the Y-shaped junction.
           The second strand of cDNA was digested by ung enzyme so that only the first strand of
           cDNA was contained in the library. Then the Illumina sequencer platform was used for
           sequencing to obtain the original sequencing data. The differentially expressed lncrnas
           and mRNAs were obtained by quality control and sequence alignment. ④ The lncrnas with
           difference multiple ≥ 2 were obtained, and the lncrnas co expressed with inflammatory
           factors were determined by co expression analysis. ⑤ Different lncnras were retrieved
           from mircode and Starbase databases to obtain lncnras combined with miR-146a.

        2. In vitro validation of candidate lncnras:

           ① high concentration glucose (200mmol / L) induced injury of Schwann cells; ② detection
           of the expression of candidate lncnras and miR-146a in high glucose induced Schwann
           cells to obtain lncnras with high expression; ③ double luciferase reporter gene
           experiment to verify the combination of candidate lncnras and miR-146a, and obtain
           candidate lncnras binding to miR-146a; ④ construction Methods: lncnras silencing vector
           was used to transfer candidate lncnras into high glucose induced Schwann cells; ⑤
           Western blot and liquid chip were used to detect the levels of inflammatory factors (TNF
           - α, IL-1 β, IL-6 and IL-10) in Schwann cells; and ⑥ correlation analysis was used to
           determine the lncrnas positively correlated with inflammatory factors.

        3. Large plasma samples were used to verify the correlation between candidate lncrnas and
           miR-146a and inflammatory factors.

             -  the experimental grouping was the same as before; ② with full informed consent, 50
                plasma samples were collected from T2DM patients and T2DM patients with DPN, each
                3ml each. ③ candidate lncrnas and miR-146a primers were designed and QRT PCR was
                used to detect the candidate lncrnas and miR-146a The levels of inflammatory
                factors (TNF - α, IL-1 β, IL-6 and IL-10) in the plasma of the two groups were
                detected by liquid chip technology; ⑤ lncrnas negatively correlated with miR-146a
                and positively correlated with the expression of inflammatory factors were
                determined by correlation analysis.

                4. Statistical treatment: SPSS 23.0 software was used for statistical analysis. The
                measurement data are expressed as mean ± SD One way ANOVA or nonparametric test was
                used to analyze the distribution and grouping characteristics. Pearson correlation
                analysis was used to analyze the correlation of measurement data. With P < 0.05,
                the difference was statistically significant.

                5. Technical route this study is mainly divided into three parts. Firstly, lncrnas
                that regulate DPN inflammatory response and bind with miR-146a are screened; on
                this basis, candidate lncnras are obtained by in vitro validation; finally, lncnras
                with molecular marker function are verified on large sample plasma samples.

                6. Technical difficulties In this study, we used gene sequencing technology to
                detect the differential expression of lncrnas and mRNAs in plasma of T2DM patients
                and DPN patients, combined with bioinformatics technology to screen lncrnas related
                to inflammation and bind to miR-146a. Objective to screen for miR-146a binding
                proteins associated with inflammation Lncrnas are the technical difficulties in
                this study.
    
  