
    
      Endovascular revascularization and open bypass grafting above the knee show comparable
      results in primary 2-year patency (about 65%) in medium-length lesions - TASC II, C (Pereira
      et al, 2006). At the same time, a recent study, where the authors studied the effectiveness
      of stenting of long lesions (200 mm or more) of the chronic occlusions of the femoropopliteal
      segments (TASC II, D), showed unsatisfactory results (primary patency 45%) of the stented
      segment within 2 years (Lin et al, 2015). One of the possible solutions to the problem of
      breakage of stents in the femoral-popliteal position is a modified method of their
      manufacture by braiding from nitinol wire. Some studies with interwoven nitinol stents did
      show their resistance to breakage in this position. Moreover, the primary patency was > 70%.
      (Werner et al, 2014). These data suggest a better primary patency rate within 2 years with a
      longer lesion length (>200 mm).

      This is a prospective, randomized, open-label study. The main objective of the study is to
      compare the clinical efficacy and safety of two therapies for the treatment of prolonged
      atherosclerotic lesions of the arteries of the femoropopliteal segment above the knee, TASC
      II type D - femoropopliteal proximal shunting and recanalization with angioplasty and
      stenting using biomimetic interwoven nitinol stent in patients with symptomatic peripheral
      arterial disease at 24 months. Secondary objectives are to identify predictors of restenosis
      and occlusions of the operating segment and compare the quality of life of patients after the
      procedure.

      The analysis of literature data showed, that two-year primary patency after endovascular
      revascularization using a nitinol stent in long lesions was 60%. At the same time, the
      two-year primary patency after the femoropopliteal proximal bypass was 56% (Enzmann et al.
      Nitinol stent versus bypass in long femoropopliteal lesions: 2-year results of a randomized
      controlled trial. JACC: Cardiovascular Interventions. 2019 Dec 23; 12 (24): 2541-9.).
      Considering these data, it should be assumed that the use of biomimetic interwoven nitinol
      stents will slightly improve the primary patency parameters within 2 years in the stenting
      group. The 2-year primary patency after stenting of the femoropopliteal segment with an
      interwoven nitinol stent was 76% (Scheinert et al., 2011). A power analysis was performed to
      calculate the sample size of the "non-inferiority" design for a study power of 80%, a type 1
      error probability of 5%, and a non-inferiority margin of 10%. It is planned to recruit 110
      patients (55 patients in each group). The observation period of 2 years. Primary endpoint:

      -The effectiveness of the method of surgical treatment after 24 months (primary patency,
      primary-assisted patency, secondary patency).

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Clinical efficacy of the method of surgical treatment after 24 months (MALE);

        -  Safety of the method of surgical treatment in the early postoperative period (hematoma
           of the surgical access area, peripheral neuropathy, purulent-infectious complications of
           the surgical access area) and after 24 months (MACE);

        -  Assessment of the quality of life in patients after surgical treatment at 6, 12, and 24
           months (SF-36 questionnaire);

        -  Evaluation of prognostic factors for adverse outcomes after surgical treatment.
           Screening It is performed in patients with a verified diagnosed occlusive lesion of the
           femoropopliteal segment above the knee joint (type D according to the TASC II
           classification), with chronic ischemia of the lower extremities of 3-6 categories
           according to Rutherford.

             -  Assessment of inclusion/exclusion criteria

             -  Assigning a patient number

      Study inclusion Collecting baseline information about the patient (history, including
      information about concomitant therapy, data from the initial physical examination, ultrasound
      data of the lower limb arteries, CT -arteriography data, assessment of the quality of life
      using the SF-36 questionnaire. Randomization using the envelope method to one group or
      another.

      Group 1: Femoropopliteal proximal bypass; Group 2: Recanalization of prolonged occlusion of
      the arteries of the femoral-popliteal segment above the knee joint with angioplasty and
      stenting with a biomimetic interwoven nitinol stent.

      Follow up period; 6, 12, and 24 months.

      Performed:

      Triplex ultrasound of one lower limb (restenosis, thrombosis, stent breakage);

        -  Leg's roentgenography for the stenting group in two projections, for patients in whom a
           stent breakage is suspected according to ultrasound;

        -  Consultation with a cardiovascular surgeon.
    
  