
    
      *This study has been designed to collect data prospectively and to retrospectively analyse
      data on the metabolic treatments within the cancer clinic. The retrospective study is
      ongoing, while the prospective study has not yet started.*

      This is a real world study since this gives the best opportunity to properly examine the
      effect of multi-drug regimens in representative populations. Including a standard of care arm
      is inappropriate, in a population in which that standard of care has already been shown to be
      ineffective or intolerable.

      Patients will be sent to the study clinic directly by their Health Care Professionals
      ("HCP's") .

      The study will consist of a pre-screening visit to determine eligibility for inclusion into
      the study, an initiation visit and then a follow up visit every three months thereafter. If
      required, unscheduled visits may take place. Day 0 (baseline) for each patient will be the
      initiation visit when study treatment is started.

      Prior to conducting any study-related procedures, subjects will provide written informed
      consent, eligibility will be assessed, a medical history and past medical records will be
      taken and vital signs will be measured. These records will include the stage of their
      disease, response to previous cancer therapy, their prior and current medications and any
      specific regimen they are currently on for their cancer. If prior medical records do not
      contain sufficient information to determine a baseline for the patient, additional blood
      tests and scans will be undertaken as appropriate.

      Patients will be monitored quarterly thereafter when blood tests (e.g. safety parameters,
      glucose, cholesterol, immune response and cancer markers where applicable) and scans (where
      applicable) will be taken.

      All patients will be on the same drug regimen (see below) at the same doses throughout the
      study. All patients will be followed up until they choose to leave the study, or death.

      Data from all patients recruited to the study will be analysed using an Intention-to-treat
      (ITT) philosophy, so data will be included in the primary analysis irrespective of whether
      the dose regimen was followed throughout the study. If appropriate, and numbers allow,
      analysis will also be conducted on the Per Protocol population, comprising those patients who
      adhere to the regimen as prescribed.

      Survival analysis methods will be used to estimate the Overall survival associated with the
      study regimen for each type of cancer. These estimates will be interpreted in the light of
      data obtained from the literature, and from eliciting expert opinion. Bayesian methods may be
      used where appropriate.

      Tumour response, where applicable, will be summarised in tables and graphs. Estimates of
      response rates will be presented for each cancer type with confidence intervals.

      The relationship between changes in biochemistry values (glucose, lipids) and efficacy
      outcomes (Progression Free Survival (PFS), Overall Survival (OS) and HRQoL) will be
      investigated graphically, or using other methods as appropriate.

      Further exploratory analysis to investigate the effects of other factors such as age , ethnic
      backgrounds , cancer stage, and response to prior therapy, will also be conducted in order to
      try and characterise the profile of patients most likely to benefit from the study regimen.

      The characteristics of patients on the regimen and those who do not stay on the regimen, for
      whatever reason, will be summarised to see whether there is any observed bias. If
      appropriate, methods will be used to adjust for any observed bias, for example using
      propensity scores. OS can then be assessed adjusted for this to try and mitigate for any
      possible risk of bias which can occur in uncontrolled studies. Furthermore, by enrolling all
      eligible patients over a specified time frame, it is hoped that the risk of bias should be
      further reduced. In addition, a large number of patients are expected to participate in the
      study.
    
  