
    
      BACKGROUNG: Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) is the most serious complication of
      ovulation induction. Therefore, Corifollitropin alfa, long acting recombinant follicular
      stimulation hormone (rFSH) application in PCOS women is warning. However, corifollitropin
      alfa could decrease the injection burden of patients undergoing IVF/ICSI treatment. In
      previous studies, embryo cryopreservation following GnRH agonist triggering final oocyte
      maturation in GnRH antagonist protocol can almost eliminate the risk of OHSS. This study was
      designed to analyze whether ovarian hyperstimulation in PCOS women with Corifollitropin alfa
      in GnRH antagonist protocol and GnRH agonist triggering, following freezing all embryos can
      decrease the injection burden without OHSS complication.

      PURPOSE: To assess whether single dose Corifollitropin alfa sustains multiple follicular
      growth for seven days in GnRH antagonist protocol application in PCOS women, following embryo
      cryopreservation after GnRH agonist triggering can decrease injection benefit without OHSS
      complication.

      METHODS: This prospective ,single center, observational study, thirty to fifty PCOS women
      aged 20-38 years old, In GnRH antagonist protocol, a single dose corifollitropin alfa was
      administered for ovarian stimulation (S1, stimulation D1). Seven days later, rFSH was daily
      injected to stimulate follicle development according to the ovarian response. GnRH antagonist
      was administered daily from S5 until the day of final oocyte maturation. GnRH agonist was
      given to replace hCG to trigger final oocyte maturation when three follicles reached 17 mm in
      size. The IVF or ICSI was planned then all embryos were elective cryopreservation. Transfer
      of embryos was performed in a subsequent frozen-thawed ET cycles. Primary outcome measure was
      the incidence of OHSS. The secondary outcome measures were numbers of oocytes retrieval,
      numbers of embryos frozen and pregnancy rate of subsequent FET cycles.

      ANTICIPATED RESULTS: Decreasing the injection burden and maximal oocytes were retrieved
      without severe OHSS complication.
    
  