
    
      Eighty percent of the world's HIV infections are in sub-Saharan Africa. In Lusaka, the
      capital of Zambia, 85% of pregnant women are married and 47% are in couples with at least one
      HIV infected partner (26% concordant positive, 21% discordant). It will be years before
      short-course antivirals are widely implemented, and many children who escape infection will
      be left orphaned. There are 360,000 AIDS orphans in Zambia, a country of 9 million people,
      and 35,000 HIV infected women deliver each year.

      An essential component of any HIV prevention strategy must include the prevention of
      unplanned pregnancies among couples with HIV. Promotion of 'dual method' contraception
      (condoms for HIV/STD prevention plus a longer acting method for pregnancy prevention) is
      ideal, but unfortunately not widely promoted. Ultimately, the prevention of unplanned
      pregnancy in couples with HIV can reduce pediatric HIV, AIDS orphans, and the family
      consequences of parental illness and death.

      This study will evaluate two interventions aimed at reducing the incidence of unplanned
      pregnancies in HIV infected couples. The first intervention will promote more effective
      contraception by placing user-independent methods (IUD and Norplant) first in the educational
      message hierarchy (currently, family planning education highlights oral contraceptives) and
      employing positive message framing. The second intervention will help couples plan for the
      consequences of their illness and death. This will include assisting couples to work together
      to prepare a will, choose a guardian, and make a financial plan. By focusing on the cost of
      educating existing children and on the need to plan for their future care, couples are
      encouraged to reflect on the implications of future childbearing. The interventions will be
      compared with a standard family planning program with respect to impact on incident
      pregnancy, contraceptive choice and pattern of use, psychosocial and behavioral variables,
      and future planning actions. Cost-effectiveness will be determined with methods developed
      jointly by experts in the fields of HIV therapy in Africa and contraception.

      Participants in this study will be randomized to either the user-independent contraception
      intervention, the future planning intervention, the contraception plus planning intervention,
      or the standard family planning control. Couples will be followed for 1 to 4 years. Women
      will have study visits every 3 months; men will have a study visit every year. The primary
      study outcome will be comparison of time to pregnancy across intervention groups.
    
  