
    
      The aim of the proposed research is to study the impact of hope interventions on the coping
      behavior of women with advanced breast cancer and physicians who provide care to patients
      with cancer.

      It is the investigator's contention, that improved hopefulness among cancer patients can be
      manifest in improved Quality of Life (QOL). The challenge is to find specific interventions
      that can optimize hopefulness and thereby direct individuals to adopt behavior styles that
      contribute to a positive effect on QOL.

      Two separate single-day interventions and hope applications will be developed for patients
      and oncologists, respectively. What will be common for each workshop is that there will be an
      experienced counselor designated as "coordinator" who will be in charge of implementing the
      program and monitoring group dynamics. The interventions will be structured with the program
      advancing from the identification of goals to the development of directions reasonable
      pathways for achieving the delineated goals. In addition to goal-directed exercises, the
      workshop will employ narrative techniques which utilize literary triggers as a springboard
      for reflective writing.

      The smartphone-based application will prompt study participants on a daily basis to engage in
      additional, short activities designed to augment hopefulness, assess progress in achieving
      goals, and identifying challenges. In addition, the application will allow sustained
      interaction of workshop participants through social media exchange.

      Course materials will be sent to study participants one week prior to the conduct of the
      workshop.

      Baseline assessment of hopefulness will be carried out via the aforementioned validated
      scales on the day of the workshop.

      Re-assessment of hopefulness will occur at the end of the day and at the 3- month interval
      visits.
    
  