
    
      Elderly cancer patients are a special group, often complicated by a variety of chronic
      diseases, which bring serious obstacles to surgery and adjuvant treatment. It is for these
      reasons that most patients with high-level evidence-based randomized controlled clinical
      trials will be part of these patients. Exclusions ultimately lead to a lack of standards for
      the treatment of elderly breast cancer patients, especially the chemotherapy. Numerous
      studies have shown that older adults are undertreated. This may be, in part, due to concerns
      about a greater risk of treatment toxicity in older adults.

      Investigators' purpose was to determine whether geriatric assessments are associated with
      completion of a grade III/IV toxicity or survival in older adults with breast cancer in older
      patients. A predictive model that incorporates geriatric and oncologic correlates of
      vulnerability to chemotherapy toxicity in older adults could help both the healthcare
      provider and the patient weigh the benefits and risks of chemotherapy treatment and could
      serve as a platform to test interventions to decrease the risk of chemotherapy toxicity.

      Investigators enroll the breast cancer patients ≥70y，the general data such as age, BMI,
      hemoglobin, white blood cells, creatinine, albumin, lactate dehydrogenase, blood pressure
      (diastolic blood pressure) were recorded; comorbidity scores using Charlson's Co-morbidity
      index（CCI） scores; a wide variety of comprehensive assessment scales for the elderly, after
      searching previous research and considering the operability of the actual data collected, the
      KPS, ECOG, MNA, ADL, IADL, MMSE, GDS, G-8, Vulnerable Elders Survey-13（VES-13） and FRAIL,
      Tilburg assessments were included. The treatment for these participants were decided by their
      own doctors. The participants who underwent chemotherapy were recorded for their chemotherapy
      regimen and dosage, and the side effects of chemotherapy were evaluated at the first cycle
      and after the end of the drug. The surgical methods, pathology after operation, radiotherapy
      and endocrine therapy also recorded. Long-term follow-up, record the participant's recurrence
      and recurrence time, cause of death and time. Investigators want to learn the relationship
      between the geriatric assessments and chemotherapy toxicity, chemotherapy completion and
      overall survival. Establish a model for predicting chemotherapy side effects in old breast
      cancer patients.
    
  