
    
      Acute pancreatitis (AP) is the most common pancreatic disease of childhood with an increasing
      incidence estimated at 13.2 cases in 100,000 children per year. Given the dearth of pediatric
      literature, most pediatric providers often rely on diagnostic, prognostic and treatment
      guidelines that have been derived from adults. This is problematic because adult therapeutic
      guidelines fail to consider the unique age-related responses and requirements of childhood.
      Pain management is one of the cornerstones in the treatment of pancreatitis, with abdominal
      pain being the most common presenting symptom of AP. Currently, there are no data on optimal
      pain management in pediatric AP. Older guidelines suggest that the "use of intravenous
      patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) is advantageous" as it allows the patient to
      self-administer opioids and strike a balance between analgesia and side effects. This
      requires cognitive maturity to understand how to use PCA and poses challenges for younger
      children, particularly infants and toddlers, as well as pediatric patients with developmental
      delay. It is particularly concerning that greater than 94% of surveyed pediatric
      practitioners would use morphine or related opioids as a first-line therapy in children with
      AP especially when there have been no studies examining the benefits/risks of opioid vs
      non-opioid analgesics or opioid-sparing therapies in pediatric AP. Furthermore, we recently
      reported a retrospective analysis demonstrating that opioids are prescribed far more
      frequently either alone or in combination with non-opioids (70%) than non-opioid alternatives
      alone (30%). Amongst all types of analgesia prescribed to children who presented to the BCH
      emergency department (ED) with acute pancreatitis, morphine was the most common. Further
      research in this area is imperative, particularly given the recent opioid epidemic. From a
      pediatric perspective, it has been demonstrated that adolescents are amongst those at risk
      for opioid abuse, thus there is an urgent need to determine whether opioids are necessary for
      the management of pain in this vulnerable population with AP.
    
  