
    
      Benign prostatic enlargement (BPE) is a non-malignant growth of the prostate gland that can
      lead to a range of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS), and in some cases eventually leading
      to retention of urine. In patients failing to wean off catheter after retention of urine due
      to BPE, surgical intervention is the standard treatment.

      Surgical intervention options have evolved from electrosurgical resection to the use of
      lasers for enucleation and ablation [1]. Transurethral resection of prostate (TURP) was first
      performed over 80 years ago and is still regarded as the "gold standard" for the treatment of
      BPE in prostates between 30 and 80ml [2]. While TURP results in a statistically significant
      improvement in symptoms score and and maximum urinary flow rate (Qmax), perioperative
      morbidity and long-term complications can include postoperative bleeding, urinary retention,
      incontinence, urethral strictures, erectile dysfunction, and ejaculatory dysfunction [3].

      Rezum system use the principle of thermodynamic principle of convective energy transfer,
      which is different to other conductive heat transfer techniques like transurethral microwave
      therapy or transurethral needle ablation. [4] In the Rezum system, radiofrequency power is
      used to create thermal energy in the form of water vapor, which in turn deposits the stored
      thermal energy during the change from steam phase to liquid after injected into the prostatic
      tissue. The Rezum system contained a generator with a radiofrequency power supply to create
      water vapor from sterile water and a single-use transurethral delivery device. The tip of the
      delivery device contains an 18-gauge needle where 12 small emitter holes spaced
      circumferentially for dispersion of water vapor into the targeted prostatic tissue. The
      injection is at a pressure slightly higher than interstitial pressure. Due to the convective
      properties of water vapor, the injected steam will disperse rapidly and homogenously through
      the tissue and releases stored thermal energy into prostatic tissue. The released thermal
      energy will cause tissue necrosis. The most important character of the treatment is when the
      transition zone is treated, its energy will only deposit within the zonal anatomy of the
      prostate. Studies by histologic and MRI imaging had shown that after treatment, the thermal
      lesions were only limited to the transition zone without extension to the peripheral zone,
      bladder, rectum or striated urinary sphincter [5,6]. It was shown that 6 mo after treatment
      the total prostate volume was reduced by 28.9% and the resolution of thermal lesions as
      determined with Gadolini- um-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging was almost complete. [6] A
      small pilot study had shown that Rezum could provide safe and effective treatment upto one
      year for men with LUTS due to BPE. [7] In the first multicentre, randomised, controlled study
      197 men were enrolled and randomised in a 2:1 ratio to treatment with the Rezum system or
      control. [8] The sham procedure (control) was rigid cystoscopy with imitated treatment
      sounds. The primary efficacy end point was met at 3 months with relief of symptoms measured
      by a change in International prostate symptom score (IPSS) of 50% for the treatment arm
      compared to 20% for the control group (p < 0.0001). In the thermal treatment arm, the maximal
      uroflow rate increased significantly by 67% from 9.9 ml/s to 16.1 ml/s (p < 0.0001) after 3
      months. The clinical beneficial outcome was sustained throughout the study period with an
      improvement of 54% at the 12-mo follow up. In the latest updated report on the 4-year
      outcome, the improvement in voiding (as measured by IPSS and uroflowmetry) was sustained to 4
      years with surgical retreatment rate of only 4.4%. [9] Therefore, Rezum was proven to be an
      effective treatment for BPH.

      However, all studies focused on the application of Rezum in patients with LUTS are from
      Caucasian population. Therefore, in this study, investigator plan to evaluate the feasibility
      and safety of Rezum in the management of Chinese male patients with LUTS secondary to BPE.
      This could provide information on the tolerability and effectiveness of the treatment in
      local population.
    
  