
    
      The study will evaluate the role of antiviral therapy in COPD. Previous research has
      demonstrated that Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is more frequently identified in the airways of
      COPD sufferers when compared to unaffected smokers. It is not known whether suppression of
      EBV helps in COPD.

      Hypothesis. The primary hypothesis is that treatment with valaciclovir is safe and will
      suppress Epstein-Barr virus in the sputum of patients with COPD.

      Trial objectives. To conduct a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, trial of
      Epstein-Barr virus suppression in COPD.

      To evaluate the safety of valaciclovir (1 gram three times daily for 8 weeks) for the
      suppression of Epstein-Barr virus in COPD.

      To study the biological effects of EBV suppression on airway and blood markers of
      inflammation in COPD.

      The investigators will conduct a clinical trial to evaluate if a long established antiviral
      therapy (valaciclovir), routinely used to treat herpes zoster virus infection, can be used to
      suppress EBV shedding within the airways of COPD sufferers compared to placebo. The treatment
      will be randomised and blinded to both patients and investigators. The trial will recruit 88
      participants who will undergo lung function testing, clinical assessment and provide blood
      and sputum samples at three separate hospital visits during an 8-week period (samples will be
      collected at 0, 4 & 8 weeks). A small subgroup of trial participants will undergo
      bronchoscopy on a voluntary basis to enable assessment of the airway cells before and after
      treatment. The study will take place in The Belfast Health and Social Care Trust. Patients
      who suffer from COPD (GOLD 2 & GOLD 3) and concurrent EBV infection will be eligible to
      participate in the study. If the treatment is effective this will lead to further research to
      determine whether antiviral therapy is effective in patients with COPD. The study will also
      provide new information about the mechanisms of how COPD develops and potentially identify
      new therapeutic targets.

      Data management. The Northern Ireland Clinical Trials Unit (NICTU) will be responsible for
      data management during the conduct of the trial. Following electronic CRF submission data
      will be processed by NICTU as per CTU SOPs. All data will be anonymised. Data queries will be
      generated by site staff as required to clarify data or request missing information.

      Data storage. All data and trial records will be stored by the CI in accordance with current
      regulatory requirements.

      Sample size. A sample size of 31 subjects per group will have a 90% power at a two-tailed
      significance level of 0.05 to detect a difference in the exploratory efficacy outcome (EBV
      quantitative PCR).

      Statistical analysis. Analyses will be on an intention-to-treat basis and all statistical
      tests will be at the 2-sided p-value of 0.05. Comparison between groups for the primary
      outcome measure SARs will be made using Fisher's exact test.

      The exploratory efficacy outcome EBV shedding will initially be analyzed by chi-square test
      followed by logistic regression with adjustment for covariates if required. The comparison of
      continuous secondary/exploratory outcomes will be initially by t-tests followed by analysis
      of covariance if adjustment for covariates is required. Statistical diagnostic methods will
      be used to check for violations of the assumptions, and transformations will be performed
      where required.

      Correlations between changes in the biological markers measured and physiological and
      clinical outcomes will be assessed by appropriate graphical and statistical methods including
      Pearson's (or Spearman's) correlation coefficient.

      A single final analysis is planned at the end of the trial.

      A detailed statistical analysis plan will be written before the statistical analysis
      commences.
    
  