
    
      Aim of the Study:

        1. To evaluate the impact of peer support program on various clinical, psycho-behavioral
           outcomes and health utilization outcomes in Hong Kong Chinese with type 2 diabetes

        2. To evaluate the feasibility of a peer support program in Hong Kong

        3. To evaluate the sustainability of a peer support program in Hong Kong

      Duration of the program = 12 months

      Indicators and targets:

        -  Number of peer supporters recruited: 12

        -  Number of peers recruited = 50

        -  Number of peer supporter training sessions = 2

        -  Number of reunion sessions for peer supporters with the investigators = 4

        -  Minimum number of telephone calls made by peer supporter = 12 for each peer

      Method:

        1. The diabetes nurses from 7 diabetes centres of public hospitals in Hong Kong will
           recruit peer supporters and peers in the first 3 months of the project.

        2. Nurses will compile list of potential patients to invite to become peer supporters.

        3. Selected potential peer supporters will attend 2 half-day training sessions by the
           diabetes nurses and social workers from the Community Rehabilitation Network according
           to specially-designed curriculum. In sum, it includes revision of diabetes knowledge,
           self-management, lifestyle modification, debriefing and rapport building skills.
           Patients will be evaluated at the end of the training course by social workers and
           nurses to ensure they are ready to be peer supporters.

        4. Diabetes nurses will recruit patients as peers when they attend to the diabetes centre
           for routine diabetes care services such as complication screening, diabetes group
           education and nurse-led clinics.

        5. Each peer supporter will be matched to 5 peers in the beginning. In case when the peer
           supporter quitted before the study ends, his/her peers will be directed to another peer
           support group. The maximum number of peers in each support group is 6.

        6. A 2-hour face-to-face introduction of the peer supporters and peers will be held at the
           diabetes centre when the study begins.

        7. Peer supporters will be expected to carry out a minimum of12 phone calls over the next
           12 months (one call every 2 weeks for 3 months; one call every month for the second 3
           months, one call every 2 months for the last 6 months). Calls will be guided by a call
           checklist. Both peer supporters and peers will be encouraged to call one another ad lib.
           Peer supporters will return checklists to the program coordinator, recording the
           frequency, length, and nature of their interactions with peers

           In the first month of the peer support group, social workers from the Community
           Rehabilitation Network will contact peer leaders by phone to further foster the peer
           leader to be committed to the program and to increase their confidence in supporting
           their peers.

           Two large gatherings for all participants will be organized by the investigators at
           around 4-8 months after the study and near to the study completion.

        8. All peer supporters and peers will receive usual medical follow-up at their original
           clinics.

        9. Peer supporters will have reunion workshop at the diabetes centre with the nursing team
           and social worker every 2 months throughout the intervention. The workshop will last
           around 1 hour and it will address any issues the peer supporters encounter, provide some
           educational by a medical professional, and will facilitate sharing amongst peer
           supporters to develop a peer supporter network.

       10. Surveys for peer supporters and involved staff will also be collected during the
           debriefing sessions to identify difficulties peer supporters are facing and to better
           inform ongoing training and education. Surveys will also be administered to peers at the
           end of the study to obtain opinions and suggestions about their peer support experience.

       11. The intervention duration will be 12 months. However peers are encouraged to keep
           regular contact with peer leaders even after the intervention period ends.

       12. A focus-group interview will be conducted by a trained psychologist to two of the peer
           groups to evaluate participants' satisfaction

      Progress tracking:

      Clinical, behavioral, and psychological data will be collected at baseline and at the end of
      the study (12 months):

        1. Clinical measures to be done in introduction session and in the second large group
           gathering: Blood pressure Adiposity (body weight, waist circumference and body mass
           index)

        2. Biochemical measures (HbA1c and lipid profile) were retrieved via the hospital Central
           Computer System within 2 months of the study starting date and the end date

        3. Psychological measures, using validated self-administered questionnaires, to be
           completed in introduction session and in the second large group gathering:

      World Health Organization quality of life questionnaire (WHO-QoL-26) for quality of life
      15-item Chinese Diabetes Distress Scale (CDDS-15) for diabetes distress 8-item Patient Health
      Questionnaire for depressive symptoms EQ5D for quality of life Summary of Diabetes Self Care
      Activities (SDSCA) for adherence to diabetes self-care
    
  