
    
      Several Consensus statements have been published in the literature in the last 2 months
      emphasizing the need for data in Covid 19 to assess the risk of both bleeding i.e.
      disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and thromboses (stoke, myocardial infarction,
      dialysis catheter blocks).

      Early reports showed that very high D-dimer levels are common in COVID-19 pneumonia and
      correlate with a worse prognosis. To better characterize COVID-19-related coagulation
      changes, many studies are showing some initial data regarding the role of procoagulant micro
      thrombotic changes rather than DIC. Coagulation profiles observed in studies published in the
      last one month reflect a severe hypercoagulability rather than a consumptive coagulopathy
      (e.g., disseminated intravascular coagulation). Such a laboratory pattern and association can
      be linked to both markedly increased levels of fibrinogen and an excessive fibrin
      polymerization due to the infection. SARS-CoV-2 is likely to promote massive fibrin formation
      and deposition which can also account for the extremely high D-dimer levels found in these
      patients. Fibrin deposition in alveolar and interstitial lung spaces, in addition to
      microcirculation thrombosis, may contribute to worsening respiratory failure resulting in
      prolonged mechanical ventilation, poor prognosis, and death. Furthermore, other major venous
      thromboembolic events and arterial complications (e.g., acute myocardial infarction) have
      been reported and are likely to be largely underestimated. In this regard, anticoagulant
      therapy may improve the prognosis in COVID19 patients as reported by various studies. In
      light of the severe hypercoagulable state observed in these patients, effective anticoagulant
      prophylaxis should be considered to reduce the risk of thrombotic complications. This will be
      the first prospective study to assess the impact of adequate dosages of anticoagulants on
      clotting parameters in an Indian scenario.

      There are several ways in which the COVID-19 pandemic may affect the prevention and
      management of the thrombotic and thromboembolic disease.

        -  First, the direct effects of COVID-19 or the indirect effects of infection, such as
           through severe illness and hypoxia, may predispose patients to thrombotic events.
           Preliminary reports suggest that hemostatic abnormalities, including disseminated
           intravascular coagulation (DIC), occur in patients affected by COVID-19.

        -  Additionally, the severe inflammatory response, critical illness, and underlying
           traditional risk factors may all predispose to thrombotic events, similar to prior
           virulent zoonotic coronavirus outbreaks.

        -  Investigational therapies for treating COVID-19 may have adverse drug-drug interactions
           with antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants.

        -  Lastly the pandemic, because of resource allocations or social distancing
           recommendations, may adversely affect the care of patients without COVID-19 but who
           present with thrombotic events. For example, (mis)perception that antithrombotic agents
           confer increased risk for contracting COVID-19, may lead to untoward interruption of
           anticoagulation by some patients

      Further, a few of these investigational agents being used for Covid19 have been associated
      with excess risk (or, in other cases, reduced risk) for thrombotic events, or for
      thrombocytopenia in prior studies of non-COVID-19 populations. For example, bevacizumab, a
      monoclonal antibody that binds to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and is under
      investigational use for COVID-19, is associated with increased risk for adverse
      cardiovascular events, including MI, cerebrovascular accidents, and venous thromboembolism
      (VTE). Alternatively, fingolimod, an immunomodulating agent being tried for COVID-19, may
      reduce reperfusion injury and improve outcomes in patients suffering from acute ischemic
      stroke. Hydroxychorloquine, recently receiving Emergency Use Authorization from the U.S. Food
      and Drug Administration for treatment of COVID-19, may potentially exert antithrombotic
      properties, especially against anti-phospholipid antibodies.

      There is no data available on the subject of India. However preliminary data from our
      institute suggest the following which is in concordance with published data elsewhere

        -  The most consistent hemostatic abnormalities with COVID-19 include mild thrombocytopenia
           and increased D-dimer levels, which are associated with a higher risk of requiring
           mechanical ventilation, intensive care unit [ICU] admission, or death.

        -  Disease severity is variably associated with prolongation of the prothrombin time (PT)
           and international normalized ratio (INR) and variably by a trend toward shortened
           activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT).

      Hospitalized patients with COVID-19 who have respiratory failure or co-morbidities (e.g.,
      active cancer, or heart failure), patients who are bedridden, and those requiring intensive
      care should receive pharmacological VTE prophylaxis, unless there are contraindications. The
      choice of agents and dosing should be based on available guideline recommendations. The World
      Health Organization interim guidance statement recommends prophylactic daily low-molecular
      weight heparins (LMWHs), or twice daily subcutaneous unfractionated heparin (UFH). If
      pharmacological prophylaxis is contraindicated, mechanical VTE prophylaxis (intermittent
      pneumatic compression) should be considered in immobilized patients. In this regard, the
      once-daily dosing regimen of LMWHs may be advantageous over UFH to reduce personal protective
      equipment (PPE) use and exposure of healthcare workers.

      POC test services as quality assured pathology services using analytical devices (including
      test kits and analysers), provided near to the patient rather than in the traditional
      environment of a clinical laboratory.

      These POC tests can be classified as Viscoelastic POC (vPOC) tests which include
      Thromboelastography (TEG), rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM), and Sonoclot; and Platelet
      function tests which are Platelet function analyser, etc. TEG, ROTEM, and Sonoclot analysis
      are point-of-care coagulation monitoring devices which assess the viscoelastic properties of
      whole blood. They measure the entire clotting process, at the bedside and in a sample of
      whole blood. Coagulation factors present in plasma interact with platelets and red cells
      displaying results in a pictorial manner starting with fibrin formation and continue through
      clot retraction and fibrinolysis.

      The role of SCTS for coagulation correction in patients with Covid19 is unclear and using POC
      tests in ICUs will be of great help in tailoring treatment

      Investigators will also try to determine the influence of sepsis on coagulation disorders in
      COVID - 19 patients, to correctly identify the type and optimal quantity of blood product
      requirement in at-risk patients.
    
  