
    
      This study will employ a pragmatic randomized control trial design as a mixed-methods study
      in which approximately half of the participants will be randomized into a control and the
      other remaining half in the experimental group. Randomization sequences will be generated
      externally and allocation concealment will be employed. Group allocation will be revealed to
      subjects following informed consent, which is characterized by participants understanding the
      full details of this study and any risks that may present themselves. Because of the nature
      of the intervention, it is not possible to perform blinding and further stratification is
      restricted due to the small sample size. Confounding variables, like those of age, gender,
      education, and cancer-type, will be collected and controlled for during the statistical
      analyses. In addition, palliative performance status (PPS) at baseline, and daily pain
      medication usage during the intervention will be recorded to control for potential
      confounders. PPS is regularly measured by hospital staff. The research team will not access
      the resident's health records. Instead, the in-house care staff will perform this screening
      and refer eligible participants to the research team. Participants randomized into the
      experimental group will receive and self-select a pre-recorded music care playlist, whereas
      those randomized into the control group will receive and self-select a pre-recorded soothing
      poetry playlist, daily, over the course of seven days, but are free to select different
      playlists within their intervention arm each day. The music and poetry will be delivered
      using the same system with the same sound quality through a portable Bluetooth speaker
      system. The speaker system will allow others to listen with the participant. Pre-recorded
      poetry was chosen as a control intervention because it stimulates the same biological
      auditory system as music. This is an appropriate comparison for the pre-recorded music
      intervention because although it is delivered through the same fundamental biological
      pathway, poetry sound waves are interpreted as non-patterned and non-musical. In contrast,
      music sound waves are interpreted as patterned and organized. It is important to recognize
      that, especially in the context of hospice care, it would be unethical to prevent
      participants from using music outside of the study. This is controlled for by performing pre-
      and post-evaluations exclusively for the session. In other words, this data will be collected
      concurrently rather than longitudinally. Further, an additional daily involvement
      questionnaire will be used to determine whether music has been used outside of the context of
      this study. This will allow the research team to later control for this (e.g., when it is
      used as a distraction technique outside of this study). At the end of each intervention,
      which will last for 30-minutes, three validated questionnaires (hospice quality of life
      index-revised (HQLIR), stait-trait anxiety inventory scale (STAIS), and edmonton symptom
      assessment scale (ESAS)) will be administered in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the
      intervention. However, one of these questionnaires will only be administered on day one,
      three, and seven. Finally, an additional "daily involvement" questionnaire will be used as a
      means to ensure that the music intervention took place. This questionnaire will be completed
      on each of the seven days for each participant and will record their daily involvement. The
      individual administering the above-mentioned questionnaires will remain with the resident for
      the duration of the intervention and listen to the intervention together with the resident;
      this holds true for both the control and experimental group. At the end of the study,
      acceptability data measuring trial feasibility as a function of recruitment process;
      participation/refusal rate; study measurements completion rate; and protocol adherence
      including intervention delivery and data collection, will be collected via audio-recorded
      semi-structured interviews with residents, families, and healthcare providers/volunteers for
      which consent will first be collected. Resident's families will be invited by the participant
      for involvement in processes such as listening to the intervention with the resident or being
      present during the questionnaire process, and will be given the opportunity to consent prior
      to engaging in the semi-structured interview. All above-mentioned questionnaires will be
      administered by either community volunteers, study investigators, and/or hospice staff. Note
      that all questionnaires will be de-identified. In order to correctly code questionnaires
      based on each participant's unique study identifier, first and last names will be recorded
      for each participant upon enrolment in the study. First and last names will be recorded on
      the hard-copy study code sheet which will be kept in the PI's locked filing cabinet. The code
      sheet will be used to prepare the de-identified questionnaires which will be used to collect
      data in the community hospices. Upon completion of the study, the hard copy code sheet will
      be destroyed.
    
  