
    
      Background:

      Medication adherence [MA] is a complex issue depending on both patient and healthcare
      factors. Non-adherence due to patient-dependent factors is common; analyses of large
      broad-based clinical trials in the general population demonstrate that 20-30% of study
      medication doses may be missed. In community-dwelling HF patients with polypharmacy this
      percentage is likely even higher. One of the factors in poor adherence in elderly non-HF
      patients has been shown to be cognitive impairment [CI]. Non-adherence to medical regimen is
      one factor that is associated with worse outcomes in patients with HF, including
      readmissions. Measures that improve MA are also likely to improve outcomes.

      Objectives:

      We evaluated a novel intervention incorporating new technology with the goal of improving
      adherence in patients with HF and CI. Specific objectives of the study were (1) to assess the
      feasibility of using the Automated Medication Dispensing Device (AMDD) in veterans with HF
      and CI by measuring patient qualifying rate, consent rate, user rate, patient-level response
      rate, medication-level response rate, and success rate, (2) to calculate the improvement of
      MA based on pill counts before and after the introduction of the AMDD, and (3) qualitatively
      describe patient satisfaction with the AMDD and the reasons for not using the AMDD.

      Methods:

      This pilot was designed as a feasibility study testing an intervention using a commercially
      available, off the shelf Automated Medication Dispensing Device (AMDD) with subjects serving
      as their own controls. The study was conducted at the VALLHS, Loma Linda, CA which serves a
      population of 246,000 veterans. The study planned to enroll 50 patients with HF and CI
      (defined as SLUMS score of <27 in a person with high school education or <25 in a person with
      less than high school education) from the outpatient HF clinic. Baseline adherence to
      prescribed medications was measured by an initial 30-day pill count (month 1). Subjects with
      baseline adherence <88% were given the AMDD to use for 90 days (one month to familiarize the
      study subjects with the device, two months to collect outcome data). This dispenser was
      pre-filled by home health nurses once a month; the dispenser is equipped with an alarm
      mechanism that alerts the patient to take the medications; when the patient pushes the button
      on the device, it will dispense the medications. 30-day pill counts were performed while
      patients were using the AMDD on months 3 and 4. The study was powered to detect the success
      rate of the AMDD, defined as both patient acceptance and a clinical response to the AMDD.

      Status:

      Complete. This project was opened for recruitment as of July 1, 2012. The study is now closed
      for recruitment and all enrolled patients have completed the intervention. Manuscript
      outlining the findings of this study and discussing the available interventions to improve
      medication adherence is in progress.
    
  