
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in patients with diabetes. The BARI 2D
      study is designed to determine the potential value of specific treatment regimens for those
      with diabetes and will test the hypothesis that "with a target HbA1C of less than 7.5%, a
      strategy of hyperglycemic management directed at insulin sensitization results in lower 5
      year mortality compared to a strategy of insulin provision." This ancillary study is designed
      to provide mechanistic insight into potential benefits derived from two different treatment
      strategies employed by characterizing the thrombotic potential in those patients assigned to
      the aggressive medical management strategy and long-range goal is to demonstrate that
      treatment of diabetes with regimens that reduce thrombotic potential decreases cardiovascular
      risk. The results of this ancillary study should help to define the extent to which specific
      regimens diminish the pro-thrombotic state.

      The study is in response to an initiative on Ancillary Studies in Heart, Lung, and Blood
      Disease Trials released in June, 2000.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Thrombotic potential will be assessed by determination of both platelet reactivity and
      thrombin generation and activity. Preliminary studies have found that patients with diabetes
      have increased coronary intervention. Further, thrombin generation and activity is increased
      in diabetic subjects. Preliminary evidence suggests that treatment with an
      insulin-sensitizing regimen reduces platelet reactivity, thrombin generation and thrombin
      activity. The BARI 2D study is ideally suited for determination of the effect of the method
      of glycemic control on pro-thrombotic potential. In aim 1 the investigators will determine
      platelet reactivity before and during the first year of treatment in patients randomized to
      medical treatment and randomized also to either an insulin-sensitizing regimen or an
      insulin-providing regimen. They will use a flow cytometry-based assay of platelet function
      that they have developed and validated. In aim 2 they will determine the effect of treatment
      on thrombin generation and activity in the same group of patients. Thrombin generation will
      be determined by measuring the concentration in blood of a cleavage fragment (prothrombin
      fragment 1+2). Thrombin activity will be determined by measuring the concentration in blood
      of a second cleavage fragment (fibrinopeptide A). The results of the studies will determine
      the effect of the method of hyperglycemic management on pro-thrombotic potential. Further,
      these results will define the importance of prothrombotic potential in diabetic subjects
      while potentially identifying new therapeutic targets in patients with diabetes and other
      insulin resistant states.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  