
    
      Patients will be followed by a blinded investigator for a 7days period to record the
      development of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary complications defined by a broad composite that
      included all-cause mortality, acute myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart
      failure, new atrial or ventricular dysrhythmia requiring treatment, cerebrovascular insult,
      pneumonia, and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).

      Protocol This will be a randomized, prospective, single-center, assessor blinded study
      comparing two different anesthesia styles in 150 elderly patients undergoing primary total
      hip arthroplasty. We expect to enroll all patients in a 7 days period postoperation.

      The study will be performed according to the Declaration of Helsinki principles, and written
      informed consent will be obtained from each patient. Preoperatively baseline values will be
      obtained for the cardiovascular, mental status, respiratory measures.

      Mental status: During their preoperative visit patients will be given the neuropsychological
      tests in the Modified Mini-Mental State Examination. This extended measure of general
      cognition was developed to overcome shortcomings of the traditional Mini-Mental State
      Examination score, specifically its ceiling effects and narrow range of possible scores.

      Each patient will be interviewed by the same trained research assistant before surgery and
      during the postoperative visits.

      Postoperative Delirium and postoperative recovery will be recorded by an assessor blinded to
      the allocation.

      Patients will be randomly allocated to two groups on the day of surgery using a computer
      generated assignment. GA Group will receive general anaesthesia and PNBs group will receive
      Peripheral Nerve Blocks.

      General anaesthesia:A standardized balanced anesthetic technique was provided in GA group.
      Briefly, after standard external monitors, pulse oximeter, electrocardiogram, noninvasive
      blood pressure, were applied on subject's arrival in the operation room. Subjects had an
      intravenous line placed in the upper extremity. Anesthesia was administered with midazolam
      (0.015-0.03 mg.kg-1), fentanyl (1.8-3.5µg.kg-1), etomidate (0.2-0.3mg.kg-1) and rocuronium
      (0.4-0.6 mg.kg-1), and then suitable laryngeal mask airway (LMA) was facilitated with a
      respiratory rate of 10-12 bpm, an I:E ratio of 1:2, positive end-respiratory pressure of 5 cm
      H2O and an fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) of 0.4. Tidal volume will be adjusted to an end
      tidal carbon dioxide of 35-40 mmHg. Maintaining with remifentanil (0.15-0.30 µg.kg-1.min-1),
      target concentrations of propofol (0.6-2.0 µg.mL-1) and sevoflurane (0.8 MAC) with 100%
      oxygen. Infusion rates of propofol and remifentanil varied according to clinical judgment and
      bispectral index (BIS) range between 40 and 60. All procedures were performed by two veteran
      anaesthetists.

      Peripheral Nerve Blocks (PNBs):Patients received midazolam (0.015-0.03 mg.kg-1), fentanyl
      (1.5-2.5µg.kg-1) by infusion, in divided doses, before lumbar plexus and sciatic nerve
      blocking and supplemental 100% oxygen (3 L.min-1) was administered by facemask spontaneously
      breathing during the procedure. The procedure was performed by two anesthesiologists with
      extensive experience in nerve block. After sterile preparation and draping, PNBs were
      administered using a 21-gauge, 100-mm simplex block needle and a nerve stimulator. A
      posterior approach to lumbar plexus block was performed with patient in the lateral decubitus
      position and after a quadriceps muscle response had been identified with nerve stimulator
      settings at 2 hertz frequency and current between 0.3 and 0.5 milliampere(mA), and 0.4%
      ropivacaine (25-30 mL) was injected slowly. Sciatic nerve block was performed in the same
      position after a twitch of hamstrings, soleus, foot, or toes, had been elicited using the
      similar current, and 0.4% ropivacaine (15-20 mL) was injected slowly. Sensory and motor
      blocks on the operated limb were evaluated every 5 min after completion of the procedure
      until achievement of adequate sensory (loss of pinprick sensation on both the lumbar plexus
      and sciatic nerve distributions) and motor (inability to extend the leg with the knee
      passively flexed) blocks. Sedation during the surgery procedure was provided by propofol
      (0.3-1.5 µg.mL-1) with the aim of maintaining BIS (60-80), light sleep with easy being
      aroused.

      Every patient shows signs of inadequate anesthesia such as an increase in systolic arterial
      blood pressure>20% from baseline or a heart rate greater than 90 in the absence of
      hypovolemia, sweating, flushing or movement fentanyl, 50-100 µg, may be administered.
      Persistent hypertension without signs of inadequate anesthesia will be treated with
      nicardipine, 0.4 mg IV, every 3 min until return to baseline value. In both groups patients
      with a heart rate less than 50 bpm not correlated with blood pressure variation will receive
      atropine 0.3 mg every 3 minutes until heart rate is back to at least 50 bpm. In all patients,
      from anesthetic induction to end of surgery, a decrease in systolic blood pressure of more
      than 30% less than baseline values will be treated with ephedrine 6 mg or phenylephrine 100
      µg every 3 min until return to baseline value. Propofol will be stopped at completion of skin
      closure. Intraoperatively, each patient will also receive 2 mg of tropisetron to decrease
      postoperative nausea.

      The doses of all IV drugs and duration of anesthesia and surgery will be recorded. Ephedrine
      and phenylephrine consumption and the amount of intravascular fluid administration and all
      the intraoperative drug dose adjustments will be recorded. The esophageal temperature of the
      patients will be monitored and maintained at 36 C using a force-air warming blanket and
      warmed i.v. fluids. Postoperative Recovery of the PQRS will be measured on presurgery, 15
      minute, 40 minute, 1 day, 3day, 7day postoperatively. Postoperative Delirium will be measured
      on 1 day,2 day, 3day postoperatively.
    
  