
    
      Patients will be recruited up to 21 days prior to the day of surgery. Preoperatively: A full
      preoperative assessment will be completed. Preoperatively, patients will be instructed on the
      proper use of the verbal rating scale (VRS) for pain and nausea scores. Patients will be
      randomized by a computer-generated scheme to receive prepared infusions containing either
      dexmedetomidine (4grams per milliliter or propofol (10 milligrams per milliliter)
      intraoperatively. The study drug infusions will be prepared by study personnel who are not
      involved in the assessments. Patients, medical personnel other than the anesthesiologist, and
      outcome assessors will be blinded to treatment allocation. Only the anesthesiologist
      administering the treatment infusion and medications intraoperatively will be aware of group
      allocation.

      Intraoperatively: A standardized intraoperative anesthetic plan will be utilized by the
      anesthesia personnel.All patients will receive premedication with midazolam 2 milligrams
      intravenous bolus and ketorolac 30 milligrams via the intravenous catheter.

      Intraoperative monitoring will include standard monitoring which includes noninvasive blood
      pressure, electrocardiography, pulse oximetry, and capnography. In addition transcutaneous
      CO2 will be monitored using the Tosca monitor.(Radiometer, Basel, Austria).

      The study drug infusion will be started as either dexmedetomidine (1gram per kilogram over 10
      min as a loading dose, followed by a maintenance infusion 0.2 to 1.5 grams per kilogram or
      propofol (started at 75gram per kilogram per minute and ranging from 12.5 to 125 gram per
      kilogram per minute titrated to maintain the Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation
      Scale (OAA/SS) between 0-1. Intraoperative fluids will be restricted to 500 milliliter +
      100mililiterml of Lactated Ringer's solution. At the onset of the procedure, the
      anesthesiologist will administer 0.7gram/kilogram bolus of fentanyl intravenous, followed by
      additional 25-50gram boluses for any patient movement to surgical stimulus. All patients will
      receive ondansetron 4 milligram IV 15-20 minutes prior to the end of surgery. Patients will
      receive glycopyrrolate 0.2 mg IV if HR decreases below 50 bpm.

      Postoperatively:

      In the recovery room, VRS for pain will be assessed upon admission and at 30 minute intervals
      thereafter. Analgesics will be administered according to the severity of the pain and degree
      of alertness.Vomiting and retching episodes.will be assessed at 30 minute intervals using a
      VRS, and patients with scores greater than 4 or those who request antiemetic treatment will
      be treated with metoclopramide 10 mg IV.

      Recovery from anesthesia and return of psychomotor ability will be assessed using the
      Modified Post Anesthesia Discharge Scoring System (MPADSS). A score of 8 or greater will
      indicate discharge readiness. Discharge readiness requires that a patient be awake and alert
      with stable vital signs, able to ambulate without assistance, and free of side effects. 24
      hours after discharge.

      Times from end of surgery to oral intake and readiness for discharge, , and all adverse
      events and medications administered will be recorded. These data will be recorded by research
      staff blinded to the study group assignments. Subjects will be contacted by telephone 24
      hours after surgery to obtain post-discharge data, including a repeat QoR-40 assessment.
    
  