
    
      Enrollment and Recruitment:

      A total of 100 high-risk women will be enrolled in this pilot study. High-risk for this study
      is defined as women at significantly increased risk of breast cancer. The Investigators will
      use the American Cancer Society Guidelines for Breast Screening with MRI as adjunct to
      mammography [2]. These guidelines recommend annual screening mammography for high risk women
      including BRCA mutations, first-degree relative of BRCA carrier, lifetime risk 20-25% or
      greater, previous history of chest radiation age 10 to 30 years and other syndromes related
      to increased breast cancer risk. We also included women with a history of previous high risk
      breast lesion(s) such as atypical hyperplasia, lobular carcinoma in situ or atypical lobular
      hyperplasia and a personal history of breast cancer by clinical consensus.

      Patients who have been scheduled for the study will be contacted by research staff by phone
      to ask if they would be interested in participating in a research study. A script will be
      used to determine if patient is interested in hearing about a research study, if not the call
      will be discontinued immediately. If yes, more details will be provided to the patient to
      make a determination if they would like to participate.

      If the patient is interested, she will be asked to come into the UNC MRI Department one hour
      prior to her scheduled MRI appointment. On the day of her MRI study, the patient will meet
      with the study coordinator or other assigned listed study personnel and will consent the
      subject to this study. Research coordinator/listed study personal will go through the consent
      form with the patient and answer any questions she may have. If patient agrees to participate
      after review of consent form, the patient will sign and date, the coordinator will then sign
      and date and patient will be formally enrolled. The patient will then undergo her ordered
      clinical breast MRI followed by one diffusion weighted MRI sequence.

      Imaging Procedure: Each eligible patient, who provides consent for the study, will undergo a
      MR imaging screening questionnaire. If the patient has no contraindications, an intravenous
      line will be placed into a vein in the patient's arm and the patient will be placed prone
      with her breasts in a dedicated MRI breast coil. The patient will be given earplugs to
      decrease the noise level while in the magnet during the 45 minute total time period.
      High-resolution MRI sequences of the breasts and axillary regions will be performed before
      and after a gadolinium-DTPA bolus injection as per ordered clinical breast MRI protocol.
      Afterwards, one diffusion-weighted (DW) MRI sequence of the breast(s) will be performed. The
      DW sequence takes approximately 90 seconds.

      The clinical images will be interpreted as per clinical protocol. The clinical radiologists
      will not have DW images to interpret. Therefore, it will not influence clinical decision
      concerning therapy.

      Needle Core Biopsy/Surgery: All patients who are recommended for a needle core biopsy or open
      surgical biopsy for a breast lesion from their clinical Breast MRI will be scheduled by their
      surgeon. The radiologist performing the MRI-guided needle core biopsy or the surgeon
      performing the open surgical biopsy will be blinded to the results of the DW imaging, and
      therefore it will not influence clinical decision concerning therapy.

      Reader Study: Five readers, radiologists that are experts in breast imaging and who are
      blinded to the study results, will be given de-identified MRI and DWI MRI images from the
      patient's entry MRI (MRIe) study and 1-year follow-up MRI (MRIf) study. Study radiologist
      data sheets will be completed for each study. The reader will have to complete the data
      sheets for MRIe before he/she can read and evaluate MRIf. The readers are blinded to the
      pathologic data at all times. For each condition MRIe and MRIf, each reader will check one of
      the checkboxes of each query that presents the lesion type (mass or non-mass enhancement),
      anatomic location (upper outer, upper inner, lower outer, lower inner or subareolar), largest
      dimension in centimeter, signal intensity on T1- and T2-weighted images (high, iso- or low to
      the fibroglandular tissue), morphology such as shape (round, oval, lobulated or irregular)
      and margin(smooth, irregular or spiculated) for mass, distribution (focal, linear, ductal,
      segmental or regional) for non-mass enhancement, enhancement pattern (homogeneous,
      heterogeneous, rim enhancement, dark internal septations, enhancing internal septations or
      central enhancement for mass; homogeneous, heterogeneous, stippled/punctate, clumped or
      reticular/dendritic for non-mass enhancement) and kinetic curve patterns on contrast-enhanced
      MRI (persistent, plateau or washout), signal intensity on DWI MRI /ADC map (high, iso-, low
      to the fibroglandular tissue) and an ADC value marked through quantitative analysis on the
      DWI study. The readers will assign any lesion(s) as benign, probably benign, suspicious and
      highly suggestive of malignancy according to the imaging findings and decide the probability
      of malignancy in percentages on contrast-enhanced MRI and DWI MRI, independently for the
      entry and final MRI study. After each radiologist reader has completed the data sheets for
      each patient, the data will be entered into a secure data base for statistical analysis.
    
  