
    
      Well-functioning MoM implants have shown an increase in serum cobalt and chromium (CoCr) ion
      levels from the metal debris generated from the implant wear.However, the current evidence
      suggests that measuring ion levels is unreliable and that increasing ion levels do not
      correlate with tissue damage. In addition to measuring blood and synovial fluid metal ion
      levels, ultrasound and MRI with metal artifact reduction sequences (MARS) have been utilized
      to assess periarticular reactions secondary to metal wear debris. Despite metal reduction
      software these scans are frequently difficult to interpret. While each of these tests has
      merit, at the present time there is no single diagnostic test available which delineates the
      key issue that demands urgent surgical intervention, i.e. tissue necrosis. It is important to
      have a reliable test to guide surgeons and patients in the shared decision-making process of
      when surgical intervention is necessary to prevent disabling tissue damage. For this reason,
      the current study proposes an examination of preoperative serum samples of subjects in
      addition to synovial fluid collected during revision surgery for biomarkers that may indicate
      tissue necrosis. To maximize the chance of success of identifying serum biomarkers, all
      samples will be analyzed using multianalyte assay, biomarker tests. The purpose of the study
      is to develop a biomarker assay to be used as a diagnostic tool for adverse local tissue
      reaction, or tissue necrosis, in a metal on metal total hip replacement.

      A convenience sample of a total of 100 hip patients will be enrolled: 50 metal-on-metal
      revision hips, 25 metal-on-poly revision hips, and 25 pre-operative total hips (no implant,
      control group) will be enrolled. Preoperative blood serum samples and intraoperative synovial
      fluid will be obtained from all hips and used for biomarker testing. Additionally,
      intraoperative assessment of tissue necrosis will be assessed.
    
  