
    
      Recently, The percentage of Cesarean section (CS) deliveries has dramatically increased in
      most countries. The presence of a niche at the site of a CS scar has been observed. A niche
      is mainly a sonographic finding defined as a triangular anechoic area at site of incision. (
      Mascarello et al, 2017) Alternative terms for a niche are Cesarean scar defect (Wang et al,
      2009), deficient Cesarean scar (Ofili-Yebovi et al, 2008), diverticulum (Surapaneni et al,
      2008), pouch (Fabres el al, 2003) and isthmocele. (bogres el al, 2010) As not all women with
      previous CS develop a niche, it is a matter of interest to identify the risk factors that may
      predict their development. (Sholapurkar , 2018) Possible causes of this condition may be
      surgery or patient related. Surgery related factors as low cervical incision, incomplete
      closure of the uterus (decidual sparing) and inadequate hemostasis. Patient related factors
      may be attributed to infection. ( Vervoort et al, 2015) Cesarean scar niche may be
      asymptomatic or may cause a number of obstetrical and gynecological problems (cesarean scar
      syndrome) . ( Vervoort et al,2015b) Obstetrical complications of the niche are cesarean scar
      ectopic pregnancy, placenta previa and morbidly adherent placenta, cesarean scar dehiscence
      following incomplete abortion secondary to uterotonic drugs, Scar dehiscence and tender scar
      even scar rupture (Tanimura el al, 2015) Gynecological symptoms of the niche are
      postmenstrual spotting, Intermenstrual bleeding, Dysmenorrheal, Dysparunia and secondary
      infertility. (Tanimura el al, 2015) Various methods to detect and measure a niche have been
      described. The majority of papers have evaluated the niche with the use of transvaginal
      sonography (TVS) (Vaate et al, 2011), and contrast-enhanced sonohysterography (SHG) (Bij de
      Vaate et al, 2011), but a minority have used hysteroscopy (El-Mazny et al, 2011) or
      hysterosalpingography. (Surapaneni and Silberzweig, 2008 ) At present there is no consensus
      regarding the gold standard for the detection and measurement of a niche. (Vaate et al, 2014)
      Symptomatic cesarean scar niche (cesarean scar syndrome) can be managed conservatively using
      combined oral contraceptive pills especially in women not seeking fertility, or it can be
      treated using minimal invasive surgery as hysteroscopic resection (vervoot et al,2017) ,
      laparoscopic repair (ma et al,2017) or vaginal repair (Yao, 2014) In this study we will
      evaluate laparoscopic management of cesarean scar niche
    
  