
    
      Anxiety disorders are among the most common psychiatric disorders in children and typically
      produce significant disruption in family, social, and academic functioning (Merikangas &
      Avenevoli, 2002). Fortunately, treatments for childhood anxiety have been manualized and
      found to be efficacious (Walkup, et al., 2008). These treatments most often incorporate
      aspects of cognitive-restructuring, relaxation training, and exposure to anxiety-producing
      stimuli. Unfortunately, many practitioners opt to utilize mainly cognitive and relaxation
      techniques at the expense of exposure techniques (Freiheit, Vye, Swan, & Cady, 2004).
      However, it remains unclear which of these components is most effective in reducing anxiety
      symptoms or the extent to which they act in concert; thus, the relative effectiveness of
      treatment for childhood anxiety when leaving-out a treatment component is unknown. The
      current study aims to compare the relative effectiveness of exposure therapy for childhood
      anxiety to cognitive restructuring and relaxation techniques. Sixty children and adolescents
      seeking treatment for anxiety in an outpatient pediatric anxiety clinic will be randomized to
      receive either six sessions of parent assisted exposure therapy or six sessions of individual
      cognitive restructuring and relaxation training. Comprehensive assessments will be completed
      by trained clinicians at pre-treatment and again at post-treatment to measure reductions in
      anxiety and related symptoms as well as improvements in daily functioning. We anticipate that
      children treated with exposure therapy will demonstrate significantly greater improvement
      over the six sessions than children treated with cognitive-restructuring and relaxation
      training, and will require fewer additional treatment sessions. Support of this hypthothesis
      would clarify the active ingredients in manualized treatment for childhood anxiety disorders
      and would potentially lead to quicker, more efficient treatment.
    
  