
    
      In 2018, 5.5 million older adults in the United States were diagnosed with Alzheimer's
      disease, and it is predicted that 15 million people will be diagnosed with dementia,
      including Alzheimer's disease by 2060. Older African Americans adults are more likely to be
      diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease as compared to Whites. Research search studies on high
      blood pressure show that African Americans have higher levels of the hormone aldosterone that
      can be involved with regulation of blood pressure and blood vessels. Research studies also
      show that changes in blood vessels in the brain from higher aldosterone levels are related to
      changes in thinking skills and memory (cognition). Spironolactone is a drug that blocks
      aldosterone and has been used to treat high blood pressure for 60 years. More recently, this
      drug has shown to have the potential to decrease declines in thinking skills and memory.

      Spironolactone is widely used in clinical practice and is well-tolerated by younger and older
      persons. As such, this study is designed to learn how a small group of older African American
      adults with mild cognitive impairment will tolerate the drug. Persons who are eligible for
      the study and agree to participate will receive spironolactone or a placebo and be monitored
      for drug side effects for one year.

      During the study, the researchers will monitor changes in thinking and memory and blood
      vessel stiffness, in addition to side effects that may be related to the drug. Study tests
      include questionnaires that evaluate thinking skills and memory, and an ultrasound that
      measures the stiffness of blood vessels in the neck which deliver blood to the brain. The
      thinking and memory tests and ultrasound will be performed at the beginning of the study,
      then repeated at the end of the study.

      The results of this study can justify a larger size study of spironolactone in older African
      Americans with mild cognitive impairment. The study has the potential to identify a new use
      for a well-known drug that is safe and widely used in current clinical practice. Further, the
      results from this study can address a racial difference in Alzheimer's disease and preserve
      the health of the brain as people age.
    
  