
    
      Recruitment and inclusion:

      Patients will be recruited from the consultation of the service of periodontology at
      Rothschild hospital, Paris, France. All eligible willing participant is included between 2 to
      8 weeks before intervention. At that time, data are collected, including periodontal
      parameters and standardized photographs.

      Randomization:

      It is performed right before intervention by the operator via CleanWEB. Surgical protocol
      Both test and control groups will be treated with the same flap design. Patient will receive
      local anaesthesia at the recession and donor site (articaine hydrochloride 7200 mg/1.8 ml,
      adrenalin 1800 mcg/1.8 ml).

      Envelope technique:

      By means of a blade (Bard-Parker 15C; Beckton Dickinson) incision stars in the sulcus of the
      treated teeth, as tissue thickness permits, sharp dissection is used to form a
      partial-thickness supraperiosteal envelope extending 3 fo 5 mm internally and apically to
      areas of recession, undermining intermediate papillae. The supra-periosteal dissection will
      extend well into the mucosal tissues in order to gain flap mobility. The adjacent papillary
      tissues will be carefully detached by a full-thickness preparation in their buccal aspect,
      thus to allow for a coronal displacement of the mobilized buccal soft tissue complex.

      In accord with the randomization process, one of the following techniques could be employed.

      The donor area in the palate anesthetized by block anesthesia of the grater palatine and
      nasopalatine nerves with a local anesthetic agent containing epinephrine.

      Palate : Single-incision technique In this technique, only a single incision parallel 2mm
      from the gingival margin is use to access to the donor site for graft harvesting. The angle
      of the blade is 90 degrees to the bone. After the first incision the blade is angle to
      approximately 135 degrees, and an undermining preparation toward the median is started within
      the first incision. With each new movement of the scalpel along the incision line, the angle
      is further flattened until the blade reaches a nearly parallel position to the bone surface.
      No vertical incisions are to be made, the goal of this procedure is to create a
      partial-thickness mucosal flap with a uniform thickness of 1 to 1.5 mm depending in the needs
      for the recipient site. The underlying CTG is separated from the surrounding connective
      tissue by making incisions to bone on the mesial, distal sides of the graft. The graft can
      then be removed by detaching it from the bony surface with a periosteal elevator. Suture of
      the donor site: crossed and parallel horizontal suspension sutures secure the incision and
      the donor site.

      Tuberosity : Distal wedge technique The procedure starts with two converging incisions
      perpendicular to the tissue surface and 1.0-1.5 mm deep as far distal to the last molar as
      possible while remaining within the masticatory mucosa. Then, an undermining
      partial-thickness incision buccal and palatal up to the mesial surface of the last molar is
      made. The scalpel is guided successively parallel to the buccal or palatal soft tissue
      surfaces to yield a partial-thickness flap of uniform thickness throughout. After a
      supraperiosteal incision is made the wedge-shaped graft is removed from he donor site by
      sharp dissection. The covering epithelium on the upper part of the graft is consequently
      removed extraorally. The donor site is closed with an external horizontal mattress suture
      anchored to the periosteum. Additional single interrupted sutures can be used to completely
      close the wound.

      Graft considerations Care should be taken to avoid graft dehydration from the moment when the
      graft is taken until the wound from the donor site is closed, so it should be store in a
      gauze soaked in physiologic saline until further use.

      Extra oral modifications in SCTGs is often necessary, a fresh scalpel blade could be used to
      cut the graft to the desired size and shape and to thin the SCTG as needed, also fat and
      glandular tissue remnants detected on the graft should be removed.

      Graft positioning and suturing The connective tissue graft is place in the created envelope,
      small parts of the CTG could be left uncovered when necessary to achieve a harmonious line of
      the gingival margin.

      Prior to suturing, the contact points of the affected teeth need to be temporarily splinted
      with a flowable, light-curing resin material.

      Suturing material is a non resorbable suture (Prolène 5.0: Ethicon - Cornelia, Georgia, USA).

      Starting at the buccal aspect, the needle is guided through the buccal soft tissue complex
      approximately 5 mm apical to the tip of the papilla. so the needle will reappear in the base
      of the palatal papilla area. Consecutively, the needle will be wrapped around the splinted
      contact region and slid underneath the contact point to re-appear at the palatal side again
      without pinching any soft tissue. The same procedure is repeated once again, now starting
      from the palatal aspect.

      Thereon the needle will be led over and placed underneath the contact point to re-appear at
      the buccal aspect again without pinching any soft tissue

      Post-surgical protocol Patients have to avoid mechanical trauma or tooth brushing in the
      surgical sites for two weeks. Chlorhexidine rises are prescribed three times per day for two
      weeks. Two weeks after the surgery patients are instructed to mechanical tooth cleaning with
      a soft brush.

      Following this, regular tooth brushing habits are resumed and chlorhexidine rinses
      discontinued.

      Standardized photograph are also performed.

      Follow up visit Supportive care are provided at 6 and 12 months. Data including periodontal
      parameters and standardized photographs are collected at the 6 months visit and at the12
      months visit by an investigator different from the operator.

      This is the last visit of the study. Further supportive care are normally provided at the
      hospital.
    
  