
    
      Background

        -  Psychological distress is a common concern for patient across the cancer trajectory,
           which has been associated with worse clinical outcomes in terms of quality of life,
           adherence to treatment regimens, satisfaction with care, and poorer survival in past
           research.

        -  Virtual reality (VR) has the potential to alleviate some of the negative aspects of
           illness by allowing individuals to escape from their lives and experience more positive
           thoughts and emotions, which can be accomplished using cardiac coherence breathing
           techniques and distraction (both of which can improve psychological symptoms).

        -  Past VR research has shown promising improvements in anxiety, pain, distress and
           distraction through use of immersive VR interventions, though there is scant evidence in
           PBT populations, particularly in the time period surrounding their neuroimaging and
           clinical appointments when distress and anxiety can be highest.

        -  Recent evidence has demonstrated that the COVID-19 pandemic and associated mitigation
           procedures introduce additional stress for cancer patients, with higher levels of
           anxiety, depression, loneliness, and financial toxicity being reported during this time.

        -  The purpose of this phase II clinical trial is to determine the feasibility of
           implementing an immersive VR relaxation intervention in a PBT population and to assess
           the efficacy of the intervention to improve psychological distress and anxiety at the
           time of clinical evaluation. VR is an innovative delivery approach to teach our patients
           validated breathing and mindfulness techniques that can improve their psychological
           symptoms and their ability to self-manage these symptoms.

      Objectives

      -To assess the feasibility of implementing a VR relaxation intervention in a PBT population
      at the time of clinical evaluation (i.e. eligibility, accrual, compliance, adverse device
      effects, study completion, and participant satisfaction)

      Eligibility

        -  PBT patients enrolled on the Natural History Study (NHS) trial in the Neuro-Oncology
           Branch (NOB) (all tumor types and grades eligible)

        -  Patients can be newly diagnosed, receiving active treatment, or on surveillance

        -  Adults (greater than or equal to 18 years of age) who are English-speaking and able to
           self-report symptoms

        -  Active corticosteroid therapy is permissible

        -  Exclude patients without tissue diagnosis, recent cranial surgery (less than or equal to
           2 weeks), scalp wound healing issues, or seizures within the last 6 weeks

        -  Exclude patients who have a hypersensitivity to motion, severe nausea, or visual field
           deficits that might interfere with VR experience

        -  Exclude patients with a current diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD),
           post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), claustrophobia, or panic disorder

      Design

        -  This is a phase II feasibility clinical trial with a single arm experimental design. The
           VR intervention and all patient-reported outcome measures (PROs) will be done remotely
           using telehealth.

        -  Study will include collection of self-reported PROs for distress, anxiety, mood
           disturbance, symptom burden/interference, quality of life, cognitive function,
           loneliness, and financial toxicity, as well as optional salivary stress biomarkers.
           These measures will be collected at baseline and immediately after a brief VR relaxation
           intervention to determine acute effects on distress, anxiety, and biological stress
           measures. Repeat post-intervention assessments will be done approximately 1 week and 1
           month following the initial intervention to determine sub-acute effects on distress and
           anxiety, as well as impact on other symptoms and stress biomarkers. A semi-structured
           qualitative interview will also be conducted 1 week after the initial intervention to
           assess participant satisfaction with the intervention and how the pandemic has affected
           their psychological symptoms.

        -  Descriptive statistics, T-tests, Wilcoxon rank sum tests, and multiple logistic
           regression models will be used to evaluate the feasibility of the VR intervention.
           Linear mixed models and effect size calculations will be used to evaluate the acute and
           sub-acute effects of the VR intervention on self- reported PROs. Pearson or Spearman
           correlations will be used to evaluate the relationship between the biological stress
           measures and self-reported PROs.

        -  A total of 120 PBT patients will participate in this study.
    
  