
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the 12 month event free survival (EFS) rate following discontinuation of
      anti-PD-1 therapy in patients with disease control and negative fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-
      positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan or biopsy for residual
      disease after 12 months of anti-PD-1 therapy (Arm A).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine rates of pathologic response in patients with tumor biopsies where positive
      hypermetabolic activity was present on FDG-PET/CT scan after 12 months of anti-PD-1 therapy
      (Arm B).

      II. To determine the overall 24 month EFS. III. To determine overall survival from start of
      anti-PD-1 therapy. IV. To determine percentage for patients who remain on treatment beyond 12
      months because of positive FDG-PET/CT scan and positive biopsy for residual disease (or
      unable to obtain a biopsy).

      V. To determine incidence rates of treatment-related adverse events beyond 12 months from
      start of treatment in patients who discontinue anti-PD-1 therapy at 12 months and in patients
      who continue anti-PD-1 therapy beyond 12 months (Arm A versus [vs.] Arm B).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess agreement in determining FDG-PET/CT positivity between the local site read and
      central review.

      II. To determine if metabolic response on serial FDG-PET/CT from pre-therapy to 12 months of
      anti-PD-1 therapy, as determined centrally by various criteria, is associated with EFS.

      III. To determine if metabolic response on serial FDG-PET/CT from 12 to 24 months after start
      of anti-PD-1 therapy, as determined centrally by various criteria, is associated with EFS.

      BIOMARKER OBJECTIVE:

      I. To bank tumor samples and peripheral blood for future biomarker studies.

      OUTLINE: Patients continue their standard of care anti-PD-1 therapy and are then assigned to
      1 of 2 arms.

      STANDARD OF CARE: Treatment may consist of the following regimens: 1) nivolumab intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes every 2 weeks (Q2W) or every 4 weeks (Q4W); 2) pembrolizumab IV over 30
      minutes every 3 weeks (Q3W) or every 6 weeks (Q6W); 3) nivolumab IV over 30 minutes and
      ipilimumab IV Q3W for 4 doses followed by nivolumab IV over 30 minutes Q2W or Q4W; or 4)
      pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes and ipilimumab IV Q3W for 4 doses followed by pembrolizumab
      IV over 30 minutes Q3W or Q6W. Treatment continues until 52 weeks from start of standard of
      care anti-PD-1 therapy in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM A: Patients with a negative FDG-PET/CT scan or a positive FDG-PET/CT scan but with a
      negative biopsy for viable tumor discontinue the anti-PD-1 therapy and undergo active
      surveillance.

      ARM B: Patients with a positive FDG-PET/CT scan and positive biopsy for viable tumor or a
      positive FDG-PET/CT scan and biopsy not performed continue their standard of care anti-PD-1
      therapy for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up through week 97 and then every
      3 months for up to 5 years.
    
  