
    
      The primary goals of this pilot research project are a) to design and develop the a mixed
      reality based system for managing phantom pain and b) to evaluate the feasibility and
      preliminary functional outcomes of this system in a sample of patients with lower limb
      amputation. Findings from this pilot study will serve as preliminary data to inform regarding
      a fully powered clinical trial to determine the effectiveness and practical implementation of
      these findings in real-world settings.

      Aim1: Design and develop a feasible mixed reality based system to manage phantom pain in
      patients with lower limb amputation qualifying for on-going mirror therapy.

      Hypothesis 1: The investigators hypothesize that the mixed reality based system to manage
      phantom pain will be feasible and well received by a sample of patients with lower limb
      amputation needing mirror therapy.

      Aim2: Evaluate functional outcomes in a sample of lower limb amputees (n=10), using this
      mixed reality based system to manage phantom pain.

      Hypothesis 2: Using this system, the investigators hypothesize that patients who participate
      in the mixed reality based system will show improvements in patient-reported outcome measures
      (PROs). The investigators also hypothesize that this mixed reality based system will help to
      alleviate the phantom pain based on Pain questionnaires and visual analog scale (VAS).

      Patients 18 years of age and over with history of lower limb amputation and complaint of
      phantom limb pain. Phantom limb pain is a condition experienced commonly by patients with
      major limb amputations.

      Men and women, over the age of 18 with lower limb amputations (greater than 3 months post
      surgery) with phantom limb pain.

      -Exclusion criteria: ---

        -  Patients with lower limb amputations with open wounds or active infection in residual or
           contralateral limbs

        -  Patients with history of seizures.

        -  Patients with visual (self-reported) or cognitive impairment (assessed by the
           mini-mental state examination) that interferes with ability to interact with,
           participate in, and adhere to a computerized rehabilitation system.

        -  Any patient with a cardiac event in the last 6 months.

        -  Any patient with an active medical issue to minimize risk of exacerbating their
           condition.

        -  Lives more than 60 miles away from the Dallas VA Medical Center

        -  Any patient with the motion sickness induced by head mounted displays (HMDs) or
           immersive environment.

        -  Any patient experiencing the motion sickness induced by HMDs during the therapy session
           can also opt out of the study.

      In this exploratory, pilot study, a convenience sample of 10 patients will be recruited. A
      sample of 10 subjects is adequate and consistent with other pilot behavioral intervention
      trials at the VA that have been completed and published.

      This is a pilot study is intended to yield preliminary data that will inform a fully powered
      trial to determine effectiveness of the novel Mixed Reality based system to manage phantom
      pain.A HIPAA waiver will be obtained to screen patients with lower limb amputation in the
      outpatient PM&R clinics. Eligible study candidates will be identified either during an
      initial visit as an outpatient during clinic visit with the physiatrist. or review of prior
      visit with physiatrist. The eligible, pre-screened subjects will undergo a basic evaluation
      (by rehabilitation physician ). After the evaluation, the patient will be asked to
      participate in the study or sent invitation letter. Once the eligible patient consents to
      enroll in the study with specific emphasis on safely performing the exercises independently
      at home. The research team will provide the laptop, camera and instruct the patient in its
      use at their home. The patient will then use the system and perform the personalized home
      exercises every day for a 1 month period (to evaluate sustainability of exercise behavior).
      At the end of this period, the system will be returned. At initial clinic visit, visit at
      week 1 and 1 month visit, the patient will fill out pain questionnaires, functional
      questionnaire without any identifiable PHI. The images of the patients performing the
      exercises will be stored in the encrypted laptop and analyzed at UTD. Also, that the videos
      at UTD will be destroyed after 5 years, but a copy will be kept at the Dallas VA.

      A HIPAA waiver will be obtained to screen patients with lower limb amputation in the
      outpatient clinics. Eligible study candidates will be identified based on visit as an
      outpatient, following hospital discharge, the eligible, pre-screened subjects will undergo a
      basic evaluation (by rehabilitation physician). After the evaluation, the patient will be
      asked to participate in the study in person or by invitation letter. Once the eligible
      patient consents to enroll in the study with specific emphasis on safely performing the
      exercises independently at home. The research team will provide the laptop, camera and
      instruct the patient in its use at their home. The patient will then use the system and
      perform the personalized home exercises every day for a 1 month period (to evaluate
      sustainability of exercise behavior). At the end of this period, the system will be returned
      by the patient at the final study visit or can be retrieved at subject's home at subjects
      request if unable to bring to final visit by research assistant. Setting of the Study: The
      subject will be participating in a therapy session of 15 minutes per day for a duration of 4
      weeks. Before starting a session, the subject will be provided with oral instructions about
      the overall system and the purpose of study. They will be asked to fill out a questionnaire
      asking the status of phantom pain, phantom limb movement, stress level etc. After completing
      the questionnaire, they will be allowed to move in virtual world to get acquainted. Each
      session consists of three sub-sections where the subject is asked to play three different
      virtual games. These virtual games are designed specifically for lower limb amputees. Each
      game is targeting certain types of muscle movement. We focused mainly on three types of
      movements: 1) knee flexion and extension, 2) ankle dorsiflexion and planar flexion, and 3)
      tandem coordinated bilateral lower extremity movement. Each game will be played only for 5
      minutes. After completing each sub-session, the subject is asked to fill out similar
      questionnaire to record the effect.

      System Overview: The system consists of one Microsoft Kinect camera, Oculus Rift and a
      computer system with sufficient processing power. Microsoft Kinect is used to scan the person
      and to create corresponding 3D model. As shown in Figure 3, the 3D model for the phantom limb
      is obtained by mirroring the 3D model of the intact limb. So, the subject will be able to
      perceive both the limb in the virtual world. The system provides a mixed reality based
      implementation of mirror therapy for managing phantom pain.

      Major features of this system include:

      Unconstrained movement: As patient will be performing exercise in virtual environment, the
      movement is not restricted by limited space as in case of traditional mirror box therapy
      where user can only move in the limits of box dimension, Realistic illusion of phantom limb:
      As the Mr.MAPP framework is using RGB-D camera to capture the movement of patients intact
      limb and mirror it to create the illusion of the phantom limb, the illusion obtained is very
      realistic instead of using pre-built 3D model of a limb (See Figure 4), Patient
      Encouragement: Use of an immersive gaming environment motivates and keeps the patient
      engaging while performing exercise. With the help of virtual reality, various engaging game
      can be developed that helps to remove monotonousness in therapy sessions.

      Feedback with positive Reinforcement: As each game is designed to encourage a patient to
      perform certain type of exercise, the points earned in the game motivates the patient to
      perform better, Adherence and compliance monitoring: by recording and annotating the therapy
      sessions, the coaching software will monitor parameters such as number of repetitions, dates
      and times of exercises, as well as correctness of performing the exercises. This will serve
      as a real-time diary which is considered more reliable than self-report diaries that rely on
      patient recall of activity,Functional Outcome Measures: a) Visual Analog Scale for pain
      measurement (VAS) and b) McGill Pain questionnaire, c) Additional questions that composite of
      the Mobility, Activities of Daily Living/Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, and Social
      Participation.

      At the end of the study, the patient will have the option to leave feedback and suggestions
      for future use of this system.

      Descriptive methods will be used to characterize the sample population. Pre-post t-tests or
      equivalent will be used to compare outcomes at one week and 1 month. Given the pilot nature
      of this proposed study, inferential statistics (and reporting of statistical significance)
      will not be used. Feasibility outcomes will be descriptive, including calculating the percent
      of individuals enrolled in the study versus those eligible and the percent of individuals who
      remain in the study at month 1. Aims 1 and 2 will help establish intervention acceptability
      and feasibility. The images of the patients will be stored in the encrypted laptop and
      analyzed at UTD. Also, that the videos at UTD will be destroyed after 5 years, but a copy
      will be kept at the Dallas VA .

      Using weekly telephone support and online ad-hoc support features of the proposed system,
      adverse event data will be obtained and further intervention will be initiated as needed for
      any safety issues that may arise during this pilot study.
    
  