
    
      There is no doubt that radical colorectal surgery improves the oncological outcomes of
      patients with cancer. However, the literature has clearly documented that social, physical,
      sexual, and psychological aspects of life, as well as religious worship, are severely
      impaired after this treatment. A significant portion of patients suffer from alterations in
      their quality of life (QoL), particularly after surgery on distal rectal tumors. Patients who
      require a stoma or who have low anterior resection syndrome may face difficulty adapting to
      their new anatomy, managing the stoma, defecating, and continuing normal activities in their
      sociocultural environment. Patients pay an immense price following both sphincter-saving and
      sphincter-sacrificing surgery. Moreover, these psychological and social difficulties, as well
      as sexual dysfunction, may affect patients' relationships with their spouses, who are
      generally the primary informal caregivers for patients with cancer. In addition to caring for
      their sick partners, the spouses also have to deal with their own anxiety, fatigue, and
      depression.The aim of the present prospective, comparative study was to compare the quality
      of life (QoL) of patients after colorectal surgery to the QoL of their spouses.

      Groups

      Patients and their spouses were grouped by the type of surgery they received:

      abdominoperineal resection (APR), sphincter-saving resection with an anastomosis within 6 cm
      of the anal verge on rigid sigmoidoscopy (LAR), or anterior resection with anastomosis at or
      above 7 cm, including sigmoid colectomy (AR).

      The study included patients who underwent curative surgery for colorectal carcinoma (n = 100;
      abdominoperineal excision [n = 33], low anterior resection [n = 33], left hemicolectomy [n =
      34]) and their spouses (n = 100). The patients and spouses completed the Medical Outcome
      Study 36-item Short Form Survey (SF-36) and the World Health Organization Disability
      Assessment Schedule II (WHODAS-II) preoperatively and at postoperative months 15 to 18.

      Counseling Surgical details, possible complications, and temporary or permanent stoma
      formation were explained preoperatively by the surgeon, and ostomy education was given by the
      stomatherapist. Religious education and counseling were also performed. Patients had direct
      access to doctors, the stomatherapist, appliance suppliers, and a religious leader (Imam) at
      the hospital during the study period.

      Interviews Patients and spouses were interviewed at the Department of Surgery of Ibni Sina
      Hospital.

      The coauthors of the study were trained to administer the questionnaires in a standard
      fashion and practiced by using the questionnaires on healthy volunteers before the study
      began.

      Patients and spouses were interviewed in a private room by a person of the same gender. The
      same interviewer was used in the preoperative and postoperative period for each patient and
      spouse, but the interviewer was not blinded to the type of surgery that the patient had
      undergone. Patients were first asked to complete a demographic questionnaire designed to
      determine their age, gender, marital status, educational level, income level, and
      preoperative employment. The SF-36, WHODAS-II, and Ankara University Life Standards
      Questionnaire were administered together and consisted of a total of 92 items, which took
      approximately 35 to 45 minutes to complete. Both patients and spouses completed the SF-36,
      WHODAS-II, and Ankara University Life Standards Questionnaire preoperatively and at
      postoperative months 15 to 18.
    
  