
    
      Depression is a debilitating condition which is characterized by changes in mood,
      self-attitude, cognitive functioning, sleep, appetite, and energy levels. Depression causes a
      decrease in quality of life that leads to impairment in occupational and social functioning.
      In 2010, it was estimated that mental and substance use disorders were the leading cause of
      years lived with disability worldwide, with Depressive disorders in particular accounting for
      40·5% of disability-adjusted life-years caused by mental and substance use disorders.
      Depression is thus a major contributor to the overall global burden of disease and it is
      projected by the World Health Organization, that by 2030, Major Depressive Disorder (MDD)
      will be the leading cause of disability worldwide.

      In 2012, over 3.2 million Canadians over 15 (11.3%) years reported symptoms of major
      depression and a higher health and service utilization amongst patients with depression have
      been reported compared to other patients. Psycho-social interventions and pharmacotherapy is
      the preferred first-line treatment for severe mental health problems including major
      depression. Psychotherapies, such as cognitive behavior therapy, interpersonal psychotherapy,
      problem-solving and behavioral activation are common and effective forms of treatment for
      depression. However, access to these psychotherapies are often limited by human resource
      capacity constraints and most people with depressive disorders do not receive treatment.
      Psychosocial services are also mostly found in cities and towns, with reduced access for
      rural inhabitants. Even in cities and towns these services are mostly only available during
      the working days and day time business hours, with caregivers often dealing with double the
      recommended number of clients, further restricting appointment availability. Long wait times
      to access counselling services and the stigma associated with seeking mental health
      counselling also compound the problem. In the 2012 Canadian Community Health Survey on Mental
      Health, barriers such as lack of readily available care system, stigma and affordability of
      health care services, were reported by 2.3 million Canadians who expressed they had unmet or
      partially met mental health care needs. It is clear, that traditional ways of providing
      mental healthcare alone will not be able to meet the demands for services given that the
      prevalence of depression is so high and not likely to decrease any time soon. There is,
      therefore, the need to develop innovative psychological interventions which are not human
      resource intensive, are easily accessible, cost-effective, are geographic location
      independent, scalable, and can be offered to thousands of people simultaneously.

      Digital technologies for the provision of health care interventions have advanced
      significantly in the last decade and further development of this field looks very promising.
      The new technologies may enhance access to mental healthcare and contribute to closing the
      treatment gap that has existed over the years. Current evidence supports the efficacy and
      cost-effectiveness of tele mental health, especially in the context of treating depressive
      disorders. Useful communication methods for the delivery of mental health services includes
      smartphone apps, text messages and e-mails.

      Supportive text messages have become an appropriate and acceptable means of delivering
      psychological care to patients with mental health issues. It is estimated that 99% of
      received mobile text messages are opened, and 90% of all text messages are read within three
      minutes of reception and present an opportunity to aid in the closure of the psychological
      treatment gap for patients with depression. In three randomized controlled trials conducted
      in Ireland and Canada, patients with MDD who received twice-daily supportive text messages
      had significantly greater reductions in their depression symptom scores compared to patients
      who received the usual treatment. In the first of two studies conducted in Ireland, after
      three months, the mean difference in change Becks Depression Inventory (BID)-II scores
      between the intervention and the control group was -7.9 (95% CI -13.06 to -2.76,
      Cohen'sd=0.85) in favor of the intervention group. Similar results were reported in another
      Irish study with larger sample size and in a Canadian study, a significant difference was
      found in the 3 months mean BDI scores between the intervention and control groups: (20.8 (SD
      = 11.7) vs. 24.9 (SD = 11.5), respectively, F (1, 60) = 4.83, p = 0.03, ηp2 = 0.07) with an
      effect size (Cohen's d) of 0.67. literature review of studies conducted on the effectiveness
      of text messaging as an adjunct therapy for mothers with postpartum depression living in
      low-income countries also reported a positive outcome and the mothers noted that they would
      love to receive psychological care via the text messaging. Several studies have also reported
      high user satisfaction of the supportive text message intervention and in one of these
      studies, 83% of subscribers to the Text4Mood program reported that the daily messages
      contributed to improving their overall mental wellbeing.

      Anecdotally, some people have not been able to subscribe to supportive text messaging
      programs such as Text4Hope and Text4Mood because they do not have active cell phone numbers,
      with several individuals for whom these programs have been recommended in Addiction and
      Mental Health clinics in Edmonton enquiring if the messages could be sent to them via email.
      In the participants' satisfaction survey for the Text4Hope program, majority of respondents
      (64%), even though they had access to cell phones, were in favor of Email messaging for as
      part of their health care interventions during crisis periods.

      In this technological period where faster, accessible and efficient communication medium is
      of outmost importance, e-mail has emerged and professionals have continued to used e-mail as
      a medium of communication, including communication between physicians with patients. The
      uniqueness of E-mail can be linked to its special characteristics, such as asynchronous
      communication and rapid message delivery. Electronic-therapy has been rapidly expanding in
      the last decades, with evidence suggesting that the provision of mental health services over
      the internet is both clinically efficacious and cost-effective even though its effects remain
      underutilized by the medical fraternity as a viable medium of communication. Given this
      introduction, the goal of this study is to evaluate the feasibility, comparative
      effectiveness and user satisfaction with daily supportive e-mail messaging as an intervention
      to treat patients with MDD when compared to daily supportive text messaging.

      Our specific objectives include:

        1. To compare the mean the difference/change in Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ)-9 scores
           from baseline at 6, 12 and 24 weeks for patients with MDD receiving standard care plus
           daily supportive Email messages to those receiving standard care plus daily supportive
           text messages.

        2. To compare the mean the difference/change in the WHO (Five) Well-Being Index (WHO-5)
           scores from baseline at 6, 12 and 24 week for patients with MDD receiving standard care
           plus daily supportive Email messages to those receiving standard care plus daily
           supportive text messages.

        3. To compare the mean the difference/change in the Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD)-7
           scale scores from baseline at 6, 12 and 24 week for patients with MDD receiving standard
           care plus daily supportive Email messages to those receiving standard care plus daily
           supportive text messages.

        4. To compare the dropout and satisfaction rates between patients in the two treatment
           arms.

        5. To explore the perspectives of beneficiaries and opt-out patients on their perceptions
           about the interventions

      Intervention:

      A research coordinator will assist participants who have provided written informed consent to
      enrol on either the email messaging or text messaging program by inputting their email
      address or phone numbers into online email messaging or text messaging applications which
      would be used to deliver the daily messages. Starting a day after enrollments, participants
      will receive either daily supportive text messages or daily supportive email messages. Both
      the email and text messages have the same content and have been crafted by mental health
      therapists, clinical psychologists, psychiatrists and mental health service users based on
      Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT) principles. Each message would be scheduled to be delivered
      to participants cell phone or email address at 10 AM MT and each participant would receive
      the messages for 6 months.
    
  