
    
      Objectives: 1. The primary objective of the Evaluation of Varenicline (Champix™) in SmokIng
      Cessation for PaTients Post-Acute Coronary Syndrome (EVITA) Trial is to evaluate the impact
      of varenicline on smoking cessation rates at 24 weeks following an enzyme-positive acute
      coronary syndrome (ACS).

      2. The secondary objectives are to examine the efficacy of varenicline on smoking cessation
      rates and daily cigarette reduction at 52 weeks, and to determine the safety of varenicline
      in patients following an ACS.

      Rationale: Patients who continue smoking after an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) have a 35%
      increased risk of reinfarction or death compared with those who quit. Many patients attempt
      to stop smoking after an ACS, but relapse rates approach 66%. A variety of smoking cessation
      aids have been shown to be effective for the general population. However, physicians are
      reluctant to use a nicotine-based therapy because of its hemodynamic effects. Varenicline has
      been recently shown to improve abstinence rates in healthy young smokers compared to
      bupropion (Zyban™) and placebo. Although varenicline has successfully been shown to reduce
      smoking rates in healthy young populations, its efficacy in the setting of patients
      recovering from an ACS is unknown.

      Methods: The EVITA Trial will directly compare the efficacy of varenicline versus placebo as
      a means of reducing smoking rates in patients following an ACS. The trial will be a
      multi-center effort, coordinated from the Jewish General Hospital/McGill University
      (Montreal, Quebec). A total of 300 patients will be randomized following an ACS but before
      hospital discharge. While in-hospital, patients will quit smoking and they will be instructed
      to not restart smoking following discharged. Half the patients will receive varenicline for
      12 weeks and the other half will receive placebo pills for 12 weeks. Patients receiving
      varenicline will be given 1.0 mg twice a day during the 12-week treatment period. Study
      nurses will perform telephone follow-ups with the patients at weeks 1, 2 and 8, and patients
      will return for clinic visits at weeks 4, 12, 24, and 52. Smoking abstinence will be assessed
      at follow-up clinic visits.

      The primary endpoint will be smoking abstinence at 24 weeks. Smoking abstinence will be
      defined as complete abstinence in the week prior to the clinic visits and levels of exhaled
      carbon monoxide ≤ 10 ppm. The secondary endpoints (smoking abstinence at 52 weeks, side
      effects of varenicline in patients following an ACS, percent of patients attaining a ≥ 50%
      reduction in daily consumption of cigarettes at 52 weeks, and clinical events following
      initiation of treatment) will be measured at 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, and 52 weeks. The occurrence
      of clinical events will be based on the observed frequency of composite events including
      death, myocardial infarction, and hospitalization for unstable angina. Withdrawal symptoms
      and number of cigarettes smoked will also be assessed by the use of questionnaires. The EVITA
      trial will require 36 months for completion: 3 months for preparation, 18 months for patient
      enrollment, 12 months for follow-up, and 3 months for data analysis and manuscript
      preparation.

      Significance: The EVITA trial will be the first to examine the efficacy of varenicline in a
      group of patients who have suffered an ACS. These patients, if they continue to smoke, are at
      exceptionally high risk for recurrent cardiac events. If varenicline is effective in this
      population, it will have a major impact on secondary prevention of recurrent clinical events
      in patients who suffer an ACS.
    
  