
    
      Women in the postmenopausal period suffer hormonal changes that contribute to a number of
      negative factors to health, such as reduced bone mineral density and loss of muscle mass,
      which contribute to the increased incidence of falls and consequent risk of fractures. Among
      the possibilities to alleviate these symptoms are mainly drug treatment and the systematic
      and regular physical exercise. However, drug treatment primarily involves hormone replacement
      therapy, which is associated with increased risk of heart disease, stroke and breast cancer.
      Thus, exercise stands out for not offering adverse effects, however, when it comes to bone
      metabolism, it is not yet clear what type of exercise is the most effective for women in the
      postmenopausal period.

      One form of physical exercise that has recently been investigated is the whole-body vibration
      (WBV), characterized by individual placement on a vibrating plate capable of transmitting
      vertical acceleration for the musculoskeletal system, however, the intensity (frequency and
      magnitude) ideal to allow increased bone metabolism has not been established and remain
      controversial.

      Other forms of exercise have been recommended for postmenopausal women, such as those of
      muscular endurance. Exercises involving strength training, using weight can contribute to the
      improvement of bone mineral density of women in the postmenopausal period. Another form of
      exercise that also offers endurance is the Pilates method. However, the effects of this
      technique on bone mineral density, has not been investigated, despite having shown potential
      contribution on the variables pain, functional capacity and quality of life in postmenopausal
      women.

      This study is justified because there are still shortages of literature and evidence about
      the benefits of vibration training; and also Pilates, on bone mineral density in
      postmenopausal women. There are also still little information about how much vibration
      training can influence muscle strength, flexibility, postural balance, fear of falling and
      the population's quality of life in question.
    
  