
    
      Patients with ALD (Alcoholic Liver Disease) would undergo a detailed clinical evaluation.
      Information would be collected regarding the onset and duration of symptoms, etiology, and
      severity of disease, other baseline clinical features, demographic characteristics, routine
      biochemical and hematological investigations, upper GI endoscopic findings and radiological
      investigations, patients would also be screened for the assessment of nutritional status.
      Patient found to be malnourished after the nutritional evaluation would be randomized in the
      two groups of the study. The control group would receive standard nutritional counseling from
      a trained dietician where as those in the intervention group would be given 120 gm of a
      polymeric nutritional supplement providing around 500 Kcal per day over and above the
      standard nutritional counseling from a trained dietician. Both the groups would receive
      standard medical treatment. The polymeric nutrient supplement would be taken by the patients
      in this arm for a period of 6 months. A record would be kept for the medications taken by the
      patients.

      All the patients would be followed up at 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 3
      months, 6 months, and 1 year after inclusion. Clinical, nutritional and biological data were
      collected at each visit. All these patients would receive standard treatment of cirrhosis
      consisting of withdrawal from alcohol along with symptomatic treatment including B vitamins,
      diuretics, salt restriction, lactulose, beta blockers, and antibiotics after bacteriological
      samples if needed. All patients would receive endoscopic surveillance for portal
      hypertension. An adequate prophylaxis by ligation or beta blockers would be performed as
      needed. The patients with a past history of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis will receive
      antibiotic prophylaxis.
    
  