
    
      Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women. It accounts for more than 1/3 of new cancer
      cases and is the 1st cause of death for women.

      Management usually includes tumorectomy or mastectomy precede or not by a chemotherapy, then
      adjuvant irradiation that can be supplemented with adjuvant chemotherapy and / or hormone
      therapy.

      Radiotherapy uses ionizing radiation (photons, electrons ...) to destroy cancer cells and
      consists in precisely directing these radiations on the area to be treated while preserving
      as much as possible healthy tissues and surrounding organs.

      Radiation-induced dermatitis is a skin lesion that occurs after exposure to ionizing
      radiation and is commonly seen in patients. Acute radiodermatitis occurs in the days or weeks
      following the start of irradiation with different degrees of severity (dry or exsudative
      radiodermatitis, acute radionecrosis) They are responsible for an alteration of patients'
      quality of life (pain, sensitivity to UV radiation, discomfort sensations ...), which may
      lead to a temporary or even permanent therapeutic interruption and reduce the probability of
      tumor control.

      The management of these dermatitis is very heterogeneous, no study having demonstrated the
      superiority of a preventive or curative treatment. Trolamine (Biafine®) is to date the only
      topic with a Marketing Authorization (MA) for the treatment of radiation-induced secondary
      erythema.

      A study conducted on 254 patients at the Léon Bérard Center from 1999 to 2001 demonstrated
      that the preventive use of a calendula-based topical was associated with a statistically
      significant reduction of grade 2 radiodermitis compared to trolamine in patients presenting
      an early breast cancer treated with post-operative irradiation. However, this calendula
      ointment, which does not have the MA in the indicated indication, was in practice more
      difficult to apply than trolamine.

      Currently, skin hygiene measures to be applied are systematically explained to patients
      before carrying out post-operative radiotherapy (cotton clothing, neutral soap, etc.). Some
      centers such as Center Léon Bérard recommend the systematic use of a topic after each
      session, while others recommend hygiene measures or implement other options (essential oils
      ...). However, the effectiveness of these current practices on the prevention of
      radiodermatitis has not yet been demonstrated.

      It is a phase III, prospective, interventional, multicentric, comparative, randomized, open
      study with 2 parallel arms Patients will be randomized (1 :1) in Arm A (hygiene measures +
      preventive treatment with Cicaderma ointment) or Arm B (preventive treatment according to the
      site recommendations (at least the hygiene measures) with a stratification (site, body mass
      index ≤25 vs >25 and RT hypofractionning).
    
  