
    
      Anemia is very common in the perioperative of major surgery affecting about 30% of patients
      preoperatively and more than 80% postoperatively. Anemia is an independent risk factor of
      morbi-mortality.

      Iron deficiency is the first cause of anemia. Physiological reserves of iron are not
      important, and the correction of anemia after hemorrhage is very slow. Hence, it takes 90
      days to return to 80% of the basic Hb level after a blood donation of 500ml, and more than
      150 days (almost 6 months), if one is deficient in iron. This is why iron is used to correct
      anemia that occurs after bleeding. There are two routes for iron administration: oral and
      intravenous.

      Gastrointestinal absorption of iron is limited to 10-15 mg/d even when ingested doses are
      increased. This absorption is decreased in the presence of an inflammatory state, which is
      very common in the postoperative period.

      The intravenous route allows the delivery of significantly higher doses of iron (up to 1000
      mg in 1 infusion), without any limitation related to absorption. This is why it is
      interesting to administer it perioperatively where the expected delays are short.

      There are currently new intravenous iron formulations that have two advantages: a shorter
      intravenous injection time and a higher maximum injectable dose per infusion. These new forms
      are risk-free, with no serious allergy described so far in the literature.

      Several studies using new forms of intravenous iron showed that it is effective in treating
      perioperative anemia in orthopedic and digestive surgery. Effects of ferric carboxymaltose
      have not been assessed in the settings of cardiac surgery.

      To assess the impact of ferric carboxymaltose in cardiac surgery, it will be compared to
      placebo in a randomized trial design, where ferric carboxymaltose / placebo will be
      administered in the postoperative period. Ferric carboxymaltose / placebo will be an add-on
      to the current treatment of patients in the postoperative period of cardiac surgery, the
      group that will be receiving placebo reflects the current management of the patients in these
      settings.

      The FCAACS trial will assess the impact of administering intravenous iron (Ferric
      carboxymaltose) after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) on the:

        -  incidence of postoperative anemia

        -  incidence of postoperative transfusion

        -  incidence of complications related to intravenous iron

      FCAACS will be a parallel group randomized trial, with a 2-group design and no crossover.
      Allocation ratio will be 1/1, in an equivalence framework. A total sample size of 200
      patients (100 per group) will be needed.
    
  