
    
      Usually eye surgery can be safely performed under local anesthesia. However, if the eye is
      opened during the procedure, general anesthesia may be a safer alternative. The intraocular
      pressure is less stable in wake patients than in anesthetized patients and increasing
      intraocular pressure can lead to prolapse of vitreous. Moreover, wake patients may move
      during the procedure and movement during surgery can cause serious lesions of the retina with
      consecutive loss of vision due to intraocular instruments.

      A typical intraocular procedure is vitrectomy. During vitrectomy the vitreous body is removed
      and substituted by silicon oil or gas. Vitrectomy is usually performed by inserting
      instruments through the pars plana in the eye. The pars plana, an area between iris and
      retina, contains no structures essential for vision. On one side of the eye a light source
      and access for intraocular infusion is introduced into the eye through the pars plana. An
      infusion is connected and fixed at 60 cm above eye level thus maintaining intraocular
      pressure by gravity. On the opposite side of the eye instruments like scalpels, scissors or
      an instrument combining cutting and suction of vitreous can be inserted through a tube.
      Common indications for vitrectomy are vitreous body bleedings or retinal detachment.

      Reliable immobilization by anesthesia is mandatory for vitrectomy. However, anesthesia for
      vitrectomy is complicated by the fact that the anatomical structures at risk are reached very
      early during operation and consequently there is not much time to adopt anesthesia dosage to
      individual patient's needs. At the end of the procedure the critical area is left a few
      minutes before conjunctival suture leaving a relatively short period of time for recovery
      from anesthesia until extubation.

      Possibly due to these difficulties deviation of vision axis and patient movements are not
      uncommon during general anesthesia for eye operations. Usually these events can be dealt with
      by supplementation of anesthesia and muscle relaxation, but they can lead to impairment of
      operation conditions and put the patient at risk of eye damage and loss of vision. Rossiter
      and co-workers investigated quality of immobilisation in 52 patients during eye surgery. Even
      small eye movements like upward deviation of the vision axis have been regarded as incomplete
      immobilisation in this study because they interfere with surgery and thereby increase the
      risk of complications.

      In four of these 52 patients (7.6 %) eye movements have been observed during surgery
      (Rossiter 2006). It has been shown by a further study that these deviations can be quantified
      and depend from the patient's preoperative findings (Daien 2013).

      Vitrectomy is performed as 20-gauge- or 23-gauge sutureless transconjunctival vitrectomy,
      depending of the diameter of the intraocular access channel (Aylward 2011)3. Generally,
      operation time is considerably shorter for 23-Gauge-vitrectomie, because no conjunctival
      suture is needed. Hence, 23 Gauge-vitrectomies are performed under general anesthesia using a
      laryngeal mask without muscle relaxation at our institution. 20-Gauge-vitrectomies are
      performed under general anesthesia with endotracheal intubation due to longer operation
      times. However, total muscle relaxation is maintained only during the first 30 - 45 min of
      surgery until reliable immobilization is reached by volatile anesthetics. The results of
      Rossiter and co-workers showed that eye movements occurred only during surgery without muscle
      relaxation in their study. Hence, it may be argued that immobilization by balanced anesthesia
      only during 23 Gauge-vitrectomy and during the second half of 20 Gauge-vitrectomy may be
      inferior to immobilization by addition of muscle relaxants.

      Objective of this prospective observational study is the comparison of immobilization quality
      during general anesthesia for pars plana-vitrectomy with and without neuromuscular blockade
      and endotracheal intubation.
    
  