
    
      Products or Devices to be Studied:

      Branched Chain Amino Acid anhydrous blend (1250mg valine, 2500mg leucine, 1250mg isoleucine)
      Pre-assigned IND number: 140871 Holder of the IND (Richard Marshall, MD)

      Purpose of the Study:

      Aim: To evaluate the effect of branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) supplementation on
      progression-free survival and overall survival in patients diagnosed with hepatocellular
      carcinoma (HCC).

      Rationale:

      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common adenocarcinoma affecting the liver.
      Approximately 14 million people are affected globally and the number of cases is expected to
      increase to 22 million by 2032. In the United States, HCC accounts for 5% of all
      cancer-related deaths and has a 1-year survival rate of 41.5% and a 5-year survival rate of
      16.5%. Although several new treatment options have recently become available, they are
      expensive and show a strong potential for adverse side effects. Regardless of treatment
      modality, liver function maintenance is an essential component for improving outcomes in
      patients with HCC.

      The liver functions as a primary site for macronutrient, enzyme, vitamin, bile acid, and heme
      metabolism as well as the breakdown and excretion of toxic waste products of metabolism.
      Among the liver's many roles is the production of albumin, a serum protein responsible for
      maintaining oncotic pressure and the transportation of nutrients throughout the body. Low
      levels of albumin (hypoalbuminemia) are associated with severe malnutrition and can lead
      edema due to decreased oncotic pressure. Hepatic tissue damage, tumor formation, and tumor
      proliferation decreases the liver's functional capacity for executing these processes.

      Chronic injury to the hepatocytes can lead to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma.
      Once developed, tumor cells and stromal cells form a network called the tumor
      microenvironment which further contributes to tumor proliferation. Treatments to disrupt the
      microenvironment (e.g. sorafenib) may be successful in reducing fibrosis, liver damage,
      inflammation, and angiogenesis. These treatments are not without serious side effects
      including: myocardial infarction, bleeding problems, bowel perforation, and hypertension to
      name a few.

      Therapeutic approaches to manage symptoms associated with HCC include late evening snacks and
      protein supplementation. The rationale purports that improvements in nutritional quality will
      alleviate catabolic stress, thereby reducing risks of associated complications of
      malnutrition including: protein energy malnutrition, hypoalbuminemia, and hepatic
      encephalopathy. Further, the branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) valine, leucine, and
      isoleucine may act on the same signaling pathways of chemotherapeutic pharmaceuticals in
      addition to improving nutritional status in patients with HCC.

      Recently, BCAA supplementation has been explored as a possible treatment for hepatocellular
      carcinoma in conjunction with standard of care in Japan and China. A recent meta-analysis of
      clinical studies from China and Japan supports the safety of BCAA supplementation and the
      possible benefit of improving liver functional reserves and quality of life. However,
      significant differences in study designs and BCAA doses make inferring conclusions from these
      studies difficult. Moreover, studies don't adequately control for differences in dietary
      intake between treatment groups which may skew results. To date, no clinical trials have been
      conducted in the United States that examine the effects of BCAA supplementation in patients
      with HCC. The purpose of this study is to examine the safety, efficacy, and feasibility of
      BCAA supplementation in patients with HCC who undergo locoregional therapies.

      Study Procedures:

      Current standard of care for hepatocellular carcinoma consists of physician monitoring
      following liver directed therapy and does not include any nutrition or dietary intervention
      beyond meeting basic nutritional needs. The study procedures differ from standard of care
      only by the addition of either a BCAA supplement or maltodextrin placebo, administration of a
      quality of life survey (FACT-Hep), and a personalized diet prescription.

      To ensure protein and energy intake is equivalent between groups, individualized diets will
      be calculated by the dietitian based on current height, weight, and stress factors for those
      in both arms of the study. The corresponding meal plan will be administered by the research
      pharmacist. The intervention group receiving 10g of BCAA daily will receive a meal plan that
      reflects a protein deficit of 10g below estimated needs (which will be covered by the BCAA
      supplement).

      Subjects:

      Forty subjects will be enrolled. Patients who are seeking treatment in the interventional
      radiology department at University Medical Center (UMC) will comprise the sample.

      Duration of the Study:

      Enrollment of the full sample will take approximately 36 months and each participant will be
      followed for 12 months after enrollment and initiation of the treatment. This study would
      conclude approximately 48 months following first enrollment. Each individual's participation
      in the study will be 12-14 months following their enrollment.

      Implementation Summary:

      Patients will be educated about the study by an interventional radiologist and oncology
      dietitian during their first visit to the interventional radiology clinic at UMC. After
      providing informed consent to participate in the study, patients will be immediately started
      on their dietary supplement (BCAA or placebo) for two weeks. BCAA supplements will be
      dispensed a UMC pharmacist. Patients will then have a brief hospital stay at UMC (typically
      ranging 6-24 hours) to receive their TACE and/or ablation procedure. All patients will be
      assessed by an interventional radiologist or nurse practitioner prior to discharge, and those
      undergoing a TACE procedure will also have a comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) drawn. After
      discharge patients will have a one month, three month, 6 month, 9 month, and 12 month follow
      up in the interventional radiology clinic where they will meet with the physician and
      dietitian. A detailed list of procedures is provided below. Patients may require additional
      visits if it is determined that they need additional local therapies (repeat TACE and/or
      Ablation).

      Risks of Interventions:

      Branched-chain amino acid supplementation. Risks: Based on data from prior studies,
      participants receiving BCAA supplementation protocol may experience nausea, vomiting,
      abdominal pain, diarrhea or hypertension.

      Maltodextrin supplementation. Risks: Maltodextrin is a sugar. Consuming maltodextrin may
      cause a temporary rise in blood sugar. However the amounts consumed for this study will be
      very small. There are no known risks associated with its use. Maltodextrin is affirmed by the
      FDA as GRAS per Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations Section 184.1444.

      Fact-Hep questionnaire. Risks: there are no known risks to questioning about health-related
      quality of life.

      Data Safety Monitoring:

      Definition:

      Serious adverse event (SAE): events including death, a life-threatening adverse experience,
      inpatient hospitalization, prolongation of existing hospitalization, and persistent or
      significant disability or incapacity.

      Adverse event (AE): any health-related, unfavorable or unintended medical occurrence that
      happens throughout study participation. Examples of adverse events include but are not
      limited to the following:

      A clinically significant laboratory or clinical test result. An event that results in missing
      a study visit. An event that requires a visit to a physician. An event that occurs as a
      result of a study procedure. Unanticipated or untoward medical events that may be study
      related.

      Monitoring Plan:

      Adverse events will be reported to the principal investigator as they are collected from the
      participant. Adverse event data will be analyzed quarterly, whereas serious or
      life-threatening adverse events will necessitate immediate reporting and follow-up. It is
      anticipated that most adverse events will be mild and the participant will be able to resume
      activities within one to two days of reporting the event.

      SAEs that are unanticipated, serious, and possibly related to the study intervention will be
      reported to the IRB and FDA. Unexpected problems involving risks to participants or others
      include incidents only if the incident is unexpected, related or possibly related to
      participation in the research, and indicated that subjects or others are at a greater risk of
      harm than was previously known or recognized. A SAE will result in the unblinding of the
      participant and will be reported to the IRB and FDA per CFR § 312.32(c)(5). Any action
      resulting in unblinding, and/or a temporary or permanent suspension of this study (e.g., IRB
      actions, or actions by the PI and/or co-investigators) will be reported to the appropriate
      officials.

      Aggregate comparisons of AE and SAE between study arms will occur after 50% of the
      participants are enrolled. If there is evidence of a significant, clinically relevant
      difference in SAE between groups, the study will be unblinded; and in the event the BCAA
      group experiences significantly fewer SAEs, the placebo group will be offered the BCAA
      supplement. Conversely, if the BCAA group experiences significantly more SAEs, the
      supplementation will be terminated and follow-up will continue as planned.

      Statistical Analysis:

      A total of 40 subjects will be recruited (20 in each intervention and control group). Sample
      size was determined to achieve a power of 0.8 for a two-sided test (α = 0.05) for a balanced
      study design. The results of the power analysis indicate that this can be achieved with a
      sample ranging from 13-21 patients in each arm with the assumption that 1 year mortality will
      be 41.5% in the control group (mortality rate derived from epidemiological data) and a
      mortality rate ranging from 85 - 95% in the intervention group. Progression-free survival and
      overall survival will be examined using survival regression analyses while controlling for
      relevant covariates (age, demographics, etc.). Quality of life, Child Pugh score, and
      biomarkers of liver function will be examined using repeated measures ANOVA with contrasts
      between the treatment groups. Tolerability of the BCAA supplement will be assessed by
      examining the number of adverse effects reported by participants. The severity of the adverse
      events will be assessed by the physician and frequency differences between groups will be
      compared using Χ² test statistic.
    
  