
    
      The overall objective of this study is to investigate a fermented canola-seaweed (FCS)
      product in obese human subjects with increased risk of metabolic syndrome (MS). We will study
      the effects of the FCS on glucose handling and related cardiometabolic traits such as
      dyslipidemia and low-grade systemic inflammation. Finally, we will examine the gut microbiota
      and the metabolic phenotype of the subjects to explore molecular mechanisms related to the
      potential improvements.

      It is hypothesized that the FCS product will improve postprandial glucose handling, blood
      lipids and low-grade inflammation in obese subjects with increased risk of MS. Furthermore,
      it is hypothesized that this effect is modified through gut microbiota compositional and
      functionality changes

      Methods:

      This study will be conducted as a randomized, controlled, investigator and participant
      blinded intervention trial. The participants will be randomized to the FCS supplement or
      control and are expected to consume one sachet of either every day for 6 weeks.

      Randomization, blinding and allocation concealment:

      After having given oral and written consent, randomization will be performed separately for
      each participant in blocks of variable size to ensure equal randomization throughout the
      enrolment phase of the study. The randomization sequence will be done by an investigator
      without contact to the participants. The personnel conducting the study will allocate
      participants to the sequence of intervention using a list of participant identification
      numbers matched with allocated sequences. The participants will be blinded to the
      intervention and blinding of the allocation sequence will be present for investigators during
      sample analysis and initial data analysis.

      Examinations:

      Participants will arrive for clinical examination after an overnight fast of at least 8
      hours. Lifestyle questionnaires and questionnaires about medication use will be performed for
      baseline characterization of the participants. Blood pressure and anthropometric measurements
      are performed including measurements of body weight, height, waist and hip circumference, and
      bio-impedance measurements for assessing body fat mass. A fasting blood sample is obtained
      and an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) is performed with collection of blood samples after
      0, 30 and 120 min. Samples will be analyzed with standard clinical procedures for glycaemic
      variability markers, including glucose, insulin, c-peptide, and HbA1c, as well as plasma
      lipids. Furthermore, fecal samples will be collected at both examination visits and kept
      stored for future microbiota analyses, using untargeted shotgun sequencing.

      Samples in biobank will be stored for further analyses, which could include gastrointestinal
      hormones, gut microbiota metabolites, blood, and fecal metabolome and low-grade inflammation
      markers. In addition, a subgroup of participants (10 in each group) will be equipped with a
      24-h continuous glucose monitoring device for 14 days at the start of the intervention
      period. Both examination days consists of similar examinations and data collections and are
      estimated to last approximately 2½ hours.
    
  