
    
      Glomerulonephritis occurs in up to one-half of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus
      (SLE) and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Guidelines published by the American
      College of Rheumatology in 2012 (1) suggested a multi-targeted treatment approach that has
      been shown to lead to clinical remission in up to one-half of patients (2,3).

      However, at least one-third of patients continue to have active disease; many of these
      individuals may eventually develop renal failure. Therefore, there is an unmet need for more
      effective therapeutic approaches for lupus nephritis (LN). Although the pathogenesis of LN is
      almost certainly multifactorial, the presence and persistence of immune complexes are thought
      to play a major role in disease pathogenesis by attracting inflammatory cells of the innate
      immune system, such as neutrophils and monocytes, resulting in cell activation and secretion
      of inflammatory cytokines, including interferon alpha, TGF-beta, IL-1, IL-6, and TNF-alpha
      (6-7). Pentoxifylline (PTX) is a nonselective phosphodiesterase inhibitor with minimal
      toxicity. It has been in clinical use since 1972 for treatment of patients with intermittent
      claudication secondary to peripheral vascular disease. This generic drug has also recently
      been increasingly used off-label for several other conditions, including patients with
      diabetic nephropathy, in whom the unexpected finding of significant reduction of proteinuria
      has been repeatedly demonstrated (34-38). The mechanism of this phenomenon is unclear,
      although experimental studies in animals and humans have observed suppression of inflammatory
      cytokine production following PTX administration (24-28). In LN, 2 small, uncontrolled
      observational studies of PTX reported reduction in proteinuria following 2-6 months of
      treatment with PTX (8,9). The level and chronicity of proteinuria have long been associated
      with disease prognosis in patients with LN (10). Thus, a novel treatment that could
      significantly and persistently reduce or even eliminate proteinuria could result in
      substantial improvement in the long-term outcome of patients with this most serious
      manifestation of SLE.
    
  