
    
      Research purposes:Research the effectiveness and safety of albumin-bound paclitaxel for
      induction chemotherapy in patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma were
      evaluated,by comparing the AP regimen and the TP regimen .

      Research content:To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of albumin-bound paclitaxel for
      induction chemotherapy in patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.

      Study endpoint Primary endpoint: Objective response rate (ORR=CR+PR) (Assessed according to
      RECIST standards, see Annex 1) Secondary study endpoint: Surgical resection rate,Pathological
      remission rate,Progression-free survival (PFS), Overall survival (OS) Main safety indicators:
      Observe any adverse events that occurred in all subjects during the clinical study and within
      1 month after stopping the drug, including clinical symptoms, abnormal vital signs, and
      abnormalities in laboratory examinations, and record their clinical features, Severity, time
      of occurrence, duration, treatment method and prognosis outcome, and determine its
      correlation with the study drug. The safety of the drug was evaluated according to the
      NCI-CTC AE 4.0 standard.

      Study design:This is a single-center, open-label, controlled clinical study.The aime is
      observing and evaluating the effectiveness and safety of albumin-bound paclitaxel for
      induction chemotherapy in patients with advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.

      This study is planned to be carried out in Tianjin Cancer Hospital. According to the research
      principles of GCP.

      The study plans to recruit 116 qualified subjects. This study used objective response rate
      (ORR=CR+PR) as the main evaluation index. According to previous reports, the ORR of the TP
      group was 50%, and the ORR of the AP group was estimated to be 75%. The test level is set to
      0.05 on one side, the test power is set to 0.8, and the estimated dropout rate is 20%. Using
      the Logrank-Lakatos algorithm, the total sample size is calculated to be 116 cases.
    
  