
    
      The primary objective of this study is as follows:

        -  To assess the activity of ixabepilone with bevacizumab compared to ixabepilone alone in
           patients with recurrent or persistent platinum-resistant/refractory epithelial
           (non-mucinous) ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. We will assess
           this by comparing the ixabepilone +bevacizumab (experimental) arm to the
           ixabepilone-alone (control) arm for an improvement in median progression free survival
           (PFS).

      The secondary objectives of this study are as follows:

        -  To compare the experimental arm to the control arm for increases in objective response
           rate (ORR) and durable disease control rate (DDCR).

        -  To compare the experimental arm to the control arm for an increase in overall survival
           (OS).

        -  To assess the safety profile of ixabepilone in combination with bevacizumab in ovarian,
           fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer patients.

        -  To assess whether prior treatment with bevacizumab impacts future response to
           bevacizumab in combination with ixabepilone.

      In addition to the primary and secondary objectives of this study, there are additional
      exploratory/correlative objectives. The exploratory/correlative objectives of this study are
      as follows:

        -  To characterize number, length and composition (e.g., class III β-tubulin expression) of
           microtentacles (McTNs) isolated from circulating tumor cells isolated from whole blood
           of patients undergoing treatment with ixabepilone with or without bevacizumab, and
           correlate with best response, PFS, and OS.

        -  To observe McTNs on circulating tumor cells in blood using a novel polyelectrolyte
           multi-layer (PEM) tethering technology.

        -  To correlate ex vivo response of McTNs to drug treatment with clinical response in order
           to develop a real-time assay to predict response to therapy.

        -  To explore use of circulating tumor (ct) DNA as a biomarker for disease response and
           compare its performance to CA-125.

        -  To examine whether clinical response to ixabepilone with or without bevacizumab differs
           between high and low expressors of class III β-tubulin.
    
  