
    
      This is a retro-prospective 12 month follow-up study of the safety and performance of the
      Round XTENDOBUTTON™ fixation device post knee repair in Australian centres.

      The Primary Objective is to assess successful fixation with the Round XTENDOBUTTON™ and the
      Secondary Objective is to generate safety and performance evidence for the Round
      XTENDOBUTTON™ Device via the collection of functional outcomes, patient reported outcomes and
      safety data.

      Forty subjects will be enrolled; who have had the round XTENDOBUTTON™ Device implanted. To
      eliminate the potential for selection bias, Investigators will consecutively screen all
      subjects who have undergone knee/ligament repair/reconstruction using the Round XTENDOBUTTON™
      Fixation Device. Subjects meeting the eligibility criteria will be contacted regarding
      interest in study participation. Screening will be conducted in sequential order based on the
      date of subjects' knee repair procedure; earliest to latest. Screening efforts must be
      documented on a screening and enrollment log, on which reasons for exclusion from or denial
      to participate should be noted A medical chart review will be conducted to identify potential
      study subjects who have been implanted with the ROUND XTENDOBUTTON™ device at the study site.

        1. If a patient is eligible and would like to participate in the study, obtain written
           informed consent from the subject.----- Do not proceed until consent has been obtained
           -----

        2. Assign the subject a Subject ID number and instruct the subject on treatment procedures

        3. Complete Screening and Enrollment Log

        4. Obtain demographic information and medical history, including information on all
           relevant concomitant medications

        5. Collect operative information and implant disposition (including review of evidence of
           implant failure). If a failure has occurred, record details of the cause of failure.
           Collect x-rays if available.

        6. Complete Patient Questionnaires:

             -  Lysholm Score

             -  Tegner Activity Scale

             -  KOOS(Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score) Knee Score

        7. If any adverse events, adverse device effects or device deficiencies are observed or
           reported, they must be recorded

        8. Instruct the subject on follow-up procedures, including returning for Visit 2 in 6
           months (-14 Days/+31 Days)

      Visit 2 - 12 months post -op.

        1. Query subject regarding any changes in general health and the use of concomitant
           medications since the last visit

        2. If any adverse events, adverse device effects or device deficiencies are observed or
           reported, they must be recorded

        3. Complete Lysholm Score, Tegner Activity Scale and KOOS Knee Score

        4. Collect implant disposition information (including review of evidence of implant
           failure). If a failure has occurred, record details of the cause of failure. Collect
           x-rays if available

        5. Complete End of Study CRF.

      Safety will be evaluated by assessing the frequency and nature of adverse events, serious
      adverse events and revisions.
    
  