
    
      To investigate the causal effects of network structure and composition on the acceptance of
      new or unfamiliar behavior-relevant health information, the investigators propose a
      randomized controlled experiment that compares several independent populations to identify
      and address participants' endorsement of biased information, and engagement with novel
      behavior relevant information (e.g., regarding COVID-19 vaccination). Each population will
      have its own network structure (i.e., level of centralization) and composition (i.e., level
      of homophily).

      To run each experimental trial, the investigators will recruit 240 African American
      participants, aged 18 to 40, collectively to answer behavior-relevant questions over a period
      of no greater than 8 minutes. Participants can respond asynchronously - i.e., when the
      participants' time permits. As with previous studies, the technical infrastructure will
      manage participants' progress through the study to ensure that all participants have the
      relevant information about each other's responses.

      To ensure causal identification, each network graph will constitute a single observation of
      how individual decisions change under conditions of interdependent social information. Thus,
      each trial of 240 people (6 networks x 40 participants per network) produces 6 observations
      of a community-level social learning process. Power calculations indicate that 8 independent
      trials are sufficient to produce results of p<0.05 with 85% power, resulting in a desired
      population of 1920 participants for each health topic (e.g., COVID-19 vaccination is a single
      "health topic"), producing 48 independent observations of collective decision making per
      health topic.

      The studies will target health topics for which there is substantial racial disparity in
      outcomes and behavior, such as acceptance of COVID-19 vaccination, and spreading of various
      categories of COVID-19 misinformation (e.g. beliefs related to assessment of personal risk,
      effectiveness of protective behaviors, methods of transmission, disease prevention,
      treatment, origins of the virus) and related health practices (e.g. choice of appropriate
      contraceptive methods, value of heart disease screenings, etc.).
    
  