
    
      Introduction:

      Gallstone disease is a significant health problem affecting 10%-15% of the adult population.
      Gallstone diseases include cholelithiasis, choledocholithiasis or intrahepatic gallstones. In
      Hong Kong, gallstones are found in 2-3% of the population and 20% of the gallstones are
      symptomatic. To date, cholecystectomy is the gold standard treatment for acute cholecystitis.
      Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the preferred modality for elective cholecystectomy and is
      advised mainly for symptomatic gallstones such as acute cholecystitis or biliary
      pancreatitis. It is recommended that the cholecystectomy should be performed within weeks
      after resolution of any episode of complications. However, in Hong Kong, the average waiting
      time for cholecystectomy ranged from 9 months to years. The prolonged waiting time increases
      the risk of severe complications such as high conversion rate of acute inflammation,
      pancreatitis, cholecystitis; obstructive jaundice or gallbladder cancer.

      Acupuncture has been extensively applied in clinical practice to treat symptomatic gallstone
      diseases in the ancient Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) diagnoses of hypochondrite pain ,
      jaundice or pyretic thoracic retention. The mechanism of acupuncture had been studied with
      (1) increasing of the excretory function of gall bladder; (2) increasing the relaxation of
      the sphincter of Oddi and (3) increasing the secretion of bile. All the above actions aim at
      promoting the spontaneous clearance of gallstones from the biliary system to the gut. In
      fact, gallstone clinic are commonly available in acupuncture department of Chinese Medicine
      Hospitals in China for daily practice. Owing to the poor clinical trial methodology, the
      evidence of effectiveness of acupuncture were not well established yet.

      As a highly recognized traditional therapy, acupuncture has been increasingly used for the
      treatment of pain. Early studies in both animals and human subjects found that
      electroacupuncture (EA) stimulation on certain acupoints could induce the release of
      endogenous opioid peptides and modulate the activities of related receptors in the brain.
      These opioid peptides mainly include endomorphin, β-endorphin, enkephalins, and dynorphin.
      Furthermore, EA stimulation also could modulate central neurotransmitters, including
      serotonin and dopamine, which play important roles in pain signal processing. In addition, it
      was found that EA can help antagonize smooth muscle relaxation. Based on these findings, EA
      may be useful in fostering the expelling effect of the smooth muscle of the gallbladder.

      There had been case reports and case series supporting the use of EA in the treatment of
      symptomatic gallstones. However, only one controlled trial has reported EA in treating
      gallstone diseases on 120 patients with total excretion of gallstones with confirmed with
      ultrasonography (Treatment group 30% vs control group 16.7%, p<0.05) with stone size smaller
      than 1cm. However, this study did not report any adverse event during the course of
      treatment. Apart from absence of adverse events reporting, the reference study did use the
      percentage of patients with total excretion of gallstone confirmed by ultrasound scanning as
      the primary outcome. Bearing in mind safety as the first priority, the study did not adopt
      any blinding in the clinical trial and could overestimate the effectiveness of acupuncture in
      treating gallstone diseases. With our proposed rigorous conduction of clinical trial in terms
      of objective assessment of primary outcome and the blinding of assessor, the investigators
      hope to confirm the effectiveness of acupuncture in gallstone diseases despite of the results
      published in China. In fact, many patients in Hong Kong are waiting for cholecystectomy with
      average time of 9 months to years owing to the less urgency of the operation. The
      investigators hope this study could confirm the effectiveness of acupuncture on gallstone
      diseases so as to develop more evidence. To substantiate the effectiveness and safety of EA
      as an alternative intervention for symptomatic gallstones in clinical practice, this study
      aims at pioneering a well-designed, long-term, large-scale controlled trial for further
      evaluation of the effectiveness of EA in treating gallstone diseases.

      Aims: to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of EA as an alternative treatment in
      symptomatic gallstone diseases. Based on the pragmatic nature of the trial, this study will
      also explore the health economic evaluation of additional acupuncture services against usual
      care.

      Methods: A two arm pragmatic randomized controlled trial design will be conducted at the
      Prince of Wales Hospitals. 132 patients diagnosed of symptomatic gallstone diseases are on
      waiting list for cholecystectomy or being recommended to have cholecystectomy by surgeons
      will be allocated in either EA group (n = 66); or control group (n=66). Treatment group will
      be offered 20 sessions of EA in 10 weeks, while the control group will remain in the usual
      care for solely assessment. Primary outcome is the proportion of patients with total
      clearance of gallstones after treatment with confirmation by ultrasonography. The secondary
      outcome is the monitoring the incidence of common bile duct stone by liver function test
      (LFT) and MRCP.

      Implication of this study The most expected and clinically significant findings should be the
      exploratory effectiveness of EA that promotes the excretion of the gallstones. In addition,
      if EA is found to be effective, results from this study can form a solid basis for funding
      routine establishment of an EA service care model for among symptomatic gallstone diseases
      patients. Based on the pragmatic nature of the trial, this study will also explore the health
      economic evaluation of additional acupuncture services against usual care which could
      facilitate to give an overview for setting up to the integrative medical service.

      Aims and Hypotheses to be Tested:

      This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of EA in the treatment of
      symptomatic gallstone diseases compare with usual care

      Hypotheses:

      EA could produce greater effects than usual care in treating symptomatic gallstone diseases
      and increase the rate of excretion.

      Objectives

        1. To determine whether EA treatment is more effective than usual care in the management of
           symptomatic gallstone diseases; and

        2. To determine whether EA, compared with usual care, can increase clearance rate as
           confirmed by ultrasonography,

        3. To determine the safety of EA in the management of gallstone diseases

        4. To explore the health economic assessment of both EA and usual care
    
  