
    
      One type of hip fracture, called a femoral neck fracture, involves a break in the narrow part
      of the femur bone where the head of the femur is joined to the main shaft. The break can be
      either undisplaced, which involves very little separation at the fracture site, or displaced,
      in which there is substantial separation. For displaced fractures, surgeons usually choose
      between internal fixation and hip arthroplasty, which is also known as hip replacement.

      Patients receiving hip arthroplasty may undergo either a total hip arthroplasty or a
      hemi-arthroplasty. Which surgical method is best for the patient is unknown. Advocates of
      total hip replacement claim better improvements in patient function and quality of life. On
      the other hand, advocates of hemi-arthroplasty, which include most orthopaedic surgeons,
      claim reduced rates of dislocation and deep vein thrombosis, shorter operating times, less
      blood loss, and a technically less demanding surgical procedure. This study will compare
      total hip arthroplasty and hemi-arthroplasty on rates of revision surgery 2 years after
      patients aged 50 and older sustain femoral neck fractures and undergo surgery. The study will
      also compare the impact of the two different surgical procedures on function, quality of
      life, and post-surgical complications. Results from this study may impact current orthopaedic
      practice.

      Participation in this study will last 2 years. Before surgery, participants will complete a
      baseline assessment that will include x-rays, a medical history review, and a physical
      examination. Participants will then be randomly assigned to undergo either total hip
      arthroplasty or hemi-arthroplasty to repair their hip fractures. All surgeons will need to
      meet certain criteria to partake in the study and will have expertise in whichever surgical
      procedure they are performing. Surgeons will also follow the manufacturers' implant
      guidelines during surgery. Specific aspects of both the preoperative and post-operative care,
      such as weight bearing status, the prevention of thromboembolic disease, and the use of
      antibiotics and calcium supplementation, will be standardized for all participants. Within 2
      days of under going surgery, x-rays will be performed again.

      Follow-up assessments will be completed either by phone or in-person at the hospital or
      clinic. They will occur 1 and 10 weeks after surgery and 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months after
      surgery. All assessments will include questionnaires and interviews on health status, hip
      function, pain, functional mobility, and revision surgery. Some of the in-person assessments
      will also include x-rays.
    
  