
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of using in routinely clinical
      practice a systematic assessment of HRQoL in patients treated for a newly diagnosis cancer at
      the University Hospital of Besançon. It aims to define the logistic resources needed to
      implement this data collection and to assess its acceptability by clinicians, healthcare team
      and patients. This involves asking patients to complete HRQoL questionnaires at the time of
      an outpatient visit and generating a summary of the results made available to the healthcare
      provider immediately before the consultation.

      In this pilot study, three cancer sites were selected: breast cancer in women, colorectal
      cancer and lung cancer. Patients included will be invited to complete the European
      Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 cancer specific
      questionnaire and the specific module of their cancer site (QLQ-BR23, QLQ-CR29, QLQ-LC13)
      before each visit with their physician. Results from HRQoL questionnaires will be immediately
      available to physician through a web-based portal during the visit. As part of the pilot
      phase, patients will be followed during four months while HRQoL will be pursued.

      Questionnaires completion will be administrated by digital tablets and/or computer terminals
      via the CHES software (Computer-based Health Evaluation System; http:// www.ches.pro/) at the
      University Hospital of Besançon just before the visit with physician or at home via secured
      web-portal. This tool provides a didactic and attractive presentation of the HRQOL evaluation
      allowing physician a better understanding and consideration of HRQoL results. Indeed, results
      of a routinely assessment of HRQoL will be incorporated into the patient's electronic medical
      record. Physicians will be alerted if a clinically significant deterioration of at least one
      HRQoL dimension is observed over time and/or if the HRQoL level is significantly lower than
      reference/ normative data. In case of deterioration of HRQoL, physician may adapted the
      treatment or prescribed adapted supportive cares.

      This feasibility study aims to assess the acceptability of the HRQoL assessment in routinely
      practice: to quantify the attrition, to observe the exhaustiveness of the measure, the
      compliance and the ability of the patient to complete HRQoL questionnaires and finally to
      evaluate both patient and clinician's satisfaction. The difficulties eventually encountered
      by the clinical research associate and by physicians will be also collected.
    
  