
    
      Patients who present to the gynecology clinic for an annual, postpartum or contraceptive
      visit will be asked if they are interested in obtaining contraception by the front desk
      staff. If they respond yes, they will be seen in a triage or exam room by study
      personnel/medical assistant (MA) who will ask them if they would like to participate in the
      study, review the study and then randomize them to either the contraceptive pathway or usual
      care. The randomization will be done by opening sequentially numbered envelopes once they
      consent and while in the triage/exam room.

      Patients triaged to the pathway will be handed an electronic tablet questionnaire while they
      are waiting to see the physician/(Advanced practice nurse (APN). The tablet contains a link
      to bedside.org, a public website which reviews contraceptive options. Vital signs will be
      collected as per usual care and recorded on both the questionnaire and in the electronic
      medical record(EMR). Study personnel will be available to offer the patient additional
      information on their choice of contraception or assist them with the link for information.
      The completed survey will be printed and placed in the subject room for review by the
      physician/APN. A copy will be kept in the subject binder and another will be scanned into the
      EMR.

      Patients triaged to usual care will wait for their physician without the pathway
      questionnaire and will be asked the usual questions by the MA which will be recorded in the
      EMR. Vital signs will be collected and recorded in the EMR.

      The physician/APN will see the subject as usual, review either the questionnaire or the EMR,
      review contraception options and initiate the contraception.

      At completion of the visit, all woman will be asked if she would complete a satisfaction
      survey for her visit. She will be called at 2 weeks, 3, 6 and 12 months to discuss
      contraception initiation and continuation.
    
  