
    
      The overall goal of this line of investigation is to evaluate the efficacy of an integrated
      cardiovascular amputation rehabilitation program (Healthy Heart Amputation Rehabilitation
      Therapy (Healthy H.A.R.T.)) that concentrates on secondary CV risk factor modification and
      utilizes an aggressive exercise program to: 1) increase aerobic capacity and promote
      rehabilitation achievements and quality of life and 2) prevent postoperative complications
      and curtail further peripheral vascular deterioration. Given the recognized merits of
      systematically building upon incremental research achievements to develop comprehensive and
      multi-faceted clinical programs, we will study the above one step at a time, working up to
      more wide-scale investigations of the benefits of the integrated Healthy H.A.R.T. program as
      conceptualized. The following phases are planned:

      Part 1 (this proposed 3-year study): examining the clinical effectiveness of Healthy
      H.A.R.T.'s exercise components. Findings will be disseminated through presentations and
      publications during and immediately following study completion.

      Part 2: revising amputation rehabilitation and P.A.C.T. program care algorithms as indicated
      by Phase 1 findings.

      Part 3: investigating how to implement Healthy H.A.R.T.'s exercise components in distance,
      off-site, and home-based programs.

      Part 4: developing broader scale investigations of additional components of Healthy H.A.R.T.
      using physiologic and patient care outcome measures, cost-benefit ratios, patient and
      clinician satisfaction, and service potential offset by resource utilization and expense
      reports for widespread application.

      Key Question/Hypothesis: In Healthy H.A.R.T. Part 1, we will test the hypothesis: Dysvascular
      amputees participating in an aggressive exercise program (Healthy H.A.R.T. exercise) in
      conjunction with amputation rehabilitation will obtain a greater aerobic capacity and exhibit
      better rehabilitation achievements and quality of life than those receiving conventional
      amputation.

      Experimental Design: This study (Healthy Heart Amputation Rehabilitation Therapy (Healthy
      HART) - Part 1) involves an intent-to-treat designed randomized 2-group pre- and
      post-intervention study to examine if conventional rehabilitation augmented by Healthy
      H.A.R.T. exercise: a) increases aerobic capacity, b) promotes rehabilitation achievements,
      and c) improves quality of life. Last, cost estimates of the two therapies will be compared.

      Houston VAMC amputation patients progress through standardized decision making regarding
      surgery options and level of amputation followed by conventional post-operative medical and
      surgical care and rehabilitation according to standard VA Amputee Care Algorithm schedules.

      Standard Decisions on Surgery and Amputation Level: Decisions about elective amputations
      performed by the General Surgery service are made jointly with surgeon and PM&R consultation.
      Decisions regarding amputation level are made in light of surgeon-assessed clinical and
      physiologic signs and patient characteristics and PM&R assessments of functionality and
      patient characteristics such as cognitive function, comorbidity, and rehabilitation
      potential.
    
  