
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Entrapment of the median nerve at the wrist is the most common cause of sensory and motor
      disturbance in the hands and can be progressively disabling.1,2 Complex mechanisms of
      compression and ischemia exist that adversely influence the large A myelinated fibers and
      small unmyelinated nociceptive C fibers. From a pathophysiological standpoint, neuropathic
      pain (numbness, tingling and burning, NP) is believed secondary to ectopic firing of
      nociceptive afferent unmyelinated C-fiber axons that are undergoing degeneration.3
      Microneurography has confirmed that dysregulated expression of sodium and calcium channels,
      which accumulate at site of injury, are responsible for ectopic depolarization.3,4,53,54 When
      conventional therapy of splinting and pharmacotherapy fail, surgical decompression has been
      offered for moderate-severe cases. While usually successful, it is associated with
      significant complications, limitations and costs.5,6,7 Thus, the search for reliable and new
      therapeutic strategies is appealing.

      Substantial evidence exists that time-varying magnetic fields produce biological effects by
      safely inducing extremely low-frequency (ELF) small electrical eddy currents within the
      tissues that can depolarize, repolarize and hyperpolarize neurons.8,9,10,11,12

      Prior pilot data using static13 and pulsed magnetic fields (PEMF)14,15 directed to the carpal
      tunnel region significantly reduced NP. Since a new, novel device became commercially
      available that produced a combination of static and time-varying magnetic fields
      simultaneously, it was hypothesized that this energy could be directed into the wrists and
      potentially influence not only NP scores, but also modulate neuronal distal latencies
      (neurotransmission).

      DEVICE:

      DESCRIPTION: (FIGURE 1) This patented device (Biaxial Super Mini [Mx2R] by Nikken, Inc.)
      measures 2" in diameter and 1" in height and is worn with a Velcro strap similar to a
      wristwatch. It is noiseless and nonthermal. Its main component is a spherical permanent
      magnet, 1150G, 3/8" in diameter that rotates in two perpendicular directions simultaneously
      producing biaxial magnetic rotation (MX2R) and oscillating polarities up to 1,200 rpm-20
      times per second. It is driven by a 2 V DC micro-motor which is shielded one inch away and
      produces a negligible back EMF. The device is powered by three ¼ AAA rechargeable NiMH
      (Nickel Metal Hydride) batteries

      Randomized double blind placebo-controlled device with primary parameters of pain and sleep
      interupption scores, NPS scale and secondary parameters of neurological exam changes, nerve
      conduction latencies of median nerve, dynamometry, finger gauge pressures, CPT and PGIC were
      compared at baseline and end of two months. Patients were given a free "active" device gratis
      at end of study.
    
  