
    
      -  Research cohort: Patients diagnosed with acute coronary syndrome are enrolled and to be
           followed up for 2 years.

        -  Baseline and follow up variables include patients' demographics, medical history, ACS
           event characteristics, clinical treatment options (interventional cardiology, drug
           therapy: antithrombotic therapy, other treatments recommended by guidelines ) and follow
           up events information.

        -  Blood Sample collection 4ml of vein blood will be drawed. Centrifugation of plasma and
           WBC will be done on-site within 30 minutes for DNA extraction. Samples will be stored at
           -80℃ freezer for subsequent applications.

        -  A nested case-controlled study is designed for the genetic analysis:

             1. Cases: Patients suffered from death, myocardial infarction, stroke and coronary
                revascularization and bleeding during the 2-year follow up. We expected to get 600
                cases in the study cohort;

             2. Controls: among patients without any of the above events during follow, matched
                controls of 1:1 ratio will be selected according to date of admission (± 1 month),
                age (± 5 years), sex, baseline ACS diagnosis, whether treated with PCI , the same
                pattern of antithrombotic therapy and the study center.

        -  Genotyping Genotype testing using exome DNA chips (Exome Beadchip). Exome Beadchip is a
           high-throughput DNA chip designed by Illumina's, containing 240,000 SNP on exons in the
           genome that may lead to functional changes.

        -  Analysis:

             1. To analysis the impact of genetic characteristics on selection of treatment
                strategy in ACS patients, and its interaction with other baseline clinical
                variables.

             2. To analysis the impact of genetic characteristics on patient outcomes, and its
                interaction with clinical characteristics and management patterns.
    
  