
    
      After randomization subjects will be divided into control group and intervention group that
      will receive video tutorial. All subjects will have unlimited access to printed brochures
      about Advance Directives available at our institution. Use of those materials will be left to
      their discretion of patients, surrogates and health care professionals involved in patients
      care. This study was conducted in the medical ICU of tertiary medical center.

      Educational video tutorial to cardiovascular resuscitation, defibrillation, endotracheal
      intubation and mechanical ventilation. Video presents illustrations of resuscitation
      performed on actors. It informs about the risk, benefits and statistical outcomes of
      Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).

      Immediately after admission to ICU patients or their health care surrogates were asked to
      participate in the study. The time between admission and enrollment varied depending on
      patient's needs and feasibility of conducting research. Upon enrollment subjects were
      stratified into two groups. One was composed of patients participating in education and
      testing and another composed of health care surrogates participating on patient's behalf.
      Those groups were further divided to intervention group that received video education and
      control group. Stratified randomization occurred according to computer generated list which
      will be followed for duration of the study. Patients in all four groups had access to printed
      brochures about Advance Directives. Those pamphlets were available at the admission desk and
      at the nursing stations. All participants were tested from their knowledge of the code status
      and related terminology. Subjects randomized to the control group were tested immediately
      after obtaining consent. Subject from intervention group were tested immediately after video
      education. Test was administered by the investigator in the format of interview. Completion
      of the questionnaire took <10 minutes. Questionnaire contained 17 testing questions.
      Questionnaire was validated and piloted prior to actual trial.

      Satisfaction from education as well as level of discomfort caused by participation in the
      study were assessed with numeric scales. Following the interview all participants were asked
      if they would like to discuss Code Status preferences with physician taking care of them. If
      so, response were noted and appropriate services will be notified immediately. If patients
      were unable to consent to the study or participate in video education and testing, their
      health care surrogates were allowed to participate on behalf of the patient. Person giving
      the consent participated as a subject. Participation of health care proxy were tracked in the
      collected data. Patient's medical record number was used as personalized code for all the
      subjects including health care surrogates.
    
  