
    
      Introduction:

      Osteoarthritis (OA) of the interphalangeal joints of the hand is the most common age-related
      joint disorder worldwide, affecting the hand(s) of up to 67% of the elderly population. At
      least 18.2% of such patients have OA of at least one proximal interphalangeal joint involved
      and it is the second leading cause of hand pain after osteoarthritis of the thumb
      carpometacarpal joint. In the UK, 3% of the population seek medical attention for the
      symptoms of their hand arthritis, with the main complaints being pain, reduced grip strength,
      functional limitations with day-today activities (eg. dressing, eating and drinking, taking
      medication, writing, etc), stiffness and deformity.

      Currently, the treatment of osteoarthritis of the finger joints is limited to four different
      avenues which carry their own limitation(s) and potential complications. Firstly,
      conservative measures such as physiotherapy with or without splints and compression garments,
      alterations in the execution of daily activities and avoidance of environmental triggers (eg.
      cold and wet weather) - these carry substantial time commitments and interference with normal
      life. Secondly, analgesics either by the oral, transcutaneous or topical routes may be used -
      these medication may cause drowsiness, confusion, constipation, collapse, kidney injury,
      stomach ulcers and bleeding, as well as other undesirable effects which may in-turn
      precipitate life-threatening illnesses. Thirdly, joints may be injected with steroids and
      anaesthetic agents which is both diagnostic and therapeutic - however, this too carries risks
      of septic arthritis, tendon attrition and paradoxical exacerbation of symptoms. Finally,
      surgery may be offered to either replace the joint with a prosthesis or fuse it with metal
      screw(s) and wire(s) - surgery carries significant risk of infection and damage to vessels or
      nerves, which may render the finger useless or even lead to amputation.

      With the current available treatments carrying significant limitations, we have
      conceptualised a treatment which confers minimal (no proven) risk and may be of benefit to
      some individuals based on a current theorised treatment of supportive taping. The Kinesio®
      taping system is a well-known product used by many athletes to support their joints and
      improve performance. The elasticated latex tape is applied to the skin overlying a joint, in
      a specific orientation in order to provide theoretical benefits including: physical support
      for misaligned joints, increased recoil of the joint back to the anatomical position, and
      reduce swelling by improving lymphatic flow. A recent systematic review concluded that the
      most significant benefit from Kinesio® taping was reduced pain in large joints (eg. shoulder,
      knee and ankle). The reason for this is not well understood but may be related to stimulation
      of cutaneous and peri-articular mechanoreceptors, physically re-aligned/support of the joint
      surface or a placebo effect.

      At present, the Kinesio® system is not ideal for patients with finger joint osteoarthritis
      for two reasons - there is no commercially available tape which is small enough to apply to
      the finger and the latex component may prevent some patients from using it. However, a latex
      free substitute is readily available in the hospital setting, which has similar properties
      (ie. adhesive and elasticated) which is safe and cheaper - Suture Strips® by Derma Sciences™.

      Research on normal healthy subjects has shown that supportive taping of fingers improves
      perceived grip strength. Further, in patients with injured fingers, supportive taping
      increases actual grip strength in particular positions/actions. We know that patients with
      painful thumb joints benefit from supportive taping as it improves their joint alignment and
      therefore function. However, to-date there have been no studies on the role of finger PIPIJ
      taping to reduce the pain of arthritis. We hypothesise that by transferring the proven
      benefits of supportive taping on other bodily regions (ie. pain reduction, improved joint
      alignment, mechanical support as well as other undefined benefits) that patients may benefit
      from supportive taping of the PIPJ of the finger.

      Rationale:

      The current treatment modalities for finger joint arthritis carry significant risk of
      undesirable and potentially dangerous complications. We propose a simple method of supportive
      taping which may improve patient's pain and function, within conferring the risk of adverse
      events.

      Aims:

      We aim to investigate the effectiveness of supportive tape on the perceived pain of PIPJ
      osteoarthritis in a single digit of one hand. We also aim to investigate its impact on hand
      function and will undertake an economic analysis in comparison to current available
      treatments.

      Type of study:

      A pragmatic blocked two-group parallel randomised placebo controlled trial.

      Research questions:

      Primary research question;

      1. Does supportive taping of the PIPJ of the finger effect perceived pain

      Secondary research questions:

        1. Does supportive taping of the PIPJ of the finger effect functional capability

        2. Does supportive taping of the PIPJ of the finger effect have any significant adverse or
           undesirable effects

        3. Does supportive taping of the PIPJ of the finger effect represent and economically
           feasible alternative to other current therapies

        4. Does placebo taping of the PIPJ of the finger effect patient reported pain

        5. Does placebo taping of the PIPJ of the finger effect objective hand function
    
  