
    
      Objective: To assess the feasibility, acceptability and effectiveness of PATH under
      naturalistic conditions.

      Hypotheses:

      H1: Greater than 50% of users referred to the problem-solving module will complete at least 4
      treatment sessions.

      H2: Users will report that problem-solving module is acceptable as a stand-alone treatment
      for depression.

      H3: On average, user's self-reported depression severity scores on the PHQ-9 will decrease
      over time.

      H4: More workers and family members will access the program directly than through referral
      from a clinician.

      H5: Users will find the stress and conflict content acceptable and helpful in learning better
      stress and conflict management skills.

      H6: On average, user self-reported stress severity scores on the PSS will decrease over time.

      Procedures:

      Consecutive employees and faculty members receiving evaluations in the EAP programs of
      Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center (DHMC) and Dartmouth College and identified as being
      depressed or having issues with conflict or stress and as potentially able to benefit from
      using PATH will be referred to the program.

      The programs are also available to any adult on their own or through their organization at:

      Path.Dartmouth.edu

      When the user signs up, they create a username and password and select they do not have a
      token and then are presented with an electronic consent. When they click accept (providing
      consent), they are given access to the programs.

      Materials: PATH programs available on the internet.

      Data Collection:

      All study data will be automatically collected by the suite of programs (problem-solving,
      stress management, conflict management). Evaluation data (i.e., PHQ-9 scores and
      acceptability of the program) will be collected at each session. Information entered into the
      program as part of using PATH (e.g., the types of problems worked on, success with solving
      the problems, satisfaction with effort, compliance with homework, obstacles encountered) will
      also be automatically stored. Stress and conflict management programs collect the user input,
      the paths they take, and evaluation data. Users will create a login that will enable their
      use of the program.

      The web-based programs are hosted at Dartmouth College. The web-app has passed an Acunetix
      security scan, run by Dartmouth Central Computing. It has been set up as a DISC level 3
      security server. This has been evaluated by the Research Privacy and Security Officer at
      Dartmouth College and has been approved for use. Only gender will be collected. No
      identifying information (e.g., name, address, dob, SS#) will be collected. All entered data
      will be stored according to the assigned ID. To monitor for potentially nefarious hackers, IP
      addresses connecting to our servers will be collected and geo-located to ensure the router or
      internet service provider they are connecting from corresponds to those expected based on our
      research locations.

      We do not propose to screen the participants for the study. Participants will be referred to
      the programs by their EAP counselor at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, their FEAP
      counselor at Dartmouth College, their provider at DHMC, or by advertisement through Live Well
      Work Well or Dartmouth College EAP. Participants may also be referred through an outside
      organization or use the program on their own. As an effectiveness study, we are interested in
      making the programs available without exclusions to the general population. There are no
      eligibility criteria based on severity level of depression or suicidal ideation. There are no
      exclusion criteria for participation in the study. Suicidality is not a reason for not being
      enrolled in the study.

      The program is being made available to Geisel Medical Students, as well as Dartmouth College
      and Dartmouth Hitchcock Employees through the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) at
      Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center (DHMC), the Faculty and Employee Assistance Program (FEAP)
      at Dartmouth College and their D-H primary care physicians in order to assess their
      feasibility, acceptability and effectiveness under naturalistic conditions. Additionally, to
      test whether workers and their families are likely to access on-line treatment if they can
      access the treatment directly, we will make it possible for participants to connect to the
      programs directly, without referral from a clinician. We will be additionally testing these
      programs through making them freely available on the internet as well as through
      organizations that express interest in using them with their employees, members, etc. who are
      18 or older.

      Participants from outside of Dartmouth populations will be self-referred or referred to the
      program by people in their organization. We will not direct how the organizations will
      implement use of the programs but will collect information from the organizations about their
      implementation strategies. We may share usage data with the organizations but will not
      provide information for specific individuals.

      For these populations, we will be analyzing usage data (i.e. completion of modules, return
      visits to modules), data collected by the program (i.e. progress through the modules),
      acceptability (i.e. from the questionnaires embedded in the programs such as the depression
      program), effectiveness (i.e. for those programs that include repeated assessments), and
      implementation strategies from different organizations that partner with us to use the
      program (i.e. reminder systems, adjunctive use with therapist, use in group settings).
    
  