
    
      VATS (video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery) lobectomy is a relatively new minimally invasive
      surgical treatment for early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), associated with low
      morbidity and mortality and effective oncologic results over the standard thoracotomy.
      However, this surgical procedure has not spread widely in china for several reasons. First ,
      VATS surgery cost more than thoracotomy for thoracoscopic staples; second, the procedure of
      VATS lobectomy may be more difficult in china as the lack of VATS surgical equipments
      adjusted for smaller thoracic cavity of chinese, and more common adhesive and calcified lymph
      nodes due to infection and tuberculosis; Third, the surgical levels of VATS lobectomy are far
      from equal in china, and the Continuing Medical Education training programs of thoracoscopic
      surgery seem to be less efficient without major criterion.

      The purpose of this study is to modify the surgical technique of VATS (video-assisted
      thoracoscopic surgery) lobectomy for early-stage non-small cell lung cancer, to examine the
      feasibility of VATS lobectomy performed by less staples, and to evaluate the feasibility of
      VATS lobectomy performed by modified surgical equipments designed according to the experience
      of chinese lobectomy surgery, and to generate a chinese standard operative procedure of VATS
      lobectomy for technique learning and spread. The investigators will intend to recruit 250
      patients each group, for 4 groups. Group A(open group) will undergo radical lobectomy via
      thoracotomy approach. Group B(standard VATS group) will undergo lobectomy via standard VATS
      approach introduced. Group C(less staples group) will undergo lobectomy via VATS approach
      with staples limitation. Group D(modified equipments group) will undergo lobectomy via VATS
      approach using VATS surgical equipments designed according to the experience of chinese
      lobectomy surgery. The investigators will compare two groups of patients as followed: A vs.
      B, B vs. C, B vs. D.
    
  