
    
      Humans are warm-blooded animal or homeotherms. They are able to regulate their body
      temperature which in physiologic range themselves. The body temperature is controlled by
      balancing heat production and heat loss. The normal body temperature refers to either core
      temperature (eg. tympanic membrane, esophagus, and intra-urinary bladder) or peripheral
      temperature (eg. skin, forehead, and axillar). Core temperature is the temperature of the
      deep tissues of the body. The normal range of core temperature is between 36.5-37.5 degree
      celsius. The peripheral temperature, in contrast to the core temperature, can be changed by
      many factors such as the temperature of the surroundings environment.

      The term of hypothermia is the core temperature less than or equal to 36.4 degree celsius.
      When the body exposes to cold temperature, heat loss is decreased and heat production is
      increased as defense mechanism for keeping balance in several means: stop sweating,
      piloerection, cutaneous arterioles constriction, shivering, which increases heat production
      in skeletal muscles, conversion from fat to energy by mitochondria.Hypothermia is one of
      factors, which relates to postoperative complications.

      Shivering is an oscillatory muscular activity that augments metabolic heat production.
      Vigorous shivering increases metabolic heat production up to 600% above basal level.
      Shivering is a common postoperative period complication. The pathophysiology of postoperative
      shivering remains unclear otherwise various mechanisms have been proposed. Shivering may
      happen as a thermoregulatory response to hypothermia or muscle hyperactivity with clonic or
      tonic patterns. Although cold-induced shivering is an obvious source of postanesthetic
      tremor. Some of the patients who suffer from shivering are believed to be nonthermoregulatory
      because their core temperatures remain normal. The incidence of postoperative shivering is
      65% of patients after general anesthesia and 33% of patients after regional anesthesia.

      This is the prospective observation clinical study. Investigators will observe shivering
      symptom and measure the patients' temperature at tympanic membrane, forehead, and dorsal of
      hand at many time points.
    
  