
    
      A pilot study and collaboration between patients, relatives and professionals in the research
      program has clarified the need to develop a PCC eHealth platform. Previous research has shown
      that eHealth support, where the users are not involved in the process, has a low impact and
      has highlighted several limitations with respect to: patients' participation in the design
      process; its anchorage in the home and local environment and opportunities for communication
      rather than information. Therefore this study has a participatory design which assumes that
      all users (patients, relatives and health care professionals) are involved in the study
      design which facilitates implementation. An end-user perspective as a starting point
      increases the chances that users adapt a positive attitude towards the new system.
      Person-centred care combined with an eHealth support along the chain of health care showed a
      4-fold chance of improved self-efficacy in combination with return to work or prior activity
      level after an event of acute coronary syndrome.

      The aim of this project is that PCC can be delivered at distance and make health care more
      effective above and beyond usual care. Inclusion of the principles of PCC in an eHealth
      support for patients with stress, depression or anxiety will improve return to work rates,
      reduced relapse, reduce costs and improved self-efficacy.

      In the PCC approach, the aims, capabilities and needs of each patient, will be the starting
      point. Self-care strategies will be reinforced and empowered.

      This study is a randomized, open, parallel group intervention study where patients are
      eligible when they start their sick leave period due to stress, depression or anxiety. They
      will be asked about participation after being diagnosed and their sick leave has been
      approved.

      Patients will be randomized into either the control or the intervention arm 1:1. The control
      group will receive usual care. The intervention group will receive usual care plus a PCC
      intervention through an eHealth platform. Randomization will be done through computer
      generated lists and stored in sealed envelopes.

      Patients listed in primary care with a confirmed diagnosis of stress, depression or anxiety
      will be screened and sent an informing letter about the study from the chief at each centre.
      Specially trained registered nurses (RNs) will then screen patients against study inclusion
      and exclusion criteria and by phone contact eligible patients and inform the patient about
      the aims of the study and ask if they are interested to participate. If the patient wants to
      participate a consent form is sent to the patient and then returned to the RN. Written
      informed consent will then be obtained. Then the randomization procedure is performed which
      is stratified for age (≥ 50y) and diagnosis (stress, depression and anxiety) and the patient
      will be informed about the outcome by phone. Patients randomized to the intervention group
      will need a computer, smart phone or iPad to participate in the study.

      Two dedicated full-time RNs follow the procedures closely. A monitor controls the protocol
      adherence. All case record forms, questionnaires and referrals will be constructed (for
      intervention and usual care groups).

      Follow-up questionnaires on general self-efficacy, self-efficacy (self-care) quality of life,
      anxiety and depression, symptom burden and daily functional level will be sent out to all
      patients in both groups after 3,6,12,18 and 24 months after randomization.

      Patients randomized to usual care will be managed by regular evidence-based treatment and
      care as outlined in treatment guidelines and followed as usual at their local primary care
      centre.

      Patients will be contacted by a RN who has received special training in PCC communication at
      distance through the eHealth platform, for an initial person-centred dialogue by phone. Based
      on the patient narrative patient´s goals, resources and needs are identified. The patient
      (sometimes maybe together with relatives) and the RN formulate a person-centred health plan.
      This plan is part of and will be up-loaded to the eHealth platform which also contains
      individual notes and information about stress, depression and anxiety. The plan will be the
      point of departure for the forthcoming dialogue at distance via the eHealth platform that the
      patient and the RN will have during the study period (6 months).

      The eHealth support contains headings that may inspire the patient to make notes on "a good
      day" respectively "a bad day" and register daily health related status. The health plan
      contain three parts; 1. "My goal is to feel or be able to do". 2. "To be able to reach my
      goal I will." 3."Support I need to reach my goal". In the communication during the study
      period between the RN and patient, the personal health plan is discussed and any needs of
      reformulating the goals may be discussed. The overall goal is to help the patient to identify
      their own capabilities/resources such as a strong will, social relations etc. and formulate
      goals that help them increase their self-efficacy and to cope with their condition in daily
      life.

      The RN presents the eHealth support for communication (computer, iPad, smart phone) and they
      agree on how they will be in contact thereafter. The RN invites the patient and activates
      their account where he/she can login via an individual user name and formulate, comment,
      evaluate or develop the health plan. Access to the diary will be password protected. The RN
      can see the patient´s account and make comments. The patient can add or delete staff or
      private persons that have access to the account, and the patient can also limit the access
      for each user invited.
    
  