
    
      Methods:

      Study design: multi-centre, open label, parallel, prospective, randomised, controlled trial.

      Patients: We will include consecutive patients with an ACS diagnosis evaluated in
      participating Coronary Care Unit.

      Study sites: IRB Lleida (Lleida), Hospital Son Dureta (Palma de Mallorca), Hospital Clínic
      (Barcelona), Hospital Germans Tries i Pujol (Barcelona), Hospital de Bellvitge (Barcelona),
      Hospital Sant Pau (Barcelona), Hospital Txagorritxu (Vitoria), Hospital de Cruces (Bilbao),
      Hospital San Pedro de Alcántara (Cáceres), Hospital Parc Taulí (Barcelona) and Hospital de
      Guadalajara (Guadalajara), Hospital de Vallecas (Madrid), Hospital de Yagüe (Burgos),
      Hospital de Requena (Valencia), Hospital San Juan, (Alicante), Hospital Central de Asturias
      (Oviedo).

      Duration of the study: 3 years. Methodology: During a hospital stay we will assess the degree
      of daytime sleepiness (Epworth Scale) in patients treated at the Coronary Care Unit with a
      diagnosis of ACS. The results of this evaluation will define the inclusion of the patient in
      the study.

      Patients with and ESS score ≤ 10 will be included in the study and will undergo a
      cardio-respiratory polygraphy. Patients with an AHI ≥ 15 h-1 will be randomized to CPAP
      treatment or conservative. Patients with and AHÍ < 15 h-1 will be followed as standard
      management according to cardiovascular protocols and will be evaluated as a reference group.
      Therefore, the study will have three groups, with a total of 1,864 patients, as follows:
      patients with an AHI ≥ 15 h-1 will be randomized to CPAP treatment (Group 1) (n=632) or
      conservative treatment (Group 2) (n=632). Patients with an AHI < 15 h-1 that will be followed
      as a reference group (Group 3) (n=600).

      Patients with an ESS score higher than 10 will be excluded of the study and referred to the
      sleep unit of each participating center for evaluation.

      Patients included in the study will be monitored and followed for a minimum of one year and a
      maximum of three years. Patients will be examined at the time of inclusion (T0), after one
      month (T1), three months (T2), six months (T3), 12 months (T4) and every six months
      thereafter, if applicable, during the follow-up period. Evaluations will include; i)new
      episodes of ACS, stroke, TIA, heart failure, hospitalization for cardiovascular causes and
      cardiovascular mortality, ii) biological risk markers involved in cardiovascular
      complications, iii) an evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of diagnosis and CPAP treatment
      in patients with ACS who have obstructive sleep apnea.
    
  