
    
      This is a randomized, prospective controlled trial in patients (ASA I-III) undergoing open
      abdominal surgical procedures in a single center. This study will be done in two phases. The
      first phase is designed to evaluate and prove the safety of restricted fluid regimens in
      maintaining tissue perfusion using a central venous oximetric catheter and arterial blood gas
      analysis. In the second phase of the study, we plan to mimic the usual clinical practice
      without the central venous oximetric catheter and arterial lines (invasive monitors) and the
      postoperative total morbidity will be compared between the liberal and restricted fluid
      regimens.

      In the first phase of the study, 90 patients coming in for open bowel surgery will be
      randomized to three groups using a random number generator. All patients will receive a
      standard bowel prep regimen (Go-Lyte-half a liter the night before surgery). Group A will
      receive current standard of care (liberal fluid therapy), Group B and C will receive
      restricted fluid regimens. All patients will receive 500 cc of intravenous fluids (lactated
      ringers in Group A and B, 6% hetastarch in Group C) in the preoperative holding area to
      correct preoperative fluid deficits due to fasting and bowel preparation. Patients younger
      than 18 years, ASA IV or V, pregnant patients, those with coagulopathy, renal insufficiency,
      unstable angina, unstable congestive heart failure, and those with contraindication to
      central venous pressure catheter insertion will be excluded from the study.

      After instituting anesthesia monitors, patients will be anesthetized with a standard
      anesthetic regimen. An arterial line and a central venous catheter with oximetric capability
      will be inserted in all three groups. A baseline blood gas will be drawn to note the base
      excess, lactate levels and the hematocrit at the start of surgery. Parameters like heart
      rate, blood pressure, central venous pressure, mixed venous oxygen saturation and arterial
      oxygen saturation and urine output will be continuously monitored. Both the regimens will be
      started in the operating room and continued into the postoperative period until they resume
      their oral intake. Patients in the liberal group will receive (10ml/kg/hr) the current
      standard of care for bowel surgery whereas those in the restricted group will receive
      4ml/kg/hour. Post induction hemodynamic instability will be treated with ephedrine and
      phenylephrine at the discretion of the anesthesiologist in charge.

      Intraoperative treatment of tachycardia, hypotension in both the groups will be treated using
      a standard fluid regimen algorithm (appendix A). All patients will receive the same
      postoperative fluid regimens as the current standard of care. Postoperative morbidity
      evaluation (appendix B) will be done at patient's discharge from the hospital. The data entry
      will be prospectively done during their hospital stay. The accuracy of the data will be
      checked by one of the study investigators.
    
  