
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the efficacy of adjuvant therapy comprising epirubicin hydrochloride,
           cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel with vs without fluorouracil and/or pegfilgrastim in
           women with node-positive breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the safety of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive epirubicin hydrochloride IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1.
           Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over
           3 hours on day 1. Treatment with paclitaxel repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive fluorouracil IV, epirubicin hydrochloride IV, and
           cyclophosphamide IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses. Patients
           then receive paclitaxel as in arm I.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive epirubicin hydrochloride IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1
           and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 4. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4
           courses. Patients then receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1 and pegfilgrastim
           subcutaneously (SC) on day 4. Treatment with paclitaxel and pegfilgrastim repeats every
           2 weeks for 4 courses.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive fluorouracil IV, epirubicin hydrochloride IV, and
           cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 and pegfilgrastim SC on day 4. Treatment repeats every 2
           weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive paclitaxel and pegfilgrastim as in arm III.

      In all arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. After completion of chemotherapy with or without pegfilgrastim, patients may
      undergo external-beam radiation therapy at the discretion of treating center. Patients with
      positive estrogen and/or progesterone receptor tumor receive tamoxifen for 5 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,000 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  