
    
      Background of the study:

      Several studies have shown that tumour hypoxia may have a negative impact on the outcome of
      anticancer treatment. Assessment of tumor hypoxia at baseline or shortly after start of
      treatment may serve as a predictive marker to determine treatment efficacy at an early stage.
      Preferably, such an assessment is performed in vivo and non-invasively.Non-invasive imaging
      with positron emission tomography (PET) using the 2-nitroimidazole nucleoside analogue,
      3-18F-fluoro-2-(4-((2-nitro-1H-imidazol-1-yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,3-triazol-1- yl)propan-1-ol
      (18F-HX4), was tested as a new marker of tumor hypoxia. Before hypoxia-measurements can be
      clinically implemented for response prediction, the reproducibility of the technique should
      be assessed for each specific tumor type. Knowledge of reproducibility is needed to determine
      what change in parameters between two examinations can be considered relevant in an
      individual patient. Assessment of reproducibility becomes even more important in early
      response monitoring since the changes in the tumor induced by the treatment may be smaller
      during the treatment compared to response monitoring after completion of treatment. Also, as
      image quality of 18F-HX4-PET increases with increasing time intervals after injection,
      determination of the optimal time point for measurement of hypoxia is warranted.

      Objective of the study:

      In this study, we first intend to investigate the optimal time point for measurement of
      hypoxia in esophageal, pancreatic and rectal cancer using 18F-HX4-PET and then assess
      reproducibility of hypoxia measurements in these tumor types.

      Study design:

      In this study two steps will be taken. 1) First, as 18F-HX4-PET image quality may improve
      when allowing for relatively longer time intervals after injection, in three patients with
      esophageal, pancreatic or rectal cancer 18F-HX4-PET scans will be performed 90, 180 and 240
      minutes after injection of 18F-HX4. The time-point with the best image quality (in terms of
      tumor-to-background-ratio) will be chosen for the reproducibility study. 2) In the second
      step, patients with proven esophageal, pancreatic or rectal cancer will undergo an
      18F-HX4-PET twice within one week before start of treatment. 18F-HX4-PET will be performed at
      90, 180 or 240 minutes after injection of 18F-HX4, depending on the results of the first part
      of the study. Reproducibility of hypoxia measured by 18F-HX4-PET will be assessed. In those
      patients for whom tumor tissue is available which has not been treated with radiation or
      chemotherapy, levels of hypoxia measured by 18F-HX4-PET will be compared with endogenous
      hypoxia markers (HIF1-alfa, CA9, GLUT1, PAI-1, VEGF) using immunohistochemistry. In those
      patients that underwent 18F-HX4-PET before start of neoadjuvant treatment, levels of hypoxia
      measured by 18F-HX4-PET will be compared to pathological response after neoadjuvant
      treatment.
    
  