
    
      Patients seen at primary care practices, who have been pre-determined to have unmet screening
      requirements and have received standard of care with a QI tool, will be asked to complete an
      optional questionnaire electronically through a patient portal or via a link sent by text
      within a week of their visit, based on their preference. Only those who have indicated they
      agree to be contacted for research purposes will be contacted. Surveys will be distributed
      through REDCap so no identifying information will be contained in the answers. REDCap is a
      free, HIPAA compliant interface for building and managing online databases. Additionally,
      surveys will be sent via mail if the patient cannot be reached electronically. Survey
      responses received through the mail will not include any identifying information. Pre-paid
      return envelopes will be provided to preserve anonymity. Although a small proportion of South
      Carolina's population are primary Spanish speakers (about 4%), to be inclusive we want to
      ensure all materials are available in Spanish. To remove barriers to participation, those
      needing physical, hearing, and visual assistance will be able to review and complete
      documents at the time of their clinic visit with the assistance of trained study personnel.
      Invitations will continue to be sent out until 100 total patient responses are received per
      practice in the pragmatic trial, or 50 per practice in the pilot. Clinicians will also
      receive a survey to assess the tool. Recruitment for clinicians surveys will be done via
      email sent by the practice managers to the providers who have agreed to use the QI tool.
      Clinician assessments will be delivered electronically via a link delivery by email or text,
      or sent by mail, based on clinician preference. Respondents will be reimbursed for their time
      and effort. These assessments will be anonymous. Survey participation will be coded in order
      to provide compensation. Since data will be identified only by code numbers (participant IDs)
      the master list of those codes will be kept physically separate from the collected data.
    
  